Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director (Period Covered: Jan 2019 – Dec 2019) 31 January 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (SAMS) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a young start-up company, SAMS continues to leverage on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact for development of sustainable value systems and approaches to conduct our businesses. This has also further enhanced our position to better contribute to the People, Environment and Community where SAMS conduct its operations. For our third Communication-on-Progress and in alignment with our corporate reporting cycle, SAMS is pleased to submit our Sustainability Report for FY2019. SAMS’ Sustainability Report for FY2019 describes our actions to integrate the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact into three main pillars:  Lead Circularity (Economic/Governance)  Love Planet (Environment)  Live Sustainably (Social) This effectively communicates SAMS’ commitment towards Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance as well as being a responsible business entity on how we uphold the fundamental responsibilities in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption for long term corporate sustainability. We will also further share this information with our stakeholders using effective communication channels most appreciated by them. Sincerely yours, Joe Vong Managing Director About This Report This is the first Sustainability Report prepared for Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (“SAMS”) for financial year ending 2019 (*FY2019: 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019). SAMS' Sustainability Report has been prepared with reference to the GRI Standards. Selected general disclosures and topic-specific disclosures on the material topics of most concern to our stakeholders with significant impact arising from our course of business are covered in this Report. SAMS’ Sustainability Report also communicates our commitment to progressively work towards improving our Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) performance. We aspire to champion the highest business ethics with sound environmental impact management and support for the communities in locations where we operate. For more information on SAMS, please visit http://www.samsolu.com. Feedback on Report We value feedback on SAMS’ Sustainability Report for continuous improvement. Please send your feedback to info@samsolu.com. 1 focus on quality and steady progress for transformational change our planet needs Sustainability @ SAMS is a topic close to our heart. We started our operations in Singapore in 2018 and had been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since then. We fully support UNGC’s 10 Principles and 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We also started our voluntary carbon disclosure with CDP in 2018, leveraging on its reporting structure to measure and better manage the identified climate risks, impacts and opportunities in our operations. We are a member of the Waste Management & Recycling Association of Singapore (WMRAS), Singapore Business Federation (SBF), Transported Asset Protection Association (TAPA-APAC) and National Association for Information Destruction (NAID-USA). SAMS sees long term sustainable benefits working with global initiatives such as UNGC, CDP and above-mentioned membership platforms. For example, UNGC’s guidance on corporate sustainability, principles-based approach and SDGs are key pointers for SAMS to integrate into our strategies, policies and procedures. This is pivotal for a young start-up like SAMS to steadily progress to be the ethical, responsible and successful business we envision to be. SAMS also resonates with the strong statement of “scale matters in the fight for a below 2ºCelsius temperature rise” – mentioned in one of the World Economic Forum’s articles titled “Two Degrees of Transformation – Businesses are coming together to lead on climate change. Will you join them?”. SAMS wants to be part of this globally uniting force to fight climate change. Our aspiration is exceptionally strong with greatest determination given the fact that we operate and reside in Asia, the region most affected by one of the inescapable climate change consequences, i.e. rising sea level. We fully comprehend the urgency of our planet meeting the below 2ºCelsius target and achieving net-zero emission by 2050. In this Sustainability Report, we have focused on 16 material ESG topics identified through a stakeholder survey which have a significant impact on our business. Joe Vong Managing Director 2 SAMS’ MD had been entrusted with the responsibility to lead the company’s sustainability efforts. SAMS’ MD has oversight on its sustainability strategy and is assisted by the Compliance, Engagement and Sustainability Workgroup (CESW) :Managing Director SAMS’ CESW is managed by a Compliance, Engagement and Senior Executive assigned by the MD. Sustainability Workgroup (CESW) CESW is well supported by our functional department managers to drive initiatives, manage data and Functional Departments performance for timely reporting of (*HR & Admin, Finance, QEHS, Global Compliance, Operations, Marketing, SAMS’ sustainability efforts. Material Sales, IT & Systems) SAMS’ MD has also worked with the CESW to initiate our “sustainability effort seeding process” through the following framework : We believe by diligently “sowing the seeds towards sustainability”, SAMS will gain good traction, achieving buy-ins and strong support from our stakeholders. With this, we will also be able to progressively work to align with the 6 SDGs in our ambitious Sustainability Framework. 3 SAMS engages with both our internal and external stakeholders regularly though various platforms and communication channels as shown below. SAMS’ list of stakeholders are selected based on their significant roles, specific influence and interest over our business. Their views matter to our decision-making and progress. 4 We have applied structured steps and methodologies in our materiality assessment :Based on the 22 material ESG topics initially identified by SAMS, a materiality survey was then conducted with our stakeholders to understand if they had similar areas of concern. They were also encouraged to list additional material topics of concern which SAMS should look into. SAMS will continue to engage with our stakeholders for their feedback and conduct regular review on their identified material ESG topics. This will ensure validity of these material ESG topics in a rapidly changing business environment and for SAMS to implement the most effective management approach for better performance. 5 Business Profile SAMS was incorporated in April 2017, privately funded and headquartered in Singapore. Our core business activities include IT Asset Disposition (ITAD) and Electronics Recycling. We currently operate a full ITAD and Electronics Recycling facility in Singapore with another representative office in Malaysia. SAMS understands the importance to close resource loop and shift towards a circular economy. This will enable us to keep our valuable resources in use for as long as possible and optimally recovering value from our waste. Hence, since our incorporation, the core business focus to innovate and transform our processes to lead in driving circularity for sustainability are entrenched in our vision and mission statements: Vision to be the industry leader in promoting Corporate Sustainability though reinventing our systems and processes to develop Asset Management solutions which can Reuse, Recover, Regenerate and Repurpose the service life of ICT assets. Mission to champion environmentally sound and socially responsible values by delivering Secure, Compliant and Green ICT asset management solutions. 6 Data Destruction – Field Support Team Functional Testing of ICT Equipment De-manufacturing of ICT Equipment SAMS will continue to evolve to become a leading circular brand. We will deploy more resources for research and development, put in more efforts in developing low carbon, closed loop ITAD and electronic waste management solutions. Material Destruction 7 Financial Overview Since the operation of our first ITAD and Electronics Recycling facility in Singapore in 2018, SAMS had received very encouraging support from our stakeholders, affirming that we are on the right track with our circular service offerings and contributing to the local economies. SAMS expects more challenging business environment which are filled with opportunities in the coming years. Take Singapore as an example, the government had designated 2019 to be “Year Towards Zero Waste”, building national consciousness to care for the environment and transition to a circular economy. Singapore now has its Resource Sustainability Act (RSA) as upstream regulatory measures addressing its priority waste streams such as electronic waste. With RSA, there will be an Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programme where the government will appoint a Producer Responsibility Organisation (PRO) for e-waste management by 2021. With EPR, SAMS as a licensed recycling facility, can further expand our services to support the appointed PRO in managing the regulated electronic waste streams. Globally, there is a rising demand for waste management and recycling solutions, calls to close resource loops through innovation to transform our wastes into valuable resources. SAMS will be looking at investing more resources to expand regionally, upgrading our processes and technologies, upskilling and hiring more domain talents to fully realise the new economic opportunities available for sustainable environmental solution providers. 8 Governance At SAMS, we are committed to operate a safe and Secure workplace, be a responsible and Compliant business with environmentally Green and sustainable practices. We believe that what we value will define our approach to every aspect of our business as clearly communicated in our corporate logo : what we value will define our approach to every aspect of our business SAMS knows that to be a Secure, Compliant and Green business, we will need to align with the highest industry standards for social, environmental and ethics, such as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct. SAMS’ Business Code of Conduct serves as one of the key guidance documents for the development of our corporate policies, procedures and preparation of our management systems for certifications: SAMS had been externally audited and is certified with the following international standards :  ISO9001  ISO14001  OHSAS18001 (*preparing for ISO45001 conversion)  ISO27001  Responsible Recycling (R2)  TAPA-FSR (Level A) 9 SAMS receives pre-owned IT Asset or end-of-life electronics entrusted by customers for recycling where safeguarding their intellectual property (IP), privacy and data security is of prime priority. Hence, SAMS’ structured business management approaches with competently trained operational personnel through these certified management systems and policy statements are also acknowledged by these customers. We conduct our business with highest integrity, advocating transparency and accountability with zero tolerance towards any form of bribery, corruption, extortion and embezzlement. For example, SAMS’ engaged suppliers will have to go through our “Downstream Vendor Audits” where other than ensuring that they comply with our established policies, prevailing regulatory and international standards, they must be operating legitimate businesses with valid government-issued operating licenses, environmentally sound processes and safe working environment for their workers. SAMS puts in every effort to comply with prevailing national laws and regulations, whether in economic, environmental or social aspect governing the environmental service industry. SAMS has no reported socioeconomic and environmental breaches or violations to any regulations, standards, systems or processes for FY2019. 10 Energy and Water Management SAMS’ energy usage for our Singapore facility is from locally purchased electricity. The energy usage as reflected in the FY2019’s total purchased electricity billings is 98635.50kWh. SAMS’ Singapore facility is housed within a multi-tenanted industrial building. For water usage, the landlord charges a standard rate per tenant with their centralised meter monitoring. We use very small amount of water in this Singapore facility, mainly for basic consumption and area cleaning. We will also continue to reinforce on the importance of conserving electricity and water consumptions in our facility through educational briefings to all our employees using our Sustainability Framework and displaying of applicable conservation signages in the work areas. Emission and Waste Reductions For FY2019, our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) was 2.12 tCO2e and 46.82 tCO2e respectively. We have set our carbon emissions reduction targets at 10% for both Scope 1 and Scope 2, to be achieved by year 2021. We are also looking at minimising production generated wastes through research and development efforts to find breakthrough reusable solutions by working closely with industrial partners and local technical institutions. Pollution Prevention SAMS firmly believes in conscientious effort to unite all our stakeholders to work with us to protect our environment. Other than developing SAMS’ Sustainability Framework, we also drive important messages about pollution prevention, ensure that all the pollution control precautionary measures and systems are in place. SAMS’ continuous effort in driving pollution prevention messages is carried out through our company’s green initiatives. An example is our “Movements Towards No Single-Use Plastics”. SAMS provides standard items such as personal water bottles, lunch boxes, cutleries, metal straws and recycle bags to all our employees. We had enrolled 100% of our employees in this movement, encouraging them to work towards removing of single-use plastics from their daily routines. 11 As SAMS also operates industrial scale machineries in our Singapore facility. We need to make sure that our machine operators, e.g. when conducting material shredding activity, are equipped with applicable Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and the dust collector system is effectively functioning to manage the dust particles emitted from the process. Other than internal pollution control mechanisms, we work with professional agencies to conduct periodic testing and monitoring to prevent all possible noise and dust pollutions arising from our operations. 12 Our Employees Christmas Celebration 2019 SAMS is an equal opportunity employer with zero tolerance towards discrimination and unfair employment in any form. Our employees are SAMS’ greatest intangible human asset, enabling us to thrive in this ever-changing and dynamic business environment. Each of them possesses valuable domain expertise, skill-sets, knowledge and experiences which are pivotal to SAMS’ continuous growth as a young environmental service company. Hence, we value working relationships established with all our employees and appreciate everyone’s unique personalities. SAMS currently has a total of 28 full-time employees, 21 males and 7 females. Our ratio of gender pay gap is 3.26%. We will continue to offer fair wages, benefits and condition of work which meet prevailing statutory requirements in locations where we operate. For example, other than applicable annual, outpatient, hospitalisation, maternity, paternal and childcare leave, all our full-time employees are also provided with medical benefits and work injury compensation insurances. SAMS greatly supports our employees’ aspirations to grow in the environmental service industry. Other than internal on-board orientations and on-job-trainings, we have supported a total of 7 employees or 25% of total full-time manpower strength with paid-leave to attend external courses to enhance their skillsets in FY2019. These external courses covered modules such as business sustainability, workplace crisis management, occupational first-aid, forklift operating and warehouse management. With this, SAMS hopes to elevate their work competencies and to aid in their career developments. 13 Occupational Health and Safety The health and safety of all our stakeholders working with SAMS in operations where we have full control is of paramount importance. All SAMS’ operations align with our ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 certified standards and established EHS policy. We put in every effort to prevent industrial accidents and ill health. We have robust Risk Management Systems to identify hazards for all our work processes and activities as well as implemented control measures to manage these associated risks. An example is the handling of Lithium-ion batteries from the ICT equipment which SAMS collects. Prior processing of these Lithium-ion batteries, we have in place sets of comprehensive Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for safe handling of these materials. All the Shopfloor operators are trained to identify different types and conditions (bloated, corroded or powdery) of Lithium-ion batteries. With this, they can effectively manage the different types and conditions of Lithium-ion batteries to avoid any fire and other safety hazards. In case of any emergency arising due to battery fire or battery thermal runaway, our Shopfloor operators are all competent to execute the required SOPs to manage such incident by using SAMS’ in-house battery fire management systems. For complete functionality of work tools and equipment used in SAMS’ operations, we conduct scheduled preventive maintenance to ensure that they are checked, upgraded and/or replaced when needed. We also work closely with our building owner on related emergency preparedness matters, e.g. participating in fire evacuation drills for safety of all personnel working with SAMS. For FY2019, SAMS has zero work-related injury and ill health issues reported. 14 Community Engagement There are 2 main focuses for SAMS in our community engagement efforts :  be supportive of all initiatives, events and programmes on circular economy, climate change management and towards zero waste for sustainable living : SAMS is privileged to be invited to participate in events such as the CleanEnviro Summit Singapore CESS Catalyst 2019 and NUS-MEM Alumini RoundTable Dialogue on “Towards Zero Waste” to learn from the government, academics and subject-matter experts on development of environmental solutions towards zero waste. These learnings will benefit SAMS to improve our waste management and recycling solutions. The established network from these events will also enable SAMS to leverage on more industry resources and domain expertise. 15  be proactive to engage with local charities, non-profit organisations and communities for sustainable and positive impact on the society : SAMS understands that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and community outreach are very important components in our ESG performance. We value every opportunity to initiate company-wide effort to create positive impact on the local communities in locations where we operate. For example, SAMS’ employees from the Marketing and Logistics Departments volunteered to deliver paper supplies to both Salvation Army and Minds starting Q3 2019. Through these deliveries, they had gained better understanding on these organisations and able to feedback on the best ways which SAMS can further assist them. SAMS employees’ feedback led to another delivery project for Minds, i.e. art supplies for their cared-for-clients. Together with Minds, we hope to see their cared-for-clients with special needs be enabled and given fair opportunity to grow sustainably in their preferred crafts, e.g. through their talent in artwork. SAMS will continue to work with Minds to provide them with required paper and art supplies, helping their cared-for-clients in progressive learning to develop creative skillsets. SAMS also supports selected community-driven electronic waste collection events such as the recent collaboration with Ci Yuan Community Club for its residents. These outreach events will enable SAMS to touch base with an entire constituency where we can facilitate public understanding on resource conservation and recycling. 16 SAMS understands the need for unflagging determination to build the sustainable future we want, a better world now and for generations to come. As an environmental service company, SAMS has the competency to innovate and transform our processes to reduce environmental impact, close resource loops and contribute to a circular economy. Hence in year 2020, we are looking at increasing the processing capacity of our Singapore facility and considering the possibility of constructing an additional plastic recycling line. At present, we are working with the plastic recycling equipment suppliers and reviewing related regulatory requirements. We will also be exploring on other innovative solutions to recycle waste plastics and toner powders into usable products. For research and development to transform waste materials into usable products, we are working closely with local technical institutions and industry counterparts. SAMS will be continuing with our preparation to expand into China and North America regions in year 2020 as well. We look forward to work with the local governments, industry counterparts and communities for best-in-class, circular waste management and recycling solutions. 17 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Section Page Reason for Requirement Reference Reference Omission and Other Notes 102-1 Name of the Introduction 1 Organisation 102-2 Activities, brands, Pillar 1 6 products and services Lead Circularity: Business Profile 102-3 Location of No. 31 Penjuru Lane headquarters Block A #04-01/02, #06-02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 102-4 Location of operations No. 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02, #06-02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 102-5 Ownership and legal Privately funded, form Private Limited 102-6 Markets served Mainly Southeast Asia, other global locations per customers’ contract requirements 102-7 Scale of organisation Pillar 1 6, 8 & 13 Lead Circularity: Business Profile; Financial Overview Pillar 3 – Live Sustainably: GRI 102 : Our Employees General Disclosures 102-8 Information on Pillar 3 13 2016 employees and other Live Sustainably: workers Our Employees 102-9 Supply Chain Pillar 1 10 Lead Circularity: Governance 102-10 Significant changes to No changes the organisation and its during reporting supply chain period 102-11 Precautionary principle Apply our own and approach corporate risk assessment and management approach as required by certified ISOs (*EMS, OHSAS, ISMS), Facility Security Requirements (*TAPA-FSR) & Responsible Recycling (*R2) standards 102-12 External initiatives MD’s Message 2, 15 & 16 Pillar 3 Live Sustainably: Community Engagement 102-13 Membership of MD’s Message 2 associations 18 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Section Page Reason for Requirement Reference Reference Omission and Other Notes 102-14 Statement from senior MD’s Message 2 decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, Pillar 1 9 & 10 standards and norms Lead Circularity: of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability 3 Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder Stakeholder 4 groups Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining SAMS has no agreements house union in our start-up operation in Singapore but had stated clearly in our Business Code of Conduct Section (A) for “Labour” that we GRI 102 : encourage General Disclosures Freedom of 2016 Association in conformation with local laws. We respect the right of all our employees to form and join union of their own selection, to bargain collectively and engage in peaceful assembly as well as respect the rights of employees to refrain from such activities. Employees and their representatives shall be able to openly communicate and share ideas or concerns with our management regarding work conditions, management practices without fear of discrimination, reprisal, intimidation or harassment. 19 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Requirement Section Page Reason for Reference Reference Omission and Other Notes 102-42 Identifying and Stakeholder 4 selecting stakeholders Engagement 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder 4 stakeholder Engagement engagement 102-44 Key topics and Materiality 5 concerns raised Assessment 102-45 Entities included in the Singapore consolidated financial headquartered statements operation, Sustainable Asset Management GRI 102 : Solutions Pte Ltd General 102-46 Defining report content Introduction; 1&2 Disclosures 2016 and topic boundaries MD’s Message 102-47 List of Material Topics Materiality 5 Assessment 102-48 Restatements of No restatements, Information this is SAMS’ first Sustainability Report 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes, this is SAMS’ first Sustainability Report 102-50 Reporting Period FY2019 (1 January to 31 December 2019) 102-51 Date of most recent 31 December 2019 report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for info@samsolu.com questions regarding this report 102-54 Claims of reporting in Introduction 1 accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 18 – 22 102-56 External assurance No external assurance obtained 103-1 Explanation of the Materiality material topic and its Assessment GRI 103 : boundary Pillar 1 5 – 17 Management 103-2 The management Lead Circularity Approach 2016 approach and its Pillar 2 components Love Planet 103-3 Evaluation of the Pillar 3 management approach Live Sustainably 20 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Requirement Section Page Reason for Reference Reference Omission and Other Notes GRI 201 : 201-1 Direct economic value Pillar 1 Economic generated and distributed Lead Circularity: 8 Performance 2016 Financial Overview 205-2 Communication and 10 GRI 205 : training about antiAnti-Corruption corruption policies and Pillar 1 2016 procedures Lead Circularity: 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Governance corruption and actions taken 302-1 Energy consumption within Pillar 2 GRI 302 : the organisation Love Planet: 11 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy & Water consumption Management 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Pillar 2 Emissions Love Planet: GRI 305 : 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Energy & Water 11 Emissions 2016 GHG Emissions Management 305-3 Reduction of GHG Emission & Waste emissions Reductions GRI 307 : 307-1 Non-compliance with Pillar 1 10 Environmental environmental laws and Lead Circularity: Compliance 2016 regulations Governance GRI 401 : 401-2 Benefits provided to fullPillar 3 Employment 2016 time employees that are not Live Sustainably: 13 provided to temporary or Our Employees part-time employees 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation GRI 403 : 403-5 Worker training on Pillar 3 Occupational occupational health and Live Sustainably: Health and Safety safety Occupational Health 14 2018 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of & Safety occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI 405 : 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Pillar 3 13 Diversity and Equal remuneration of women to Live Sustainably: Opportunity 2016 men Our Employees 21 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Requirement Section Page Reason for Reference Reference Omission and Other Notes GRI 416 : 416-2 Incidents of nonSAMS always Customer Health compliance follow our and Safety 2016 concerning the health customers’ and and safety impacts of our facility’s products and services specified health and safety working procedures when performing required recycling services. There are no reported cases of noncompliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes at time of reporting. GRI 418 : 418-1 Substantiated Pillar 1 10 No complaints or Customer Privacy complaints concerning Lead Circularity: breaches of 2016 breaches of customer Governance customer privacy privacy and losses of nor losses of customer data customer data at time of reporting. GRI 419 : 419-1 Non-compliance with Pillar 1 10 Socioeconomic laws and regulations in Lead Circularity: Compliance the social and Governance 2016 economic area 22
