2019 ANNUAL REPORT our way to a sustainable future TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 Message from the CEO 33 Business Continuity 5 Our Strategic Goals 35 Enterprise Risk Management 7 Our way to a sustainable future 37 Employee Engagement 9 Who we are 39 Innovation Initiative 11 Delivering value 45 We Care 12 Financial Results 47 People Spotlight 17 Respecting the UN Principles 51 We Care | For You 19 Our people 83 We Care | For Society 21 How we work 101 We Care | For the Environment 29 Data Protection 107 Overview of 2019 31 Cybersecurity 108 Acknowledgements 1 2 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO BETTER WHEN WE ARE TOGETHER Over the last few years we have seen a significant increase in the quantity and quality of our We Care activities. Our company has shown the willingness and maturity that is needed to design and implement a series of different activities under each of our pillars: For You, For Society and For the Environment, while remaining committed to the principles of UN’s Global Compact. 2019 was one more year that We Care was really embraced by our people. We created a network of volunteers across our countries – our We Care Ambassadors – who contribute with their ideas, time and expertise to take our We Care program to the next level. On top of this, we also assigned one We Care Coordinator per country, in order to align the local efforts, ensure that the resources’ planning and reporting is consistent and timely, and act as the Champion for their country. This collective initiative was very well received, and because of the active involvement of the local teams we saw an increase in the number of initiatives, but also an improvement in the engagement of our people. While we still have work ahead of us, I’m incredibly proud of the progress we’ve made. Each of these efforts should inspire all of us to do more, to be the positive change ambassadors for our people and communities. We Care is growing within the company and becoming part of our culture; a culture of giving, supporting and caring. Marina Mavrommati, CEO 4 OUR STRATEGIC GOALS 2019 evolving into a forward thinking business 5 2019 is a year of 1. Financial Performance improvement, with a focus on our profitability. commitment, purpose • Improve our sales effectiveness and revise our Go-To-Market and growth. To achieve plans in order to become more predictable and promote our portfolio more successfully. that, we need to ensure • Transform our Services organization to further enhance the that we all focus on a value we provide to our customers. • Explore inorganic growth options through acquisitions that set of very specific and will give us the expertise or experience needed in specific actionable priorities: areas vital for our business. 2. Our own internal digital 3. Employee Experience improvement, as it all starts from transformation, with a focus on our people, our greatest asset. the way we work. • Further improve our working environment into one where • Invest more in technology in everyone feels valued, able to develop his/her full potential order to have the right and personally grow. infrastructure for our teams. • Deliver more programs and initiatives in the area of • Focus on educating our people wellbeing, as well as enhance our training and development to help them use this function in order to be able offer the most to our people. infrastructure to work smarter. • Run our 2nd employee engagement survey, to measure any • Become more digital at all improvements within the last two years and also set our external touch points. benchmarks for the years to come. Hearing from our people is a priority and we are going to put more effort and energy behind it. 6 OUR CSR PROGRESS OUR WAY TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Corporate Responsibility has always been an integral part of Printec’s value system and our approach towards broader societal goals is a continuous journey. A journey, in which every year, more and more of us, Printec people from all over our region, by participating voluntarily with time, effort and ideas, we explore new destinations, we learn more, we share, we donate, we collaborate, we have fun, we support people in need… At the end of 2014, we became an active member of the United Nations Global Compact. 5 years later, we are proud we have enhanced our We Care framework, and we continue doing business responsibly by aligning our strategy and operations with the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, supporting in our Printec way, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation. In Printec’s 2019 Annual Report, the spotlight falls on Our people, we celebrate this team effort and we finally welcome our extended We Care ambassadors scheme consisting of representatives from all Printec entities. It is a booklet with a fresh approach, full of colors, joy and insights that personally makes me feel very proud of being part of Printec, a team that cares. We care for each other, we care for the communities we live in, we care for the environment that surrounds us and we never lose an opportunity through day-to-day business to make an impact, as one team on our way to a sustainable future. Starting with 2020, new goals and more initiatives will be designed and planned. Irini Ioannidou, Chief Compliance Officer 7 ”We care for each other, we care for the communities we live in, we care for the environment that surrounds us and we never lose an opportunity through day-to-day business to make an impact, as one team on our way to a sustainable future.” 2014 2015 2017 2019 Printec Our UN 1st Launching of the WE Redesign of Launch of Our 1st Annual becomes a Communication CARE Program, new COP report We Care Report containing member of the of Progress framework, new Ambassadors financial UNGC (COP) report logos, new policies across our entire region performance data 2015 2016 2018 Redesign of the Establishment Printec Greece Publishing of a more Code of Conduct of the CSR receives the extensive COP report, and launch of the Committee CRI Pass Award more activities, more Ethics Committee countries, more volunteers 8 WHO WE ARE History Printec is a leader in business-tocustomer transaction technologies in 16 countries in Central and Eastern Europe, offering a wide Our DiRECT range of technology solutions that help improve human interactions, Values making everyday life easier. Through our wide range of Diversity technology solutions and services we enable businesses to leverage Drive for Results innovative technology in order to Entrepreneurship provide superior customer experience and at the same time Customer Focus achieve operational efficiencies and Trust regulatory compliance. Our solutions are behind everyday transactions: from cash transactions via ATMs, to card transactions, selfservice solutions and more, enabling hundreds of organizations in Europe meet and exceed their 900+ 16 customers' expectations, while at employees countries the same time optimize their operations, creating cost efficiencies. 500+ 31 customers years of business 9 With our presence of 31 years and with more than 900 highly qualified and trained professionals, Printec is one of the fastest growing information technology groups in Central and Eastern Europe. 1988 2008 2012 2017 Establishment 1st m-payment Printec 1st contactless 1st contactless of Printec project in operates in payments cash withdrawals Greece Romania 15 countries project in over ATMs in Greece Croatia 1999 2011 2013 1st bank loyalty 2018 Acquisition of NCR’s 1st Self-Scan 1st self-service info-kiosk scheme in Celebrating business entities & project in Bulgaria Acquisition used for tax payment, duties Greece and 3 decades of operations in of CardPay and fines with credit card Bulgaria innovation Slovenia, Slovakia, Croatia, Romania 10 DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS “Year after year technology is evolving. We find our daily lives being affected by this in both personal and professional level. “2019 was another year of consistent progress, where we Representing maintained a technology bothweour company, robust are being financial on top of those position changes. while Setting wehigh the bar enough, we areour strengthened under presence a continuousin effort to modernize the market. the way we work, making technology our ally throughout this new journey. Our end goal is our digital In Group and transformation; level, we managed to succeed in this we need emphasize our toto achieve on the waytargets we work.both in revenue & profitability. In country level, nearly all our countries Digitizing the way we work overperformed in terms of revenue and profit Technology can help us work smarter, collaborate efficiently and versus organize in atheir bettertargets. way and we are investing in the right tools to makeOverall, sure thisdue to our business efforts and prudent happens. financial Digitizing management, our external interactionswe succeeded to sustain Just as technology has changed our lives, it has also changed the lives a strong balance sheet with healthy cash flow of our customers. From our end, we are making sure that every resultswith interaction while bringing external ourexceeds audiences Net Debt to 0, securing expectations. We are the on working availability of financial several initiatives resources to modernize to support our external presence including futureredesigning our website, rethinking our recruitment process growth plans. and automating our customer communication. ATM business was again our main driver, making 2019 one Delivering Valueof the top years ever in volume and in value. exceptional service and creating value for our customers is Delivering an integral part of who we are. Our organization spans in a wide geographical area, yet our experts are always present to cater to the Last years’ business growth and cost needs of our customers. We create customized solutions, we provide consciousness services to remote areas, have and weled us deliver, always matterstrong to a novery the financial position, giving us the ability to handle challenge. proud of our I ampossible team for always upcoming stepping up difficulties as wetaking the challenge asto long extraordinary initiative and with focus. Our teams are consistent in remain building disciplined expertise andcomplexity and managing in ourourtargets focusedbecause goal is to and plans. build strong relationships with our customers and keep them engaged. Looking forward, our attention should remain to To achieve efficiency in the way we work and in the way we interact andhave deliver a balanced to our customers revenue growth, we must all remain improved focused on our basic pillars, one ofprofitability productivity, strategic them being our own growth and cash digital transformation. Eachgeneration.” of us will play a smaller or bigger part in its success.” Aleksandar Horozov Ilias Papastathopoulos, CFO Chief Solutions & Services Delivery Officer 11 FINANCIAL RESULTS “2019 was another year of consistent progress, where we maintained both our robust financial position while we strengthened our presence in the market. In Group level, we managed to achieve our targets both in revenue & profitability. In country level, nearly all our countries overperformed in terms of revenue and profit versus their targets. Overall, due to our business efforts and prudent financial management, we succeeded to sustain a strong balance sheet with healthy cash flow results while bringing our Net Debt to 0, securing the availability of financial resources to support future growth plans. ATM business was again our main driver, making 2019 one of the top years ever in volume and in value. Last years’ business growth and cost consciousness have led us to a very strong financial position, giving us the ability to handle possible upcoming difficulties as long as we remain disciplined and focused in our targets and plans. “A business is nothing more than the sum of its Looking forward, our attention should remain to have a balanced revenue growth, improved people” productivity, profitability growth and cash generation.” Ilias Papastathopoulos, CFO 12 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH FINANCIAL RESULTS IN REVENUES AND PROFIT Group Revenue Country Analysis €126m Revenue statutory results +10% vs last year 30 EBITDA (excl Mfees) 28,01 60% EBITDA (adj.) 25 50% €17,2m 21,75 +15% vs last year 40% 20 18,18 15,84 30% EBT 15 14,29 €10,2m 20% +4% vs last year 10 10% 6,56 Cash & Cash Equivalents 4,67 5 3,90 3,77 0% 2,48 €18,9m 1,55 1,17 1,54 1,70 +27% vs last year 0 ALB BOS BUL CRO CYP CZR MKD GRE KOS ROM SER SLK SLN UKR -10% Recurring Revenue Adj. EBITDA margin have slightly increased as well 36% from 13% to 14%. vs 34% last year Net Debt €0,1m vs €5,3 last year (incl. factoring) 13 Currently, through a growing network of subsidiaries, with a Head Company in Vienna, Austria, Printec has a strong presence in Central and Eastern Europe, while maintaining the flexibility of a small company. 17 17 200 16 16 17 15 15 15 15 15 15 16 180 14 15 160 13 14 13 11 126 12 122 140 10 10 115 116 114 11 120 101 10 83 88 9 100 7 7 7 7 7 84 81 8 80 74 69 64 74 74 7 6 52 43 60 5 3 3 3 29 34 32 4 40 3 20 8 11 13 2 1 0 0 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue €m # of countries The Key Group Figures 2019 2018 +/+/-% Total Revenue EUR m. 125.5 113.9 11.6 10% EBT EUR m. 10.2 9.8 0.4 4% EBIT EUR m. 10.8 10.5 0.3 3% EBITDA (Adj) EUR m. 17.2 15.0 2.2 15% EBITDA Adj. margin % 14% 13% 14 FINANCIAL RESULTS 2019 Services 28% Hardware products comprised 53% of our Hardware solutions for 2019 with a 53% Outsourcing small change compared 8% to the previous year (56% Software in 2018). Our Services 12% covered 28% of our offering with 500 experienced engineers and 100 service centers. 2018 Services Hardware Services 25% €67m €35m vs €64m vs €28,5m last year last year Hardware Outsourcing 56% 9% Software Outsourcing Software 10% €14m €10m vs €11m vs €10m last year last year 15 Printec customers include numerous global and local financial services institutions, large retailers, telecommunication and petroleum companies, as well as many other organizations in the public and private sectors. The Group Income mix per Business Sector identified as reportable segments (FSI-Banking and Private) remains roughly stable in 2019 compared to 2018 with Printec Group Core Sector – FSI-Banking providing major income contribution with a small increase of share in 2019 vs 2018 (1%). 2019 Other 12% Revenue per 2019 2018 industry in EUR m. Banking 110 101 Other 16 13 Banking Total 126 114 88% 16 RESPECTING THE UN PRINCIPLES Our Goals Printec has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2014. Each year we become better. In the 2019 Report, we highlight our people, our countries, our activities and our overall increased impact. At Printec, taking into consideration the sector in which we operate, we *SDGs incorporate the goals that apply to 10 UN PRINCIPLES linked 1: support and respect the us in the way we work. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; directly to 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human Printec All of our actions that fall under the rights abuses “We Care” 3: uphold the freedom of association and the effective activities “We Care” Program, aim at recognition of the right to collective bargaining; achieving one or a combination of 4: uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; SDGs. 5: uphold the effective abolition of child labor; and 6: uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10: work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 17 *GOAL 1: NO POVERTY * GOAL 5: GENDER * GOAL 9: INDUSTRY, * GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE GOAL 15: LIFE ON LAND Economic growth must be EQUALITY INNOVATION AND PRODUCTION AND Sustainably manage inclusive to provide sustainable Gender equality is not only a INFRASTRUCTURE CONSUMPTION forests, combat jobs and promote equality. fundamental human right, Investments in infrastructure Responsible Production desertification, halt and but a necessary foundation are crucial to achieving and Consumption reverse land GOAL 2: ZERO HUNGER for a peaceful, prosperous sustainable development. degradation, halt The food and agriculture sector and sustainable world. * GOAL 13: CLIMATE biodiversity loss offers key solutions for * GOAL 10: REDUCED ACTION development, and is central for GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER AND INEQUALITIES Climate change is a * GOAL 16: PEACE, hunger and poverty SANITATION To reduce inequalities, global challenge that JUSTICE AND STRONG eradication. Clean, accessible water for all policies should be universal affects everyone, INSTITUTIONS is an essential part of the in principle, paying attention everywhere. Access to justice for all, * GOAL 3: GOOD HEALTH AND world we want to live in. to the needs of and building effective, WELL-BEING disadvantaged and GOAL 14: LIFE BELOW accountable institutions Ensuring healthy lives and GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND marginalized populations. WATER at all levels. promoting the well-being for CLEAN ENERGY Careful management of all at all ages is essential to Energy is central to nearly * GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE this essential global * GOAL 17: sustainable development. every major challenge and CITIES AND COMMUNITIES resource is a key feature PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE opportunity. There needs to be a future in of a sustainable future. GOALS * GOAL 4: QUALITY which cities provide Revitalize the global EDUCATION * GOAL 8: DECENT WORK opportunities for all, with partnership for Obtaining a quality education AND ECONOMIC GROWTH access to basic services, sustainable is the foundation to improving Sustainable economic growth energy, housing, development. people’s lives and sustainable will require societies to create transportation and more. development. the conditions that allow people to have quality jobs. 18 OUR PEOPLE Demographics “In 2019 our HR team focused on creating a working environment in which our people will be successful, while at the same time will feel motivated and appreciated for what they deliver. We implemented our second Employee Engagement Survey in order to “hear” our employees and respond to their needs and requests. Furthermore, it was a year of growth in terms of our headcount during which many talented people joined Printec at different levels, functions and countries. By introducing new digital systems, such as Workable, Gallup platform and new functionalities for our HRMS, we enabled our People Managers to better accomplish their work and to better manage their people, focusing on more value adding activities., while we improved our employees’ experience, as well as our employer brand. Finally, I feel very proud being part of our We Care program which has been developed and expanded through our network of Ambassadors. Our social footprint has been considerably increased in all our countries and this makes me feel part of a community of people who really care for their communities. 2019 was a year of success and pride! Pride for our dedication to our clients and for the quality of the product and services we delivered in all our markets. This has been achieved through the hard work and commitment of our people whom I want to warmly thank!” Yiannis Koutrakis, Chief People Officer 19 Recruitment “It was a year during which we continued investing on developing the capabilities of our people through training and other developmental initiatives, focusing in both soft and hard skills. In the area of Talent Management, we enhanced the level of dialogue through calibration sessions during our Performance Management process improving transparency and sharing. We also progressed on our Talent Management agenda through the establishment of our new Talent Cycle.” Trainings 20 In 2019, we introduced our new hiring platform, Workable, to help us change the candidate experience, improve employer branding, and finally recruit the best talents from the market. 21 Onboarding Digitize Recruitment Process HOW WE WORK The aim of our onboarding program is to provide a The technology market is fiercely competitive in positive and informative context within which newcomers our geography and a veritable war for talent is feel welcome, acquire a good understanding of Printec’s taking place. Sourcing, attracting and recruiting history, values, vision and mission and acknowledge the the right people across the Group has become a importance of their job and how it fits in with Printec’s great challenge. The purpose is to “find and hire overall culture and strategy. the best-qualified candidates in a timely and Moreover, an important part of the onboarding program cost-effective manner.” To keep up with the market, we had to increase the sophistication and is the Buddy role. This role is usually taken by a peer that efficiency of our recruitment process. In 2019, we could help newcomers successfully shorten the time it introduced our new hiring platform, Workable, to takes for them to feel more “at home” and serves as a help us change the candidate experience, valuable resource by creating a trustful relationship with improve employer branding, and finally recruit them. the best talents from the market. We now receive As always, we are looking for our new colleagues’ and job descriptions and offer letters faster. The their managers’ feedback as we strive to discover new recruitment process has become digital, recruiters ways to enhance our program. and hiring managers were trained to use the new tool efficiently. Performance & Development Diversity Performance & Development Printec’s commitment to Global Compact’s principles on Labor is We are shaping a workplace and culture that allows employees to reflected in its Code of Conduct, in policies such as the Hiring Policy, as find balance and focus on what matters: professional success while well as in processes such as the Performance and Development Process realizing their personal aspirations. Printec’s People Calendar helps which describe how employees are selected and regularly evaluated. us stay on track and set aspirational targets, collaborate and The company supports and is committed to the practice of equal contribute to achieve results, grow, recognize and reward our opportunity in all aspects of employment and advancement. people. With Diversity as one of its Values, Printec prides itself on having an authentically diverse culture: our workforce spans countries, cultures, Printec Performance Development (PPD) helps us set effective goals, languages, generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational understand which behaviors lead us to success and how giving and experiences. Printec understands that employees with disabilities share receiving feedback builds trust. The performance cycle consists of the same general employment rights as other workers. Printec has a Performance Planning (beginning of the year) and the Performance good mix of female and male although our industry is an area which is Review (middle and end of the year). Individual Development Plan is by nature male dominated. This however, in no way reflects our an important part of the PPD that formulates our training activities approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. and shapes our professional growth. This is part of the Performance Planning and reviewed during Performance Reviews. Talent Attraction & Selection Printec will never advertise a job referencing discriminatory criteria such Printec’s Career Framework describes each role based on its unique as race, gender or age. Likewise, the company ensures job applicants contribution and industry standards to eliminate any issues of are not asked to give information about their marital status, pregnancy, discrimination in compensation, performance and development. intent to have children or similar information which may lead to discriminatory hiring decisions. Within 2019 we organized PPD broadcasts & training sessions for our employees, and special onboarding workshops for the new members Printec’s commitment is to attract, engage, develop and retain the right of Printec team to educate them on the principles, purpose and how people, in the right roles at the right time to deliver on business goals. to get the most out of their performance & development discussions. In 2019, we ran at a pilot stage talent discussions across the We further strengthened fairness and transparency by organizing organization to clarify and reflect on the ability, organizational “Calibration meetings” across all countries, where managers had the commitment and aspiration/interest to rise to and succeed in more opportunity to discuss cross-teams performance results and create senior, critical roles within the organization at large, in the near future. an action plan. 2019 Performance & Reward results are accessible to This was the first attempt to identify, assess & validate high potentials, everyone at Printec at our “Building a High-Performance Page” on talent gaps in critical skills & inform succession planning & development SharePoint & Analytics created. decisions. 22 HOW WE WORK At Printec, it doesn’t matter who you are, what you look like or where you come from 23 Printec encourages all employees and business partners to respect human In Printec we follow the rules and regulations of the rights and prevent potential abuses. This commitment is clearly stated in the jurisdiction in which we operate and in our company’s written policies found in our code of conduct, “One Group, One Code”, policies, we ensure that our employees and stakeholders which has been published on the company website and intranet and is are treated fairly and equally. translated in all local languages of our jurisdiction. Printec’s commitment to the UN Global Compact has According to Printec’s Code of Conduct, each employee should conduct also been published on the company’s corporate company business with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws. website reflecting our ethical business performance and The Company will not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment in the positive engagement with stakeholders e.g. employees, workplace. Any such behavior is facing disciplinary repercussions and even partners, customers and communities. termination of employment. All Printec employees are required to read and confirm that they have understood and commit to abide by the Code. Life @ Printec The employee life-cycle We’re passionate about what we Our culture, our open and collaborative do and we recognize that work environment and our people give Employee Workforce inspiration comes from both in us the opportunity to tackle big Relations Planning and outside the office. We are challenges and continuously develop. committed to creating a better We bring our passion, experience and workplace and our culture allows true self to work to make sure that Occupational Talent Attraction employees to find balance and together we achieve amazing things. Compliance, focus on what matters: achieving employee & Selection Health & Safety professional success while making We ensure that recruitment & selection, performance & development, career engagement personal aspirations a reality. progress and leadership promotions Everyone is part of a team that are based on legitimate nonreimagines transactions and discriminatory business reasons. creates technology that makes We provide a safe, healthy & Total Rewards Onboarding everyday life easier. comfortable working environment to all employees. Performance Development 24 HOW WE WORK Reward We take care of our people in more ways than one. We all work very hard on opportunities that define our careers. We commit on fairness, respect and superior rewards for superior performance. We responsibly look at performance, potential and commitment to reward our people in various manners. All Printec employees receive at least the minimum wage. All We ensure equal pay for equal employees are paid holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in work and equal opportunities accordance with international standards. We conduct analysis and continue monitoring pay structure and market practices to ensure we for training and development keep rewarding our people fairly. We have established a Total Reward Policy & Reward Review Toolkit, outlining core principles and the for all employees, without framework to make evidence-based reward decisions for every Printec distinction based on race, color, employee. When we treat people fairly, equitably and consistently to attract, sex, language, religion, political enable and engage high performing teams. We carefully look at performance, exceptional contribution, potential and long-term or other opinion, national or commitment to reward our people through base pay review, social origin, property, birth or Corporate Bonus, People Awards. Due to the nature of Printec’s services, we are often required to serve other status such as ethnic our customers after hours, thus, to ensure fairness and work-life balance, the Stand-by & Call-out policy regulates the terms and origin, disability, age, health conditions under which extra payment is granted for extra effort, status, parental or marital status especially in the Customer Services function. or sexual orientation. Congratulating We encourage flexibility Printec People Quality time outside the office is vital. Our FlexWork program, 6 13 allows for flexibility both in terms Great Team Awards of where and when we get work 14 Drive for Results done. Our work tools and, most importantly, our habits change to 49 Teamwork & Collaboration welcome a culture of mobility, agility and accountability, where 9 Customer Focus people choose how they complete Taking Initiative specific tasks that can be performed virtually. Giving back to Embracing Diversity people control over their work time 21 and place, reduce unnecessary CEO's Awards commute time and improve the quality of their work life. 25 103 employees got a Printec People Award for Leading Performance on Competencies & their contribution on strategic projects (vs 87 in 2018) We are truly proud of our achievements and celebrating them is part of our culture. We live our values, push ourselves and do our best work, therefore, there is plenty to celebrate. We embraces feedback and recognize exceptional contribution of : ▪ Teams that delivered a key project or exceptional work that helped us achieve a strategic objective; or ▪ People who displayed Leading Performance at one of our Competencies, linked with Printec's core values Country Management Teams award individuals and teams considering strategic impact, professional excellence and commitment to Printec DiRECT values. 26 HOW WE WORK Health & Safety All parameters of health and safety in the Freedom of Association & workplace are covered by local legislation such With regards to the Health and Safety of as: Child Labor employees, Printec is in full compliance We believe in the freedom of with the relevant laws and regulations in ▪ Controls by a dedicated safety engineer are held on a regular basis association and the effective the countries of its operations. recognition of the right to collective ▪ Scheduled visits by an occupational doctor bargaining and adhere to sectional The company makes sure that the ▪ A detailed evacuation plan, upheld by collective agreements in all necessary procedures and precautions are frequent fire and earthquake drills countries, and, where applicable, in place with regards to Printec facilities, allow the formation of Labor providing a safe and sanitary working All employees are covered by the state medical Unions. environment. insurance and supplementary private medical insurance is provided as a benefit for employees All employees are made aware that Additionally, the company has achieved in the majority of Printec. We plan to extend this any forms of forced or compulsory and continues to maintain the OHSAS benefit to all countries. labor are not supported. 18001:2007 & OHSAS 18001:2008 certification which relates to occupational To improve the quality of life of employees and We do not condone any forms of health and safety in Bulgaria and Romania their families, they are granted flexible time & child labor or human trafficking. respectively. place work arrangements, encouraged to take all their annual paid time off, exercise and live a healthy lifestyle. 27 Monitoring Compliance Business ethics, anti-corruption & We span in more than 15 countries, but we maintain an open and supporting working environment. Printec Whistleblowing measures enables employees to freely communicate in cases where We seek to grow our business & conduct all they feel their rights are being compromised or business activities with integrity and respect, breached. by ensuring appropriate procedures and Grievance Mechanism: Through the implementation of processes are in place to enable our Printec’s Code of Conduct and the relevant policies, the workforce to raise any issues of concern. company does not allow any human rights violations. Printec maintains zero-tolerance regarding However if violations were to occur, then appropriate breaches of our Code of Business Conduct & action would be taken. Employees are encouraged to Ethics and anti-bribery policies, as well as any speak with the senior members of the team and/or communicate directly with the Group Ethics Committee attempts to retaliate against our people who (via telephone, email or mail) if they feel treated unfairly. report potential violations. The Ethics Committee: Printec’s Ethics Committee is responsible for the review of issues regarding human rights, or other ethical issues that have or may arise in Regular controls conjunction with Printec activities. The Chief Compliance Officer, on an annual basis, performs on-site audits in each of the company’s locations of business operations Printec had not been involved and investigates if the company policies and procedures are being meticulously followed, in any legal cases, rulings or providing feedback and ensuring realignment other events related to in case of discrepancies (policies are being corruption or bribery. reviewed for suitability and effectiveness on a regular or also ad-hoc basis should a significant change occur). All employees have been made aware of Printec has not been involved Printec’s policies in this area and are required in any investigations, legal to read and familiarize themselves with the Code of Conduct. cases or other relevant events related to contravention of the All policy documents are available to access at any time via the company’s intranet, and Global Compact Labor employees are encouraged to submit principles. questions, feedback and any concerns to the individuals with responsibility in this area. 28 Our Continuous Improvement DATA Increase Audit & assess awareness PROTECTION Review data inventory & corporate documents Our Commitment​ Protecting the security and privacy of Our Continuous Improvement personal data is important to Printec. Printec The European Union’s General Data complies with mandatory privacy laws Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in worldwide, and is implementing a Groupeffect for more than a year. wide Program to safeguard personal data We see GDPR as an opportunity to which: improve the way we work, that is why we have adopted and still follow a “continuous improvement” framework. ▪ is following on a risk-based approach with Through an established internal network a uniform methodology in all Printec and practice community of privacy leads in EU Printec regions, we continue to mature entities and improve our privacy program to align ▪ examines every aspect of our operations to the evolving landscape to ensure privacy is respected and protected. ▪ ensures everyone’s involvement and commitment 29 Our Program Policies and Standards We have updated our existing privacy and data protection policies as well as internal standards and governance, setting a framework within which local data protection and privacy laws are respected, and a baseline for those markets where there are no such specific legal requirements. We particularly focus to personal data lifecycle, individual rights, data breaches, data access, and security. The main principles of our policy are reflected in our privacy statement and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Data Inventory Knowing what data we hold is key in managing them appropriately and consistently. Based on a cross-functional, company-wide effort, Training & Awareness we inventory and map the data that each unit within Printec Printec conducts a Data Protection processes. We also inventory our products and services. This allows us Awareness program through a variety to identify and understand how we handle data, including what we of multimedia (on-line, print, video, have, how are we protecting them, what we are doing with them, live sessions) and languages, which where they are, where they flow, who has access to them, and why. aims at providing general training to all personnel and specific training to personnel who have permanent or Data Risk Management regular access to personal data. Data risk management requires understanding the threats, Specific modules taking into account vulnerabilities and risks associated with processing (e.g., collecting, local specificities are also being exchanging, storing, deleting) the specific types of personal data we developed. The attendance to the handle. By conducting Data Privacy Impact Assessments (DPIA) for Data Protection Training is mandatory our own internal business processes, measuring the effectiveness of and in order to facilitate the policies, processes and controls, we constantly try to manage risks to participation of Printec employees we an acceptable level and identify the current strengths and maintain an active intranet for opportunities in the data protection practices of Printec. collaboration and communications at all levels within the company. Beyond Incident response basic awareness training, Printec We have implemented a thorough, organization-wide data incident encourages & supports employees to response process that is integrated in our business continuity pursue further training opportunities. processes. Our cross-functional incident response team consists of personnel from multiple departments. Our team provides guidance and takes responsibility for remedial actions based on members’ business function and role. Any data breaches will be handled by a subgroup of the incident response team since due to possible legal/regulatory implications, a different management process may be required. 30 CYBERSECURITY At Printec, we believe that a feeling of safety and security inspires trust, confidence, and communication 31 Our evolving operating model towards an escalating digitization and automation requires new high standards for effectively addressing all relevant threats. This applies both in digital and physical world in which Printec operates and interacts with its most valuable assets: our People. As well as its Partners and Customers. This year, Printec has initiated the initiative named Shield aiming to further foster digital Trust among our People, Clients and Business Partners. Printec through the Shield initiative is progressively strengthening its cybersecurity posture in all five functions of our Cybersecurity framework: Identify -> Protect -> Detect -> Respond -> Recover This was fully aligned with a significant update on our Disaster Recovery Infrastructure. In the “Identify” function: In the “Protect” function: In the “Detect” function: In the “Recover” phase: We set a strong Governance and We empowered our We enhanced our security We developed & Organizational model, equipped with a lean People within the detection processes for implemented a state-of-theand effective set of Cybersecurity Policies, organization through continuous identification of art Business Continuity Standards, Procedures and Guidelines. cybersecurity Awareness potential anomalous events Management System, that and Training program was also launched in Printec An integration with the Cybersecurity We keep developing which is currently subsidiaries starting in three Organization was established for the Business capabilities in people and expanded to wider countries, Greece, Croatia & Continuity Function creating the appropriate technology for continually group. Romania. This was based on a efficiencies identifying risks comprehensive methodology We enhanced our We keep managing cybersecurity Risks In the “Respond” function: derived from both ISO/IEC security mechanisms with associated with our most critical information 22301:2019 Standard and BCI next generation firewalls We start building capabilities assets and implement the appropriate Good Practice Guidelines and security software on Incident response as to be 2018. security controls. fully unfolded in the next year 32 Printec has in place a robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and recovery procedures on how the Organization will respond more effectively to incidents that will significantly disrupt our services and critical operations. Since the timing and impact of disasters and disruptions are unpredictable, Printec’s maturity level is constantly growing as to be flexible in responding to real incidents as they occur and minimize their impact to the organization’s and its stakeholders smooth and proper operation. we implemented BCP plans in 3 subsidiaries in 2019 and we plan on expanding in our entire region in the coming years 33 BUSINESS CONTINUITY Our Business Continuity Plan addresses issues related to: • data backup and recovery • all mission critical systems and services • safety of employees, community and collaboration with regulatory authorities • alternative communication paths with customers and We plan to quickly recover and resume third parties critical business operations after a • alternate physical locations for employees significant business disruption and respond • resilience of critical suppliers and contractors by safeguarding our employees and assets, making a financial and operational assessment, protecting the firm’s and In order for the Business Continuity Plan to be effectively clients’ data and assets, and allowing our managed, Printec has established a Governance structure clients to conduct business without delays. with specific roles and responsibilities. This BC schema In short, our Business Continuity Plan is dictates i) Printec’s top management involvement and buy designed to permit our Organization to in, ii) the role of the Business Continuity Manager iii) resume operations as quickly as possible, Correspondents from all the Business Units/ Departments given the scope and severity of the and iv) testing exercises at least once a year. significant business disruption. More specifically, all corporate business units are required to maintain and exercise alternate operation strategies by prioritizing key processes and functions, utilizing Business Impact Analyses for processes and Service Impact Analyses for applications supporting business processes. Each of the critical processes and applications has resiliency plans to restore their functionality. Our Business Continuity Management policy calls for reviews, updates, and testing of Business Continuity Plans at scheduled intervals. Based on these, Printec Business Continuity Management teams validate that each business unit’s resiliency strategies are effective as well as if any further mitigation action is required. 34 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management comprises a broad framework of policies, procedures, methods and tools on the identification, measurement, undertaking, monitoring, reporting and management of the various risks affecting the activities of the Group. Printec acknowledges that taking risks is Particular emphasis is placed on the strict an integral part of its business. It observance of the framework and the overall therefore sets mechanisms to identify management of the various risk types, aiming at those risks and assess their potential enforcing a risk culture across the Group, always in impact to the achievement of its conjunction with the entity’s established mission, objectives. Due to the fact that economic, vision and values. industry, regulatory and operating conditions will continue to change, the Effective risk management is fundamental to risk management mechanisms set, evolve business operations. The primary goal is to ensure in a manner that enables Printec to that risk taking activities and the management of identify and manage risks associated with exposures is consistent with its risk management those changes. strategy and corresponding risk appetite. More specifically, Printec through the implementation of Enterprise Risk Management aims to: ▪ Incorporate risks from all sources (financial, operational, strategic, etc.); ▪ Make use of the natural hedges and portfolio effects from treating those risks with a collective approach ▪ Coordinate risk management strategies that span risk assessment, mitigation, financing, and monitoring ▪ Focus on the impact to the organization’s overall financial and strategic objectives ▪ Recognize the upside opportunity and downside nature of risk 35 Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program, which was initially embedded in our operations in 2017, monitors operational, strategic, financial, legal and regulatory risk areas. Overall, ERM is designed to manage risk and opportunities and encourages our people to embrace the concept of taking smart risks which drive innovation and growth, rather than eliminate the risk of failure in achieving business objectives The program enables us to proactively identify new risks and opportunities which enable us to understand threats to our business viability. 36 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT In 2017, we carried out our first “Employee Engagement Survey” across our entire workforce. The survey was conducted online using a respected third-party provider and was completely Measuring Employee anonymous and confidential. This is why Engagement is vital to at Printec we commit on following up understand how to best action plans in order to generate more support people, improve employee engagement and development opportunities. The group leadership team the workplace and create having examined the findings in great an environment that detail, identified areas and took action in enables management and 2018 to address shortcomings employees to remove any highlighted by our people. barriers to success. At Printec we are committed to hearing and acting on our people needs, thus, after two years, we launched again our engagement survey (Be Heard 2019) with increased participation rate to 91% vs 85% in 2017. The purpose of this Printec-wide employee engagement survey is to gather insights into Printec’s collective engagement and learn more about how to improve the workplace. We make Printec a great place to work by empowering every employee to have his or her say in the survey and by taking part in action planning, best-practice sharing and a continual improvement approach that involves everyone from senior management to customer-facing employees. Partnering with Gallup, we use the Q12 Engagement hierarchy survey model, we ask all employees to share their opinions, ideas and innovations to improve processes, strengthen relationships and initiate a company wide engagement conversation. 37 it takes all of us to build a more positive & productive workplace in 2019 we increased our participation rate to 91% vs 85% in 2017 38 3 ideas awarded for their drive and innovative way of thinking but could not be applied at the moment 5 awarded for having contributed to the implementation of new things in Printec, that are already in action 8 ideas stood out as innovative, beneficial and realistic and progressed to the next round, one received a special award 6 ideas proceeded to the implementation phase and a reunion date was set on May 15th 2020 to share the implementation progress 39 INNOVATION AS DA LET’S MAKE YOUR IDEAS INITIATIVE SD AS HAPPEN We strongly believe that the best source of innovation is our own people who interact with The first cycle of the Innovation Initiative our customers and understand their changing kicked off then, aiming to inspire everyone needs and requirements. to share their proposals about our product and services offering (what we offer) and our This Innovation initiative encourages teams or internal processes (how we work). The most individuals to communicate their ideas by submitting improvement proposals that will important aspect of this program was that impact the way we work (operational efficiency), the best proposals will be implemented by our revenue, profitability, customer and employee the Group or by the countries, making ideas experience. happen. We are in the midst of a technological evolution, The participation was above expectations. 95 affecting both our customers and our own submitted ideas, coming from 58 people industry. To succeed, we need to adapt and find from 10 different countries. As a result, this ways to innovate and be one step ahead of these process allowed the company to embrace rapid changes. Our focus on innovation started in idea generation and take it one step further 2017 through the formation of an Innovation towards the digital transformation. May 2019 Committee that had as a task to rethink our was the month of celebration; 16 ideas were offering and the way we work in a strategic level. In 2018, we took this one step further by investing recognized and awarded for their and recognizing new ideas coming from the core innovativeness and business potential. of our business: our people. 40 GROUP Innovation Initiative Awards Ceremony Last year we launched a company-wide initiative, Innovation, calling every single one of you to think and submit ideas that would actively help us improve what we offer or how we work. Less than a year later we have 95 submitted ideas, coming from 58 people from 10 different countries. These results are the best proof that in our company people care. We care for our work, our company, our future. We care to see positive change and growth. We care for each other. Innovation comes from within, and that we should have the processes and infrastructure in place that will allow us to make your ideas happen. One of our values – entrepreneurship; means that we are acting as if we are running our own business, taking risks, making mistakes, but also reinventing the way things are done is truly part of our DNA and is one of the things that makes this company special. Out of the total 95 ideas submitted, 18 were recognized and awarded for their innovativeness and business potential, but only one was awarded as the best: 41 Congratulations to Kostas and Georgios for their idea TheMetrics that outperformed the rest through our Business Model Canvas process. In a nutshell, the idea is about a centralized, cross-app and cross-vendor monitoring system that will record information through logs on any device (such as kiosks, ATMs, etc). This system will produce metrics that will answer business questions such as: how many transactions did we have today? How long does it take from step A to step B? What is the customer experience like and where do we get errors in the process? This idea will help us homogenize information from heterogeneous systems, allowing us to provide better intelligence to our customers and differentiate our offering by providing qualitative services. All WINnovator ideas will become standalone projects to be implemented for our company. 42 GREECE Engagement Survey Townhall A Townhall about the Engagement Survey took also part in Athens. All teams were gathered and the results and actions from the 2017 Engagement Survey were presented. Safety at work and Employee Benefits like flex time where some of the topics discussed among others. A good opportunity for the Teams to gather and exchange valuable information! 43 ROMANIA BCP exercise In November, we run our first ever Business Continuity exercise with our Romanian colleagues. The Romanian team has been a pioneer in our first BCP project across the Group and they have been leading by example. We simulated a fire scenario and all the teams followed their plans and described what actions they would take in that case. In the end we managed to overcome the fire and restore the company back to its normal operations! It was a learning experience for all and we concluded it with many observations for future improvements. 44 WE CARE FOR YOU | FOR SOCIETY | FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 45 In Printec, WE CARE To that end, Printec is aiming at long-term maximization of its financial value, Our Corporate Social Responsibility actions have been through sound corporate governance and ethical conduct, ensuring that its formulated under the “We Care” program. employees act with integrity, transparency, ethos and environmental consciousness The program has been divided to 3 basic pillars: in their relationship with the Company’s stakeholders and society in general. ▪ For You (Our People): Activities relating to Printec employees Printec’s targets are to generate continuous growth and economic value through ▪ For Society: Actions towards the societies and long term performance improvement, provide innovative & optimal solutions communities within which we operate responding to customer’s requirements and sustain longstanding relationships with ▪ For the Environment: Actions towards improving key vendors/partners and behave with transparency towards them. sustainability and environmental consciousness. Our “We Care” program has been Under this scope, in 2019 a network of Our CSR vision and strategy is formulated established under a clear more than 80 Ambassadors has been around 3 basic pillars and is translated into framework. The “We Care” and the established at Printec. Employees from all Environmental & Recycling policies integrated solutions that deliver greater countries volunteered and started set the guidelines regarding what supporting our “We Care” program convenience and add value to people’s activities we participate in and how through various initiatives. For better lives. we engage with the community. monitoring, each country assigned one The CSR Committee ensures that “We Care” coordinator who is responsible the policies are being followed and for the implementation of the ‘We Care” sets a CSR strategy for the whole activities per pillar at a country level. company. 46 PEOPLE SPOTLIGHT ”In my view, a successful company is the one that integrates business and employees' personal values. Our team remains focused on activities that contribute to society by making a difference to the life of these communities and creating a better and cleaner environment. Our CSR initiatives bring change to the life of the communities and have a positive impact on social, economic and environmental factors. These are the values our company preserves as we grow. I want to thank my whole team for caring and sharing our company culture with the communities and environment where we operate. Our actions count and our views matter.” “With the right people anything is possible! I am proud to have a team with great values.” Adrian Shehu, Country Manager Albania 47 “I am grateful to the ‘We Care’ program, and especially Yulia Lavrenchuk, for the opportunity to support those who need help in difficult times, try to give them back a sense of faith in goodness and love, which is very important for them. I am grateful to implement the ForYou initiatives as we reinforce our team and contribute much to our social activities. During the events we’ve organized within the last 2 years, I saw how we can unite and I am sure that together we will be able to further implement programs of this kind, to show all our support and care.” Yurii, UKRAINE This amazing story has gown stronger and involved more and more employees over the last year. In social contribution activities, our team is implementing social activities that are closely linked to local communities. The most important thing is that we are able to identify real needs in our communities, simply due to the fact that we live in them. Every activity is a story for itself and brings not only strong and positive impact to the society, but also to us as employees as well. We are all guided by the same goal which is increasing our CSR activities and making a positive difference by strengthening local communities! I believe we can create a massive change!“ Sandra, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA 48 PEOPLE SPOTLIGHT “Working in the PS department, my workday is always busy. However, participating in all the CSR activities (or at least an many as I can) has always been a priority for me and my team. It gives you a sense of fulfilment to give back to society, and they are also a pleasant break from work, and a fun way to interact with my colleagues.” Sotiris, GREECE “For years, I have been visiting the Friends of the Child, an organization that’s helping kids in need. My favorite part of the day is when we visit them to deliver their breakfast supplies, or their Easter/Christmas presents. The children are welcoming us with open arms and a big smile on their faces and they light up our day. I always want to personally deliver the supplies we have gathered because their happiness and hugs are all we need.” Maria, GREECE 49 “Being a part of the “We Care” team makes me feel part of something outside my friends and family. Helping and volunteer are my nature, (you see I am a Virgo ☺ ). You can improve the lives of others and yours and I realize it every time I participate in an action. It’s not selfish to love being generous to others, it gives you a warm fuzzy glow. Of course the important thing is the help we give to those who need it but let’s not forget that this is also helping to improve yourself. I see this as an opportunity to make me a better person, a happier, full of self-confidence and I hope I can influence others to do the same.” Chrysa, GREECE “As an active “We Care” member for the past 4 years, the main feelings I have from all these action and would like to share with all of you are satisfaction and completion. It’s not only the final impact that fullfils each of us but the whole process of contribution. Personnaly, I am not able to distinguish a specific experience since every new activity has something different to offer in addition to moral satisfaction. All these activities do not need any special skills but only the ability of giving. I am thankfull to everyone at Printecl and to the CSR Abassandors particularly. Keep going!” Alexandra, GREECE 50 WE CARE | FOR YOU “For You” is our group-wide WorkLife @Printec programs are about: program that ▪ Improving our workplace Transform offices into comfortable & introduces and creative places, where people can meet encourages our and collaborate on projects colleagues to ▪ Encouraging flexibility on how we participate in deliver our work Flexible Time & Place Arrangements, creating a better when appropriate work life. ▪ Emphasizing teamwork & collaboration Organize “know-us-better” sessions, where teams could share what they do, their achievements or challenges, or their best thinking ideas ▪ Introducing meaningful perks such us: Discounts on Products & Services, Meal & Transportation subsidies, tickets for museums and theaters 51 Fitness & Health EnJoy @Printec is Grow @Printec @Printec focuses on our about having fun! Let’s encourages accountability physical and mental health, celebrate our on personal and stress release and nutrition; achievements, embrace professional growth by challenges and support providing a robust company programs in our colleagues. In many Individual Development various countries, among Plan & realizing it with the others, include: Printec countries our organization's support. colleagues, among others: ▪ Employee Assistance ▪ Team and individual Program with 24/7 ▪ Participate in Team learning and availability building activities development ▪ Marathons ▪ Create on-site opportunities occur for ▪ Blood banks play/relax rooms technical and non▪ Team sport activities ▪ Have fun in Christmas technical fields parties & celebrations 52 GREECE Printec's Heroes at the Blood Donation Day in Athens In July 2019 we organized the Blood Donation Day 2019 where 48 of our brave colleagues spent only 15 minutes of their time and we managed to collect 39 units of blood, in order to increase our blood supply of Printec’s blood bank. 53 2019 was the first SLOVENIA year that we Printec Slovenia in the conducted blood World Blood Donor donation in 2 Day countries. We We have invited the gathered 53 whole team to bottles in 2 participate on the countries vs 33 blood donation on bottles in 1 14.06. (Word blood country in 2018. donation day) to help saving lives. 54 GREECE School supplies for colleagues' children in Athens Every beginning is difficult and that’s why we prepared once again back-to-school survival kits for our little friends, wishing them a happy and creative school season. SLOVENIA Printec Slovenia Family Picnic Summer officially began and to celebrate it, Printec Slovenia's team had a traditional family picnic. Sunny day, warm weather, great food, kids running around, playing sports and mostly…having a lot of fun! We had our special picnic dream team taking care of an excellent organization and an unforgettable gastronomy experience . Until next year, we will cherish the memories of this great day. 55 GREECE First Aid Training in Athens First aid training at xenias premises/ for the first time a First Aid Training was organized at the Group Office in an effort by our colleagues to acquire basic but very important knowledge on how to recognize and respond to emergencies in real time. 56 SLOVENIA Printec Slovenia in the Traditional Cycling Marathon In Printec, We Care through team sports activities. Our Slovenian team took part in the traditional cycling marathon in the Krka River valley. The rain shortened the length of the route, but that did not discourage the positive energy and mood of our colleagues who despite the adverse conditions managed to complete the race and win a medal! 57 CROATIA Printec Croatia in the Traditional Lokve Bicycle Opening At Printec, We love being part in various sport activities, so our Croatian team, CS Rijeka, participated in the Traditional Lokve Bicycle Season Opening , along with 60 other cyclists, bicycling around the lake and proudly wearing shirts with the Printec's logo. GREECE Bicycle Race in Athens Printec participated for a second time in the Cycling Tour of Athens. Ten colleagues from CS department took part with their own initiative and willingness in the 26th Cycling Tour of Athens, giving the example that Printec is always in the front line of these kind of activities. 58 UKRAINE Printec Ukraine kicks off New Year with great energy! The annual rowing conference welcomed more than 120 colleagues from across the country. The day began with summarizing the key results, achievements and lessons from the previous year, explaining in detail the one Printec vision for 2020 and on how to land these strategies in Ukraine. The management team provided information and tactics on all functions. 59 Be Heard key lessons and We Care stories were presented and all our key contributors were rewarded for their high performance. The business sessions were followed by bowling championships, in which more than 25 teams were competing and fighting for the title of the most accurate, productive and a very energetic entertainment program with gifts, photos, fun and a lot of strikes! This event gave the opportunity to remind the strengths of the business, to reinforce employees' engagement and trust and to be an inspiration for great achievements in 2020! 60 BULGARIA Team building activity for the CS Team in Bulgaria Our CS Team in Bulgaria organized a team building event. Our colleagues were divided into 4 groups and each team had to design, build and decorate its own car. Creativity, teamwork, and programming skills were promoted and rewarded. After the construction phase, the cars were tested on a special route, racing against rival teams. 61 UKRAINE National Defense Holiday of Ukraine On October 14th, Ukraine celebrated the National Day Defender of Ukraine. This is a day of tribute to the courage and heroism of the defenders of Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Also, this day we honor our people and especially our men who defended and protected our families and homeland. To express our gratitude and sincere wishes, we welcomed our male colleagues with sweets decorated with the colors of our national flag and prepared for them some delicious dishes. BULGARIA Friday Coffee with CS team in Sofia Our CS team welcomed more than 50 of our colleagues in our newly renovated office in our Service Center in Sofia. We all enjoyed spending time together over a cup of coffee and got extra energy to start our day positive with many smiles. 62 GROUP Greece Love us everyday as you do on May Croatia International Women's Day 8th. On 8th of March, Love us everyday as you do on we celebrated Women’s March 2019 Women’s Day. day! A very special breakfast was prepared by our male Bosnia Romania colleagues including pink In Sarajevo we nourish On 8th of March we strawberry flavored tradition and always celebrate celebrated the International Women’s waffles and roses for our Women’s day with flowers for day with a special present for our ladies. What a kick start, our ladies. Happy Women’s ladies, which included a book and a couldn’t be better than this! day! little box of sweets! 63 Serbia Slovenia Ukraine In Serbia we believe that our ladies This bouquet has a super This day brings many things for happiness comes first! This year, we power and it is being women; a cause for celebration, offered cosmetic gift cards. Happy “Women”. Christian Dior a reason to be indulged by Women’s day! once said: “After women, spring, inspiration and a chance flowers are the most divine to be honored, loved and Slovakia creations”. Happy Women’s admired. Our ladies Gentlemen offered their lady day to all the Superwomen! received flowers and balloons colleagues some pretty flowers! and during lunch break we had a small party with fruits and cake! 64 GROUP Athens Annual Marathon Race 2019 This year, we participated in the Athens Marathon for the 3rd time. We run, we had fun and we celebrated this unique day. 35 colleagues were there and took part in this great initiative. All participants run either the 5,10 or 42 km race, finishing at the Panathenaic Stadium. Special congratulations to our colleagues who run the authentic marathon race (42km). From this year and onward, all participants will be receiving a medallion. Those participating for 8 years in a row, will have a series of medallions forming the word Marathon , getting them ready for the 130th anniversary in 2026. 65 GROUP Team Building Activity before the Marathon Race in Athens A unique team building activity was organized a couple of days before the Marathon race for all runners and volunteers! The team faced the Escape room challenge! Three different teams tried to solve the mysteries and finally managed to escape. Congratulations to everyone for the team work and effort. 66 GREECE 2019 Printec Awareness Program Data Protection | Security | Marketing In 2019 we began a new awareness cycle at Printec. The awareness sessions aim at helping new (and existing) colleagues get accustomed to their everyday life at Printec and learn more about issues that affect their personal and professional lives. The issues that were covered in the sessions of March-April were: •Data Protection: 9 months after the GDPR & Printec Case Studies •Security: Cybersecurity awareness •Marketing: Navigating in PrintecHub, Social Media & our Branding 67 UKRAINE Training on Effective Communications for CS Employees in Kiev Our colleagues in Kiev held a Training session on how to effectively communicate and eliminate controversial issues at work and how to create a customer-friendly environment based on positive working relationships, . Additionally, this training contributed to gain insights on how to interact with different clients and more complex situations. Certainly, this is the new reason for even more powerful B2B and B2C approaches to be used daily by our CS employees. 68 69 UKRAINE Corporate Team Building Event in Ukraine Printec Ukraine held an off-site building event which brought together more than 100 colleagues. Despite the cold weather, our team promoted the solution of complex situations and the achievement of specific targets basing on the planning, the customization and the confidence. The scope was to perform various fun activities as well as challenges with the main aim of developing teamwork skills that will promote productivity and employees' engagement. 70 BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA Sharing Knowledge and having fun in Sarajevo Our CS colleagues from all Bosnia locations gathered together to share their knowledge and exchange opinions on ATM's repair and off course have some fun together over dinner. ADRIATIC Adriatic Dale Carnegie’s “New Leaders Development Program” This year, supervisors from Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia, gathered in Zagreb and kicked off the first of six in total, classroom training of Dale Carnegie’s “New Leaders Development Programs . This program goes beyond traditional leadership training sessions because it focuses on the essential skills that are necessary to build strong teams and equip new leaders with the right attitudes to step up and take responsibilities. Same trainings were organized in Tirana with teams from Albania, Kosovo and Slovakia, and in Belgrade where colleagues from Serbia and North Macedonia have joined as well! 71 BULGARIA Team building paintball On June 29th our colleagues from Printec Bulgaria engaged in a friendly Paintball battle. 22 of them were separated into two teams, but a winner could not be declared as the games were even. That didn't stop them enjoy the sunny day in the skirts of Vitosha! GREECE 9 Ball final billiard game in Athens After a 6 month period of games, the Greek CS Team was finally ready for the final game! 18 players took part on the tournament, yet Stelios Zannis and Dimitris Grapsas were the 2 finalists who competed for the 1st place. The team gathered in the afternoon to watch the game and have fun. Congratulations to Stelios for winning (again) the tournament! 72 SERBIA Secret Santa in Printec Belgrade On 30th of December we organized Secret Santa gift exchange among the employees. Those few days were very fun and exciting: from opening the mail to see our gift buddy, through thinking and preparing the small gift for him or her, putting the presents under the Christmas tree, till the main event – Secret Santa party which was full of surprise, humor, laughter, fun and great mood! It was very nice to finish the year with so much fun and laughter. Happy New Year! GREECE Christmas Theater for our children in Athens On Sunday 15th of December, 61 colleagues a nd their children from Greece enjoyed the theatrical children’s play To Sklavi in Athens. Α charming fairy tale that managed to captivate young and old alike with its story, the talent of the actors, the contrasting colors of the costumes and the impressive backdrops of the theater. 73 CROATIA Kids Xmas party in Printec December in Printec Croatia is most exciting month of the year, both for parents/employees and our kids since year over year we been visited by Santa. Same was this week, during our traditional Kids Christmas party. There was a lot of magic, music, and fun. And of course peek of the party was Santa’s visit, that broth a present for all childeren! GREECE New Year's Party in Athens, in 2019 Our colleagues from all of our offices in Greece, had a blast partying & dancing all together, celebrating a challenging 2018 and toasting to a prosperous 2019. 74 GREECE GO Team Event in Athens, May 2019 Our Team got together for the first time outside Printec premises to Innovate, Interact & Experience. Mostly, to Experience. We spent one day with lots of fun exploring what each of us brings to the team and what it takes for us to add further value to Printec. We kicked-off the day looking at ourselves by playing LEGO trying to figure out how we can connect various single pieces to create meaning. We discussed our current & future mindset and agreed on actions on what we need to “Be-Say-Do” to realize this Dream... We debated a lot, had a lot of fun and ended the day with lots of energy & a great dinner by the pool. 75 GREECE PrintecLeague Final4 in Athens Our colleagues created an internal basketball tournament, which they named Printec League . Ten pairs were created under a random selection based on the performance of every player. All teams came up with a name and a logo and the tournament began! During the Final4, we watched videos with special moments from the whole tournament, found out who the MVP was and enjoyed a game by colleagues from our other buildings. The final game ended 5-2 and the winners were Team Builders! 76 GREECE Visit at Leonardo Da Vinci exhibition in Athens, March 2019 Learning never exhausts the mind. Leonardo Da Vinci An educational and highly informative experience at Leonardo Da Vinci exhibition in Athens! We had the opportunity to explore the amazing life and work of the man who laid the foundations for some of the most important inventions of mankind. In 2019 we added cultural activities in 1 more country vs 2018. We went to the theater, we attended an exhibition and we visited historical sites. 77 UKRAINE Printec Ukraine celebrated the National embroidered shirt Day Vyshyvanka Day is an international celebration, aiming to preserve the original folk traditions of the creation and the study of national Ukrainian embroidered clothes. In Printec we feel proud about the history and traditions of our countries. Our colleagues in Ukraine supported the day, demonstrating unity and expression of their national and civic stance, cultural enlightenment and spiritual consciousness. ALBANIA Printec Albania visit to cultural heritage sites Printec Albania Team organized a visit to the Museum of Medieval Art in the eastern town of Korça. The purpose of the visit was to get acquainted with Albania's rich cultural heritage. Together with museum's guides we organized a quiz on the name of the authors of various paintings and the time when they were painted. CS team won the quiz and all participants greatly enjoyed the time! 78 GROUP Holidays around Printec We had parties, dinners, we exchanged presents and we were joined by our families. All around Printec we enjoyed the holiday season with lots of fun and joy. 79 Everyone around Printec wishes HAPPY HOLIDAYS 80 GREECE Printec Greece Bubble Battle, June 2019 Our CS team in Athens won a Team Award for successfully completing the construction of the new APS for EFG. Part of the celebration of their award was a team activity. So, on June 19th, they all gathered and went for a Bubble Battle! The blue team won with Ioannis being the last man standing! 81 UKRAINE Printec Ukraine participates in the 27th charity “Chestnut Run” in Kyiv The 27th Chestnut Run was held on May 26, 2019, on Maidan Nezalezhnosti to celebrate Kyiv Day. CHESTNUT RUN is the first and largest annual sports and charitable event in Ukraine. More than 20 people from Printec Ukraine attended the event with their families to support the company and a charity project. Our company not only supported the sports and charity event, but also joined the opportunity to give a new life . Children are the future of the nation, which is their healthy development and decent education”. CYPRUS New Offices Celebration Our Cyprus Team was excited to finally move in their newly renovated office! The team gathered in their modern and colorful break room to celebrate the new space over lunch. A mini billiard game followed the lunch and Themis was the winner! The new office is a modern yet warm environment that promotes teamwork, collaboration and above all efficiency and comfort. 82 WE CARE | FOR SOCIETY “For Society” is our group-wide program WE VOLUNTEER, WE SHARE, that enables us to offer back to the WE HAVE FUN communities in which we operate. Supporting society and the communities in which we operate is an endeavor that is being accomplished through the selfless help of our colleagues. 83 We support children This year we used our Our main goal is to utilize our technological expertise and share Throughout Printec our employees have been knowledge for a our knowledge with others. active towards helping children in need. We also focus on supporting good cause. children and families in need. For the last 5 years Printec has been supporting Our developers the NGO The Friends of the Child intending to take care and protect, not only sick or abused All of our activities are team created a new activities, because we believe that children, but any child who lives in conditions that are below the threshold of relative software for a POS to teamwork and collaboration are important in improving poverty. receive donations relationships and our overall impact in society. Each year volunteers donate food supplies, through contactless clothes, toys & books but most importantly transactions. Throughout the years volunteerism their time and positive attitude in order to put a smile on the face of these children. has spread across Printec and Make-Aeach year we note an increase in Thanks to the generous donations of Printec Wish received a 2€ the involvement in social actions among Printec employees. and our volunteers' we continue to cover the donation by tapping speech therapy expenses and the breakfast supplies of the children for a whole year. a debit/credit card on the POS. Additionally, we donate school supplies and equipment to local schools, we provide hygiene products and clothes and we offer meaningful Easter and Christmas presents to children. We share the knowledge Technology is the future and in Printec we share our knowledge and expertise with the next generation in order to educate them and inspire them to become the future developers or engineers that will change the world. We regularly participate in educational events like science festivals or tech exhibitions and we arrange school visitation days where children can visit our offices and learn from our employees first-hand what it means to work for a company like Printec. Additionally, me visit schools and offer career advice and guidance to teenagers to help them shape their future paths. 84 ALBANIA Promoting sports in schools Our valuable CS Engineer Andi, also an official basketball referee, offered his experience and his willingness to referee a basketball game at a 9-year school in Tirana. In the end, the winner team got a “Printec” cup, a ball (for basketball game) and pencils branded with the “Printec” logo. It was a great contribution of “Printec Albania” Team in organizing and promoting sports at this school. 85 ALBANIA “DONATE AND WARM A SOUL” Printec Albania in collaboration with the Tirana Youth Center donated used clothes for the program “DONATE AND WARM A SOUL”. The staff was involved in this good cause and did something great to WARM A SOUL. Our clothes donation drive was exclusively meant for the children of the community center in “Shkoza” village in Tirana. SLOVENIA Children's Safety on the road in Ljubljana Printec Slovenia in collaboration with the State Police Union through donations , twice per year, enhances the children's safety on the road. The state Police Union prints and hands out to the children educational coloring books , with theme Child's Safety on the internet or in the traffic. This time children learned through playing how they should behave on the road while they are walking home from school or driving their bicycle during a traffic jam. 86 87 GREECE Clothes, shoes, books, toys, speech therapy & Breakfast supplies for the Friends of the Child Our colleagues in Greece gathered and donated clothes, shoes, books, toys and breakfast supplies for the Friends of the Child. Once again, the participation was very enthusiastic and energetic. A new season has already begun and our colleagues supported our little friends by donating many useful and well preserved goods for a constructive and happy period. One more time the main message was : The real gift for the future lies in giving it all in the present and our children are the future. 88 GREECE GREECE 146 Printec employees with th 11th Race for the Cure 2019 11th Race for the Cure 2019 pets participated Printec Employees with their families, friends and Printec thethe Greece in in 11th 11th Race for the joined and Race for the cure and expressed their support andfriends forces theirpets with the participated in the 11th main purpose of raising breast cancer awareness. and joined their forces with the main pu 89 146 people participated in 2019. Printec employees along with their families, friends & pets. 90 BULGARIA First Day of School Donation Printec Bulgaria donated folders, erasers, colored pencils and backpacks to help children from underprivileged families to start their school year. The Children come from different small towns and families with financial difficulties to buy what our little friends need. UKRAINE Students' Career Fair in Kiev On 13th of March we participated in the students fair in one of the Engineering Institutes. Many international and national companies participated in this event, such as: Ernst&Young, Privatbank, Alfa-Bank, etc. 91 In 2019 we had 26 activities group-wide (vs 20 in 2018) offering: food, clothes, hygiene products, educational material, medicine, speech therapy, toys & sweets to 16 organizations for children & families in 9 countries (vs 7 in 2018) CROATIA School supplies for children in need For a second year, Printec Croatia took part in the collection of school supplies for 54 students from unprivileged families in order to provide them with the appropriate school equipment. This time the action was initiated and organized by the civil organization Mali zmaj Little dragon , which in collaboration with our colleagues managed to gather a satisfactory school material such as bags, pencils, markers and others, good enough to cover the school needs of ten children. Happy to be part of this initiative and look forward to the next one! 92 93 GREECE MAKE A WISH Our expertise used for good Last Christmas, we supported Make-a-Wish organization with the development of a POS software that enabled a 2€ donation with just a tap. This year, we wanted to take this one step further. The team worked hard and the results didn't let us down! This year, the booth is there again waiting for all the visitors to pass by and donate. You will find it at the Golden Hall in Athens during the Christmas period. Now, once the transaction is completed, the video on screen changes, depicting the wishes of children that came through. Congratulations to the team for their time and effort! MAKE-A-WISH gathered 2496€ in donations, which means that the 10 POS machines were tapped 1248 times. GREECE MAKE-A-WISH Dinner Printec Greece participated for a 2nd consecutive time at the annual dinner organized by the non-profit organization MakeA-Wish Make a Wish of Greece. 94 CROATIA SHARING IS CARING Groceries donation to 58 kids of the Charity Association River of Love in the city of Osijek This year we have decided to make a significant donation in food groceries to the Association River of Love, situated in the city of Osijek. This charity association helps people with economical difficulties and who are unable to take care of themselves. We are proud that our colleagues every year show humanity, generosity and great social responsibility, when it comes to helping others. Our donations will ensure that each child has at least one chocolate under the Christmas tree, and their parents to have at least basic groceries to enrich their Christmas tables with traditional holiday dishes. In 2019 we held 32 “For Society” activities vs 22 in 2018, a 45% increase 95 KOSOVO School Supplies for 20 children Printec Kosovo has successfully supplied 20 children with backpacks and other school supplies as a reflection of our commitment to our Social Responsibility. We are very pleased to cooperate with QPS Kastriot a public organization that helps families and children in need. The QPS Kastriot helped us identify orphans and families in financial difficulties and make an easier New School Year for them and their children. 96 97 UKRAINE Christmas visit to the Orphanage in Kiev On the eve of Christmas and New Year holidays, Printec Ukraine organized a trip to the orphanage `Nadiya`. Each child received a personal gift from Santa Claus. We also bought seasonal vitamins, sweets, gifts and pizzas for the festive table. Our team wrote an innovative script and hosted a costume and theatrical party for the children. 98 CYPRUS Easter Charity Bazaar Association of Friends of Intensive Care Unit of Newborn Cyprus «Incubator of Love» Printec Cyprus participated in the Easter Charity Bazaar that was organized by the Association of Friends of Intensive Care Unit of Newborn Cyprus «Incubator of Love». « Incubator of Love » conducts various activities and events, to raise awareness of prematurity and other causes for hospitalization of a newborn in an intensive care unit; and to support the infants, parents and the Unit Staff in their daily struggle. To support their efforts, Printec was actively involved with the preparations of the event and during the event team members were amongst the volunteers that were responsible for the various entertainment activities for the kids. BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA School supplies for New School Year for 10 children Printec BiH is very proud to announce that has contributed to Ruku na Srce's mission by collecting school supplies. Ruku na Srce , a humanitarian organization, improves the daily lives of children from unprivileged families. The scope of our participation in this project was to help families with economical difficulties to be equipped with all the necessary and basic school material. This time, we managed to gather notebooks, pencils, markers, paint sets and others supplies enough to equip ten children for the new school year. 99 SLOVAKIA Kids day at the office in Bratislava Such an exciting and educational day in Bratislava! Our colleagues' children (12 in total) visited the office to join us for a STEM experience! Our professionals organized two projects for our little friends, encouraging them to explore science and technology, while discovering their engineering skills. We hope this was a nice experience for the kids as it surely was for us! BULGARIA BEST Engineering Week in Sofia Printec Bulgaria participated in the BEST Engineering Week in Sofia , organized by the Board of European Students in Technology . Number of series of technical competitions were held in which students from all universities had the opportunity to get in touch with company representatives and be encouraged to discuss their career development in an informal way. Students were able to demonstrate their knowledge and skills by participating in developing a practical project or solving a case study. 100 WE CARE | FOR THE ENVIRONMENT “For the Environment” is our program that promotes sustainability and environmental consciousness throughout our company. We have established the “We Care” policy and the “Environmental & Recycling” policy through which we set the framework for a more environmentally conscious way of working. The policies can be easily accessed through the company intranet, and in addition to that, each year we run awareness campaigns in our countries. 101 We utilize technology We use digital tools to enable communication that would require travel and / or physical presence. We have introduced a Flex Work program that allows our people to implement a hybrid work-from-home model to reduce commuting. Our Environmental & Recycling policy encourages going paperless and plasticfree in our offices. We are digitalizing our archives and we are reducing the use of paper. We are building an environmentallyconscious culture We are actively encouraging and enabling our people to recycle (paper, batteries, plastic, caps), we discourage the use of single-use plastic in the office, and we organize activities under our We Care program where volunteers can participate in environment-related initiatives such as tree planting, beach cleaning or environmental awareness lessons to young students at schools. 102 We are leasing hybrid or diesel cars, we are gradually using LED lamps in all of our facilities and we are recycling office equipment and spare parts 103 CROATIA SLOVAKIA The lids of the bottles for a cause We continue to collect the lids of the bottles and send them to a humanitarian association that buys medicines for people with leukemia and lymphoma who cannot afford but need them for their treatment. CROATIA, GREECE, SLOVAKIA UKRAINE, SERBIA Office recycling Our colleagues separate office waste regularly in an effort to recycle properly and have decided to buy from now on only ecological notebooks and pens for all their employees and their events in order to promote our values ​in this environmentally friendly direction. Besides recycling papers and plastics from our products (POS, ATM etc.) we encourage our employees to recycle plastic bottles, small plastics and paper packages from food and other products. Beside initial recycling of bottle caps, batteries and printer cartridges, we started to separate office waste. 104 CROATIA Eco friendly office stationary (for employees and for customers gifts) We introduced new initiative to support our Printec eco agenda and started to purchase new eco friendly office material such are: eco pens, eco notebook, eco usb chargers, eco mobile chargers; all from eco materials and w/o plastic. This we distributed to our employees as well as to our customers during traditional year end UKRAINE Environmental Awareness Lessons in Kiev On 22nd April, at the International Earth Day, Printec Ukraine visited one of the local schools providing environmental awareness lessons to attract young audience's attention to environmental and social problems. In a way of game students were provoked to explore new ways and solutions on how to maintain our planet clean for future generations and on how to build a responsible and caring society. 105 CZECH REPUBLIC Environmental volunteering Czech forests have been badly damaged by bark beetle and a big part of the forests has been stripped of all trees. We decided to help with improving the Czech forests. Members of our Printec office with their partners planted 100 trees oaks and firs. 5 employees form Prague offices + 5 partners + 100 trees planted 106 OVERVIEW OF 2019 In 2019 we carried out 102 “We Care’ activities vs 83 in 2018 60 “For You” vs 57 in 2018 32 “For Society” vs 22 in 2018 10 “For the Environment” vs 4 in 2018 Our main areas in the “For You” initiatives are “Enjoy” with 29 activities and “Worklife” with 14 activities. Our main focus in the “For Society” activities remain children with 21 of our activities being planned around helping children and their families. In “For the Environment” our focus is always on recycling, with steadily 1 country per year performing a reforestation in their region. Our goal was to increase the ratio of the “For Society” and “For the Environment” activities in the overall “We Care” initiatives, which we achieved by 10%. 107 Discover more Thank you www.printecgroup.com to everyone who volunteered, helped organize, or participated /PrintecGroup in any way in our activities, to every organization that gave us the opportunity to collaborate /printec-group-of-companies and give back to the community, to everyone who contributed to /PrintecGroup the creation of this report. 108
