2020 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Statement of Continued Support From Our CEO I n my new role as President and Chief Executive Officer of Robert Half International Inc., representing Robert Half and Protiviti, I am pleased to carry forward our company’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. This report outlines the actions we’ve taken in the last year to further integrate the Ten Principles into our business practices and operations in support of human rights, fair labor practices, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption. These efforts support our founding principle, Ethics First, and our larger efforts to operate as a responsible corporate citizen. We are proud of our progress and eager to share this report with our stakeholders. M. Keith Waddell President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer M. Keith Waddell 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 1 Human Rights OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS compliance is required of all • Resources in place to prioritize At Robert Half, we believe that all Goal 1: Raise awareness about our suppliers who wish to work with us. suppliers who demonstrate strong individuals are entitled to basic human Global Human Rights Policy c. Sustainable Procurement Policy: performance related to human rights, freedoms and standards of This new policy further clarifies rights Action: Integrated the policy into our treatment. Our definition of human our commitment to suppliers who employee training materials, supplier rights is consistent with the United demonstrate responsible business agreements, and internal and external Nations Guiding Principles on Business practices, including support for websites PRINCIPLE 1 and Human Rights and the Universal human rights. The policy references Declaration of Human Rights. We We recognize that a policy is only our Global Human Rights Policy and Businesses should support consider human rights to include the effective when it is enforced. To increase is strengthened by a new Sustainable and respect the protection right to life and liberty, freedom from compliance with our Global Human Supplier Survey, which will be used of internationally proclaimed slavery and torture, freedom of opinion Rights Policy, we translated the policy in RFP exercises to assess, among human rights. and expression, the right to work, and into eight languages and integrated it other things, suppliers’ human rights access to education. While Robert into the following materials: performance. Half has experienced no human rights a. Global Code of Conduct training: controversies since our founding in Outcomes: This annual training is now mandatory 1948, we have nonetheless taken steps • Majority of global employees PRINCIPLE 2 for all full-time internal staff of Robert to further codify our commitment to Half and Protiviti globally. familiar with the policy Businesses should make sure upholding human rights within our • Resources in place to clearly that they are not complicit in sphere of influence. b. Supplier Code of Conduct and human rights abuses. Master Services Agreements: Both communicate our human rights documents now reference the expectations with all suppliers policy, making clear that material moving forward 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 2 Labor Principles OUR COMMITMENT As communities across the globe our support for three nonprofits focused As a global staffing and professional struggle with the underlying issues on supporting Black communities: The PRINCIPLE 3 services firm, we believe that everyone of racism, injustice and inequality National Urban League, the National Businesses should uphold the should have access to rewarding work. this year, we have looked for ways to Association of Black Accountants and freedom of association and the Since our founding, we’ve demonstrated take action. Our top executives, Keith the National Society of Black Engineers. effective recognition of the right our commitment to fair labor practices Waddell, Paul Gentzkow and Joe to collective bargaining. Outcomes: by building a work environment where Tarantino, have all signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge, • Over 200 Robert Half employees our employees feel safe, respected and making a commitment to shape a have joined BEN; over 1,900 engaged. Our Global Human Rights board-approved inclusion and diversity employees viewed the online Policy, Code of Business Conduct and plan, implement racial bias trainings, panel discussion, either live or via Ethics, and Supplier Code of Conduct PRINCIPLE 4 share learnings with business partners recording support a safe and positive workplace Businesses should eliminate for our employees and promote fair and cultivate an inclusive culture. • Robert Half employees Robert Half sponsored the launch of developing additional employee all forms of forced and labor practices among our suppliers. compulsory labor. the Black Employee Network (BEN), resource groups for Hispanic/ an employee resource group designed Latinx, Pan-Asian and LGBTQ+ OUR PROGRESS to create a sense of community and communities Goal 1: Strengthen our commitment to belonging for Black employees and • Mandatory unconscious bias racial equality their allies. We are undertaking a suite training for all Robert Half Action: Signed the CEO Action of trainings that underscore the ways employees in early 2021 for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge and in which unconscious bias affects our • Pledges totaling $150,000 to enhanced our inclusion and diversity decision making, team collaboration nonprofits supporting Black programs and hiring practices. We also increased communities 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 3 Goal 2: Support the well-being of our One day after the World Health Half launched an Employee Voice survey devices to them. Physical devices were employees and external engagement Organization declared a pandemic, while Protiviti invited feedback with transported directly to professionals’ professionals through the COVID-19 we gave all nonessential employees Wellness and Support surveys. homes with customized operating pandemic the unilateral and unconditional systems and accompanying software Importantly, we provided Company Action: Enabled remote work and right to work remotely, a right which necessary to do their jobs. We also Paid Time (CPT) to fulland part-time enhanced wellness benefits and continues to the present day. As offices provided candidates seeking work with employees unable to work due to resources started to reopen, we made reentry resources and guidance on networking, COVID-19 exposure or diagnosis. This optional, understanding that many of as well as strategies for landing a job in The COVID-19 pandemic presented includes time off for employees caring our employees had health concerns, a difficult climate and working remotely an unprecedented challenge to our for sick family members. We also were managing the impact of school throughout the pandemic. business and the well-being of our supported flexible work arrangements closures or needed to care for extended workforce. Following guidance from to accommodate school closures. Outcomes: family. Aiding these ongoing operational the Centers for Disease Control And we shared regular wellness tips • Per a July 2020 Employee Voice changes was an enhanced employee and Prevention and World Health and encouraged employees to use survey of Robert Half employees, communications campaign. Through Organization, we swiftly took steps resources like our Employee Assistance 85% of respondents agreed quarterly town halls and bimonthly to protect our employees, providing Program (EAP). that Robert Half took a genuine emails, our executives shared crucial personal protective equipment (PPE) business updates and answered Equally important, we took steps interest in their well-being to essential workers, implementing employee questions about the state of to keep our external engagement • As of October 2020, we provided new guidelines to support social the business, working conditions and professionals working on client over 8,000 physical devices and distancing in our offices worldwide, other concerns related to the pandemic. assignments. We enabled remote work 250 virtual desktops to external and responding to countryand stateWe also surveyed employees more for thousands of these professionals engagement professionals, four mandated office closures. regularly to better understand their across the globe by configuring and times the number of devices changing needs and concerns; Robert distributing laptops, tablets and other normally deployed 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 4 Goal 3: Encourage fair labor practices and Master Services Agreements to Robert Half has developed proprietary names and graduation years. Instead across our supply chain reference the Sustainable Procurement technology that helps match candidates we focus on job experience relevant to Policy and required suppliers to with the positions that meet their skills open positions. Action: Updated our supplier-facing prospectively agree to said policy terms and experience. These technological policies to clarify our commitment Outcome: moving forward. tools, combined with the expertise to fair labor practices and our • Candidate shortlists created of our staffing specialists, make it expectations of suppliers Outcomes: by our matching technology faster and easier for customers to While many of Robert Half’s labor• Created a new Sustainable hire and for candidates to be hired. are provided to our staffing related policies, including our Global Procurement Policy However, we recognized early on specialists without regard to Human Rights Policy and our Code of • Created a new Sustainable that if not built properly, our artificial gender, race or age Business Conduct and Ethics, apply to Supplier Survey intelligence could result in biased or our suppliers, we recognized the need to • All suppliers who participate in discriminatory matching that negatively clarify our expectations of our suppliers, an RFP exercise should agree impacted women, people of color or specifically. We did so by publishing other underrepresented groups. To PRINCIPLE 5 to our Sustainable Procurement a discreet Sustainable Procurement mitigate against this, we do not request Businesses should uphold the Policy and Supplier Code of Policy and launching a Supplier Survey, information from our candidates effective abolition of child labor. Conduct, and be assessed using which together clarify the terms by regarding their race, nationality, the Supplier Survey which we evaluate suppliers’ labor age, sexual orientation or identity, or practices. These include an assessment disability, and no such data is imputed of suppliers’ efforts to create a safe into the database. Further, we took Goal 4: Support fair and inclusive steps to root out biases within our PRINCIPLE 6 and healthy work environment, support hiring practices algorithms and remove data that might inclusion and diversity, and honor Businesses should eliminate employees’ freedom to associate and Action: Developed proprietary staffing indicate a person’s gender, race, age discrimination in respect of practice collective bargaining. We then technology that seeks to avoid racial or socio-economic status. For example, employment and occupation. updated our Supplier Code of Conduct and gender bias we trained our systems to discard names, addresses, hobbies, school 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 5 Environment OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS preliminary targets for 2025. This We are committed to decreasing our Goal 1: Develop strategies for included establishing key baseline data PRINCIPLE 7 environmental impact. As our Global reducing our environmental footprint from 2019 related to emissions, energy Businesses should support a Environmental Policy outlines, all consumption, business travel, paper precautionary approach to Action: Set preliminary goals and toner consumption, waste diverted employees of Robert Half are required environmental challenges. for reducing the environmental from landfill, and other metrics. The to conduct business in a manner that footprint associated with our offices, Committee also began drafting an protects the environment, conserves procurement function, business travel EMS to pinpoint the team members, resources and ensures sustainable and events by 2025 procedures and tools necessary to development. The policy provides guidance on the various ways we At the start of 2020, our newly monitor and evaluate progress toward PRINCIPLE 8 can improve efficiencies within our established Environmental Committee our environmental goals over time. Businesses should undertake operations and business practices. set out to identify environmental Outcome: initiatives to promote greater This includes reducing paper use and targets and develop an Environmental • Set preliminary environmental environmental responsibility. business travel and increasing energy Management System (EMS) to track and improve our environmental targets for 2025, including a efficiency and digital processes. Robert performance. Though the COVID-19 reduction in energy consumption, Half and its employees also support pandemic slowed progress and forced business travel, paper and toner external conservation efforts through us to allocate resources to other purchases, single-use plastics, community outreach. PRINCIPLE 9 initiatives, the Committee did identify and overall emissions Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 6 Goal 2: Assess sustainability years, our facilities team sent out a Goal 3: Reduce emissions from and connection among a dispersed measures across our real estate survey to all our property managers in employee business travel workforce and serve our clients from portfolio the United States. The survey included afar. We expect to carry these learnings Action: Transitioned to remote Action: Surveyed our property questions related to properties’ total forward and encourage more remote work and launched carbon neutral managers in the United States about electricity, gas and water consumption; work post-pandemic. This will help us rideshare program sustainable practices, fixtures and clean energy sources and energysustain a decrease in employee travel efficiency programs; recycling and While COVID-19 presented a great and travel-related emissions and meet amenities at our offices composting programs; and other deal of challenges, one of the few the preliminary environmental targets Robert Half’s global real estate sustainable practices. The survey had a positive outcomes of the pandemic we created for 2025. portfolio consists of leased offices, the modest response rate and underscored has been a decrease in emissions majority of which are operated under from business travel. Robert Half had Outcomes: the need for more regular, consistent full-service agreements that cover our communication with property managers been looking into strategies to reduce • Anticipate 75% year-over-year utilities, custodial services and other about sustainability. travel-related emissions and launched reduction in total miles traveled amenities. This approach decreases a new rideshare program in early 2020 for business the administrative burden of managing Outcomes: that provides Robert Half and Protiviti • Building on new rideshare a large number of offices. However, it • Identified need to assess employees with a carbon neutral option program by identifying ways also decreases our ability to monitor sustainability efforts across offices for local travel. However, the need to to increase hybrid and electric and reduce our energy consumption, as on an annual basis transition to remote work has had, by vehicles in our global fleet and our offices often do not have separate • Preparing for second survey far, the greatest impact on our travel car rental program electricity or gas meters or the ability to increase responses among emissions. We saw our day-to-day work to engage utilities directly. To better property managers and both internal and external meetings assess where opportunities lie to make go remote. The experience has sustainable improvements in the coming taught us how to support productivity 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 7 Anti-Corruption OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS procedures and oversight information Extensive research shows that companies Robert Half’s business model is built Goal 1: Enhance transparency on that promote ESG accountability and with diverse boards and executives tend around personal connections and trust, anti-corruption initiatives alignment with stockholder interests. to have stronger corporate governance and we will not tolerate corruption within We plan to further increase ESG practices, avoid corruption and perform Action: Augmented governance any part of our business. We comply transparency with future reports, better financially.1 In 2020, we amended reporting in investor reports with all applicable anti-corruption benefiting from the guidance of various our Corporate Governance Guidelines laws and regulations, including the To increase transparency and provide ESG reporting frameworks. to include new provisions related to our U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act shareholders with actionable information board and CEO succession criteria to Outcome: (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act. We related to our corporate governance, promote diversity at the highest levels of Robert Half has expanded the amount of • Further ESG performance data the company. The new provisions require require compliance with these laws Environmental, Social and Governance included in our 2019 Annual the company to use its best efforts to and regulations through our FCPA (ESG) data included in our investor Report and 2020 Definitive 14A include qualified female and racially/ Guidelines and Global Anti-Corruption reports and financial filings. In our Proxy Statement ethnically diverse candidates in the pool Policy. We also address corruption in our Code of Business Conduct and 2019 Annual Report, we disclosed more of nominees for any board vacancy. Ethics, which directly prohibits corrupt or data on the outcomes of our corporate Outcome: illegal practices, including the payment citizenship efforts than in prior years. Goal 2: Increase diversity within senior This included key impact metrics related leadership • Highlighted diversity within of bribes or kickbacks, insider trading, to employee engagement, community our Board of Directors and the and self-dealing. Action: Amended our Corporate outreach and our environmental footprint. changes made to our Board and Governance Guidelines to integrate In our 2020 Proxy Statement, we added CEO succession plans in our 2020 diversity into board and CEO a “Corporate Governance at a Glance” Definitive 14A Proxy Statement succession plans section, highlighting key policies, 1 Linda-Eling Lee et al., Women on Boards, MSCI, 2015; Vivian Hunt et al., Delivering through Diversity, McKinsey & Company, 2018 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 8 Goal 3: Strengthen whistleblower as direct reporting to Robert Half escalation of complaints or reports oversight supervisors, the company’s General to the Audit Committee, among PRINCIPLE 10 Action: Created a task force to review Counsel and/or the Internal Audit team. other items. Businesses should work against our internal Whistleblower Procedures In 2020, we convened a task force of Outcome: corruption in all its forms, policy subject matter experts from human • The task force brought important including extortion and bribery. resources, internal audit, accounting, Robert Half’s ethics and compliance legal and compliance to review the stakeholders together to reporting platform allows any procedures for the receipt, retention strengthen oversight over employee, client, candidate or other and treatment of matters relating to financial controls and ethics business partner to confidentially report accounting financial controls and matters and continue Robert a violation of our Code of Business ethics issues. As a result, adjustments Half International’s commitment Conduct and Ethics at any time. The were made to the company’s internal to promoting ethical business platform consists of multiple reporting Whistleblower Procedures and practices and combatting channels, including but not limited Corporate Compliance Program. The corruption to an Ethics and Compliance hotline task force recommendations were administered by a third party, as well adopted and have clarified criteria for Learn more about Robert Half’s corporate responsibility programs and ESG mission statement at roberthalf.com/about-robert-half/corporate-responsibility. © 2020 Robert Half International Inc. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/Disability/Veterans. RHI-1020 All referenced trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
