UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Chris Grigg, Chief Executive Officer, British Land “British Land has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009. I am pleased to reaffirm our support for its principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to advance our approach in each of these important areas through our 2030 sustainability strategy, launched this year. Building on the solid track record we have established over the last decade, we intend to accelerate progress and have set stretching new targets for the decade ahead. Across our business, including our customers and supply chain, we will continue to advocate responsible business practices. Through our 2030 strategy, we are intensifying focus on two time-critical areas where British Land can create the most benefit: 1) making our whole portfolio net zero carbon, and 2) partnering to grow social value and wellbeing in the communities where we operate. While concentrating on these areas, we will maintain strong performance on social and environmental priorities, in line with our purpose and values. The way we think about sustainability has changed. For us, it must be ‘business as usual’. This means ensuring that every decision taken by each of us at British Land every day is environmentally and socially intelligent, as well as making sound financial sense. For us, this is central to creating Places People Prefer.” UN Sustainable Development Goals Our 2030 goals support multiple UN Sustainable Development Goals, with a particular focus on: British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 In the table below, we outline where our actions, policies and progress on the UN Global Compact principles can be assessed. Principles Information Principles Information Human Rights www.britishland.com/about-us Labour www.britishland.com/about-us 1. Businesses should • Our culture and values / Bring your whole self 3. Businesses should • Our culture and values support and respect the www.britishland.com/annualreport uphold the freedom of www.britishland.com/annualreport protection of association and the internationally • Page 47 effective recognition of • Pages 34-37 proclaimed human www.britishland.com/data the right to collective www.britishland.com/data rights; and bargaining; • Fig. 46 Supplier workforce • Figs. 4-7 Health and safety 2. Make sure that they are 4. The elimination of all not complicit in human www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance forms of forced and • Fig. 13 Considerate Constructors rights abuses. • Modern Slavery Act Disclosure compulsory labour; • Figs. 41-42 Bright Lights www.britishland.com/policies 5. The effective abolition of • Fig. 46 Supplier workforce child labour; and • Sustainability Policy • Figs. 47-58 Group employment 6. The elimination of • Supplier Code of Conduct www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance discrimination in respect • Our Approach to Whistleblowing of employment and • Modern Slavery Act Disclosure Our internal policies include: occupation. www.britishland.com/policies • Employee Code of Conduct • Sustainability Policy • Equal Opportunities Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Health and Safety policies and guidance Our internal policies include • Employee Code of Conduct • Equal Opportunities Policy British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Principles Information Principles Information Environment www.britishland.com/sustainability Anti-Corruption www.britishland.com/annualreport 7. Businesses should • Environment 10. Businesses should work • Page 47 support a precautionary www.britishland.com/annualreport against corruption in all www.britishland.com/data approach to its forms, including environmental • Pages 38-46, 221-222 extortion and bribery. • Fig. 57 Employee training challenges; www.britishland.com/data www.britishland.com/policies 8. Undertake initiatives to • Fig. 3 Biodiversity • Sustainability Policy promote greater environmental • Figs. 14-16 Sustainability ratings • Supplier Code of Conduct responsibility; and • Fig. 17 Financial • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 9. Encourage the • Figs. 18-24 Carbon emissions • Whistleblowing development and • Figs. 25-31 Energy use Our internal policies include: diffusion of environmentally friendly • Figs. 32-34 Water use • Employee Code of Conduct technologies. • Figs. 35-38 Waste and materials • Equal Opportunities Policy • Figs. 39-40 Physical risks www.britishland.com/sustainability/reporting • Sustainability Vision 2020: Pages 4-7 • Earlier reports: CDP Climate Change Information Response 2019 www.britishland.com/policies • Sustainability Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Sustainability Brief for Development and Operation (June 2020) • Sustainability Brief for Acquisitions For examples of how we actively support the UN Sustainable Development Goals to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all, visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/blogs British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Other relevant links • www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy for insights into: Opportunities and responsibilities that SDGs represent to our business. Where our priorities lie with respect to SDGs. • www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance for: Goals and indicators set by our company with respect to SDGs. • www.britishland.com/suppliers and www.britishland.com/annualreport pages 96-97 for: How our activities related to the SDGs are undertaken in collaboration with other stakeholders. Period covered by our Communication on Progress 2020: • From 1st April 2019 to 31st March 2020. Find out more about our new strategy in our Sustainability Vision 2030: www.britishland.com/sustainabilityreport For detailed sustainability data, see our Sustainability Accounts: www.britishland.com/data We also integrate economic, social and environmental information into our Annual Report and Accounts: www.britishland.com/annualreport About British Land We are a leading UK property company. We create and manage outstanding places to deliver positive outcomes for our stakeholders, on a long term, sustainable basis. British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020
