• CEO’s Letter Justice & Transparency • Sustainability & Community • Inclusion & Governance SOCIAL CEO Letter: Our Values IMPACT Standing Still Is Not an Option REPORT Trust 2019 In my first year as president and CEO of Thomson renewable energy for 100% of our global energy Reuters, it is my pleasure to share our Social needs and have set science-based carbon reduction We act with integrity Impact results from 2019. targets, aligning with the 1.5 degree pathway. and independence by holding ourselves and each other Strengthening Societies Our People First accountable, ethical, and reliable Our business strengthens the foundations of The greatest strength of our company is our in all that we do. societies worldwide – providing information, people. Diverse and inclusive workforces drive expertise and insight that people can trust. That’s innovation and connect communities. In 2019, why, when the seams that keep society together Thomson Reuters achieved 100% on the Human are at risk of fraying, we are redoubling the focus Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Innovation of our social impact work on driving access to Index for the 8th year in a row. We are grateful We innovate to serve our justice and transparency, ideas that our customers for the recognition, but the work does not stop customers, drive growth fight for daily. there. Volunteerism continues to be a hallmark of and win in dynamic business our employee culture. Our people showed huge environments. Many people know us for Reuters the world’s passion for their communities, investing over most global and most trusted news organization. 116,000 volunteer hours this past year. In a world of collapsing trust, fast, accurate, unbiased journalism is vital. We thank our I must also commend the work of the Thomson Partnership journalists for their service just as we thank Reuters Foundation, an independent nonprofit We work together, with frontline workers for all they are doing during the focused on media freedom, inclusive economies each other, with our COVID-19 pandemic. and human rights. Its work continues to inspire customers, and with industry and change lives. partners to deliver superior results Our journalism informs and empowers people around the world and serves to fight the growing and experiences. Whether you work for Thomson Reuters, know us as a specter of misinformation. That principle is just partner or you’re thinking of joining us, we thank you as true for our legal, tax, government and print for reading this short report, which reflects the work of Performance businesses, which help to create the backbone of many thousands of people worldwide. legal and tax systems, supporting fair outcomes We deliver results and we and providing greater transparency into global excel at work that positively supply chains. This all strengthens ideas and affects the world. We are proud institutions that help societies function. to be a business that is built on The resilience of our planet is no less important. Steve Hasker responsible values. ABOUT THIS SUMMARY In 2019, we achieved full carbon neutrality President and Chief Executive Officer This summary and linked datasheet contain key statistics while engaging thousands of our employees Thomson Reuters and updates on our social impact initiatives in 2019. in sustainability efforts around the globe. This MORE INFORMATION To learn more, visit thomsonreuters.com or contact us at year, we choose not to stand still. We will source ON OUR TRUST PRINCIPLES impactinstitute@tr.com. We look forward to hearing from you. 2019 AT-A-GLANCE $172m 116,000 100% 6.2% CO2e Generated the equivalent of $172m in free legal 116,000 volunteer hours 100% score Human Rights Campaign’s 6.2% decline in assistance to non-profit organizations around the logged by employees Corporate Equality Index and Disability emissions from 2018 world through our foundation’s TrustLaw service Equality Index by Disability:IN THOMS O N R E U T E R S S O C IAL I M PAC T R E P O RT 2019 1 CEO’s Letter • Justice & Transparency • Sustainability & Community • Inclusion & Governance SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT 2019 Access to Justice We work to create the necessary foundations for access to justice and transparency in everything we do. We partner with our employees, group. We also brought media literacy and press freedom front and center through partnerships with the National Association and Transparency customers and communities to create opportunities for innovation, community impact and sustainable corporate citizenship. for Media Literacy Educators and the Reporter’s Committee for Freedom of the Press, which built on the strong work of the Are at the Heart of In 2019, we launched a suite of innovative programs for our Reuters news team in stemming the flow of misinformation worldwide through accurate, objective journalism and factEverything We Do employees, the Thomson Reuters Foundation and our partners. checking. Lastly, we continue to partner with our customers, We examined the legal sector’s capacities and duties in employees and product teams to examine how we can continue promoting peace, justice and strong institutions while bringing to strengthen the foundations of justice and transparency our customers and partners to the table with the United Nations through our knowledge, skills and expertise. Global Compact and the Thomson Reuters Foundation TrustLaw REUTERS/Daniel LeClair REUTERS/Nacho Doce REUTERS/Damir Sagolj PROVIDING A SAFE PASSAGE PROMOTING PEACE, JUSTICE COMBATING MISINFORMATION AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS With over 1,000 legal professionals employed at Thomson We work each day to inform and empower people around Reuters, we are uniquely positioned to impact our local and In September 2019, we partnered with the United Nations Global the world, identifying key areas of opportunity to combat global communities through pro bono work. In 2019, our NYC Compact (UNGC) and our Foundation’s TrustLaw team to host misinformation and help protect the rights of our journalists. team partnered with the Safe Passage Project, which provides an interactive workshop with experts across the legal community In 2019 we partnered with the National Association of Media free legal services to immigrant and refugee children. Our team supporting efforts to integrate Sustainable Development Goal Literacy (NAMLE) to celebrate Media Literacy weeks in worked with a Guatemalan child who was detained after escaping (SDG) 16 – Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions, into corporate both Canada and the United States. These events brought a dangerous life in her home country. The team secured her DNA. Our focus was on pro bono efforts aimed at ending abuse, journalists, educators and students together to discuss the status as a Special Immigrant Juvenile and she now attends high exploitation and trafficking, and ensuring access to information changing news landscape and the critical skills needed to school with friends and has a safe place to live. This is one of and freedom of the press. The result was progress in the research decipher fact from opinion. We are proud to support the many examples of our long-standing commitment to supporting being done at the UNGC and the development of multiple next generation in developing their capacities to become our communities through pro bono efforts it is part of our ongoing projects for TrustLaw and nonprofit partners promoting civically engaged and media savvy as part of our support of culture and who we are as lawyers and people. further legal research. journalism’s sustainable future. THOMS O N R E U T E R S S O C IAL I M PAC T R E P O RT 2019 2 CEO’s Letter Justice & Transparency • Sustainability & Community • Inclusion & Governance SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT 2019 Path to a Sustainable Future Focus on Community Carbon Footprint We are proud to have achieved full carbon neutrality in 2019, while 100% Volunteering Our employees continued to surpass expectations and logged This year, we commit engaging employees in sustainability discussions around the globe. over 116,000 volunteer hours in 2019. Our Global Volunteer to sourcing renewable energy for 100% of our Network offered a variety of programs focused on quarterly Science Based Targets and Renewable Energy global energy needs. UNGC Sustainable Development Goals and our Legal Pro Bono This year, we plan to source renewable energy for 100% of our volunteer program was expanded to a global presence. global energy needs and we are setting science-based carbon reduction targets which will be audited externally to ensure Charitable Contributions international standards are being met. Employees engaged in Hour Power programs spending an hour with office colleagues to make a difference in the lives of others and Our Ongoing Commitments participated in our Community Champion program having their We are committed to ongoing measurement and management group volunteer efforts rewarded with charitable grants. We matched of our own emissions and environmental impacts and we employees donations via our Matching Gifts program and rewarded continue to identify ways to further assess, monitor and improve their volunteer efforts through our Volunteer Grants program. our approach. We are focused on In 2019 we announced 3 major sustainability targets: • Carbon Neutrality for 2019 and beyond; continually lowering our • 100% Renewable Electricity Sourcing in carbon emissions… 2020 and beyond; and • Setting science-based targets in line with global international standards HISTORICAL ENERGY USAGE BY REGION (millions of kWh of energy used) 2017 2017 116.0 2017 298.7 54.2 2018 2018 13.2 2018 116.2 20.5 2019 2019 13.8 2019 122.3 14.5 2017 11.8 2018 5.1 2019 $1.7m+ Charitable organizations received over 6.6 $1.7 million dollars through the Matching Gifts and Volunteer Grants programs DATA ON OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE IS AVAILABLE IN OUR 2019 ESG DATA SHEET HERE Employees in Vadodara, India working with a local children's shelter. THOMS O N R E U T E R S S O C IAL I M PAC T R E P O RT 2019 3 CEO’s Letter Justice & Transparency Sustainability & Community • Inclusion & Governance SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Governance Our Reporting 43% Diversity connects us to our customers and communities. Our focus is on three strategic & Transparency This summary is part of transparency disclosures. Women represented pillars – inclusive workplace, diverse talent and The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles guide You can find more here: 43% of our management customers and brand. In 2019, we heightened our company and are the foundation for positions in 2019 everything we do. Our Supply Chain Ethical our efforts to develop, mentor and advance women for leadership positions. In 2019, women Code is designed to ensure that our suppliers represented 43% of management positions and vendors meet standards that reflect antiand 34% of our senior leadership positions, just bribery, anti-corruption legislation and other below our goal of 40% by the end of 2020. standards of conduct. We are proud signatories 2019 ESG DATA SHEET to the UN Global Compact and our commitment We received various awards and recognitions to the Ten Principles as underpinned by our including 100% scores on both the Human Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index and Disability Equality Index by Disability:IN; a third place ranking in the Top 50 Sustainable 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Inclusive Companies in the UK and a fifth place ranking for Top Employers for LGBT+ Inclusion Development Goals in Hong Kong by the Hong Kong LGBT+ Thomson Reuters works actively towards the Inclusion Index. 17 Sustainable Development Goals, with a concentration on goals 1, 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, and MODERN SLAVERY a strong focus on SDG 16: promote peaceful STATEMENT and inclusive societies for sustainable Thomson Reuters development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive Foundation institutions at all levels. The Thomson Reuters Foundation works to CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS advance media freedom, foster more inclusive economies, and promote human rights. Through news, media development, free legal assistance and convening initiatives, the Foundation combines its unique services to drive systemic change. Its mission is to inspire collective SOCIAL IMPACT AT THOMSON REUTERS leadership, empowering people to shape free, fair and informed societies. Additional information on the Foundation can be found at www.trust.org. INVESTOR RELATIONS DATA ON OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE IS AVAILABLE IN OUR 2019 ESG DATA SHEET HERE THOMS O N R E U T E R S S O C IAL I M PAC T R E P O RT 2019 4
