Fiscal year 2020 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / About this report About this report How to use this report Our approach and scope Reporting standards Interactivity This Annual Activity and Corporate This report references the GRI Sustainability When opened in Adobe Reader, this PDF document incorporates Social Responsibility Report consolidates Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative several interactive features as indicated below. information on our company strategy, (GRI). An independent institution, the GRI corporate social responsibility (CSR) provides a globally accepted framework for activities and fiscal year 2020 performance sustainability reporting across companies into one document. It includes all the and industries. You will find a GRI Content information typically found in a company’s Index outlining how our reporting aligns Additional or more detailed information CSR Report and the editorial pages of an with various GRI Standards and references Annual Report. Combining our reporting in to other relevant information sources here. this way enables us to provide stakeholders Additional content on the web with a single source of information in key This year, we have also begun to report areas. It also signals that CSR is inseparable on the United Nations Sustainable from our core business strategy and Development Goals (SDGs), by identifying five goals to which our corporate strategy Additional information activities. All financial data for fiscal year 2020 is available in our Financial Report. and business model are most aligned. We intend to continue the process of As you will read in this report, our solutions integrating the SDGs and to report on our Link to content within this document generate benefits across the three central progress accordingly. We also provide dimensions of sustainability: economic, our first Task Force on Climate-related environmental and social. This report Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting in an Hyperlink (to external content) covers our global operations and, unless appendix to this report. CAE also abides by otherwise stated, presents quantitative the principles of the United Nations Global and qualitative information for fiscal year Compact as a signatory and reports to the 2020 (ended March 31, 2020). It has been Carbon Disclosure Project. Print this report subject to a formal internal review process and it has been approved by CAE’s senior We have been monitoring the global management and Board of Directors. CAE adoption of the Sustainability Accounting intends to engage in an external assurance Standards Board (SASB) disclosure process in the coming years. However, the standards and assessing their applicability FY20 report has not been subject to any to our business activities. We intend to external assurance process. All figures in begin reporting to the SASB standards for Access to previous or next page this report are in Canadian dollars unless the Aerospace & Defense and Professional otherwise stated. & Commercial Services industries in FY21. Access to the table of contents Feedback We welcome your views on the topics covered in this report. Please send your comments, suggestions and questions to media.relations@cae.com. 02 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Table of contents Table of contents 02 About this report Corporate social responsibility Feature stories 04 Message to shareholders 42 A message from our CSR Leader 09 COVID-19: Pulling 12 Overview together as One CAE 43 CSR governance and oversight 16 Strategy 44 People and safety 24 CAE Women in Flight Business highlights Scholarship 19 Civil Aviation Training Solutions 53 Ethics and integrity 31 Standing beside Australia during bushfire crisis 26 Defence & Security 60 Innovation and customer experience 37 CAE and McGill University Health Centre (MUHC): 32 Healthcare Making big dreams a 68 Community and reality in healthcare environment 39 Employee Resource Groups 76 Taking the first steps Appendix in our journey to carbon neutrality 79 Site certifications 84 Global Reporting 95 Task Force on Initiative (GRI) Climate-related indicators Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) 03 Message to shareholders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders Unprecedented times underscore our agility and culture of innovation We were leading CAE on a course towards what would have to manufacture 10,000 ventilators to help save lives and been yet another record year when the COVID-19 pandemic relieve the strain on hospitals around Canada. Such an impacted us during what is normally our strongest quarter accomplishment speaks volumes about who we are. of the year. Our first response was to take decisive action to protect the health and safety of our employees and As a world expert in the business of safety, applying customers — and this continues to be our foremost priority. speed-to-market, teamwork and innovative capabilities for humanitarian needs outside of our core expertise stands as We immediately assembled a daily COVID-19 pandemic testimony to what we are capable of when presented with taskforce and set our business continuity plans into motion. an urgent, novel requirement. I could not be prouder of our I am exceptionally proud of how our CAE employees employees’ response in this time of crisis – not only for the responded worldwide. Throughout the past few months engineers who worked tirelessly to produce a high quality, of this pandemic, amid lockdown, closed borders and certifiable design for the ventilator, for the resourcefulness many other complex challenges, our employees have of our supply chain team finding scarce but crucial parts, taken initiative and ownership finding ways to ensure the but also for our many employees who volunteered to continuity of our customers’ most critical operations, and help build ventilators so more could be delivered to the thus ensure we continue to earn the privilege of being our hospitals sooner. Excellence, innovativeness, customer delight, customers' training partner of choice. compassion, speed, teamwork – these are all qualities evident in a company built for the long term. We demonstrated We could not stand idly by while fellow citizens of the these this year. So while we indeed fell short of this year’s world infected by COVID-19 struggled even to breathe, financial potential due to COVID-19, the pandemic and the while hospitals became overwhelmed, confronted by dire myriad of novel business complexities that ensued taught us shortages of critical medical safety equipment, especially more about who we are, what we are capable of and we look ventilators and personal protective equipment. We felt it back on this past year with a proud sense of achievement. was our responsibility to expand the aperture of our thinking and find ways to apply CAE’s strengths of innovation and A company built for the long term speed in a meaningful way to the hospitals and front line Every industry experiences rolls, pitches and yaws and the health workers fighting to save lives. last several months and most probably, the year ahead will not be steady. But CAE is not only 73 years old, more Our employees challenged themselves to use their crucially, its core high technology capabilities become even engineering and scientific skills to design a critical care more relevant in the future. The long-term demand for air ventilator. It took a team of 12 CAE engineers and scientists travel may be dented for the year or years ahead near from our civil, defence and healthcare business units just term, but the long-term propensity to travel – for leisure, 11 days to develop a working prototype. We received Health business and cargo – will be in an upward trajectory for Canada certification in June, which means from a cold start decades ahead. World air travel is at its best when it is in mid-March, we were successful in creating, certifying and Marc Parent affordable, safe and ubiquitous – as of this writing, a new shipping ventilators within the span of only three months. President and Today, some 500 CAE employees are working together kind of safety, biological safety is foremost of concern. Chief Executive Officer However this pandemic is solved, we are confident it will be to deliver on a contract with the Government of Canada solved in time. We’ll make the case that when looking back 04 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders to this present period, this civil aviation downturn will Average CAE stock price and revenues2 M&A activity these past several months has also not prove to be lasting. Air travel has become an even understandably been more restrained. We continue to stronger expectation of those of us in the 21st century be reflective on the M&A environment as we build on than even 20 years ago, it is an imperative for many $33.82 our solid balance sheet and further bolster our financial Avg. Stock Price global businesses as well as cargo, which likely grows position, and will remain alert for potential opportunities Revenue ($Bns) $26.28 stronger as e-commerce expands. Air travel will recover, ahead. $22.06 it is just a question of when. As a consequence, you can $17.93 remain confident that CAE’s fundamentals are built on Civil Aviation Training Solutions $14.53 $14.78 $12.13 $3.6 a solid foundation, that we remain steadily trained on $10.86 $11.06 $10.22 $3.3 $8.31 $2.8 In Civil Aviation Training Solutions―the largest of our not only preserving our global leadership position but $2.5 $2.7 $2.0 $2.1 $2.2 three business units―we exceeded our annual outlook, expanding it. In addition, our revenues come from a $1.6 $1.8 $1.5 with 37% higher operating income1. Annual order high degree of recurring business in highly regulated 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 intake1 totaled $2.5 billion, including additional airline markets, and our balance across several markets and training outsourcings and 49 full-flight simulator sales. geographies contributes to our long-term health. CAE performance vs TSX Civil finished the year with a record backlog1 of $5.3 billion. Notwithstanding the onset of the pandemic during our Once again, we delivered more than one million hours last quarter, CAE delivered a strong financial performance 500% of training this year, underscoring CAE’s position as the in fiscal 2020 with 10% revenue growth to $3.6 billion, largest Civil aviation training company in the world. 400% CAE 21% operating income1 growth to $590.4 million S&P/TSX Our performance would have been even better, but and earnings per share1 growing 7% to $1.34. 300% as the pandemic set in, Civil experienced a significant I am especially pleased with our 98% conversion of net decrease in training services demand following the sharp income to generate $351.2 million in free cash flow1, 200% downdraft in airline and business aircraft operations which underscores the cash-generative profile of CAE’s 100% globally, and the resulting severe disruption to the world-leading training solutions. A $3.8 billion annual global air transportation environment. In addition to the order intake1 and $9.5 billion order backlog1 also help 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 downspike in demand, travel restrictions and local selfbolster our position for the period ahead. isolation measures worldwide resulted in several Civil But perspective gets richer when one looks farther we have shown and will continue to demonstrate a aviation training location closures. Beyond significant out; one year does not convey the full story. We have willingness to make the right decisions in support of a disruptions to our global training network, we had to been building revenue, Earnings Per Share (EPS) and broader long-term vision. suspend the installation and delivery of Civil simulator backlog steadily year upon year with an expectation products, and under local public directives, our Montreal to deliver consistency, reliability and excellence. Capital allocation plant paused manufacturing of Civil simulators during CAE has outperformed the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) the last week of March. Despite these challenges, we We completed 12 acquisitions and joint venture still delivered an otherwise impressive 56 Civil full-flight in five of the last six fiscal years, even with COVID-19 transactions in the last 24 months, including simulators for the year. and in the last 11 years, CAE stock is up 200% vs. the Bombardier’s Business Aircraft Training (BAT) business, TSX’s 70% move. So clearly, while some years will the largest acquisition in CAE’s history, which we Defence and Security have volatility, including managing through a global completed in March 2019. We have successfully pandemic, when you examine us over the long term, In Defence and Security, we reported modest revenue integrated this business and have realized greater 1 Before specific items. These terms are non-GAAP and other financial measures revenue and cost synergies than we had originally growth as the division, too, was impacted by the and do not have any standardized meaning under IFRS. Therefore, they are projected. pandemic. We came up short on our outlook for unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers. Refer to the definitions in “Section 3.7 Non-GAAP and other financial operating income growth, which was down 13% 1, measures” in our Management Discussion and Analysis for the fourth quarter In the final month of our fiscal year, we suspended share mainly on lower than expected progress on program and year ended March 31, 2020. repurchase and dividends, and also moved to secure milestones, and delays in securing new orders. 2 Reflects the adoption of IFRS 1 in 2011, IFRS 11 in 2013, IFRS 15 in 2018 and additional liquidity given the near-term uncertainties. A range of programs with defence and OEM customers IFRS 16 in 2019 05 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders encountered project advancement delays principally Our social impact throughout the COVID-19 crisis due to travel bans, client access restrictions and supply chain disruptions. In addition, we experienced delays to Beyond the ventilator success discussed earlier, contract awards, as government acquisition authorities Healthcare made additional significant contributions in followed directives in their respective countries to response to COVID-19. The team rapidly converged and shelter-in-place and eliminate travel. In the Middle East, created training seminars, free of charge, on how to combined effects of the pandemic and lower oil prices better prepare healthcare workers in the fight against resulted in work on certain programs to be halted and COVID-19. We also launched simulation-based solutions new contract awards to be materially delayed, as our to train personnel in the safe practice of ventilation customers confronted their new fiscal realities and ways and intubation, which is key to saving lives. In addition, to mitigate the pandemic. Despite these headwinds, we leveraged our global supply chain to deliver some we booked $1.2 billion of order intake1 during the year, 600,000 N95 masks to the Quebec and Manitoba for a $4.1 billion Defence backlog1, which gives CAE an governments who were in urgent need to enhance the additional measure of diversification. protection of front-line healthcare workers. Once again, our resourcefulness, creativity and agility were called Healthcare upon and we delivered. In Healthcare, we were tracking towards double-digit Carbon neutrality commitment annual revenue growth until the division was also negatively impacted by the pandemic, as medical Last November, we announced CAE’s commitment and nursing school customers came under lockdown to become carbon neutral in Summer 2020. protocols, and hospital customers attention became This represents a necessary and significant direction consumed by the healthcare crisis. CAE Healthcare for the company, one in which we can take pride. CAE did, however, succeed in strengthening its position as and its employees want to do their share to prevent the innovation leader in simulation-based healthcare climate change for the well-being of future generations. education and training. We won the EMS World We are taking interim measures, while also looking into Innovation Award for CAE AresAR, the Microsoft the new technologies and solutions being developed HoloLens application for Healthcare’s emergency care to reduce emissions and talking with industry partners manikin. on the progressive use of electric aircraft for live flight training at our academies. CAE will continue to take Healthcare also launched innovative products other measures to reduce overall emissions, continually including new Anesthesia SimSTAT modules, screeninvesting to make our full-flight simulators more energy based simulation approved by the American Board efficient, allowing our customers worldwide to reduce of Anesthesiology for maintenance of certification their own footprint. credits; and multiple custom simulators for OEMs and leading medical device companies, including Edwards In parallel, we also created a Climate Change Committee Lifesciences and Baylis Medical. to specifically address climate-related issues. The Committee’s purpose is to oversee the integration CAE Healthcare was also at the forefront of the key of climate-related issues into CAE’s business strategy, humanitarian contributions we made in the fight and to identify and manage risks and opportunities against COVID-19, which are addressed in the context around dedicated projects. of the company’s actions overall. 06 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders Diversity and Inclusion Looking forward – Tough times require new thinking Long-term traffic trends3 Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) continue to be among The COVID-19 pandemic moved with unprecedented our top strategic priorities. This is not only the right speed and magnitude with respect to the disruption it thing to do, it is smart business. The more diverse our has caused to our daily lives across the world. The global people are and the more inclusive our culture, the air transportation environment and air passenger travel Industry RPK more innovatively and successfully we can leverage have been especially hard hit, with IATA forecasting our talents within to become an even greater company. commercial passenger traffic to be down 50 to 60% Diversity and inclusion help us attract and retain top talent this year. As of this writing, several airline bankruptcies as well as better connect with customers worldwide. CAE have been announced and it is possible there are more is strongly committed to programs and initiatives that ahead with global air travel reported down some 90% last foster a D&I culture throughout the company. Here are month. When you step back however and contemplate 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020e some milestones that occurred over the past year. that the data shows global air traffic is now some several We were named to the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index standard deviations off the 40-year mean; that aircraft Long-term traffic growth3 retirements are also several standard deviations from for a second year and recognized among The Globe and historical mean, it is logical to expect this present time Mail’s Women Lead Here honorees – a testament to CAE’s reflects a highly short-term reality. Statisticians often commitment to advancing women in the workplace. point to the tyranny of the reversion to the mean. Becoming Bronze Parity Certified by the Women in Taking into consideration some broadly recognized trends Governance organization represents the progress we are such as human population growth, ever-rising demand for making to develop female talent and promote gender higher technology, the rise of the middle class in emerging parity within our organization. We also launched Dare, markets and the acceleration in e-commerce, expectations our extensive 12-month program that aims to equip and for a recovery in air travel demand appear realistic. inspire women to take ownership of their careers. We welcomed the winners of the first edition of CAE’s In light of this abrupt and severe downturn, the Women in Flight scholarship program; this program management team and I have spent considerable efforts and broader applications of web-based meetings. has grown from an intention to a reality. This program envisioning what the post-COVID-19 era might be like. The abrupt shift in the pros and cons may result in some encourages more women to aspire to become It’s our view that the global propensity to travel will forms of business travel to shift towards greater business professional pilots, tackling head-on the challenges recover, however unevenly at first and resume a steady, jet demand and more common usage, both for business of gender diversity. We introduced another first at positive trajectory within the next few years. The freedom continuity and planning purposes. CAE: Employee Resource Groups. Employees voted on to fly and use air travel for leisure, business and cargo the three themes they thought would make the most remains an inalienable freedom and expectation of Looking ahead, we are planning CAE’s future from a difference: Parents of children with special needs, the 21st century and history will likely demonstrate that position of resilience and strength given our global LGBTQ2+ and Women in Aviation and Technology. demand recovers and shows resilience as air travel’s leading market positions, attractive end markets of civil You can read about these and other valuable D&I contribution to global commerce is too vital to be aviation, defence and healthcare, recurring revenue contributions that CAE, our employees and our partners, suspended to such an extent for long. Time has shown streams, and solid financial position. It may take some are making in this report. that neither wars, oil crises, recessions, nor terrorism time before things get back to normal; there may even were able to restrain air travel demand; likewise, while a be a “new normal” and we are readying for it. In addition, At CAE, diversity and inclusion are part of our values near-term challenge, we do not expect COVID-19 will keep we are exceptionally focused on managing the things we and there is no place for racism or discrimination. demand in check for more than a few years. can control, including identifying opportunities for cost CAE’s fundamental belief is that every member of our savings to challenge ourselves to improve efficiency given team should feel valued, respected and safe – without We expect that leisure travel will be the first to recover the prospect for lower volumes in the near term. exception. While we are making progress, we see many and business travel may trail longer. Business travel may opportunities to move the needle. Our D&I program perhaps see structural post-COVID-19 change and take covers all types of diversity and makes sure that all 07 longer to recover based on more universal acceptance 3 Reflects IATA historical figures and estimates employees feel included and valued for who they are. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders As our core end markets recover, the “new normal“ mission support solutions, from systems engineering, concluded that despite the present opaque environment that emerges could present novel challenges for our decision support and staff augmentation. Our expertise and continued near-term uncertainty, air travel will customers, which could translate into new opportunities in the integration of live, virtual and constructive training recover and we will stand shoulder to shoulder with for us. For example, global airlines cite the returnis providing attractive inroads towards leveraging our our customers proactively to reimagine their needs to-service for pilots as one of their chief concerns. modelling and simulation expertise towards the synthetic before they ask and as such, continue our promise to Attentiveness to our customers positions us well to environments for planning, analysis and operational be their training partner of choice. Present rockiness proactively address this need. Certain trends may arise in decision support. We have a large backlog of contracts notwithstanding, CAE’s fundamentals remain solid and greater force post-COVID-19 such as the demand for high with government customers to provide training solutions the ability to respond to challenges with agility is at the technology solutions, safety imperatives, and e-learning, and operational support services that are considered very core of why CAE excels as a global market leader which are all in our wheelhouse. We are leaning forward essential to national security. Looking ahead, the longand innovator. We will forge ahead in applying leading to capture more organic growth by leveraging our leading term outlook for Defence continues to be supported by edge technology to significantly improve our customers’ edge understanding of human-to-complex-machine a large addressable market but we are expecting fiscal experience. As the industry thought leader, we are paving interfaces, continue to assert our leadership in three pressures as lower oil prices for many of our customers the way to modernize the very fundamentals of training attractive markets with long-term secular tailwinds of in international markets, may present near-term and operational support in Civil, Defence and Healthcare. civil aviation, defence and healthcare. For example, we’ve choppiness. CAE is and will remain a highly innovative company with experienced positive feedback from our customers on over seven decades of industry firsts under its belt. As In Healthcare, our purpose, mission and passion is to recent new technology developments in the areas in we manage through this pandemic, we remain steadily make healthcare safer. We believe the significant changes artificial intelligence, machine learning-enabled data focused on the future, and I am sure we will ultimately wrought by this pandemic will continue to result in new analytics, remote delivery and virtual reality/augmented be stronger for it. appreciation for the critical role e-learning, healthcare reality. simulation and training can provide. We might have been In recognition of the Honourable John Manley The global leadership team and I monitor the too early in these markets but looking forward, the secular developments of the pandemic daily to remain on the shifts ahead appear promising. We continue to believe Finally, we would like to conclude by congratulating CAE’s forefront of the best recommended measures to ensure CAE Healthcare is well positioned to capitalize on this Board Chair, the Honourable John Manley, P.C., O.C., the safety of our customers and employees. We continue change in the appreciation of the importance, relevancy who received the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public to implement necessary contingency plans in real-time and benefits of healthcare simulation and training to Service from the Wilson Center’s Canada Institute in as our understanding of COVID-19 grows. So far, the improve safety and to help save lives both at a steady recognition of his contribution to enhancing the Canadaprocesses we have put in place to manage through the state and during a healthcare crisis. With its innovative U.S. bilateral relationship following the terrorist attacks pandemic are running smoothly and they are proving products and demonstrated agility, we expect Healthcare of September 11, 2001, through the development of the effective. We remain vigilant about protecting our will become a more material part of the company over Smart Border Declaration. employees’ health and safety; supporting our customers’ the long term. The Wilson Center recognizes exemplary individuals critical operations; and ensuring business continuity. who reflect the values of Woodrow Wilson, the 28th U.S. In summary, we are confronting a challenging period In Defence, we maintain our leading position as a nonin CAE’s history due to COVID-19 and we immediately President, a leader who believed that There is no higher OEM training and mission support partner thanks to our took action to secure the safety and well-being of our religion than human service. To work for the common leading-edge capabilities in translating the physical world employees and customers. We drove ourselves to good is the greatest creed. into the synthetic world. The U.S. and other militaries will innovate rapidly in response to an urgent need for John is certainly very deserving of this honour, which continue to seek out best-in-class support for fighters, ventilators, safety masks and better medical training; bestowed in the spirit of service, is representative of a helicopters, trainer aircraft, maritime patrol, tanker/ we wasted no time in heeding the call and discovered career in which his thought leadership has served many, transport and remotely piloted aircraft. We are leveraging our own resourcefulness in the process. We have taken including CAE. John became an independent director of our training systems integrator capabilities in the land, the most appropriate measures to safeguard the best CAE in 2008 and in 2018 was appointed Chair of CAE’s naval, space and cyber domains to provide multi-domain interests of the company, employees, customers and Board of Directors. He has served as Canada’s former solutions, a market for which we expect long-term healthy all other stakeholders. We have thoughtfully considered Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, demand. We are expanding beyond training and into how the post-COVID-19 world might be different and Finance Minister and Industry Minister. 08 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / COVID-19: Pulling together as One CAE Feature story COVID-19: Pulling together as One CAE The COVID-19 pandemic has proven to be a global crisis Essential role of our coronavirus committee (infected employee); and employees in the field (traveling, of unprecedented speed and magnitude. No individual, on customer premises). We took the COVID-19 outbreak and its impact around no business remained untouched. From the onset, CAE the world very seriously. When the coronavirus outbreak There were additional situational factors to address, has taken proactive measures to ensure the safety of our was declared in January, we created a multidisciplinary such as space restrictions inherent in simulators and customers, our employees and their families worldwide, committee, which has since met on a daily basis. aircraft. We needed to consider our students training in while ensuring the continuity of our operations. The 20-member committee includes representatives our centres and academies around the world; the close As a company of 10,500 employees, with sites and from our three business units, Health & Safety, Human proximity of our employees manufacturing simulators; activities in more than 35 countries, we approached this Resources, Facilities, Communications, Operations, Global also the question of how to differentiate measures taken situation with the same mindset that guides us in all Travel Services, Security and Legal. for our customers and our employees – we knew that that we do – with a worldwide perspective. We rallied to everyone must feel confident and safe working/training This coronavirus committee established itself as a critical address and overcome challenges in a global situation in our facilities. that evolved on a daily, if not hourly, basis. Our actions resource in providing informed recommendations to CAE’s over these recent months as One CAE captures how Executive Management Committee (EMC) on measures to With COVID-19 creating unprecedented uncertainty in the we make a difference in the world and what drives our ensure the safety of our customers, employees and their global economy, in our business and industry, we took decisions and actions. families, keep our business operating and, ultimately, extraordinary measures to mitigate the impacts on CAE meet our customers' needs. The EMC also met daily and help secure our future. As our President and CEO Marc Parent observed, the to assess the situation and make timely decisions to current situation has had an unprecedented impact on We adapted by quickly reducing our operations in many implement necessary contingency plans in real-time as our industries in civil aviation, defence and security, and locations. By acting immediately and working together to the situation unfolded. healthcare. Throughout our 70+ years of activity, we have protect our organization, we ensured CAE maintained a never seen anything like it. position of strength, ready to serve our customers when Immediate actions and measures taken the markets eventually recover from this situation. Yet never has CAE’s noble purpose, our focus on safety, At the time of the outbreak, CAE had several teams in been more relevant than during this pandemic. Making China performing simulator installations, acceptances civil aviation safer, helping defence forces return home and a number of major updates. Although CAE teams safely and making healthcare safer are all rooted in the were far from the outbreak epicentre, the coronavirus principles of corporate social responsibility. This purpose committee took immediate actions to put measures in makes our employees proud and our customers delighted. place to monitor the situation in China and implement Safety first, always, with essential service and specific measures to protect our employees in the field. support to our customers Given the nature of what we do and where we operate, With conditions changing very rapidly around the the committee had to consider multiple factors and world, we did our utmost to ensure business continuity, scenarios, while referring to various health authorities keeping in mind two objectives: and various levels of outbreaks simultaneously. • Safety is our number one priority, for our Responsiveness, consistency and regularity – all proved employees, our customers, and their families, as vital in CAE’s communications to our employees, well as all our stakeholders; customers and suppliers worldwide as we navigated Members of CAE’s coronavirus committee, which began a new norm imposed by the pandemic, together. meeting as early as January, applied the protocols they • We offer an essential service and need to Protocols were put in place for cleaning and disinfecting; helped put in place, using collaborative tools. support our customers in maintaining their risk evaluation (symptoms chart); emergency response 09 critical operations. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / COVID-19: Pulling together as One CAE Measures implemented to protect our Social responsibility and innovation President of CAE Healthcare. “By financial position and preserve liquidity offering realistic practice scenarios to include strict cost containment measures, We also tapped into the creative minds caregivers before they enter high-stress salary freezes, salary reductions, reduced of our people to gather all ideas with the environments, we can have a positive work weeks and temporary layoffs, as well potential to help the company save lives, impact on outcomes.” as a suspension of our common share with significant outcomes. Amid this health crisis, we also worked in dividend and share repurchase plan. CAE Healthcare engineers and scientists unison with our partners to supply frontdeveloped the prototype for the CAE line healthcare providers with training Preparing for a “new normality” Air1 ventilator, which has progressed to resources and expertise as quickly and Initial CAE ventilator prototype Special CEO Sessions on COVID-19 the final stage of certification by health efficiently as possible. connected our CEO, Marc Parent, with authorities. We are under contract UK-based iRIS Health Solutions, a CAE our employees worldwide. During with the Government of Canada Healthcare subsidiary training authoring these virtual video conferences, Marc to manufacture and supply 10,000 and sharing platform, made our responded to top of mind questions ventilators, to be used to help save lives COVID-19 Simulated Clinical Experience submitted by employees, and committed of COVID-19 patients. (SCE) for healthcare available free of to answering every single question We leveraged our global supply chain charge to its global community of more received. He covered the latest industry to source scarce N95 masks for frontthan 1,800 users worldwide. iRIS and outlook, discussed related impacts on our line health workers. To date, we have CAE SCE were then offered at no cost businesses and shared what measures secured some 600,000 N95 masks for the to the full membership of the Society CAE was taking – including tough costgovernments of Quebec and Manitoba, for Simulation in Healthcare, which containment decisions made to protect doing our part to help keep healthcarehas 4,200 members in 60 countries, to our financial position and liquidity. workers safe. aid collaboration and sharing between Marc also reviewed the results of members. To help caregivers practice personal employee surveys on the impact of safety procedures and initial patient The iRIS Health Simulation Authoring COVID-19. The short surveys helped assessment related to coronavirus, CAE Platform helps clinical educators leadership get a global pulse on Our CAE Air1 ventilator Healthcare provided complimentary deliver learning that is aligned with best employee’s needs and concerns, and training seminars in March and April on practices. The platform can be integrated assured employees that their feedback how to prepare healthcare workers in the into a broad spectrum of simulation was being heard at the most senior level. fight against COVID-19. (Watch Fox 13 training scenarios, from manikins to News coverage on our training solution.) Standardized Patients to virtual learning. A portion of the information sessions was reserved to promote the online idea We launched a collection of weband These humanitarian gestures are a true platform set up for employees to submit hardware-based COVID-19 hospital testament to the kind of social impact suggestions on how to make the best preparedness resources, and continue that CAE and our employees have. Our of the situation during the pandemic to expand our offering with a simulationability to pivot in such a short timeframe and afterwards. We received more than based Pathogens of High Consequence also underscores CAE’s agility and our 150 ideas, which largely fell under four course in development for upcoming culture of innovation. themes: identification of new business release. Moving forward, we will continue to do Contributing to hospital opportunities, and ways to reduce costs, “Simulation-based training is a key our part on all fronts – putting the safety preparedness for coronavirus improve the way we work and better patient safety strategy that can help of CAE employees and customers first Our realistic COVID-19 training solutions leverage technologies. improve teamwork and communication and supporting them throughout this helped healthcare workers leverage best-use amid unpredictable, rapidly unfolding practices, maximize clinical preparedness and challenging period. ensure the safest level of response possible. situations,” says Rekha Ranganathan, 10 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / COVID-19: Pulling together as One CAE Going above and beyond to connect with installations. Offboard Instructor Operating Stations and inform our key audiences proved an invaluable alternative and helped avoid delays in training. Across CAE, our people made monumental efforts to keep on top of a global spreading pandemic. We took Transition to remote working charge, with the safety of employees and customers as our number one priority, but with multiple new scenarios From one day to the next, employees saw their day-toto map thoroughly and navigate quickly. We structured day change – a majority of our workforce started working teams across our global network and business units to from home as we followed government confinement identify and prioritize our actions. directives everywhere we operate. Communicating The results were phenomenal. We corralled our talent effectively and assuring employees transitioning to to quickly assemble protocols and measures, both remote working became of major importance in this new internal and external, to contain COVID-19, providing reality. an extensive offering of information and training across Customized toolkits that had guided leaders, site multiple communications channels. leaders, employees and field employees through a number of situations (targeted safety guidelines and Safety first, with minimal disruptions to protocols; action and emergency response plans) were customer service now supplemented by information sessions to address specific situations (e.g. furlough, reduced hours, recall, We operated on the mantra of safety first, with minimal etc.). Key contact emails (Coronavirus, IT, Medical) disruptions to customer service, while also addressing funnelled questions and concerns to the appropriate tough decisions that had to be made to keep the lights source to avoid delay. on in an environment of anxiousness and uncertainty. Adjustments and the stress of working from home Under the guidance of our coronavirus committee, we (hygiene, isolation and mental health, social distancing, learned what was needed and by whom. We broadcast CAE’s COVID-19 Protocol for Training Centres parenting) brought to the forefront issues that needed describes how to safely manage the interactions global notices to employees and upped the frequency of acknowledgement and understanding. In addition to between CAE Instructors, Customer Trainers our employee newsletter to a weekly cadence. collaboration tools and cybersecurity training, employees and CAE Simulator Maintenance Technicians were encouraged to use wellness resources available to from arrival at the facility, through the day’s Posters and other visual aids were displayed in highactivities, to departure. traffic areas at our locations worldwide. Given the quality them and their family members. We are already looking of these documents and protocols, some customers ahead, with a Return-on-site guide and Ambassador (at sites where our employees worked) asked to use program to ease everyone through the next transition. our protocol documents and posters to support their As the situation continues to evolve and needs change, measures. so will we. Through our customer service pipeline, we learned of other ways we could help. In addition to safety protocols Our thanks and posters, we provided customers with online training courses and remote training solutions. In one instance, During these difficult times, our employees demonstrated we supplied remote support to clients in China to help their resilience in this new landscape and the strength their technicians complete the necessary certification, of One CAE. Each and every one of them made a then helped direct simulator installation. Local in-country contribution. Their efforts and commitment have been staff stepped in to support where needed on other invaluable. 11 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Overview Our noble purpose of making the world a safer place motivates our employees on a daily basis. It is gratifying to know that the training we provide helps make air travel safer, prepares defence forces to be mission-ready and enables medical personnel to save lives. Marc Parent President and CEO, CAE Roots in innovation When Ken Patrick, a former Royal Canadian Air Force officer, founded CAE in 1947, his goal was to “…take advantage of a war-trained team that was extremely innovative and very technology intensive.” By the mid-1950s, we were already creating our first flight simulators. One innovation led to another and, by 1982, we had developed a flight simulator so realistic that training on real aircraft was no longer Training partner of choice. necessary. The rest is history. Since 1947. All about safety, efficiency and readiness For seven decades, we have sustained our leadership by offering compelling solutions to customers operating Today we are the training partner of choice in end-to-end virtual-to-live solutions for a growing number in complex, mission-critical environments. Our success of aircraft operators, defence forces and healthcare professionals and institutions. Our training network, reflects our ability to evolve and rapidly adapt to changing the world’s largest, spans more than 65 training centres and flight academies around the globe. needs and to deliver on our promises of quality, reliability and performance. This year, we trained more than 220,000 civil and defence crewmembers, including more than 135,000 pilots, and thousands of healthcare professionals worldwide. We work with more than 300 airlines and Our success is also a testament to our people. major business aircraft operators to increase the safety of air travel. As a leader in training systems Their passion, innovation and focus have allowed us to integration and mission support solutions, we deliver air, land, naval and public safety training to become the best at what we do and to build a brand that approximately 50 defence forces in over 35 countries. We help ensure these men and women return is trusted around the world. home safely by preparing them for a range of missions. We are also a leading provider of innovative healthcare training solutions to prepare healthcare practitioners to care for patients and respond to critical situations while reducing medical errors. At CAE, our mission is to make air travel safer, defence forces mission ready and healthcare safer. We are confident that Mr. Patrick would be proud of what we have become. 12 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Worldwide presence View interactive map online ARCTIC OCEAN ARCTIC OCEAN KARA SEA GREENLAND SEA BAFFIN BARENTS SEA EAST SIBERIAN SEA BEAUFORT SEA BAY NORWEGIAN SEA BERING SEA SEA OF OKHOTSK NORTH NORTH NORTH PACIFIC ATLANTIC PACIFIC OCEAN OCEAN MEDITERRANEAN SEA OCEAN GULF OF MEXICO PHILIPPINE BAY OF SEA CARIBBEAN ARABIAN SEA SEA BENGAL SOUTH CHINA SEA SOUTH PACIFIC CORAL SEA OCEAN SOUTH INDIAN ATLANTIC OCEAN OCEAN GREAT AUSTRALIAN BIGHT TASMAN SEA Civil Aviation Training Solutions Defence & Security Healthcare 160 + 35 + 10,500 + Corporate locations countries employees 13 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview FY20 financial highlights $3.6 billion $9.5 billion record annual revenue order backlog (up 10% year over year) $3.8 billion $1.34 annual order intake earnings per share1 before specific items (up 7% year over year) $590.4 million $351.2 million annual Segment Operating Income (SOI)1 annual free cash flow for 98% cash conversion (up 21% year over year) 1 Before specific items, which include the impacts of the integration of Bombardier's Business Aviation Training Business (BBAT) in fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2020, specific items also include the impacts of Defence & Security's reorganizational costs and the impact of a $37.5 million goodwill impairment charge recognized in Healthcare. 14 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview FY20 business highlights Civil Defence & Security Healthcare • Delivered more than one million hours of • Launched CAE Trax Academy, an integrated and • Developed several custom solutions for OEMs training advanced training continuum that includes the including Baylis Medical, Edwards Lifesciences • Sold 49 Civil full-flight simulators (FFSs) new CAE Sprint Virtual Reality (VR) trainer and Cardinal Health (Cordis) • Concluded a 15-year exclusive business aviation • Signed a memorandum of agreement with • Entered into a group purchasing agreement training services agreement with Directional Leonardo to offer integrated solutions for with Premier, a leading healthcare improvement Aviation Capital affiliates and the acquisition of a helicopter training requirements to the U.S. company, uniting an alliance of 4,000 U.S. 50% stake in SIMCOM Holdings, an operator of a government market hospitals and health systems and 175,000 other wide range of jet, turboprop and piston-powered • Announced maintenance and support services providers aircraft simulators and training devices for the NH90 full-flight and mission trainer • Expanded reach in the Scandinavian market, • Acquired the remaining equity interest in located at The Netherlands Ministry of Defence with new distributors in Denmark, Finland, Pelesys Learning Systems Inc., a global leader new training facility in Den Helder Norway and Sweden in aviation training solutions and courseware • Our Mission Solutions business was awarded a • Launched Anesthesia SimSTAT PACU and • Acquired the shares of Luftfartsskolen AS, position on the U.S. Air Force (USAF) Advisory & Labour & Delivery Unit simulation modules an ab-initio flight school in Oslo, Norway Assistance Services ID/IQ contract and will now with the American Society of Anesthesiologists • Expanded our training capacity in Asia and have the opportunity to compete on task orders • Released Microsoft HoloLens 2 augmented Europe with new training centres in Bangkok issued under the ID/IQ contract reality training applications for our CAE Ares (Thailand), London Gatwick (UK), Manchester • Won notable contract awards for the following emergency care simulator, CAE Lucina childbirth (UK) and Milan (Italy) programs: the USAF and U.S. Marine Corps C-130J; simulator and CAE Vimedix ultrasound simulator USAF KC-135; German Navy and German Army • Won an EMS World Innovation Award for NH90 Sea Lion; U.S. Army fixed-wing flight training; CAE AresAR, the Microsoft HoloLens application Leonardo’s M346; and French Air Force Pilatus PC-21 for our emergency care manikin • Invested in a healthcare software company that enables increased efficiency of learning Highlights in response to the COVID-19 pandemic • Developed the CAE Air1 ventilator and • Introduced and obtained regulatory authorities' premise guide and Pandemic Code of Conduct concluded an agreement with the Government approvals for new virtual service offerings • Implemented several flexible measures to of Canada to manufacture and supply 10,000 that support our customers and meet social protect our financial position, including units to provide life support to patients in distancing requirements, developing offboard the reduction of capital expenditures and intensive care instructor operating station solutions that allow for R&D investments in fiscal 2021, strict cost • Offered several free training resources to the removal of the instructor from the cockpit of containment measures, salary freezes, salary support front line healthcare providers with the simulator; remote support for the installation reductions, reduced work weeks and temporary their most urgent training needs, including a and acceptance and qualification of FFSs layoffs, as well as a suspension of our common ventilator reskilling course, a point-of-care lung • Implemented strict protocols for our facilities share dividend and share repurchase plan ultrasound training, COVID-19 Simulated Clinical worldwide, including cleaning and disinfecting Experience, webinars and an outreach toolkit measures, social distancing guidelines, entry protocol, training session protocols, employee on15 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Strategy End-to-end training partner of choice Four areas of strategic priority Our vision is to be the recognized global training partner Four areas of strategic priority to protect CAE’s leadership position, achieve of choice to enhance customer safety, efficiency and superior growth, and ultimately realize our vision to be the recognized worldwide readiness. training partner of choice: Achieving this vision depends on the successful implementation of four strategic imperatives, which will help protect our leadership position and grow our market share. Delight Our global leadership stems from our: customers • Comprehensive training solutions • Highly qualified and passionate employees • Extensive experience and credibility delivering academic, simulator and live-flying training • Industry-leading global training network • Commitment to excellence and innovation spanning more than 70 years • Close collaboration with regulators and policymakers to help Create Partner Drive shape the future of training value of choice innovation • Ability to reduce customers’ environmental impact through simulation-based training Bolster talent 16 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Six pillars of strength High degree of Headroom in recurring business large markets Our strategy and investment theses are based on six interrelated pillars We operate in highly regulated industries with We provide innovative training solutions to of strength. We benefit from a mandatory and recurring training requirements customers in large addressable markets in civil high degree of recurring business, for maintaining professional certifications. aviation, defence and security and healthcare. a strong competitive moat and Our long-term agreements with many airlines and Significant untapped market opportunities exist business aircraft operators and defence forces in these three core businesses, with substantial significant headroom in large are also an important source of our recurring headroom to grow our market share over the long markets that are being driven by business. term. secular tailwinds. These factors, combined with our culture of innovation, give us the potential to generate superior returns. As we look ahead, we are confident Potential for Strong in the strength of our position and superior returns competitive moat the supportive fundamentals of our end markets. In each of our businesses, we have the potential to Our broad training network, unique end-to-end grow at a rate superior to our underlying markets cadet-to-captain training capabilities, technologybecause of our potential to gain share within the intensive training and mission support solutions, markets we serve. deep subject matter expertise and industry thought leadership, unrivaled customer intimacy and strong, recognizable brand further strengthen our competitive moat. Underlying long-term Culture of secular tailwinds innovation The civil aviation sector is expected to grow We derive significant competitive advantage as over the long term as passenger traffic recovers. an innovative leader in simulation products and In defence and security, the market is expected training solutions. to continue to grow, with emphasis on the operational readiness of defence forces. 17 Business highlights Civil Aviation Training Solutions Leading the industry Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business is recognized for its commitment to quality, reliability and innovation. It is how we have built the world’s largest civil aviation training network. It’s also how we have become the global training partner of choice for aviation professionals, airlines, business aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers globally. Over the decades, we have developed first-to-market simulators for more than 35 types of aircraft and simulated a total of over 150 aircraft platforms. Today we deliver end-to-end aviation training solutions that address the pilot’s total lifecycle needs, from cadet to captain. And now, our game-changing training system CAE Rise™ is set to significantly elevate every pilot’s training experience. As the industry faces major challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are confident that CAE will be part of the solution for our customers as they look for ways to gain greater agility and resiliency. #1 60 + in civil aviation training training centres and aviation academies 19 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions FY2020 highlights 16% 37% revenue segment operating growth income growth1,2 1.14x $2.5 billion book-to-sales ratio3 order intake Year in review During fiscal year 2020, Civil exceeded its annual outlook, with 37% higher $5.3 billion 49 operating income, additional airline training outsourcings and 49 fullfull-flight flight simulator (FFS) sales. Civil finished the year with a record backlog total backlog4 simulator sales of $5.3 billion. Again, this year, we delivered more than one million hours of training, underscoring CAE’s position as the largest Civil aviation training company in the world. In the fourth quarter, Civil saw a significant decrease in training services demand related to the disruption to the global air transportation 1 million environment related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Travel restrictions and hours of training delivered local self-isolation measures worldwide resulted in the temporary closure of several Civil aviation training locations. By the end of March, 19 of our 60+ training locations had suspended operations, with 10 locations 1 Segment operating income is a non-GAAP measure 2 Before specific items for fiscal 2020, including costs operating at reduced capacity. We also had to suspend the installation and is the sum of our key indicators of each segment’s arising from the acquisition and integration of BBAT. and delivery of Civil simulator products, and the manufacturing of Civil financial performance. It gives us an indication of 3 Book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated simulators during the last week of March. Despite these disruptions, we the profitability of each segment because it does not as total orders divided by total revenue in a given include the impact of any items not specifically related still managed to deliver an otherwise impressive 56 Civil FFSs for the year. to the segment’s performance. We calculate segment period. operating income by taking the operating profit and 4 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents excluding restructuring costs of major programs that expected future revenues of our order intake not yet do not arise from significant strategic transactions. executed. 20 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions CAE Women in Flight: Reach for the sky! COVID-19 impacts Through an unprecedented global pandemic, We believe the time is now for greater diversity. we continued to support our customers as we provide them with essential services. The CAE Women in Flight scholarship program encourages women to pursue their dreams as airline Here is a summary of the impacts and pilots. The objective of this unique annual scholarship successes that emerged from the COVID-19 program is to inspire a new generation of professional pandemic for our Civil business. pilots among women, as well as to encourage diversity in aviation. Impacts • Disruptions and temporary closures of Civil We were proud to officially launch the second edition operation worldwide due to lower customer Keynote speeches to raise awareness of the scholarship program at the 2020 International demand and government restrictions, in the industry Women in Aviation Conference with Southwest Airlines including travel bans, border restrictions, as our first airline partner in this edition. lockdown protocols and self-isolation measures To find out more about how the scholarship program • Substantial decrease in new pilot training works, visit cae.com/womeninflight. CAE continues to advocate for more activities diversity in aviation through a content • Temporary and partial suspension of delivery Meet CAE’s first five Women in Flight ambassadors. partnership with Flight Global and installation of simulator products to customers worldwide • Temporary layoffs (furloughs) and work-week reductions Diversity in the cockpit • All temporarily laid off employees in Canada CAE is strongly committed to increasing women's recalled as part of the Canada Emergency representation in the commercial pilot profession. Wage Subsidy (CEWS) We recognize the importance of diversity and are active Successes in multiple initiatives that address the gender imbalance • Continuation of recurrent training by many in aviation. We salute the efforts of our partners, who are airlines and business jet operators to Watch the CAE Women in Flight 2020 edition making a difference through their contributions; maintain pilot certification launch video • In the first edition of the CAE Women in Flight • Remote support provided to customers scholarship program, we partnered with to finalize installation, acceptance and Aeromexico, American Airlines, AirAsia, CityJet qualification and easyJet to encourage more young women to • Implementation of live remote-instructor-led become pilots. We welcomed Southwest Airlines training by Business Aircraft Training (BAT) as our first airline partner in the second edition of • Virtual Classrooms set up in our Flight the scholarship program, with additional partners Academies to be confirmed in coming months. • Our partner Xiamen Airlines is among the airlines See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. that recruit the most women as cadets. CAE Phoenix Aviation Academy welcomed a record cohort of 30 women out of 36 cadets, a first! Team CAE at the 2020 International Women in Aviation 21 Conference Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Creating a pilot pipeline through new and The collaboration represents another important step in extended airline partnerships our long-term relationship with Southwest, the largest U.S. domestic carrier. CAE continues to be further recognized as the training partner of choice for airlines around the world. We create over 1,500 new pilots yearly over 30 cadet easyJet becomes our launch customer for training programs globally. CAE 600XR FTDs easyJet became the first airline to train its pilots on Introducing Jazz Approach, a new allour latest flight training device, the CAE 600XR, adding Canadian cadet pilot training program flexibility to the airline’s training curriculum with the highest training device fidelity available in the fixed base CAE, Jazz Aviation and Seneca teamed up to develop training market. The device reproduces the Airbus A320 4 new training locations in Europe Jazz Approach, an innovative Canadian program to and is equipped with a CAE Tropos™ 6000XR collimated provide Jazz with a pipeline of top-quality first officers. Watch the video visual system and a fully enclosed instructor area. The parties involved have signed a five-year partnership agreement, with the first cohort set to begin training in April 2020. Exclusive MPL signed with easyJet to train 1,000 pilots Partnerships to help aspiring pilots Cadets will receive a letter of employment from Jazz finance aviation studies and training upon selection into the Jazz Approach program, allowing We extended our long-term exclusive training for a direct path to join the airline as first officers agreement with easyJet to train 1,000 new cadet pilots We launched partnerships with five financial institutions conditional upon successful completion of the program. under the Generation easyJet Pilot Training Programme, in five countries for student cadet training to help create a Multi-Crew Pilot licence (MPL) program we designed opportunities for students who want to train to become especially for the airline. a pilot, but would be otherwise unable to do so for Training the next generation of pilots financial considerations. under Southwest Airlines’ Destination Cadets in the MPL training program will undergo more 225° Cadet pathway program than three times the number of hours in an Airbus The new initiative will help aspiring pilots finance their A320 simulator compared to traditional type-rating aviation studies and training, and allow future pilots in CAE Phoenix Aviation Academy will train more than 700 training, delivering even more relevant training for pilots CAE training programs to take advantage of services new professional pilots over the next 10 years for the transitioning from initial training to line flying. tailored to their specific needs. Southwest Airlines’ Destination 225° Cadet pathway, a new cadet pilot training program. The basic, intermediate and advanced phases of MPL training will be conducted at the new CAE Milan, CAE Together, we are tapping into a wider pool of talent Manchester and CAE London Gatwick training centres, and supporting gender diversity in the aviation which are equipped with dedicated training areas for industry. Among the exclusive partners selected for the easyJet. program, we were chosen for our cultural alignment with Southwest Airlines, commitment to safety, and CAE will also provide Airbus 320 type rating training and dedication to setting a new, enhanced standard for pilot place graduates of CAE’s Integrated Airline Transport training. Pilot Licence (ATPL) program with easyJet. CAE will screen, assess and train cadets selected by Southwest Airlines. The selected cadets will begin FAA BAT brings customer training home pilot licensing ground school followed by flight training at CAE. 22 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Meeting the growing needs of our CAE Digital Accelerator’s second year all customers in Asia about data and deliveries AirAsia and CAE share a longstanding partnership that spans over 20 years. Our partnership began with the CAE’s dedication to continually improving the customer experience is at the heart of what our Digital Accelerator Looking ahead launch of an innovative MPL cadet training program, team does — making sure that if there is a pain point in evolving to the complete outsourcing of AirAsia's training any step of the pilot journey, we remove it. needs, to the launch and expansion of the CAE Rise™ Through the Digital Accelerator’s innovative approach to training system. The commercial airline industry requires operators designing and delivering digital solutions to customers, Our new five-year training agreement for AirAsia’s A320 we are driving innovation and transforming our industry to continuously pursue operational excellence and pilots in the Philippines extends the use of the CAE Rise™ ahead of the competition. efficiency initiatives to achieve satisfactory returns training system to a third AirAsia affiliate. As part of this while maintaining the highest safety standards and Our approach is multidisciplinary and cross-functional, the confidence of air travellers. Airlines are finding agreement, CAE will continue to provide initial training involving everyone from data analytics experts and it increasingly more effective to seek expertise for the airline’s pilots and will soon undertake recurrent human resources professionals to marketing and finance in training from trusted partners such as CAE to training at CAE Clark – Philippine Academy for Aviation employees. Our teams work in close collaboration address growing efficiency gaps, pilot capability Training in the Philippines. with the customer over the entire timeframe of the gaps as well as evolving regulatory and training To meet the growing need for pilots in Asia, we will be development process. environments. expanding in Bangkok. As part of CAE’s existing longIn our second year, we digitized more of the training term agreement with Thai AirAsia, CAE Bangkok Training Temporary disruptions due to the COVID-19 landscape and created a digital ecosystem. See this Centre will be located near Don Mueang International pandemic are significantly adversely impacting summary of Digital Accelerator developments, which Airport. CAE Bangkok will provide a local solution to Thai air travel as governments worldwide attempt to includes how we addressed customer needs amidst the AirAsia and support third party regional airline operators. limit the spread of the virus. In the short term, we COVID-19 pandemic. expect lower training demand as airlines adjust This is just the beginning. We have set targets to serve Business aviation strategic partnership their fleets. We anticipate some measure of pent more and more of our training network, and we are well with DAC up training demand as pilots are reassigned to on our way there. Part of our strategy is to bring Artificial different aircraft types, which could mitigate part We entered into a strategic partnership with Directional Intelligence (AI) to the forefront of our training network. of the decrease in demand. Aviation Capital (DAC), one of the largest, fastest The first steps have been to digitize, then to adopt, then growing, and most innovative corporate aviation service to enhance. To support AI, we must rely on data. So, as we Looking ahead, once travel restrictions and companies globally. digitize and deliver our training solutions to the market, lockdown protocols are lifted and as worldwide we can accelerate to the future. demand for air travel regains strength, both the As part of this transaction, CAE formed a joint venture commercial and business aviation industries are with DAC’s affiliate, Volo Sicuro LLC, and acquired a 50% expected to level out and return to growth over stake in SIMCOM Holdings Inc., and sold five full-flight the medium to long term due to demand recovery simulators that will be operated in a new training centre combined with the introduction of new aircraft to be built in Lake Nona, Florida. models and technologies. In addition, DAC’s affiliated business aircraft operators, which include Flexjet, Flight Options, Flairjet, Sirio, Nextant Aerospace and Corporate Wings, have entered into a 15-year exclusive training services agreement with SIMCOM and CAE. 23 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE Women in Flight Scholarship Feature story CAE Women in Flight Scholarship Welcoming our first five scholarship winners and program ambassadors As part of CAE’s proactive approach to promote a better gender balance and tap into a wider A look into why so few pilots are pool of talent, we created the CAE Women in Flight scholarship in 2018 as a ground-breaking women, and the change necessary program and a catalyst for more diversity in the cockpit. Of all the glass ceilings blocking the advancement of women in the workplace, perhaps the toughest Through our partnership with five global airlines – Aeromexico, American Airlines, AirAsia, CityJet to crack is at 30,000 feet. Research by CAE using and easyJet – the CAE Women in Flight scholarship awards five full scholarships to selected women interviews and other data sources has begun to get candidates from cadet training programs mentored by the carriers. The full tuition scholarship to the bottom of why so few women want to be pilots covers the entire cost of training at CAE, including accommodation and travel. in the first place, and how this can be addressed. Our 2019 CAE Women in Flight The latest figures from the International Society scholarship winners are: of Women Airline Pilots, which regularly surveys airlines on the gender mix of their flight crew, • Georgina Thomas-Watson, Generation show that, even in countries where women are well easyJet Pilot Training Program represented in professions traditionally dominated • Daniella Saucedo Orozco, Aeromexico Cadet by men, the cockpit remains a largely male preserve. Program According to research done by CAE, out of every • Bisma Petafi, CityJet Climb High Mentored 20 airline pilots just one is a woman. And, while Cadet Program that figure is significantly higher than in 1960, • Cindy Yoke Cheng Wong, AirAsia cadet pilot when just one in 500 pilots were women, female program Hear from our 2019 CAE Women in Flight representation has grown far more slowly than in • Alicia Hunt, American Airlines Cadet other careers with high social stature and above Scholarship winners Academy average rates of pay. The program’s first scholarship recipients were chosen for their leadership skills, perseverance and passion for Piloting progress aviation. As ambassadors for CAE Women in Flight, they will inspire the next generation of women pilots, helping to In an effort to drive up the percentage of women drive awareness, promote the pilot profession among women, and encourage diversity in aviation. in the cockpit, airlines are taking proactive steps to encourage more women applicants to join their cadet CAE will follow the five cadets in their journey to the flight deck through to their first years as professional pilots. So programs – and these actions are slowly beginning far, we have provided regular updates through social media and shared their experiences at aerospace and aviation to yield positive results. Our five airline partners in industry events. the first edition of CAE’s Women in Flight scholarship CAE launched the 2020 edition of CAE Women in Flight with Southwest Airlines. Additional airline partners will be program – Aeromexico, American Airlines, AirAsia, announced throughout the year. For detailed information on the scholarship program, see cae.com/womeninflight. CityJet and easyJet – report sharp rises in the number For updates on the journeys of our new CAE Women in Flight ambassadors, follow @CAEpilot on Instagram and of new entrant pilot applications from women since @CAE_Inc on Twitter. they started to prioritize gender equality in the cockpit. However, they acknowledge that there is still 24 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE Women in Flight Scholarship a long way to go. However, the 30to 34-year-olds in 2011, who would have been 35-39 in 2016, did not maintain their representation Advice for #futurefemalepilots from Things are changing – some airlines have set ambitious as they aged. This could be a result of an influx of men #CAEWomeninFlight scholarship winners recruitment targets for women cadets – but many believe entering the profession in that age group, from the military they have not done so fast enough. What is needed, say and other careers, or women leaving for family reasons. “There are a lot of myths around the practicality of critics, is both “pull” – initiatives by airlines to recruit and balancing a family life and an aviation career, the retain women pilots – and “push” – efforts to widen the Three key criteria reality these days can be very different than people’s pipeline of pilot applicants by enthusing more girls and Along with the consulting firm, McKinsey, CAE has looked perceptions. Any woman that wants to pursue her young women about what a cockpit career has to offer. into the root causes behind low women representation dream of becoming a pilot needs to go for it, you can Global demographics on the flightdeck, conducting more than 150 interviews make it work!” and pulling data from more than 35 sources. Georgina Thomas-Watson, The story is not universally bad, with some territories The research concluded that women entering the pilot Generation easyJet Pilot Training Program much better than others when it comes to opportunities profession have usually met three criteria: they will have for women. For instance, in India, one in eight pilots is had an awareness of aviation as a realistic career option; a woman. However, in Australasia, Europe and North “Everyone will face their own unique hardships and they will have an academic background that has a strong America, the percentage hovers just above the global obstacles in achieving their dreams. As long as you grounding in mathematics and physics; and they will have average of around 5%, and in Africa and Latin America, keep believing in yourself and never give up, you will been exposed to women role models. the proportion is lower. In China and the rest of Asia, definitely get there!” excluding India, and in the Middle East, 2% or fewer of As we are in the midst of understanding the full impact Cindy Yoke Cheng Wong, airline pilots are women. of COVID-19 on the aviation landscape, the projections AirAsia cadet pilot program The news is also more encouraging when the data for pilot demand are likely to change. However, once the focuses on gender diversity in the “pipeline,” looking at industry recovers from this temporary downturn, airlines the proportion of women pilots in various age groups, will still need to pursue regulated training programs “Don’t let anyone tell you that you can’t do it. although the findings here too highlight some concerns. to have the necessary number of pilots at the ready. This includes yourself, believe in yourself. Put your best A study conducted for CAE in the USA in 2011 showed There will still be recruitment challenges, and with the foot forward and the rest will fall in place. If anyone that the highest percentage of women pilots was in the unprecedented demand for professional pilots, women can, you can! This opportunity is far too good to miss.” 30-34 age category, at 7%, falling sharply through the age must make up a considerable percentage of this new pilot Bisma Petafi, categories to around 1% for pilots aged 60 and above. population. CityJet Climb High Mentored Cadet Program Research carried out five years later shows an almost CAE is proud to do its part to make this happen through identical graph, with the main exception being that the the multiple diversity and inclusion initiatives we support, “Let’s work together to lead the change in the aviation proportion of women pilots has risen slightly across including CAE Women in Flight. Our scholarship program world because hey!; gender is not limit, not even the sky.” most age groups, but the peak of around 7% has moved gets more women in the cockpit and creates a network forward to pilots in their twenties. of ambassadors and mentors who can influence the Daniella Saucedo Orozco, perceptions and awareness of the vocation of aviation Aeromexico Cadet Program In 2011, in the 20-24 age group, just 4% were women, pilot as a solid career option for women. rising to around 6% for those in the 25-29 age category. However, the 2016 figures show a slightly lower “Don’t wait! Opportunity is ripe, but it won’t be this percentage of women pilots in their thirties than five way forever, so don’t wait another day – get started. years earlier, although between the ages of 40 and 70, Also, reach out. No one gets through training alone, but women have nudged up their representation. there are so many resources, people and communities that will help you succeed – and if you don’t know who There are various theories for this. The rise in the to ask, ask me!” proportion of women pilots in their twenties between 2011 and 2016 could be down to the impact of programs Alicia Hunt, that encourage girls to take up a career in the cockpit. American Airlines Cadet Academy 25 Defence & Security Helping improve mission readiness worldwide Our Defence & Security business is a world leader in helping defence forces achieve and maintain the highest levels of mission readiness. As a globally recognized training and mission support solutions provider, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of training and operational support solutions across the air, land, sea and public safety market segments. We serve our global defence and security customers through regional operations in Canada, Europe/Middle East, Asia-Pacific and the United States/Latin America. 100 + 25,000 + customer sites aircrew trained in 2019 providing training services Launched CAE Mission CAE Trax Solutions Inc. Academy (MSI) integrated and a CAE USA subsidiary, advanced training was awarded a continuum position on the U.S. Air Force Advisory & Assistance Services ID/IQ contract to pursue technical and analytical services 26 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security FY2020 highlights Year in review In fiscal year 2020, Defence & Security booked $1.2 billion of orders for a $4.1 billion Defence backlog. Key wins for the year include a contract to provide the German Navy with a comprehensive training solution for the NH90 Sea Lion helicopter and to upgrade and modify the German Army's $1,331.2 $4.1 million billion NH90 full-mission simulators, and a contract to continue providing KC-135 aircrew training services and simulator upgrades for the U.S. Air Force. We also began work on the design phase of the Canadian Surface Combatant (CSC) ship program, Canada’s largest-ever defence procurement. revenue (2% higher backlog 1 At the end of the fourth quarter as the COVID-19 pandemic hit, than last year) governments have reaffirmed the critical role played by the military and are taking measures to minimize impacts to both defence forces and the defence industrial base. Most governments have classified the defence market as an essential service and determined that some level of training and mission support must continue to meet readiness requirements necessary for national security. Consequently, only six defence operational sites were closed, which means that over 90% of the sites where we provide $114.5 services have remained open at full or reduced capacity. Manufacturing operations for defence simulator products have continued during the pandemic, however, execution has been disrupted by mobility limitations and client access restrictions. We have demonstrated our ability to adapt in these challenging million 0.92x circumstances with, for example, the development of a range of Offboard segment operating book-to-sales Instructor Operator station (IOS) solutions which are now being offered to global defence customers. These solutions help address social distancing income 2 ratio 3 requirements by removing the instructor from the cockpit of the simulator and still providing the required features and functionality to conduct training and mission rehearsal exercises. 1 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents performance. We calculate segment operating expected future revenues of our order intake not yet income by taking the operating profit and excluding executed. restructuring costs of major programs that do not arise from significant strategic transactions. In fiscal 2020, 2 Before specific items for fiscal 2020. Segment operating specific items include the impacts of reorganizational income is a non-GAAP measure and is the sum of our costs. key indicators of each segment’s financial performance. It gives us an indication of the profitability of each 3 Book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated segment because it does not include the impact of as total orders divided by total revenue in a given any items not specifically related to the segment’s period. 27 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Trax Academy, Sprint VR trainer and COVID-19 impacts Medallion MR e-series take centre stage In the face of the pandemic, our mission to at I/ITSEC 2019 help defence forces maintain their readiness has never been so relevant. We continued Every year, CAE’s Defence & Security and Healthcare to support our defence customers through business units share a prominent presence at I/ITSEC, challenging times, with the provision of the Interservice/Industry Training, Simulation, and services deemed essential in the interest of Education Conference, and 2019 was no exception. national security. At I/ITSEC 2019, CAE launched two new products, CAE Here is a summary of the impacts and CAE Trax Academy and Sprint VR Trainer: Trax Academy and the CAE Sprint Virtual Reality (VR) successes that emerged from the COVID-19 Turbocharging the training of military pandemic for our D&S business. Trainer. A third product, a complete CAE Medallion MR pilots e-Series Visual System, made its show debut. Impacts With the launch of the CAE Trax Academy and our • Given our D&S business provides mission CAE’s presence at I/ITSEC generated a significant amount CAE Sprint Virtual Reality (VR) Trainer, CAE continues critical services, over 90% of CAE’s operational of media coverage, including a series of videos produced to innovate with digital technologies that provide the sites continued delivering services to support by CAE and its media partners throughout the show. military with more streamlined, self-paced training defence forces, which must always be capabilities. I/ITSEC is the largest show of its type and is critically prepared in the interest of national security important to the simulation market, and 2019 may have Our approach offers one solution to the growing • Delays in the deployment of some programs, been the best ever! challenge to produce pilots faster, more efficiently and due to travel bans, border restrictions, cost-effectively, without impacting quality or increasing client access restrictions and supply chain demand on an already scarce resource – experienced disruptions instructor pilots. • Temporary layoffs (furloughs) and work-week reductions The CAE Trax Academy redefines how military student pilots learn, practice and perform on the journey to Successes becoming a pilot. Our training continuum delivers faster, • Virtual training for emergency management more efficient throughput by integrating technology, through a hybrid videoconferencing / tools and digital courseware into three training classroom session that met the demand for segments. training while respecting social distancing First, student pilots use digital tools such as a mobile • Offboard Instructor Operating Station (IOS) app and virtual reality-enabled courseware to learn and set up understand required training tasks and procedures. CAE Trax Academy • Continuation of progress and acceptance Next, our Sprint VR training device allows students to CAE Trax Academy is our answer to redefining how testing via virtual meetings practice in an immersive environment, with a virtual military student pilots learn, practice and then coach to provide immediate and actionable instruction. perform on the journey to becoming a pilot. Our Finally, students perform what they practiced and See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. training continuum delivers faster, better pilot demonstrate proficiency in a higher-fidelity simulator. throughput while supporting student pilots as they Both the CAE Sprint VR trainer and high-fidelity simulator learn how to fly. leverage CAE Rise™ to help the instructor validate student progress while giving the training organization Watch the video objective data for continuous improvement. 28 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Civil and Defence join forces to Offboard IOS solutions enhance train U.S. Navy UC-12 aircrews safety and efficiency of simulator training sessions Our Defence and Civil business units came together on a comprehensive training To ensure the safe and efficient continuation program for the U.S. Navy at Dallas, Texas, of training through the COVID-19 pandemic, Dothan, Alabama, and Morristown, New we developed a range of Offboard IOS Jersey. We are particularly pleased that solutions to be offered to military customers Navy UC-12 aircrews have joined the Army globally. Our solutions deliver enhanced Using synthetic environments and Air Force in training pilots at our Dothan flexibility, efficiency and safety, while CSC project signals our for mission and decision support Training Center. conducting essential training and mission growing naval presence rehearsal exercises in a simulator. Under a program with the U.K. Ministry of Defence (UK MOD), we are developing a Contract extends German naval Our Offboard IOS takes the instructor out single synthetic environment (SSE) designed aviation training, confirms NH90 of the simulator cockpit, while providing to enhance planning, mission rehearsal and as critical, enduring platform the required features and functionality to decision support across the UK government. continue conducting training and mission Our history providing naval aviation training rehearsal exercises. The solutions were at German Naval Airbase Nordholz continues We partnered with gaming software designed using an open, common baseline into a fifth decade, with a contract from the company Improbable on the UK MoD’s architecture and include all required German Navy to develop a comprehensive mandate to determine if technology is cybersecurity features. NH90 Sea Lion training solution. sufficiently mature to build a viable and credible model, or “digital twin,” of an area We can provide a quick and deployable The German Navy has procured 18 NH90 that can replicate all five domains (land, sea, Offboard IOS for customers requiring Construction of new Sea Lion helicopters to replace their fleet air, space and cyber). The aim is to give the an immediate solution, or a full-fidelity U.S. headquarters in of venerable Sea King MK41 helicopters in U.K. government a tool for understanding, Offboard IOS for customers requiring Tampa underway operation for more than 40 years. planning, course of action analysis and an advanced solution. Our Offboard IOS ultimately better decision-making. Following We are to build a comprehensive suite of solutions can be implemented on CAE-built delivery of a successful Phase 1 proof of NH90 training devices along with an interim simulators and training devices, and those concept and demonstration, the Improbable training facility and, following delivery in built by other manufacturers. CAE team have now commenced Phase 2 2022, will provide on-site training support In addition, we developed COVID-19 development with the UK MoD. and maintenance services. guidelines for training sessions held during The SSE will deliver a range of benefits The German Navy joins the German Army the pandemic that include disinfection across the U.K. government and multiand other countries, including Australia, the protocols for simulators and training devices. domain operations, and CAE is excited to be Netherlands, Qatar, New Zealand and more, These guidelines and recommendations part of this ground-breaking development. in partnering with us to provide the training can be found here: https://www.cae.com/ systems and support required to prepare update-on-covid-19/ their NH90 aircrews. Our first virtual conference and trade show 29 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Awards Looking ahead Training and operational support are fundamental for defence forces to achieve and maintain mission preparedness. As part of the COVID-19 pandemic, most governments have classified the defence market as an essential Recognized as best of the Supporting military veterans CAE USA recipient of service and determined that some level of best at MS&T Awards, Outstanding Industrial training must continue to meet readiness Simulation’s Oscars Security Achievement Award requirements in support of national security. In addition, many governments are using defence programs as a mechanism to maintain and stimulate the economy. Beyond the coming year, the long-term outlook for Defence continues to be for growth, supported by a large addressable market for our innovative training and mission support solutions. Defence forces continue to increasingly leverage virtual training and balance their training approach between live, CAE Australia recognized for outstanding support to the virtual and constructive domains to achieve Royal Australian Air Force maximum readiness and efficiency. In addition, we are leveraging our modelling and simulation expertise, combined with advanced analytics, to enable defence forces to use synthetic environments for planning, analysis and operational decision support. Defence Executive of the Year Another driver for CAE’s expertise and Marc Parent has been named Defence Executive of the year by the Canadian capabilities is the efficiency gained by our Defence Review. Marc was the first to receive this honour in 2010, and customers from outsourcing training and 10 years later, becomes the first second-time recipient, providing for an support services. There has been a growing interesting inside look at how CAE and its leader have evolved over the trend among defence forces to consider past decade. outsourcing a variety of training and operational AS9100 certification a well-earned achievement support services and we expect this trend to for CAE USA continue, which aligns directly with our strategy Read the CDR article to grow long-term, recurring services business. 30 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Standing beside Australia during bushfire crisis Feature story Standing beside Australia during bushfire crisis Tribute to volunteer Mark Gibson We thank all CAE employees involved in the firefighting and recovery efforts in Australia, and also recognize those who trained the RAAF Blackhawk pilots participating in relief operations. One CAE employee contributed directly to the community during the most difficult of times. Technical Specialist Mark Gibson, a proud ADF Reservist based in Canberra, deployed on Operation Bushfire Assist 2019-2020 as a member of Joint Task Force (JTF) 646. As Brigade Headquarters (HQ) Chief of Staff, Mark led a team that managed requests for support, triaged what could be actioned directly View from the C-130J cockpit and referred other queries to JTF HQ. As the nosecone emerged from the clouds, all the Royal Crews of the No. 37 Squadron used CAE simulators Once the fires were under control, Mark led Australian Air Force (RAAF) pilots could see was orange. and training to prepare for these flights on the C-130J, transition planning to transfer approximately 2,000 Smoke rose high from the bushfires below, completely completing 39 missions in support of Operation Bushfire members of the Fire Brigade from bushfire duty to obscuring their view. The C-130J Hercules shuddered Assist. Some 1,732 passengers, including firefighters, normal operations. At the conclusion of this critical and slowly broke through the thick wall of smoke on its evacuees and pets, and a cargo of crucial firefighting task, responsibilities reverted from defence back to approach to the Mallacoota Airport, the logistics staging equipment, rations and supplies were transported in civilian agencies. point during Australia’s Black Summer – one of the most these sorties. devastating bushfire seasons in the country’s history. In true Army spirit, Mark is not one to boast about Employees’ generosity made a difference his achievements. We are proud and appreciative CAE may not have been on the frontlines battling the of Mark’s commitment, and recognize the personal fires, but we did help those who were. CAE organized a major global fundraising campaign to sacrifice he made to support those devastated by “This was one of the first missions the Captain flew after help get necessities to the frontline to support rural the bushfires. We salute you, Lieutenant Colonel completing command upgrade training, and a scenario firefighters, local law enforcement and first responders, Gibson and are honoured to support the ADF that the crew could not fully prepare for,” recalled and hospitals. Our employees contributed $32,189 AUD, Reserves. Benjamin Christie, the Commanding Officer of No. 37 with CAE’s pledge to match bringing the total donation Squadron at RAAF Base Richmond. “The right decisions to the Australian Red Cross bushfire relief fund to more were made, and crew and aircraft safety maintained, than $64,000 AUD. which are a testament to the versatility of our training system and our upgrade processes.” 31 Healthcare Making healthcare safer Just as passenger safety is the top priority in civil aviation, patient safety and outcomes matter most in healthcare. Medical errors are the third leading cause of death in U.S. hospitals. Simulation-based training provides a low-risk alternative for practising lifesaving procedures, rapid response and interprofessional clinical teamwork as well as major disaster response. Building on our aviation expertise, we launched our Healthcare business 10 years ago to enhance healthcare training and education and make healthcare safer. Today we are a training partner of choice for the healthcare industry, scientific societies and associations worldwide, helping foster confidence, competency and teamwork. We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of healthcare simulation products and solutions along with world-class support. As we face a global health crisis, our mission to make healthcare safer has never been more relevant. Our response and solutions have helped healthcare professionals – our guardian angels – save lives in these dire times. Customers in 50 + 80 + Industry's broadest countries training products and services portfolio 32 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare FY2020 highlights $124.5 500 + million simulated clinical experiences in revenue (2% higher developed by CAE than last year) Healthcare Academy in collaboration with healthcare institutions Year in review In fiscal year 2020, CAE Healthcare bolstered its position as the innovation leader in simulation-based healthcare education and training. We won the EMS World Innovation Award for CAE AresAR, the Microsoft HoloLens application for Healthcare’s emergency care manikin. We also launched innovative products including new Anesthesia SimSTAT modules, screen-based simulation approved by the American Board of Anesthesiology for maintenance of certification credits; and multiple custom simulators for OEMs and leading medical device companies, including Baylis Medical and Edwards Lifesciences. EMS World When COVID-19 hit, our healthcare business was negatively affected as medical and nursing school customers came under lockdown protocols, and hospital Innovation Custom Award simulators customers focused attention on the healthcare crisis. We are extremely proud of our team that went beyond the call of duty in the fight against COVID-19 by bringing forward the idea to develop a critical Won for the Launched for leading care ventilator. Some 500 CAE employees are delivering on a contract with the Government of Canada to manufacture 10,000 ventilators to help save Microsoft HoloLens medical device lives. We also provided complimentary training seminars on how to prepare application for companies healthcare workers in the fight against COVID-19. In addition, we launched CAE AresAR emergency simulation-based training solutions to train personnel in the safe practice of care manikin ventilation and intubation, which are key to saving lives. 33 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Complimentary training tools, webinars and COVID-19 impacts other resources As part of the COVID-19 global health crisis, our Within the first 60 days of the pandemic, mission to make healthcare safer has never been more CAE Healthcare mobilized to develop a suite of important. We activated a wartime effort in the fight new training tools, free resources and webinars against the coronavirus, and are very proud of our to help hospitals and clinicians prepare to care for contributions to help save lives. CAE Air1 ventilator certified patients. The availability of our new product suite by health authorities was communicated widely, with dissemination Impacts • Lockdown protocols at medical and nursing schools Our CAE Healthcare engineers and scientists among simulation societies. affected the Healthcare market quickly developed an easy-to-manufacture We initially produced a free, downloadable • Switch of customer focus to managing acute operational ventilator prototype to provide life support Suspected COVID-19, Simulated Clinical Experience demands of the healthcare crisis versus usual training to patients in intensive care. We have been (SCE) to assist clinicians with gaining knowledge, needs contracted by the Government of Canada to confidence and competency in handling suspect design, manufacture and supply 10,000 ventilators. and diagnosed cases of COVID-19 in patients. We • Temporary furloughs and work-week reductions Our CAE Air1 ventilator has been certified by offered the scenario with the webinar Hospital Successes health authorities in June 2020. Preparedness for Managing Coronavirus. • Design of a simple, maintainable, easy-to-manufacture In partnership with iRIS Health, the SCE was ventilat or prototype in 11 days by CAE Healthcare uploaded to a global simulation authoring engineers and scientists to provide life support to patients platform, which allowed educators among more in intensive care than 40 countries to translate and adapt it to best • Selection by the Government of Canada for a contract to practices in their regions. design, manufacture and supply 10,000 ventilators to help save lives of COVID-19 patients We have since expanded our offering of digital and distance learning resources as simulation centres • Certification of CAE Air1 ventilator by health authorities and learning institutions adjust to the current received Playing a role in saving lives in the climate, and are developing new simulation-based • Creation of complimentary training seminars on how to fight against COVID-19 training course, Pathogens of High Consequence. prepare healthcare workers in the fight against COVID-19 • Launch of simulation-based training solutions, both CAE Healthcare is committed to improving clinical Training materials we created in response to the weband hardware-based, to train personnel in the safe education and patient safety through simulationCOVID-19 pandemic are available on our CAE practice of ventilation and intubation, which is key to based training solutions. With a mission to Healthcare website under Hospital Preparedness saving lives improve clinical competency and performance, for Managing Coronavirus. we develop evidence-based curriculum and • Leveraging our global supply chain to source scarce N95 Sourcing scarce N95 masks for front-line innovative learning technologies for healthcare masks for humanitarian purposes in support of front-line healthworkers education. health workers (600,000 masks delivered to Quebec and Manitoba governments) With the rapid spread of the COVID-19 global We also leveraged our global supply chain to pandemic, our mission to make healthcare source scarce N95 masks for humanitarian • Launch of podcasts through clinicians and influencers on safer meant taking on monumental immediate purposes in support of front-line health workers. the front line challenges, starting with hospital preparedness To date, we have secured some 600,000 N95 for managing the Coronavirus. masks for the governments of Quebec and See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. Manitoba, doing our part to help keep healthcareworkers safe. Additional coverage is provided in our COVID-19 34 feature. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Putting the spotlight on patient care The latest modules improve management of anesthesia emergencies in the Post-Anesthetic Care Unit and the We found a lot to celebrate during a week that marked Labour and Delivery Unit. The initial three modules focus CAE Healthcare’s 10th anniversary, together with on trauma, appendectomy and robotic surgery. Healthcare Simulation Week and first annual World Until now, high fidelity, patient scenario-based simulation Health Organization (WHO) World Patient Safety Day. training for physician anesthesiologists was only available Our Montreal and Sarasota, Florida, locations held open in-person at select simulation centres. With SimSTAT, houses, inviting the entire CAE employee community training is available via computer anywhere, any time. Changing the world by thinking differently to meet their Healthcare teams and get hands-on By completing all five modules, physician anesthesiologists experience with medical simulators to learn more about can earn 25 MOCA 2.0® Part 4 points, fulfilling five years Achieving change one simulation at a time, one patient how CAE Healthcare is improving patient safety every day. of continuing medical education requirements. at a time. On World Patient Safety Day, we held a joint event with Our Healthcare business unit started 10 years ago with a the Canadian Patient Safety Institute that began with a CAE supports state-of-the-art healthcare handful of passionate professionals and a commitment livestream screening of the ground-breaking patient training at the MUHC to improve clinical education and patient safety through safety documentary, To Err is Human, followed by a We announced our collaboration with the McGill simulation-based training solutions. healthcare leader panel discussion. University Health Centre (MUHC) in support of a visionary Today, CAE Healthcare’s 500 employees, 15,000 project to elevate lifesaving skills and teamwork through In line with the WHO 2019 event slogan Speak up for simulators, and broad array of training and turnkey innovative solutions to transform patient care. patient safety!, we produced a video highlighting the link solution services help medical professionals in more between simulation-based training and patient safety. As part of its Dream Big Campaign, co-chaired by our than 80 countries develop and hone their skills. CEO Marc Parent, the MUHC is raising $10 million to set up an Interprofessional Skills & Simulation Network to To learn more about what we have accomplished over allow medical professionals to train together in their own the decade, see our CAE Healthcare website. clinical environment to create effective interprofessional healthcare teams. In support of the Dream Big project and our mission to make healthcare safer, CAE made a donation of $500,000 over five years that includes $250,000 in state-of-theart training simulation equipment and curriculum. This Anesthesia SimSTAT program complete contribution signifies a unique partnership between with release of final training modules industry and healthcare that represents a trend in hospital innovation. Together with the American Society of Anesthesiologists, More than 1,000 healthcare professionals were on we completed the Anesthesia SimSTAT series with the hand to meet members of our CAE Healthcare team, release of the final two training modules. and to experience our training equipment and medical simulators. An internationally-renowned teaching 10-year anniversary: SimSTAT is designed to enhance physician hospital, the MUHC trains thousands of medical students, Employees talk about CAE Healthcare anesthesiologists’ management of anesthesiaresidents, nurses, allied health professionals and related emergencies and improve patient outcomes. researchers the essential skills to serve patients across Our Healthcare employees speak from the heart about The SimSTAT interface consists of five screen-based Quebec, Canada, and around the world. their work and how they support our mission to make simulation scenarios focused on real patient encounters healthcare safer. and validated by clinical educators. Additional coverage is provided in our MUHC feature. 35 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare HoloLens 2 expands portfolio Looking of augmented reality training scenarios ahead We introduced our first training solutions enhanced with Microsoft HoloLens 2 technology, an ergonomically-superior, sensor-packed holographic computing Simulation-based training represents the future of headset. healthcare training and patient safety. The world's aging IMSH 2020 provides a showcase for our new population will increase both people’s healthcare needs HoloLens 2 mixed reality training applications The new mixed reality applications and nations’ healthcare costs. New regulations are accelerate learning by displaying 3D, expected to further stimulate the adoption of simulationDuring the 2020 International Meeting on Simulation in interactive cardiac, respiratory and based training in medical schools and for certification Healthcare (IMSH 2020), the largest healthcare simulation circulatory systems that allow learners to purposes. Limited access to real patients during training conference in the world, we demonstrated the capabilities envision human anatomy. and for advances in medical technology are driving the use of Microsoft HoloLens 2. Our display featured fully of simulation. equipped stations, where visitors experienced how a 3D training and simulation environment can dramatically New medical devices and procedures, such as intra improve the learning experience. cardiac echocardiography, cardiac assist devices and mechanical ventilation enhancements, require advanced Our new training applications integrate holographic, training solutions, such as simulation for internal product modelled physiology into emergency care, ultrasound and development and customer training. childbirth patient simulators: • CAE AresAR emergency care manikin offers a The World Health Organization (WHO) reported in 2018 dynamic, holographic view into the human body that there is a 1 in 300 chance of being harmed during during an emergency scenario. health care. Training using simulation can help clinicians • CAE LucinaAR birthing simulator and CAE VimedixAR gain the confidence, knowledge and expertise for ultrasound simulator feature interactive childbirth improving patient safety in a risk-free environment. and cardiac scenarios with augmented reality. CAE expects increased adoption of simulation-based Both instructors and learners gain a training edge, as they Éric Provencher training and certification of healthcare professionals as quickly comprehend physiological responses to trauma named Microsoft MVP a means to improve patient safety and outcomes. During and medical interventions. the COVID-19 pandemic, the Society for Simulation in We congratulate Éric Provencher, Senior Mixed Reality Specialist at CAE, who received Microsoft’s Healthcare and the International Nursing Association for Watch the video Most Valuable Professional (MVP) Award in Clinical Simulation and Learning called for more flexibility the category Windows Development for his in replacing required clinical training hours for health EMS World Innovation Award winner contributions to Windows Mixed Reality. science students with simulation hours, emphasizing that virtual simulation is an effective teaching method that We won the EMS World Innovation Award for CAE AresAR, Éric joins an illustrious group of more than 4,000 results in improved student learning outcomes. State our emergency care simulator with modelled physiology technical experts and community leaders across boards of nursing have begun to change requirements to integrated into the Microsoft HoloLens augmented reality 90 countries/regions, all top-notch technology help ensure that learners and new graduates can continue headset. As one judge remarked, “The graphics on this VR experts who make outstanding contributions to their education to be ready to enter the workforce. simulator are far better than any other simulator I have their Microsoft communities. seen.” 36 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE and McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Feature story CAE and McGill University Health Centre (MUHC): Making big dreams a reality in healthcare CAE is the global leader in training for civil Unique partnership between industry aviation, defence and security, and more recently, and healthcare healthcare. Together with the MUHC Foundation, we announced an exciting healthcare education and recruitment We started our CAE Healthcare division 10 years initiative that offers innovative solutions to ago because we saw strong parallels with the transform patient care. CAE will be donating CAE and the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) aviation industry and similar imperatives: $500,000 to the MUHC Foundation’s Dream Big Foundation announced a collaboration that offers complex, mission-critical environments where Campaign over five years, including $250,000 worth innovative solutions to transform patient care. safety is paramount. The same philosophy of of training equipment and simulators. “nothing is left to chance” aptly translates into is raising $10 million to create the MUHC Four identified simulators are part of the donation: Interprofessional Skills & Simulation Network to healthcare. accelerate healthcare education and recruitment. • CAE AresAR emergency care manikin; Today, we are a training partner of choice for • CAE Juno nursing skills manikin; Recognized internationally as a leading teaching the healthcare industry, scientific societies and • CAE CathLabVR portable intervention hospital, the MUHC trains thousands of medical associations worldwide, helping foster confidence, simulator for cardiac and peripheral vascular students, residents, nurses, allied health competency and teamwork. procedures; professionals and researchers the essential skills to • CAE LucinaAR augmented reality childbirth serve patients across Quebec, Canada and around We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of simulator with Microsoft Hololens mixed the world. healthcare simulation products and solutions, with reality glasses. training solutions in more than 80 countries. “This donation marks a unique partnership between industry and healthcare that will have an impact on At CAE, we are driven by our Our goal? Make healthcare safer. We are driven the future of healthcare,” says CAE's President and mission to make healthcare by our mission and are committed to improving Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Marc Parent, who sits on the MUHC Foundation’s Board of Directors and safer and are committed to clinical education and patient safety through simulation-based training solutions. is Co-Chair of the Foundation’s Dream Big Campaign. improving clinical education “We are honoured to help equip the MUHC with the best technology and tools they need, so they can and patient safety through Contributing to building Canada’s best skilled team change the course of lives and medicine, starting in simulation-based training at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) is aligned with this mission. From augmented reality Montreal.” solutions. to patient simulators, we are working with the The Dream Big Campaign is working to change the Marc Parent MUHC’s expert clinicians and renowned simulation course of lives and medicine and establish the CAE President and CEO, MUHC and Montreal as a hub for innovation in MUHC Foundation Board Member, educators to improve healthcare outcomes. healthcare and research across Canada. As part and Co-Chair of the MUHC Foundation’s of the Dream Big Campaign, the MUHC Foundation Dream Big Campaign 37 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE and McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Exciting joint initiative announced at to make sure healthcare teams have the most optimal MUHC's first CAE Day simulated training experiences available to help them gain the confidence needed to perform at their best at On February 5, 2020, we announced our Dream Big any time. donation during the launch of MUHC’s first annual CAE Day, an open invitation event held at the Foundation’s Having simulations performed within the hospital helps Research Institute in Montreal. healthcare professionals gain time, be more efficient, and allows entire teams to practice together in their own More than 1,000 healthcare professionals were on real settings. hand to meet members of our CAE Healthcare team, Watch the video that highlights the benefits and to experience our training equipment and medical Whether it is allowing a surgeon to practice a procedure of the CAE-MUHC collaboration simulators. just an hour before performing a surgery or allowing a whole team to practice their communication skills Along with members of the public and media, they on a specific emergency preparedness procedure, inexplored and interacted with CAE Healthcare’s house simulated training is the most optimal training innovative medical training equipment, including opportunity we can give to healthcare professionals. patient simulators, surgical simulators and much more — all designed to improve patient outcomes and safety Simulation provides a safe, low-risk environment for through superior training. learners, where they can make mistakes and practice over and over again, until they feel confident. Simulation CAE Day is about a partnership we strongly believe offers the opportunity for healthcare teams to deepen in, because it has the potential to shape the future of their knowledge in basic skills and competencies, as healthcare. This event allowed us to showcase the well as improve teamwork and communication skills in importance of simulation becoming an integrated part a realistic environment with real-time challenges and of the hospital environment. problem solving. Every year, CAE ensures the training of thousands of Training also helps identify problems, like safety healthcare professionals. As a training partner, we want breaches, that exist within the system. Simulation helps pinpoint errors and correct them immediately. Just as a pilot on take-off must react quickly, within seconds, medical personnel are often confronted with crisis situations. They need to rapidly identify the problem, master the necessary intervention and know which actions to take and to avoid. In a fast-paced and very complex profession and environment like healthcare, realism and proximity are of the essence in training. For that, it is of the upmost Top: February 5, 2020, President and CEO Marc Parent Dr. Elene Khalil, Director of Education and Medical importance that simulation becomes an integrated part announces CAE’s donation of $500,000 to the Dream Big of the hospital environment. Campaign, including training and simulation equipment Co Director, Emergency Measures at the MUHC, valued at $250,000. explains the undeniable value of the CAE-MUHC Related divisional highlights appear in the Healthcare partnership in an interview on Global News Bottom: More than 1,000 healthcare professionals were section. on hand to meet the CAE Healthcare team, and experience Watch the video our training equipment and medical simulators. 38 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Employee Resource Groups Feature story Employee Resource Groups add a new dimension to our D&I program Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary, employee-led groups that bring together individuals in the workplace based on shared characteristics or life experiences to provide support, enhance career development and contribute to personal development in the work environment. Getting the pulse of employees As a member of CAE’s D&I Committee, Samantha took an active role in the entry of ERGs into CAE. She did the initial research, interfaced with In introducing ERGs to our organization , we started with a worldwide Catalyst and organized the employee survey and panel discussion. survey asking employees which groups they thought would have Through these activities, talking with employees, and her own the most impact at CAE. Once results were tallied, we organized an research and experience with autism, Samantha realized that many internal discussion with a guest panel of TD Bank and Sodexo – two employees are parents of children with special needs and that they organizations with successful ERGs – and Catalyst, a global nonface the same challenges in the workplace. She included the group profit that helps build inclusive cultures. Employees learned how among the multiple-choice options in the survey, and the ERG ended ERGs work, their purpose and value, and we announced the three up being employees’ top pick. Samantha Golinski ERGs selected in the survey: President, Mozaic For her part, Carolyn was immediately drawn to the ERG Women in • Parents of children with special needs (Mozaic) Aviation and Technology, and knew she wanted to be involved. “I have • LGBTQ2+ (Prism) been working and training in the aviation and aerospace industry • Women in Aviation and Technology (LIFT) for close to 25 years,” she says. “I have always been a proponent of supporting women in non-traditional roles, specifically in aviation and Pioneering presidents aerospace.” Gabriella’s involvement in LGBTQ2+ comes at a key time in her life as Elections were held for each group and the positions of President, a transgender. “As someone in the process of transitioning, I value co-President, Treasurer and Secretary filled. Inaugural ERG Presidents the opportunity to provide and receive support through this inclusive Samantha Golinski (Mozaic), Gabriella Ercsényi (Prism) and Carolyn community,” she says. Gabriella Ercsényi Turner (LIFT) have assumed their roles with enthusiasm and a sense of purpose. While their ERGs may target different audiences and President, Prism have different missions, the three groups – and their new presidents D&I built into groups as a top of mind value – share similar motivations. As ERGs are dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive work As Samantha explains, “The reason we are here is to connect with environment within the context of the organization’s mission, employees, offer them support, get them engaged. So all of us are values, goals, business practices and objectives, the three leaders working for the same overall objectives.” were provided templates and guidelines created with the support of “You volunteer for an ERG because you are passionate about the Catalyst. community represented, and you really want to spread the message,” The new ERG leaders are also keenly aware of additional aspects of she adds. D&I to consider, given their memberships could potentially extend across 35 countries. Carolyn Turner President, LIFT 39 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Employee Resource Groups “There will definitely be local flavours to each of the ERGs, because the challenges may be different,” notes Samantha. “For example, a specific topic may be more relevant to one region than another that does not have the same government programs or resources available.” Openness in membership, detailed in the ERG charter template, means members do not have to be part of the community to join. Employees can be part of an ERG as an ally. As two examples among many, an ally could be a leader who wants to offer better support and understanding to an employee, or an employee seeking tools or resources to help a friend or family member. “Allies are very, very important for our ERG and are included in our When a child has a disability, the whole family is affected. In line with CAE’s diversity and mission,” says Gabriella, “with one of our objectives to make sure inclusion strategy, our ERG’s mission is to support parents of children with special needs in the workplace, empower them to benefit from each other’s experiences and resources and most, if not all, of the CAE community become our ally at one point.” educate CAE employees and managers regarding the challenges of this population so they can better understand and support their colleagues and family members. ERGs open in June to welcome members Originally CAE’s three ERGs were to open in early 2020. However, the arrival of COVID-19 meant putting their opening on hold. In June 2020, Mozaic, Prism and LIFT were launched with virtual meetings set to introduce Samantha, Gabriella and Carolyn, who will present their respective missions, teams and plans for the coming year. Each looks forward to having an impact and attracting a growing membership. They cite the Montreal-based CAE Professional Women’s Network (PWN), in its second year, as a model of success and are actively sharing best practices. Prism provides a supportive framework for our LGBTQ2+ staff and Allies by representing their views and promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion both internally and externally. “We will definitely have a connection with the PWN, particularly Carolyn and LIFT,” confirms Samantha. “With ERGs, we are trying to get employees even more engaged in D&I to broaden its impact across CAE.” LIFT promotes and encourages the development and advancement of women employed at CAE in the fields of aviation, engineering and technology, and assist in removing barriers in order to support their individual success. 40 Corporate social responsibility Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / A message from our CSR Leader Corporate social responsibility A message from our CSR Leader Further integrating CSR into our business practices and culture At CAE, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is integral to who we are as a company and how we make a difference in the world. CSR is embedded in our culture, and drives our decisions and actions. Hélène V. Gagnon Vice President, Public Affairs and Global CAE continued to make significant advances on our CSR commitments in fiscal 2020. Communications and Leader of the CSR Over the year, we saw many of our plans and intentions become realities, and are now laying Committee the ground for future CSR initiatives and improvements. Best practices to upgrade CAE’s reporting our radar, as most of the issues identified by SASB are CAE’s mission aligns with these five goals. Steps recognized as material and are reflected in the company's identified for our FY21 CSR report include: To further transparency in our disclosure, we made materiality matrix. changes to this year’s CSR report, with additional • Articulating relation between the selected goals improvements underway for next year. and the company's value chain SDGs: Identifying where we can have the • Determining appropriate indicators and targets to We include Task Force on Climate-related Financial most impact Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations in our reporting measure progress in contributing to the goals for the first time. Our new TCFD index provides forwardPrimarily under the framework of the 17 Sustainable • Showing the correspondence between material looking information on CAE’s climate-related risks and Development Goals (SDGs) identified by the United topics and selected SDGs in the GRI Content Index opportunities. Nations, which address social and economic development issues on a global scale, we began reflection on our SDGs Environmental turning point for CAE We updated our Global reporting initiative (GRI), and related reporting for next year. consolidating all issues and indicators into our GRI The rise in importance of climate change as a systemic Content Index, listing the company's own indicators (GRI global issue and the growing prevalence of corporate and non-GRI indicators) and increasing conformity with carbon neutrality initiatives are undeniable, and we are GRI standards. taking action. We performed a preliminary assessment of CAE’s We created a Climate Change Committee (CCC) to Materiality Matrix that focuses on environmental, evaluate and integrate risks and opportunities into CAE’s social, and governance issues. The revised matrix CAE’s CSR Committee identified five goals where we can business strategy. The list of identified risks and an make the most meaningful contributions and have the applied methodology will be used to assess each site’s now reflects our carbon neutrality commitment as a most significant impacts: exposure, with a roadmap and governance in place to priority. We also modified our materiality assessment manage current and future risks. process to illustrate the concept of dynamic materiality, • SDG 3: Good health and well-being specifically the evolving nature of material issues and CAE’s move to become carbon neutral in Summer • SDG 4: Quality education sustainability practices. We intend to review the matrix 2020 represents an important commitment for CAE’s • SDG 5: Gender equality reputation and leadership position. We are taking the more thoroughly in consultation with our internal and external stakeholders in the coming years. Sustainability • SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth first steps in our carbon neutrality journey, and as you will Accounting Standards Board (SASB) reporting is on • SDG 13: Climate action see in our feature story, these steps will lead to further 42 opportunities to reduce our global footprint. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR governance and oversight Extending accountability to our supply chain CSR governance and oversight Currently in the initial stages of global deployment, our new online global procurement management platform brings major advances that benefit CAE and Our CSR Committee our clients. Additionally, as part of our Global Strategic Sourcing CSR Roadmap 2020-2023, the platform introduces procurement processes in line with the SDGs. • Includes members from all functions and business units Evolution of our sourcing practices helps to ensure responsible procurement • Includes three members of our Executive Management Committee by integrating labour, environment and anti-corruption considerations into our • Interacts with our various stakeholders (investors, employees, customers, global strategic sourcing tools and processes. suppliers, aviation regulators, governments, local communities and universities) • Oversees our four core CSR priorities AI-based ESG data management tool The CSR Committee meets quarterly to review progress and, through the CSR Committee We are proud to partner with Novisto in building the next generation ESG Data Chair, reports performance to the Executive Management Committee and periodically Management and Analytics platform. Novisto is a Canadian startup backed by to the Board of Directors. The Chief Compliance Officer provides monthly compliance Diagram, a Montreal-based venture builder. Powered by an AI-driven engine, reports to the Executive Management Committee and quarterly reports to the Board. Novisto’s software platform is helping corporations meet the increasing Materiality matrix demands around ESG (environmental, social, and governance) reporting and disclosure. This innovative technology increases the efficiency of data collection, In fiscal 2020, we revisited our materiality matrix following our carbon neutrality offers advanced benchmarking capacities, and allows for more streamlined commitment. We also modified our materiality assessment process to illustrate the communications with investors and rating agencies. Our involvement in the concept of dynamic materiality, specifically the evolving nature of material issues and development of this platform with Novisto supports CAE’s pledge to be an active sustainability practices. contributor and vector of innovation in the flourishing AI start up ecosystem. Customer engagement and satisfaction Product quality and services Ensuring responsible investment in our Pension Plan Economic performance Energy and climate change Also connected to CSR and ESG metrics, we have asked AON, the management Market presence Atmospheric emissions Employment Diversity and inclusion firm overseeing the investment returns in CAE Inc.’s Pension Plans, to perform an Procurement practices Employee engagement Health and Importance for internal stakeholders analysis to ensure the environmental, social and governance investment factors Customer and end-user safety for products safety that are taken into account when making decisions pertaining to the selection of and services Talent retention Leadership to improve aviation and healthcare investment options or investment managers for our pension plans. and attraction sector practices Training and Compliance development Ethical business conduct Making a difference amidst COVID-19 Human rights Data privacy and security In recognition of our CSR responsibilities, our mission of safety and our presence Corporate governance and disclosure in communities around the globe, we are proud to have contributed our Financial participation ingenuity, innovation and agility to making a difference in the world during what with governments Dues and taxes have been anxious and uncertain times. to governments Political contributions As you will see, this year’s report highlights a reality that shaped a new “norm” of Environmental management how we live and do business. At CAE, we will continue to deliver and delight, and Contribution to local economy that includes ongoing progress in raising the bar of our CSR reporting. Low Medium High Importance for external stakeholders Economic contribution Community and environment Ethics and integrity Innovation and customer experience People and safety 43 Corporate social responsibility People and safety Why it matters At CAE, our purpose is all about ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, customers and our industry. It is about putting people first. As our company shifts from a product to a training service focus, attracting, developing and retaining the best talent are more crucial to fulfilling our mission than ever. So is cultivating the highest levels of employee engagement. We are committed to ensuring that flying stays one of the world’s safest modes of transportation by advancing the highest standards of aviation safety, from the ground up into the skies. Our goal Be a global employer of choice and a world-class leader in safety. Our objectives As part of our CSR roadmap, we are continuously working toward the following objectives and measuring our progress. Be an aviation safety model for the industry in Attract and retain the most talented and engaged our flight operations people around the world • Increase the number of voluntary safety reports by • Craft and implement tailored development plans to 10% annually support the growth of our people • Reduce the number of incidents with serious injury • Move or promote 20% of identified high-potential or material damage by 10% annually employees to new roles annually • Perform one or more external, live flight safety • Continue to maintain and create co-op and internship reviews annually opportunities in Canada every year, including Work-Integrated Learning (WIL) activities • Maintain high employee engagement and confidence in leadership • Provide leadership training on effective and engaging management of remote teams Achieve world-class performance in occupational Increase diversity and inclusion throughout our health & safety workforce • Provide a safe environment for all employees and • By FY21, increase the number of high-potential customers during and after the COVID-19 pandemic employees in key roles by 20%, with 30% of newly • Reduce our Injury Frequency Rate (IFR) and our Days identified high-potential employees and executive Lost Rate (DLR) by 5% annually officers being women • Develop a reporting culture to increase our Near Miss • By 2022, ensure 30% of our Board members and Rate (NMR) by 5% annually executive officers are women • Include H&S as a key indicator in the governance • By FY23, improve our gender diversity by increasing process for all our business units the number of women employees by at least 10% • Continue investing in our Global Health & Safety • Establish a Diversity Council made up of members Management System to achieve our zero-injury vision of CAE’s leadership team • Train leaders on mental health awareness and create • Benchmark current best practices and establish a community of practice targets to increase the recruitment and placement 44 of women leaders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Summary of FY20 incidents and COVID-19 impacts accidents in our live flight training Summary of the impacts of the COVID-19 operations pandemic related to people and safety: At CAE, we are committed to advancing the highest • Creation of a multi-disciplinary coronavirus standards of aviation safety, from the ground up committee in January into the skies. During FY20, in our live flight training • Continuation of safety as our number one operations, there were no accidents in D&S, and priority for our employees, our customers, four accidents in Civil; none were fatal accidents. and their families, as well as all our CAE makes improvements to safety an ongoing New Aviation Safety recognition program stakeholders, with additional factors priority, with reducing the number of accidents award winners • Assisting employees required to work paramount. Actions are taken following each incident, as part of the continuous communication To enhance the overall aviation safety culture within CAE, remotely and education of our stakeholders in terms of our staff and pilots in training who make positive acts toward • Ensuring safest working conditions for safety-focused values and practices. enhancing aviation safety are recognized at the global level critical employees needing to work on through both the Civil and D&S Aviation Safety recognition site Regulatory compliance is meeting or exceeding programs. • Limiting contact and internal industry regulations, and best practices in gatherings partnership with our quality assurance team to Each of our five 2019 Aviation Safety Award Winners continuously improve our products, services and received a prestigious, personalized CAE Aviation Safety • Enforcing strict cleaning and processes which is also integral to our safety culture. leather flying jacket. disinfecting protocols in all our facilities • Adjustments to shift work Learn more about the winners • Postponement of unessential business travel • Set up of rigorous, continuously updated Watch the award presentation video protocols (workplace, site entrance, training centres, return-to-work preparation) • Leveraging resources to support employee wellness (Officevibe surveys, mental health week, wellness campaign, employee and family assistance programs) Second annual joint Global Aviation Safety conference • Implementation of cost reduction measures. Across the global workforce, executives, Our second annual Civil Flight Training Organization management and employees took on a share (FTO) and D&S Aviation Safety Conference attracted of the burden to maintain as many jobs as the best turnout to date, with all CAE locations and Flight data recording project ramps up possible, but temporary salary reductions, regions represented. The joint U.K. conference took data retrieval from hours to seconds reduced work weeks, and layoffs (furloughs) place in Oxford and was hosted by CAE Oxford’s were inevitable FTO Safety Team. We are enabling ramps at CAE Phoenix and CAE Oxford to gather all the telemetry data of airplanes as they taxi in, The combined event facilitates sharing best with the data transferred via wi-fi connection to the Flight See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. practices with stakeholders across all of our live Safety Officer (FSO). aviation training centres. Several guests, including CAE leadership and contractors, joined us throughout the week-long event. 45 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Tracking risk proactively, FY20 Health and Safety highlights support CAE for the qualification of all contractors doing with our enterprise-wide business with us. Through Cognibox, we will have global visibility Safety Management System Performance and risk management on the health and safety performance given to companies and individuals who want to do business with us. This approach will We have taken steps to digitize our Our FY20 safety performance remained similar, with an Injury allow us to select only diligent partners with a strong Health and aviation safety management system, Frequency rate (IFR) of 0.52 compared to an IFR of 0.54 in FY19. Safety culture. Only contractors meeting CAE’s requirements will and now have a single, enterprise-wide be authorized to do business with us. Of note, the events reported occurred over a greater number of Safety Management System (SMS) in sites, an indicator that our reporting culture is progressing well. This program includes several other important elements such place for our live flight operations. Employees are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of as training, risk assessment processes, audit, inspection and incident reporting, and more and more familiar with CAE’s Global evaluation. Our new SMS has been working very Environment, Health & Safety (GEH&S) tool – our compliancewell, and staff and students have Our new Contractor Management program pursues three main based software solution implemented in FY19. become comfortable using this new objectives: tool, which has made reporting much The global portrait of work-related injuries across our locations • Exercising due diligence by ensuring that we do business easier for all. Through our new system, consists of three main types: slips/trips and falls; lacerations; and with qualified and responsible companies; we are receiving anonymous safety ergonomic-related injuries. Counter to a persistent belief that the reports and volunteer safety reports, majority of injuries occur at our Montreal production site, the • Ensuring better risk management during work; and alongside meeting our mandatory injury profile in Montreal is no different from the injury profile of • Developing a safety culture with our partners in line with reporting requirements. employees in our training centres. our corporate vision. All incidents reported to CAE are classified according to a risk Deployment targets Montreal manufacturing and field With just a couple of clicks, we can matrix to properly measure the potential (what more serious installation. Program implementation will continue incrementally track the number of risks entered into outcome could have occurred). at all CAE sites through December 2021. At the end of the system, identify risks mitigated deployment, all contractors doing business with CAE must have by management, and identify if any Among all incidents reported, a number have the potential met our requirements and demonstrated compliance. risks are trending up faster than to result in fatality or permanent injury. We call these critical management can mitigate them. incidents. In FY20, we attached great importance to these Advancement of our EH&S culture requires These insights provide us with a lot of incidents by improving our investigation process, establishing communication valuable information. corrective actions applicable to all sites (learning from events – LFE) and ensuring the completion of actions in all sites. To advance our EH&S culture, we are putting more and more Our safety dashboards are maturing, emphasis on communication. We intend to learn from such incidents to prevent them from we can now identify leading and reoccurring. In recent years, between five and 10 critical In addition to the “Alert” and “learning from events (LFE)” tools lagging indicators that merely suggest incidents were reported annually. In FY20, 10 critical incidents connected with critical incidents and in place for a few years the possibility of potential incidents were declared; most occurred in training centres. now, we introduced “Event Notification.” The purpose of Event or accidents going forward. This next Notification is to share information on other types of events generation reporting positions us to Contractor Management Program to better seen as relevant for other sites, to encourage discussion and be more proactive in our approach to manage our risks implementation of corrective measures applicable to the aviation safety. Our Aviation Safety “Just situation. Culture” is continuing to strengthen, Much of the work carried out by CAE contractors involves critical as seen by the 57% increase in our risks (e.g. simulator installation, building construction, facility Event Notifications also provide managers additional EH&S voluntary safety reports over the last maintenance, etc.). To ensure risks are managed properly for material to discuss with their employees during safety meetings, year. With this increase in reporting, each job performed, we began implementation of a Global which are mandatory at all our locations as of this year. we will be able to identify and respond Contractor Management Program. This initiative is bearing fruit, as several great initiatives have more rapidly to areas of potential risk, been implemented in our sites over FY20. We clearly see that We signed an agreement with Cognibox, a world leader as well as, implementing the measures our EH&S culture is progressing, and that our employees and in supplier qualification and contractor management. to mitigate these potential risks. leaders are increasingly involved and committed. 46 Their comprehensive contractor management process will Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety New Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy introduced We issued a new Global Environment, Health & Safety (GEH&S) Policy in FY20, integrating two policies and introducing changes that make our pledge more of its time. This unification aligns with our vision and reinforces EH&S as a key element of CAE's business positioning. We are committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, our customers and our industry. Today, this responsibility requires that we increase our focus on the environment. Voices around the globe are calling for companies to do something about climate change. As a global company with more than 10,500 employees and as a worldwide training partner of choice, we can help lead change. The commitment in our new EH&S Policy shows that we will. The Policy puts an even greater emphasis on being proactive, and on leader engagement and accountability. As a statement of intent, our pledge reflects CAE's willingness to position the organization as a leader in EH&S by integrating this aspect into the heart of the company's global strategy. New considerations include contractor management, sustainable development, the impact of climate change and employee wellness. Additionally, EH&S matters are positioned as integral to our business results and directly linked to the success of our company, as per the following excerpt of our new policy: “Delivering world-class Environment, Health and Safety performance by being accountable and effectively managing our risks and impacts is essential to the success of our business, and is critical to maintaining the confidence of all our stakeholders.” Download our new CAE EH&S Policy 47 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Our employees Our people make us the global leader that we are. Today, over 10,500-plus employees at 160 sites and training locations in 35-plus countries contribute to our success. We are One CAE, a huge, diverse family made up of individuals who are committed to driving the company forward as the training partner of choice in civil aviation, defence and security, and healthcare. At CAE, everyone is welcome to contribute to our success. With no exception. These surveys let us know what employees thought of Physical Wellness Program the measures taken by CAE during the crisis, informed us on the status of their mental health and gave us We expanded the list of eligible activities under CAE’s verbatim input on what we could do better. Physical Wellness Program. Employees who travel frequently and for extended periods can now be Our President and CEO Marc Parent opened his reimbursed for these activities, even if not performed information sessions with employees by reviewing the on a regular basis. Members of CAE's Bike-to-Work Club latest survey results, assuring employees their voices can now be reimbursed for certain expenses related to were heard and reporting on actions being taken to equipment and bicycle use. respond to their concerns. CAE covers 50% of the cost, before taxes, of employee's Additional COVID-19 coverage registration for physical wellness activities, up to a Given the extensive, wide-ranging impact of COVID-19 maximum of $240 per calendar year. on our CAE family, more detailed coverage can be found Special Medical, Family Obligations, and Citizenship Communicating and connecting with in the CEO message as well as in our COVID-19 feature. Ceremony Leave Policy employees during COVID-19 Employees granted Canadian citizenship benefit now Set of improved Human Resources from a paid day off to attend the ceremony and take the To provide an update on CAE’s activities during COVID-19, policies introduced oath of citizenship. Taking the oath of citizenship is the we put up a website early in the crisis that included FAQs addressing various areas of concern, protocols for sites, legal requirement that applicants for citizenship must We introduced improvements to four important Human posters and visuals, and communication templates. meet to become Canadian citizens. Resources policies and converted existing guidelines on Regular live, virtual updates with our CEO were held working remotely into a new teleworking policy. These Teleworking Policy with all employees to address concerns and provide amendments took effect on January 1, 2020. In line with the evolution of our culture, we launched information. Employees could ask questions live to the our new teleworking policy, which aims to provide more Our review process CEO. All questions that could not be answered during flexibility in the workplace for eligible employees, and to These four policies were reviewed to ensure they the session were answered within a week and answers ensure a better work-life balance as well as greater job support other strategic initiatives, provide alignment were shared with all employees. Information sessions satisfaction. The policy details the benefits and objectives with our organizational values, and position CAE as an were also organized to help groups of employees facing of teleworking, eligibility, application of the policy and employer of choice to attract, develop and retain the specific situations. Our global newsletter ramped up conditions to respect. Leaders are encouraged to take best talents. from distribution every other week to weekly. advantage of the new policy and empower employees Content was compared against benchmarks to address to do the same. Our ongoing Officevibe employee engagement surveys the evolving realities of the workplace. We also looked at proved especially crucial during this time. We issued how our policies are written and presented, undertaking a special dedicated survey in the first weeks of the a complete redesign that kept our employees’ needs top pandemic, then added COVID-19 questions to the of mind. biweekly pulse surveys to regularly assess employee morale and areas of concerns. 48 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Extending D&I awareness through new Diversity and inclusion short-term goals training Short-term goal Status Supporting a D&I culture includes actively addressing topics of a sensitive nature. As part of our D&I program, we provide • Ensure 30% of • Today 20% of our Board awareness training on key topics in class settings and via Board members members are women and CAEacadamia, our online learning management system. and executive 36% of executive officers are officers are women women Addressing unconscious bias (FY22) Our Diversity & Inclusion To help our people develop skills to understand and • Increase the • The number of CAE women commitment identify unconscious bias and the extent of its far-reaching number of women employees increased from consequences on individuals and organizations, we developed employees by at 20% in 2018 to 21% today Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) are a part of our culture an Unconcious Bias Training. least 10% (FY23) and an important component of our One CAE value. The mandatory training consisted of a 20-minute e-learning • Grow the number • This year, we used a module for all employees and a half-day training session of high-potential systematic approach to We are committed to creating a culture and targeted to leaders. Leaders and their employees would then employees in evaluate approximately ecosystem where all employees feel valued, meet to discuss any unconscious biases they might have as key roles by 200 high-potential employees included and they belong, without regard to race, a team, and how to mitigate these biases to become more 20%, with 30% of using a psychometric colour, religion, sex, gender identity or expression, inclusive. Due to COVID-19, training was held in Canada only, newly identified assessment to drive their sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age with training for leaders and employees in other regions high-potential development plan and or veteran status. postponed to the fall. employees being growth women (FY23) • 35% of our high-potential CAE’s D&I program fosters an inclusive, genderBias interruptors manager-level employees diverse, bias-free environment and strengthens During talent and leadership reviews, CAE leaders and their have taken on a new role this the representation and development of women in peers feature select employees on their teams and discuss their year leadership positions. growth and development. • Percentage of women Although our first focus is on gender diversity, This year, employees were identified to train and participate executives (VP level and where we see many opportunities to move the in these reviews as “bias interrupters” – they will listen to the above) grew from 11% in needle, our D&I program covers all types of discussion and if they hear a leader voice a point that seems 2012, to 16% in 2015, to 22% diversity, and makes sure that all employees biased (most often unconsciously), the bias interruptor will in 2020 feel included and valued for who they are. challenge the point and raise awareness on unconscious biases. • 24% of CAE women were Over FY20, our D&I program continued to evolve, promoted in 2018 and 28% most notably through: in 2019 • Dare, a program to develop women in leadership Canadian Diversity Council and • Employee Resource Groups Employment Equity Committees • Canadian Diversity Council and Employment In Canada, the Federal Contractors Program (FCP) Equity Committees Changing the conversation promotes workplace equity for the four groups • Training, events and awareness campaigns In partnership with Pratt & Whitney Canada and EY, CAE designated under the Employment Equity Act (EEA). • Industry certifications and recognition organized Changing the conversation, a day-long event focused on unconscious biases. • Establishing targets and communicating The event attracted 400+ attendees. them 49 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Dare program empowers women across CAE to develop a pool of female talent and adopt strategies, Applying CAE’s D&I commitment to our practices and programs to promote gender parity supply chain practices We introduced Dare, an extensive and continuous within the organization. development program that aims to equip and inspire Our Global Strategic Sourcing CSR Roadmap 2020-2023 Organizations must pre-quality for Parity Certification women to take ownership of their careers. takes CAE’s D&I commitment externally to ensure we to participate. Certified organizations gain insights on are ethical in the choices of our suppliers. Under the The 12-month program addresses six themes: negotiating, what programs and policies to have in place within mandate of our new D&I Committee, we are consulting risk taking, self-confidence, networking, influencing and their organization to implement best practices in with other organizations to take this very important step work-life balance. recruitment, training, promotions, compensation and forward with our supplier base. During our Supplier Dare will be offered every two years to 30 women talent management. Forum, we presented the CSR supply chain pillars and chosen from all levels and bands at CAE worldwide. Forty-eight companies were parity-certified by Women the axes of our transformation plan. See our highlight Ideal candidates are high performers and high potential in Governance in 2019. for details. employees – individuals willing to invest in their development and stretch their capabilities to expand their CAE Stolberg receives family-friendly Awareness campaigns keep D&I top of professional growth. certification mind Dare contributes to CAE’s short-term D&I goals and joins other CAE gender diversity initiatives that further our The diligence of our diversity team at CAE Stolberg We used multiple communications channels to keep our objective to develop and retain a talented, dedicated pool earned the location family-friendly certification from D&I commitment top of mind internally and externally of women leaders. berufundfamilie Service GmbH. Last year, the team throughout FY20. set its sights in improving work life balance and Autism Awareness Month Second consecutive year of implemented multiple initiatives, including the launch recognition on Bloomberg GEI of an in-house childcare program during school breaks. Throughout April, people around the world wore blue to raise awareness and show their support for the autistic For the second consecutive year, we were The program relieves stress of finding childcare community during Autism Awareness Month. recognized by the Bloomberg Genderand provides an engaging experience for children Equality Index (GEI) for our commitment at CAE. Certification positions us as an employer of to advancing women in the workplace. choice and boosts recruitment efforts in Germany. We commend Stolberg’s diversity team for this Of the 6,000 companies in 84 countries eligible for impressive accomplishment. inclusion, the 2020 GEI identified 325 firms worldwide as trailblazers in their commitment to policy development, CAE among 2020 Women Lead Here representation and transparency in workplace gender International Women’s Day campaign honorees reporting. These companies are setting a new standard We were among the 73 Canadian companies selected Employees nominated 130 gender equality for transparency as a core part of their commitment to for the inaugural list of 2020 Women Lead Here champions. Of the submissions received from gender equality – and we are proud to be one of them! honorees by The Globe and Mail’s Report on Business around the world, the eight champions selected CAE is one of 22 Canadian-headquartered companies were featured in our employee newsletter and on magazine. named to the 2020 GEI. CAE’s Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. The magazine’s new Women Lead Here program CAE recognized includes an annual survey meant to benchmark how For #IWD2020, we also videotaped responses by Women in Governance the largest publicly traded companies in Canada are from CAE employees worldwide telling us why they performing on executive gender parity. celebrate International Women's Day. CAE is proud to have been Bronze Parity Certified by the Women in Governance Learn more about the eight champions! organization. CAE received the Watch the video certification as a result of its commitment 50 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety CAEmentor me offers Creating a coaching culture with CAE+me mentors/mentees a rewarding experience CAE+me continues to shape our approach to developing performance. A lighter approach centered on employee At CAE, we care about the development of development, CAE+me focuses on one-on-one conversations, our employees. In line with our core value including feedback and feedforward through which employees, Welcoming new interns of One CAE, we introduced CAEmentor colleagues and leaders help each other grow and continually me, a new six-month mentorship improve their performance excellence. CAE Montreal offers more than 400 internship positions program that connects mentees with annually to university students. These internships give mentors who can guide and support them The approach is supported by a dynamic platform, also called students the opportunity to work on real projects and in their professional development. CAE+me, where employees can request or offer feedback, record have an immediate impact on our mission to make air notes from their one-on-one conversations, and set agile goals. travel safer, allow defence forces to be mission-ready, CAEmentor me grows our business by Because coaching is a powerful tool that can help employees and help medical personnel save lives. growing our people. We view mentoring as a sound investment and a rewarding realize their true potential, we introduced Coaching Lite this year. The competitive, popular internship program is offered experience that enhances employees’ for three academic semesters. During the winter Developed in collaboration with CAE leaders and external certified communication and leadership skills, semester, 65 new interns joined us to learn from coaches, the Coaching Lite training program continues our while expanding their professional experts and gain real-world experience to help propel performance development evolution. The mandatory program networks. their careers. trains leaders on how to become great coaches and help We held info sessions and created a employees realize their true potential. To date, more than 600 CAE also welcomed 500 COOP interns in FY20. This year, website with tips and advice on how leaders have completed the training. we brought the COOP experience to the next level right to find a good match, with guidance on from the start. Interns are greeted by a CAE executive how to have a successful mentoring CAE collaborates with Workhuman Live on a and pose for a group picture published internally and experience. video and webinar on our social media accounts. We give them a tour of CAE and ask them to fill out a welcome survey to share As we gradually build our pool of CAE CAE’s transition to CAE+me represented a major cultural shift their feedback. We then invite them to Lunch & Learns mentors, we bring more and more to performance development that ushered in a new, lighter and career fairs so they can learn about opportunities employees into the program. Our goal is approach centered on employee development. within CAE following their internships. We also coach the to expand CAEmentor me to include all interns on how to create an effective LinkedIn profile. employees interested in participating in Workhuman, the provider of our CAE+me performance Our interns are more than students, they are considered the program. development platform, invited us to share our experiences. actual team members and given concrete projects to CAE participated in a webinar that will be shown at next year To date, more than 70 people have been help them learn and develop. Workhuman Live, billed as the outlier of HR conferences. paired in a formal mentoring relationship. Under CAE Tech: Program your career!, we encourage Watch the video future technicians from various fields to start a career at CAE through a support program of student workintegrated learning that offers internships, grants and other opportunities. See our CAE Tech highlight. 51 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Organizational development Bringing D&I in our recruitment initiatives At CAE we take to heart the development of our employees. • Partnerships with women engineering student associations to provide support and tools for • The mission of the Ken Patrick program is to create the the transition from students to professionals next generation of leaders at CAE. Over the course of • Speed interviewing to provide feedback two years, the best university graduates in engineering on interview skills accelerate their development as they rotate through • Coaching sessions on interviewing and resume four intensive, stimulating assignments, one in each building CAE business unit. Recruitment campaigns • Networking events with business leaders • We also offer LEAP, a program aimed at developing the training centre leaders of the future. In this program, • CAE presentations and company tours for women We continued our efforts to attract a diverse engineering students and computer science students we ensure that 50% of the participants are women. pool of top talent, actively increasing • Leadership for the Future 1, 2 and Leadership for the • Ken Patrick program: ensuring that at least 50% of CAE’s market visibility through a variety Future – Leaders of Influence are internal development selected candidates are women of campaigns across multiple recruitment programs for leaders at different levels in the • Sponsorship and participation in Software and channels. organization, with a goal to improve the leadership IT conferences, competitions and hackathons Our series of 15 video job profiles represented skills of CAE leaders in alignment with our values and for women various disciplines and were highly publicized the CAE+me philosophy. • Talent Acquisition team commitment to interview internally and externally on our social media • The Leadership Development Program (LDP) is a minimum of 20% women candidates channels. Videos like the following explained designed specifically for leaders across the world the job function and also described what it is with great potential. The program provides leaders like to work for CAE: Aircraft Systems Software with the knowledge and skills to understand our Specialist. business, challenges and lead with greater purpose by questioning assumptions, disrupting the usual ways of To attract software developers in Canada's doing business, and introducing unexpected ways of highly competitive market, we built a branding thinking. campaign using videos showcasing more than • Dare is a 12-month program which aims to equip and the position itself, but also our innovative inspire women to take the lead and ownership of their products and work culture (see The Software career. development team at CAE). We bolstered • CAEacademia is CAE’s online learning management recruitment through our ambassador system: employees can access CAE trainings, such as CAE Named Among Montreal’s Top program, which pairs CAE leaders with training on Health and Safety, IT security, CAE+me, Employers 2020 university representatives, and our presence various e-learnings on specific topics, or language in multiple career fairs. We are proud to be recognized in the 15th edition of courses. Montréal’s Top Employers, an annual competition Additionally, CAE employees participated in • In Canada, CAE partners with ELAM, language training organized by the editors of Canada's Top 100 more than 45 recruitment events and coding for business people, to provide free language courses Employers. This special designation recognizes challenges. We sponsored and participated in to employees whose role requires them to speak a the employers in Greater Montreal that lead their over 20 hacking challenges and happy hours, foreign langage. industries in offering exceptional places to work. and hosted over 10 on-site industrial tours for • CAEmentor me, a six-month mentorship program, students. connects mentees with mentors who can guide and Learn more about what sets us apart, support them in their professional development. Montréal’s Top Employers (2020) 52 Corporate social responsibility Ethics and integrity Why it matters Adhering to the highest ethical standards is essential to building stakeholder trust, goodwill and value in today’s world. We expect our employees and business partners to consistently meet these high standards. Our goal Reach the highest integrity and ethical conduct standards across all our activities. Our objectives As part of our CSR roadmap, we are continuously working toward the following objectives and measuring our progress. Instill and apply an ethics and integrity Conduct our business with world-class mindset to all actions and decisions processes to meet and surpass data • Ensure CAE lives and works by its five core privacy and export control standards values • Standardize data handling processes in • Target 100% acknowledgement of all regions worldwide to help continually compliance with the CAE Code of Business enhance our compliance processes and Conduct by all employees maintain state-of-the-art security and • Continue to train all management and key controls of controlled data personnel on the CAE Code of Business • Standardize export control training Conduct, and by FY21 extend the training to processes in all regions worldwide all employees • Enhance our remote work processes and IT infrastructure by maintaining the highest level of security for technical data access • Improve our cybersecurity processes and awareness Manage our supply chain in accordance with the highest ethics and sustainability standards • Establish and communicate a policy on responsible procurement to suppliers and employees • Evaluate major suppliers representing 50% of our annual spend on CSR compliance 53 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Building a global ethics and COVID-19 impacts compliance organization Ethical principles for the responsible use Summary of the impacts of the COVID-19 of data analytics pandemic related to ethics and integrity: CAE created the position of Global Leader, Ethics and Compliance in 2018. With that appointment came The adoption of new technologies and the use by • Standardization of teleworking processes an increase in the development, implementation CAE of machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) and monitoring of our global Ethics and Compliance algorithms capable of extracting advanced insights • Launch of Cybersecurity awareness training programs and initiatives, including those related to from raw data will result in emerging and complex data to employees on good practices for remote CAE’s Code of Business Conduct, ethics and antirisks that need to be managed effectively. working and identification of phishing emails corruption program, and data protection program. In addition to identifying and assessing data-related • Maximization of the use of IT collaboration risks, CAE adopted ethical principles for the responsible tools An initial diagnostic assessed the maturity level of use of data to better manage risks associated with • Enhanced protection of our IT infrastructure various components of CAE’s Ethics and Compliance new technologies used for profiling and monitoring by maintaining the highest level of security program against leading industry practices. Findings purposes. The adoption of these principles affirms with respect to remote access to technical presented to the Board of Director’s Governance our commitment to adhere to the highest standards data Committee were used to develop a three-year of ethical conduct in our dealings with employees, roadmap to further enhance CAE’s compliance • Compliance with the General Data Protection customers and all other stakeholders in our ecosystem. program and systems. The Governance Committee Regulation (GDPR), the European Union's new The principles are also a commitment to go beyond oversees the execution of this roadmap, which is in law on data protection and privacy what is legally required to protect CAE and stakeholder its second year of deployment in FY20. data. • Leveraging our global supply chain to source scarce N95 masks for humanitarian purposes Among the many priorities addressed was the We look forward to a productive dialogue on these in support of front-line health workers need for a more formal and structured Ethics and issues with customers, partners, employees and (600,000 masks delivered to Quebec and Compliance Office comprised of dedicated Ethics regulatory bodies. Our guiding principles will evolve with Manitoba governments) and Compliance professionals. Additional measures these discussions and the ever-changing technological identified included the establishment of a network of landscape. For example, we revisited these principles See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. compliance ambassadors to help business units in in fiscal 2020, taking into account the European Union key regions manage compliance-related risks. These Aviation Safety Agency’s recent publication Artificial ambassadors are part of the businesses they support, Intelligence Roadmap 1.0: A human-centric approach Data protection: and work with local employees on a daily basis. The to AI in aviation. An essential part of doing business role of compliance ambassador is a voluntary one, Our principles are: We value the trust that our customers, employees which these individuals assume in addition to the and business contacts place in us. Protecting their responsibilities associated with the position they hold Safety first Transparency Empowerment privacy in all areas is crucial to maintaining that trust. outside of the Ethics and Compliance Office. Our goal is to Our analytics Artificial improve safety intelligence is intelligence in This means putting a premium on the careful transparent and our systems The Ethics and Compliance Office plays a pivotal handling of personal information. We treat all data understandable is intended to role in promoting CAE’s strong culture of integrity, empower people and information with the requisite level of sensitivity and in overseeing the implementation of strategies, and confidentiality in compliance with applicable policies and processes to manage ethics and laws and regulations. Under the oversight of the Duration Privacy Noncompliance risks. and Security discrimination Global Ethics and Compliance Office, we adapted our Individual by Design business processes and activities to comply with the learning data Artificial must have an We put data intelligence that European Union’s (EU’s) new General Data Protection agreed life span protection and creates unfair Regulation (GDPR). security at our bias will not be core pursued 54 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Leadership and commitment: Setting the tone from the top Reinforcing our Code of Business Conduct and related ethics policies CAE’s leadership is fully committed to conducting business ethically. This commitment starts at the top. In fiscal 2016, we launched a process to enhance partners, joint venture and equity partners, As stated by our President and CEO Marc Parent, “Our our Code of Business Conduct, underscoring our acquisition targets, contractors, service world may be increasingly complex, but the values and commitment to address major business ethics risks. providers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, and principles we uphold at CAE are straightforward and This included integrating our CSR core priorities into persons acting on the Company’s behalf; timeless. Old-fashioned principles like treating others the Code and training our managers on the Code. In • Strict prohibition to offer or make any payment as you would want to be treated. Abiding by the law. May 2018, we launched a more succinct, user-friendly to a foreign public official or to any person for Competing fairly. And behaving honourably.” Code of Business Conduct. the purpose of influencing a decision, or to secure an advantage. Quarterly CEO sessions offer an opportunity for our In fiscal 2020, we completed the review of our AntiTwo significant changes were made in the Antileadership to engage with employees worldwide. Corruption Policy, which expressly prohibits all forms Corruption Policy. First, we included a statement that Discussions cover business opportunities and financial of corruption committed by employees or third CAE generally does not use foreign representatives results, with each session systematically starting with the parties. CAE takes corruption very seriously and is unless legally required to do so. The intent is clear delivery of key messages centered on health and safety, committed to the highest standards of integrity. Our that the use of foreign representations should be integrity and ethics. These exchanges position middle Anti-Corruption Policy sets out clear commitments the exception, not the rule. Further, we added a management to further engage with their employees on with respect to: new section covering specific requirements when the same topics. entering into mergers, acquisitions, partnerships • Compliance with the anti-bribery provisions of the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public and joint ventures. To this end, the policy states that Compliance Program Components Officials Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices adequate anti-corruption due diligence is required Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar antibefore agreements can be executed, with all such Governance Culture Prevention corruption legislation worldwide; agreements requiring provisions designed to mitigate Risk management • Strict prohibition of any form of corruption bribery risks. Compliance organization Policies and prodedures Training and communications anywhere in the world, either directly or Supervisory controls Detection indirectly through a third party such as business Internal controls Independent monitoring Whistleblowing and investigations Reporting Information technologies Remediation Evaluation and continuous improvement Delivering training Our managers are required to lead by example and In fiscal 2020, the Ethics and Compliance Office to comply with all applicable laws and CAE corporate FY20 highlight developed online interactive training on CAE’s Code of policies and procedures. They are encouraged to Business Conduct. The e-learning module contained a promote a culture of appropriate risk taking and to foster a positive working environment in which people 98% variety of situational questions related to ethics and integrity for learners to navigate, applying the principles are treated equally, without harassment and bias. All of all employees worldwide and values of the Code. For the first time, this training managers must uphold and live by the principles and completed online training for our was completed by employees at all levels around the values set out in our Code of Business Conduct. At CAE, Code of Business Conduct world, not only by management and key employees. an advantageous end is never justified by an unethical Our President and CEO Marc Parent delivered an means. Furthermore, managers are required to support impactful message in a video introducing the training. and protect employees who refuse to act unethically. 55 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Going forward, all employees worldwide will continue to EthicsPoint: Our third-party anonymous and EthicsPoint reports since FY18 be required to follow mandatory periodic training as well confidential reporting system as to read, acknowledge and agree to comply with our FY20 FY19 FY18 Code on an annual basis. In fiscal 2021, the e-learning EthicsPoint helps us ensure that our local and international ISSUES training we initially provided in English and French will business activities meet the highest ethical standards. also be available in German, Portuguese and Spanish to The EthicsPoint website and call centre service provide CAE property 0 0 0 ensure maximum accessibility. employees, customers, partners and suppliers with simple, risk-free ways to confidentially report issues of concern Computer The Ethics and Compliance Office will also continue to associated with unethical or illegal activities, including systems, Internet, 0 0 0 intranet and email deliver live training sessions on CAE’s Code of Business potential violations of our Code of Business Conduct and key Conduct and ancillary policies to certain targeted groups corporate policies. We do not tolerate any punitive action or Confidentiality of employees, including our sales, business development, sanction against anyone who, in good faith, asks a question or of company, global strategic sourcing, finance, legal and project employee and 2 2 0 submits an allegation of non-compliance through EthicsPoint third-party management teams. or any other reporting channel. information We strongly encourage our employees and any party we Conflict of conduct business with to come forward if they notice or interest, improper payments 1 1 0 become aware of an activity of concern, including potential United Nations unethical or illegal activities. Our Whistleblowing Policy and business courtesies protects good-faith whistleblowers from retaliation. Our Global Compact policy recently underwent a complete review, with the Contracts and 1 1 2 whistleblowing process to undergo significant enhancements records In fiscal 2016, we became a signatory of the in FY20 to ensure that all CAE employees understand and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and are aware of the different channels through which they may Safety in the began integrating the Ten Principles into our 1 1 0 report concerns anonymously and confidentially. workplace CSR approach. One of our first actions was to update our master agreement and request for Most concerns reported in recent years relate to issues in Equal opportunity proposals (RFP) templates in accordance with the human resources. We ensure all reports are rapidly and and harassment9 9 10 UNGC and the United Kingdom Modern Slavery confidentially handled as required by law. Certain violations free workplace Act. These documents now include compliance such as breaches to the Code of Business Conduct require with laws prohibiting human trafficking and the disciplinary action, which varies depending on the severity Interpretation use of child or forced labour. of the breach. We make sure that appropriate incident of the Code of 5 5 0 Business Conduct investigation and any corrective actions required are taken for Vendors are now also required to confirm that all reports. The Global Ethics and Compliance Office provides Reporting their code of ethics/business conduct aligns with monthly compliance reports to the Executive Management violations of the 6 6 5 our Code of Business Conduct commitments. Code of Business Committee and quarterly reports to the Governance Conduct They must demonstrate their social and Committee of the Board of Directors. environmental commitment and provide any Total 25 25 17 related certifications. CAE also has developed its In fiscal 2019 and 2020, the number of whistleblowing own Human Rights policy. reports increased compared with 2018, as shown in the table. We communicated the accessibility and confidentiality of EthicsPoint, and have seen an increase in employee use of this resource. The most common type of EthicsPoint report See all our site relates to equal opportunity and harassment issues (nine in certifications fiscal 2019 and 2020, compared to ten in fiscal 2018). 56 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Managing business relations with third When red flags are identified during the due diligence business. Our newly adopted Gifts, Entertainment and parties in international transactions procedure, they must be investigated and, where Business Courtesies Policy provides a clear framework appropriate, adequate remediation action plans must be when giving or receiving business courtesies. Bribery and corruption are risks faced by virtually all implemented. organizations operating globally. Over the last few years, CAE has taken several significant measures to address If the due diligence results are favorable, the use of a Political contributions foreign representative or high-risk third party can be these risks and strengthen our compliance program, in approved, and an agreement can then be formalized. As a matter of general principle, CAE and its subsidiaries particular to manage business relations with third parties. All agreements must contain adequate provisions will not make any political contributions to political In fiscal 2020, we continued to take pivotal steps to designed to mitigate bribery risks. Such provisions must candidates, parties, organizations or any other political better manage the risks posed by business partners, include, for example, termination and audit rights. All entity, at all levels of government, without the prior joint venture and equity partners, acquisition targets, agreements with a foreign representative or a highwritten authorization of the Vice President, Public Affairs contractors, service providers, suppliers, vendors, risk third party are for a term of one year. Only in rare and Global Communications. CAE made no political distributors, and persons acting on the Company’s exceptions will the term of an agreement exceed one year. contribution in FY20. See our Lobbying and Political behalf, such as agents, representatives and consultants. Contributions Policy. For fiscal 2020 and beyond, our goal is to continue to The implementation of these measures began in 2014, reduce the number of foreign representatives and highwhen we adopted a global strategy to reduce the number risk third parties we use. We will continue to carefully Donations and Sponsorships of foreign representatives in international business monitor their services through regular activity reports, transactions. As a general rule, CAE and its subsidiaries will only give and we will continue to require anti-corruption certificates Since then, we have reduced the number of foreign to be signed upon any renewal of their agreement. to those institutions and organizations providing facilities representatives we use by over 85%, considerably Any significant change to our business relationship and services in those communities where the operation lowering our overall spending in this category of with a foreign representative or high-risk third party is located and where the bulk of its employees reside, intermediaries. Today, with the implementation of our (for example, a change in ownership or key personnel) unless otherwise directed by the Vice President, Public revised Anti-Corruption Policy, it is expected that CAE will will automatically trigger an independent review of the Affairs and Global Communications. See the Community use foreign representatives only if legally required to do engagement. section for details on FY20 donations and sponsorships. so. In line with our strategy, we confirm that there were no new foreign representatives engaged in fiscal 2020. Facilitation payments Continuous improvements If the use of foreign representative is legally required and a clear business case is made, we will conduct riskFacilitation payments are usually small payments made In fiscal 2019 and 2020, the internal audit team based due diligence before entering into a contract with to a foreign public official to expedite or secure the performed various audits to assess the effectiveness of a foreign representative or any high-risk third party. performance of a routine governmental action, such as certain internal controls, including compliance-related The level of due diligence performed will depend on a few obtaining official documents, processing governmental controls under our anti-corruption program. The audits risk factors, including: papers or others. Facilitation payments or “grease” produced findings and recommendations to improve payments are strictly prohibited. and enhance our program. • Country risks: Country or jurisdiction in which the foreign representative or third party is located or Our Global Ethics and Compliance Office works will provide services; closely with the internal audit team to ensure that Business courtesies adequate actions are taken to address findings and • Relationship risks: Type of relationship CAE While it is customary in most cultures to extend business recommendations based on risks. They will also continue will maintain with the foreign representative or courtesies (including gifts and entertainment) to foster to leverage our ongoing compliance review to reinforce third party, and possible interactions between the relationships that support business, it is important our governance, risk management and internal controls. the foreign representative/third party and public officials; to have clear rules when giving or receiving business courtesies to avoid conflicts of interest or impropriety, • Transactional risks: Type of services to be or even the appearance thereof in our dealings with our provided by the foreign representative or third 57 customers, suppliers or any others with whom we do party, or type of transaction contemplated by CAE. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Strengthening our export new online training modules in FY19 documents such as Request for Proposal which includes supply chain surveys, control processes customized for each department. In FY20, (RFPs), Supplier Survey Reports, Contract supports this policy. We have suspended we completed delivery of this training to templates and Purchasing General Terms or discontinued our business relationship In FY20, we hired two additional export 100% of CAE employees worldwide. and Conditions include clauses that with some suppliers who failed to respond control managers, in America and in address compliance with laws and ethical to or provide complete responses to these Europe, which will further improve Global alignment for strategic business conduct. Employee health and surveys. We also verify smelters reported standardization of our export control sourcing safety, combatting bribery, prohibiting the in supplier surveys to ensure their processes worldwide. use of child or forced labour, hazardous participation in the Responsible Minerals We also enhanced the screening process The Global Strategic Sourcing (GSS) team materials, data protection and conflict Assurance Process (formerly the Conflictto detect sanctioned parties. We use this continues to work with representatives minerals are among the issues addressed. Free Smelter Program). process to screen employees, customers, from multiple regions to communicate, Social and environmental factors are suppliers and all banking transactions. exchange and align on key initiatives and Fostering diversity and inclusion considered alongside financial factors These measures are important in ensuring topics. Topics such as CSR, health and through our procurement when making procurement decisions, our compliance with all sanctioned safety, and data privacy are among those and are detailed among the criteria used regulations in countries where CAE does approached from a global perspective. Our purchasing division is undergoing for supplier selection. We conduct spot business, particularly when screening Opportunities for synergies within the a major transformation. With 19,000 verifications on suppliers and their supply against sanctioned parties associated with procurement processes were leveraged suppliers and close to $2 billion in chain when necessary. If a verification our activities in Civil Aviation. in several projects, yielding value and annual purchases, CAE recognizes our reveals non-compliant practices, we alignment within the organization. growing social responsibility as a prime Our enhanced process includes in-person suspend all activities with the supplier contractor. CAE has grown in recent training for the more than 250 newly and demand an immediate action plan Responsible supply chain and remediation. If the delinquent years through acquisitions that favored appointed employees empowered to management supplier implements corrective measures a decentralization purchasing model. perform such screening worldwide. We have been working diligently to get The new process extends to audit and demonstrates compliance with our As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, a holistic view of our organization to processes connected to our follow up on policy, we then decide whether to resume we demonstrate our commitment to properly set up and execute purchasing related training activities. business with the supplier. We had no upholding its principles, in part, by taking policies that align with our commitment reported incidents on supplier practices We maintained the highest security steps to ensure responsible procurement. to diversity and inclusion (D&I) and in FY20. standards while enhancing teleworking We integrate labour, environment and reducing our carbon footprint – while also processes, by better securing access to anti-corruption considerations into our Conflict minerals respecting contractual requirements on data stored in CAE’s Data Control Centre, GSS tools and processes. the defence side in terms of purchasing by enhancing the secured virtual private We continue to communicate our Conflict (e.g. representation of visible minorities, An assessment of CAE’s core supply network (VPN) connections, and by Minerals Policy to our suppliers, and small businesses, Aboriginal Peoples, chain validated the alignment of our increasing the secured Virtual Desktop include the requirements set out therein women, veterans). Moreover, two new strategic suppliers' CSR principles with Infrastructure capacity to offer the in our Purchasing – General Terms and groups have been created (Contract those of CAE. Standard procurement flexibility to employees to work remotely Conditions. Our due diligence process, and risks, Supply chain) to allow CAE during the COVID-19 pandemic with the to be more agile internally and with goal to maintain efficient and secured Green procurement our suppliers. This focus has enabled a business operations. successful deployment of a supply chain Suppliers are requested to provide information and appropriate documentation composed of 130 suppliers for the CAE indicating their alignment with our environmental principles. Their responses Global training on our new Air1 ventilator in less than six weeks. regarding involvement in environmental initiatives and sustainability strategies are online modules completed integrated into our approach to green procurement within the supply chain. We want to meet our obligations, while being a corporate citizen and maintaining To standardize our export control Learn more about our initiative to drive green practices by design. our competitiveness. This means having training worldwide, we launched 11 58 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity a diversified supply chain and joining the innovative New global platform to improve performance movement to responsible and inclusive purchasing. and further social responsibility Employee cybersecurity awareness We are investing massively in our global purchasing training As part of our GSS purchasing transformation, we are organization, currently investing to set up a supplier developing digital processes and tools that will enable us to Cybersecurity continues to be a challenge for and risk management tool that is in full deployment. strengthen the performance of our growing global network, organizations of all sizes. We are no exception. This tool allows us to have a complete holistic vision integrate practices that support social responsibility and on our purchases, giving us more information on the To help raise awareness of potential security mitigate our risks through an holistic view of our spend. suppliers that we have and making recommendations threats and to better protect our organization, In 2019, we introduced a new global procurement management all CAE employees complete mandatory annual on potential suppliers by applying criteria such as platform – a significant milestone in the progress of this cybersecurity awareness training. (See related diversity and inclusion. In addition, we are testing project. This powerful cloud solution streamlines and digitizes highlight Data protection: An essential part of a strategic procurement tool based on artificial key areas of our procurement process, including management doing business.) intelligence that allows us to better target and meet of initial supplier contracts, purchasing of goods and services, our search for suppliers that meet our criteria of The initial 30-minute training module consisted and payment of invoices. social responsibility. Development of these tools of five topics, each covered in a five-minute will allow us to get greater visibility and help us set This new platform provides new enhanced functionalities video: confidentiality on the web, access strategic objectives. for strategic sourcing and negotiation with suppliers, control, responsible use of the Internet, social operating through a central repository that facilitates contract networks and incident reporting. Recognizing suppliers carbon footprint reduction management and referencing. The platform supports and diversity & inclusion efforts Employees learned how adopting cyber safe compliance with the United Nations Global Compact and 17 A more important step in this transformation will practices can better secure their professional Sustainable Development Goals, and is the cornerstone of our follow in 2021 and 2022. CAE will begin recognizing and personal environments. GSS CSR Roadmap 2020-2023. suppliers that represent our values ​​in terms of carbon While the project was delayed with the COVID-19 pandemic, footprint reduction and diversity in their choice of initial deployment at our Montreal headquarters is delivering suppliers. The recognition system and selection criteria positive results. CAE will realize multiple benefits, such as are in development, but we want to be the first major Hackers for good! opportunities to: aeronautical client to recognize suppliers for their activities related to social responsibility and not only • Simplify payment processes through additional The first annual CAE Hackfest was among their operational performance. The selection criteria automation; the activities organized around Cybersecurity will be defined in FY21 and implemented in FY22. • Revamp purchasing processes to make them easy to Awareness Month. Forty employees from use, in alignment with best practices; and Montreal formed 12 teams for a full-day We are in a major transformation and believe that a • Leverage corporate buying power, while driving competition, tackling potential network diversified supply chain will further CAE's innovation, compliance and better addressing supply chain risks. challenges and learning about vulnerabilities enabling us to be more dynamic and responsive to ill-intentioned hackers can exploit. organizational needs. Learn more about our new supplier registration with Cognibox for health and safety purposes in our People and Safety section. Reinforcing diversity and inclusion Annual through our supply chain Supplier Forum CAE participates in Microsoft Hackathon This year, CAE decided to reinforce diversity Our Global Strategic Sourcing team organized CAE’s first and inclusion through our supply chain, in line Annual Supplier Forum in Montreal. We were among a select number of companies with our overall diversity and inclusion company invited to participate in the 2019 Microsoft strategy. Hackathon. 59 Corporate social responsibility Innovation and customer experience Why it matters Providing an outstanding customer experience and innovative products and services are key to our competitive advantage. Our strong innovation culture and commitment to best-in-class customer service ensure our industry leadership. They also support our vision to be recognized as the global training partner of choice. Our goal Provide the best products and services in the industry by continually improving the quality, efficiency and safety of our customers’ training experiences. Our objectives As part of our CSR roadmap, we are continuously working toward the following objectives and measuring our progress. Elevate the CAE customer journey with a Be a thought leader on the evolution seamless training experience and delight of safety practices in the aviation and at every interaction healthcare sectors • Implement our digital strategy to enhance • Continue to invest significant amounts in our customer experience and leverage the research and development every year latest learning technologies • Design and deliver quality and sustainable • By FY23, provide training to employees on next-generation training products and our digital strategy services • Continue to differentiate our suite of • Innovate to provide remote services and core simulation products by achieving solutions to our customers 95% or more on our quality and schedule • In FY21, certify and deliver the CAE Air1 performance metrics ventilator to the Canadian government • Partner with at least one important society/regulatory body in new product development • Participate in at least one research program demonstrating the effectiveness of simulation in healthcare training • Bolster cross-segment collaboration to leverage innovation and engineering assets • In FY21, launch the Genèse 2 program and accelerate development of state-of-theart healthcare simulation products and technologies 60 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience COVID-19 impacts Product excellence and innovation Summary of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic related to innovation and customer A passionate commitment to R&D and a deeply ingrained innovation culture at CAE go a experience: long way to explaining our status as the leading-edge training partner of choice, developer • Launch of special initiative to harness the of flight simulators, training systems integration and mission solutions, and immersive creativity and ingenuity of every member of patient simulation. We consistently rank among the top 20 Canadian companies for R&D CAE’s team: Together to mitigate the impact of investment. COVID-19 • Sharing of ideas to help CAE withstand A transformative investment in the future the crisis and prepare for the future • Ideas centred on four central themes: In fiscal year 2019, CAE announced we would invest to inject innovative technologies into our products and new business opportunities, ways to $1 billion over five years in a program of innovation services. As we continue Project Digital Intelligence, we leverage technology, improving the to stay at the forefront of the global training industry. apply a range of technologies such as big data, artificial way we work and saving costs A key aspect of the program is the funding of Project intelligence (AI), cloud computing, cybersecurity and Digital Intelligence, an ambitious venture to develop augmented/virtual reality to the science of learning • Increased digitalization of our training the next generation training solutions for aviation, to revolutionize the training experience of pilots, landscape and creation of a digital ecosystem defence and security, and healthcare. aircrews and healthcare professionals, and to improve that includes how we address customer needs safety. amidst the COVID-19 pandemic Today, Project Digital Intelligence is well underway. • Requests from impressed customers to use Plans focus on three major activity areas: advanced Project Digital Intelligence is carried out in Canada the COVID-19 posters, materials and protocols digital technology development; digital transformation using CAE’s R&D laboratory, test and integration we put in place for their safety in their of the training and user experience; and CAE facilities. We collaborate and pursue technology facilities innovation and collaboration facilities. co-development with smalland medium-sized companies. Over the course of the project, we expect Our strategic investments, with combined investment See our COVID-19 feature story for more details. to qualify more than 150 new suppliers throughout of $200 million over the next five years from the the country and to work with over 50 post-secondary governments of Canada and Quebec, are allowing us institutions and research centres. Saint-Laurent site modernized with advanced sheet metal manufacturing cell With the January 2020 delivery of a project to redesign and completely modernize our Saint-Laurent site, CAE now operates the most advanced automated sheet metal manufacturing cell of its kind in Canada. 61 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Sustainable products and services Accelerating the 4.0 transformation of our operations CAE is the global leader in the sale of full-flight simulators (FFSs), a climate-friendly product. In fiscal 2020, we sold Not only are we investing to innovate our products 49 civil FFSs. and services, but we are also injecting leading technologies into our processes and operations. Our simulators save millions of tonnes of CO2 annually. In our Civil Aviation training network alone, the ANOVA simulators we operate save over five million metric This year, we launched Project ANOVA under the tonnes of CO2 per year. We estimate this number Using neuroscience and big data to Quebec-based AERO21 mobilization initiative. using the number of training hours spent on CAE FFSs advance performance As part of this project, CAE will invest $21 million and multiply this by the normal burn rate (at cruise) In FY2018, we joined forces with HEC Montréal's over four years to transform and optimize our value of equivalent real aircraft. We lead the industry in Tech3Lab to study how biometrics, neuroscience and stream, from supplier to end user. introducing disruptive sustainable innovations to meet big data analysis can be used to learn about behavior the highest safety standards required by governments, The project is articulated around four pillars: in a training context and to identify high-performance regulatory authorities and airlines. Our latest innovation of our logistics operations; transformation factors. Tech3Lab is one of North America’s leading innovations in pilot training solutions, including the of our supply chain, which includes implementation user experience research labs. In FY20, we continued CAE RiseTM training system, are focusing on improving of a source-to-pay platform to support our global advancing this research. training and customer experience through a data-driven sourcing efforts; data as a service; and evolution Additionally, as part of a joint project started in FY19 approach, taking pilot training to a whole new level. of the customer experience, which will yield a nextwith Concordia University, McGill University, the National generation portal and maintenance support system Research Council of Canada (NRC), the Université de for our customers. Design for safety and environment Montréal, CRIAQ/CARIC and two partner organizations, Scale AI cognitive supply chain project Our Global Engineering department designs our we continued exploring novel methods for using simulator technologies and training materials to biometric data to significantly advance aircraft pilots’ user CAE is partnering with Canada’s Scale AI supercluster, improve resource efficiency, eliminate hazardous experiences in flight simulators. a federally-funded initiative, on a project to inject AI into our supply chain operations. materials and increase our customers’ energy efficiency. Another major collaborative R&D project has been We follow numerous standards throughout our products’ initiated this year with the Université Laval, McGill By leveraging the predictive capabilities of AI, we lifecycles, from the design and manufacturing stages to University, the Université de Montréal, the Université aim to further improve on-time delivery and service the end-of-life phase. As an example, we adhere to the du Québec à Montréal, CRIAQ, IVADO and three partner levels while reducing our inventory. Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive organizations, which will help us in our continuous quest of the European Commission’s Registration, Evaluation, to improve the quality and efficiency of pilot training. “ This project will allow CAE to better predict demand Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) The collaboration will address needs such as robustness and reduce delays in order to minimize the variability regulation. and interpretability of AI-based systems, as well as data of demand in the production chain. It will improve privacy. These are key factors for the certifiability of AI inventory management while ensuring high-quality In fiscal 2020, we continued assessing the environmental systems and their continued integration into our training and efficient services. ” impact of our simulator product line, including the products continuum. latest evolutions of our 7000XR full-flight simulator (FFS) Marc St-Hilaire as well as our CAE 600XR Series flight training device, We joined the newly created Montreal Natural Language Vice President, Technology and Innovation at CAE the latest addition to our innovative suite of XR Series Processing (NLP) Consortium, a non-profit knowledge training solutions. initiative to collaboratively advance the science and software behind natural language processing (NPL). NLP applications are numerous and have the potential to revolutionize how we train professionals in the aviation, 62 defence and security, and healthcare domains. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience These are a subset of CAE’s many ongoing research New, unique partnership in the arts sector collaborations. We are currently partnering with over CAE started a unique partnership with the arts 33 universities, research centres and post-secondary sector through a collaboration with Société des institutions to advance research and prototyping in a arts technologiques (SAT) and its partners to support the broad range of domains – from aerodynamics algorithms research and advancement of immersive technologies. and models, to cybersecurity, augmented and virtual The focus will be on themes related to applied research reality, and next-generation immersive technologies. projects on collective immersion and/or volumetric acoustic simulation in virtual and augmented reality. Research relevant to society The partnership will enable exchange of know-how While collaborative R&D with partners is key in advancing between different teams and advance expertise in these Successful year for new program our technologies, we are also invested in ensuring the research fields. CAE Tech: Program your career! social relevance of this research. As an example, CAE has supports students’ advancement joined forces with three partner companies and three Underscoring the importance of universities to leverage the latest artificial intelligence (AI)intellectual property CAE Tech: Program your career!, encourages future based unmanned aerial vehicle technology to enhance technicians from various fields to start a career at At CAE, we take intellectual property (IP) and its protection emergency response and crisis management, training CAE through a support program of student workvery seriously. IP is a driver of innovation. and data analysis. integrated learning that offers internships, grants The mandate of our IP team includes raising employee and other opportunities. We are also part of the Partnership for the Organization and manager awareness of IP, and explaining why IP of Innovation and New Technologies (4POINT0), an matters. The team’s Lunch & Learn series helps our We experienced a successful launch year with our ambitious cross-sectoral, interdisciplinary research Engineering employees better understand key aspects of inaugural CEGEP partners André-Laurendeau, Boisgroup. 4POINT0 mobilizes 14 Canadian universities and IP, including patents and trade secrets. de-Boulogne, Édouard-Montpetit/École nationale five institutions in France, Italy, the United Kingdom and d’aérotechnique, John-Abbott and Montmorency. the United States, as well as 30 partner organizations. The team also distributes an information kit underscoring These partners enthusiastically continue their the important role that IP plays in protecting CAE’s As one of IVADO’s founding members, we take pride collaboration with us and are joined by Dawson. position as a global industry leader – preserving our in helping provide its 900 affiliated scientists with a competitive advantage and preventing rivals from Our three-year career advancement program multidisciplinary institute for developing processes to copying our innovations. The kit encourages creativity and is intended for full-time students registered in extract trends, metrics and concrete information from inventiveness, while stressing the need to follow company technology-oriented programs at any of our big data. Experts from IVADO’s talent pool work alongside guidelines on IP protection. The kit also touts the Eureka (now) six CEGEP partners in Quebec. This year, our subject matter experts on research projects related to rewards program for employee-inventors. 12 students, two from each CEGEP, joined the safety, security and efficiency, using data science and AI. Encouraging our employee inventors cohort from the program’s first edition. Improving education in the Our IP ambassadors play an important role in shaping The program continues to grow, with an increasing interdisciplinary innovation of medical future generations of CAE inventors by encouraging number of educational institutions proactively technologies innovation and extending the opportunity for everyone at approaching us to participate. We have also noticed We continued supporting a Chair in Design Engineering CAE to become an inventor, no matter their role. an increase in student applications. for Interdisciplinary Innovation of Medical Technologies at Distance is also not a barrier to innovation. Teamwork and A definite win-win for students, CEGEPs and CAE, McGill University. The initiatives proposed under this wellremote collaboration between inventors has led to new all signs point to the continued success of CAE Tech: planned program will serve to improve undergraduate technologies, improvements on products or processes that Program your career! – everyone benefits! teachings in a field of increasing growth in Quebec and were awarded patents. Under the restrictions of COVID-19, Canada – well aligned with the need for engineering we saw the practicality of this arrangement as a feasible * CAE prioritizes the trainees’ studies and is committed to accommodating specialists trained for careers in industrial R&D. and productive long-term option in our IP strategy. their school schedule. In addition, selection of grant holders will also take into consideration CAE’s values of diversity and inclusiveness. 63 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Paying tribute to our inventors Technical Star Forum 2019 We operate in an industry where securing IP is vital to Every year, CAE recognizes employees from around protect our innovations in a competitive market. the world who contribute to technical know-how and As of today, we hold 160 patents and 158 patent leadership in exceptional ways. Over a few days, these applications, thanks to our creative employees and employees have the opportunity to meet their peers the teams that support them. In fiscal 2020, we were in Montreal, exchange on up-and-coming technologies granted 30 new patents derived from our R&D activities and CAE’s R&D roadmap, and attend a wide range of Swimming with the sharks conferences. of previous fiscal years. We have prepared many new patent applications. Some were filed in FY20, but most At CAE, we have a knock-off version of the popular TV We view our Technical Star Forum as great way to will be completed and filed in FY21 due to the pandemic. show where budding entrepreneurs pitch their concepts connect and stimulate yet more innovation! to seasoned business pros in hopes of getting financial backing. We call our competition Innovation Challenges. Fueling our learning organization, one This popular CAE initiative encourages employees to seminar at a time pitch their innovative ideas in predetermined subject areas. Submitted ideas are reviewed by members of Training and upskilling enable CAE to remain at the the Technology and Innovation team, with finalists forefront of innovation, which is why we launched a selected in each category. This year, 21 finalists divided broad initiative to revitalize how we train our technical into 9 teams went before a panel of CAE leaders. More employees and empower them to take control of their than 100 ideas were submitted for the three challenges: development through courses and training content. Our OneSpark: igniting the creativity of our Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain and Customer first annual Technology Conference Day, hosted at CAE employees and student interns Satisfaction. At CAE, we say innovation is part of our offices, covered topics ranging from Friction Points of a DNA, not just because it sounds good, but because our User Experience to Quantum Software. A single spark of an idea can have a profound impact on employees prove it every day. the way we do things. CAE’s OneSpark program offers TechAide Conference employees the opportunity to share ideas that could Partnering with innovative young minds enhance our processes, improve the way we work, and CAE was among the sponsors and exhibitors participating more. CAE is a key early member of the Collision program in the second edition of TechAide’s 2019 AI Conference. The program is open to all CAE employees. Everyone is led by Centech, the technology company accelerator The event combines learning on advances in big data and encouraged to share ideas. of Montreal's École de technologie supérieure (ÉTS) AI with community involvement. Event proceeds go to and one of Canada’s leading university-associated tech Centraide of Greater Montreal (United Way). Building on the success of OneSpark, CAE’s Post-Delivery incubators. The initiative involves the creation of 10 open Services team extended the innovation invitation to each innovation cells that foster creative exchanges and of the student cohorts interning with them. The interns collaboration between students, tech experts, innovative paired up in teams to brainstorm ideas with the potential young firms and established technology companies. to improve the way we work. The goal is to produce marketable products and Many great suggestions emerged. Six projects have solutions in a variety of areas. been prototyped, including a mechanism that makes our training centre briefing rooms compatible with a wide range of aircraft in just a few clicks. 64 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Collaboration delivers new surface finishing process for simulator visuals Awards In partnership with Quebec-based Composites VCI, we developed a new surface finishing process for the visual components of the CAE Medallion MR e-Series Visual System, our simulation platform for military fighter and fast-jet training. The MR e-Series features an innovative, unique “green” coating formulation that renders controlled images of the highest quality. Contrast, resolution, uniformity and brightness – all paramount display characteristics – strongly depend on the quality of the coating surface. Given the number of layers controlled and the shape and size of the MR e-Series 360-degree dome screen, Composites VCI used design automation to ensure coating application quality and consistency. Marc Parent receives a prestigious award from The new surface finishing process creates further business opportunities for Composites VCI with CAE the Aerospace Industries Association of Canada and other companies. (AIAC) Congratulations to our President and CEO, Marc Parent, who was honoured with the Aerospace Industries Association of Canada James C. Floyd Award for his exceptional achievement and contribution to the success of the Canadian aerospace industry. Read the article online A new award for CAE! The surface quality of the coating on the MR Robotic cell of the coating process developed at CAE won the Best Export Strategy Award at the Montréal e-Series dome screen contributes to the platform’s Composites VCI in collaboration with CAE. The cell superior visual imaging performance. monitors various parameters (air flow, humidity, International Awards. temperature, quality of the environment) to ensure the quality and consistency of the coating The jury selected CAE for our ability to continually renew application. ourselves and innovate with new technologies. More than 80 companies submitted applications under the competition’s four categories. CAE is proud of this recognition from the business community. We share this honour with each of our 10,500 employees around the world who work to bolster our company’s profile every day. 65 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Customer service Tracking customer Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions and Defence & Security (D&S) satisfaction business units separated their Customer Service functions in FY20, Executive compensation is putting different models and metrics in place to better address their tied, in part, to the customer satisfaction scores generated respective focuses. by our annual customer survey. Civil Aviation In fiscal 2020, customers ranked our performance as follows: In Civil, our 24/7 emergency support system delights our customers by leveraging our worldwide locations. Our global team answers more than 500 emergency calls per User Conference 2019 – Flying in year and supports our customer needs at all times. We also maintained our focus on a Digital World Civil Aviation providing proactive technical communications. A strong focus was put on the development of our leadership team. Monthly sessions 69 net promoter score for Commercial aviation on different leadership topics were held and different tools and techniques were training presented in conferences in order to improve our team's engagement. The focus has yielded results: our Field Service Bulletins customer appreciation score is 97%. 73 net promoter score Our Customer Service team continually seeks ways to further delight our customers. for Business aviation training 73 net promoter score We have begun a multi-year transformation of how CAE interacts with our customers in the digital age. We are not only transforming the multiple support tools we provide customers once their products are delivered, but how we interact with customers. for Training equipment We want to simplify and streamline processes through the life of our products to improve turnaround and eliminate any bumps in their customer service experience. Achieving Objective Key Results 97% satisfaction for proves rewarding and fun product quality Customer satisfaction is central to our team of 140 dedicated people, as reflected in our Net Promoter Score (NPS), which reached +23, a delightful increase of 26 points. Our customers love CAE, with our global Customer Service team the focal point for all their needs 24/7. Defence & Security Regional Customer Service D&S Centre model soaring 98% satisfaction for on-time delivery D&S experienced a year of changes. Modifications in our organizational structure continued to improve our 99% satisfaction for product quality Service and Product Support deliveries and leverage our global presence. In parallel, we are participating with Civil Our successful NATO E-3A in a multi-year, digital transformation AWACS partnership: 38 years Healthcare project that will benefit our customers. and counting Our focus to deliver best in class Customer Service advanced with the CMMI Level 3 4.73/5 net satisfaction score recertification of our Montreal Product Support team, a testament to their high level of competency and skills. 66 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Digital Accelerator eTCA Digital Accelerator continues to improve customer experience The eTCA (electronic version of the Training and Checking Authorization Form) captures customers’ CAE is always looking to the future, and that is what information to ensure that their training needs are our Digital Accelerator is all about. being met, and that information is managed in a digital Our team has grown extensively in the two years and efficient manner, which reduces the time taken to of the Digital Accelerator’s operation, allowing us to complete the form by 75%. launch and to implement multiple digital products and services, which are used by more than 10,000 Aviation Job Board users worldwide. This year, we digitized more of the training landscape CAE Rise™ Making the connection between potential employees and created the foundation of our training solution and employers, the Aviation Job Board is the one-stopCAE Rise™ is the cornerstone of CAE’s integrated suite: the digital training ecosystem for pilots, crews shop for CAE crewmembers to link with CAE operators. training system. It helps instructors to give feedback and customers in our Civil division. to the pilots on their training. The value of CAE Rise™ We implemented a data infrastructure and is the connection between grading information derived developed our products around the outcomes of from the instructors and flight training performance the data gathered. Through our extensive network information derived from the simulator; then taking that of customers and all their training events, and the connection and generating insights for the instructors, simulators connected on CAE Rise™, we can collect training managers and Heads of Training. The goal is to a lot of data that will allow us to always provide a enhance pilot training, thereby enhancing air safety. better service to our customers. Responding to COVID-19 crisis The Digital Accelerator is constantly growing and will CAE Crew Training be extended to other business units over next year. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, teams continued to We will continue focussing on increasing our product Through this app, our students have access to their digital innovate and release solutions for our customers. and services adoption to make sure that customers’ training content, reducing the need for printed material. In the wake of COVID-19, our target pilot customers satisfaction remains high. They can, from a distance and in advance, prepare for have been severely impacted by travel restrictions their upcoming training sessions by referencing course The future is taking the data that we are mapping and around the globe. To help pilots stay connected, we material, their schedules and information about the collecting, with which we will use Artificial Intelligence created a community connecting proficiency and career training centre. (AI) to support our customers. AI will be the key to opportunities for professional pilots. The Airside platform better predict our customers’ needs, to identify data is for professional pilots who want to have access to trends and areas of improvements, and to make Operator Portal career and training resources. The platform provides recommendations to enhance training programs. aggregated expert content specific to pilots and “made For example, through adaptive learning, we will be Customers can connect directly with CAE to easily and for me” support, that allows them to stay up to date, stay able to adjust learning content based on the learner’s efficiently submit accurate training requirements, which connected to their peers and be proactive about their preferences. All of these digital innovations will help enable us to increase our data to better serve our personal development. us fulfill our mission, which is to be the worldwide customers. Every client that trains with us has slightly partner of choice for our customers. different profiles and needs for their training experience. 67 Corporate social responsibility Community and environment Why it matters We know that we can only be successful if the communities and economies in which we operate are thriving and prosperous. Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations helps protect natural resources, improve employee and community quality of life, and preserve our licence to operate. Our training solutions contribute to this well-being by increasing aviation safety, strengthening public security and improving patient outcomes. Our goal Create a positive and sustainable impact in our communities and our environment. Our objectives As part of our CSR roadmap, we are continuously working toward the following objectives and measuring our progress. Reduce our environmental footprint Support the communities where we across our operations operate through our global community • Become carbon neutral by end of Summer investment program 2020 Canada • Reduce our emissions with green energy initiatives • In FY20, expand and promote the Canadian scholarship program to cover technicians, • Implement at least one paperless initiative people wanting to become pilots, and in each of our sites students willing to be ambassadors to • By FY21, conduct or update energy and promote Work Integrated Learning in waste audits* Canadian aerospace companies • By FY22, source 75% of the electricity • By FY21, launch a diversity scholarship consumption of our European sites through program to allow women, Indigenous renewable energy* Peoples, persons with disabilities and visible • By FY23, install LED or energy efficient lights* minority individuals to complete their studies and better access positions with a * At all CAE sites where we have operational control of greater representation gap the building or control on energy sourcing • By FY23, collaborate with over 50 postsecondary institutions and research centres Worldwide • Better promote the CAE scholarships offered globally • Develop a volunteering program for our employees • By FY24, spend at least 40% of our donations and sponsorships budget on Employees from our Montreal education headquarters volunteering at 68 Sun Youth food bank Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment COVID-19 impacts One CAE, committed to our global community Summary of the impacts of the COVID-19 Investing in local communities and their economies is key to building a reputation for being a neighbour of choice pandemic related to community and everywhere we operate. These contributions also help strengthen employee engagement across CAE. In fiscal 2020, environment: our employees made a difference in multiple ways around the world. • Helping the healthcare community in Health the COVID-19 pandemic • Creation of a climate risk assessment Helping the community in the COVID-19 CAE dreams big with the McGill University template to map efforts and track pandemic Health Centre delayed activities • Delay or cancellation of various The coronavirus has presented a significant challenge to During CAE Day, we announced a partnership with the McGill environmental-related activities the global population and to front-line workers providing University Health Centre (MUHC) Foundation and a donation essential services, with CAE offering solutions to help deal of $500,000 to the Foundation’s Dream Big Campaign. More • Extent of the impact on energy with the outbreak. than 1,000 healthcare professionals were on hand at the consumption and waste disposal to be inaugural event to meet the CAE Healthcare team, and known in the coming months CAE took the lead to help healthcare providers identify and experience our training equipment and medical simulators. treat the coronavirus by offering complimentary webinars and a downloadable training scenario. This training allowed See our COVID-19 feature story Details are provided in our MUHC feature. caregivers to practice personal safety procedures and initial for more details. patient assessment – and our efforts are being noticed. CAE Healthcare Academy also developed a simulation-based training course to help assess, diagnose and treat patients with coronavirus, and to help organizations ensure that staff are ready to don and doff personal protective equipment. We further explored ways to apply our innovation and expertise to help health services around the world. To help in the fight against COVID-19, our CAE Healthcare engineers and scientists designed a simple, maintainable, easy-tomanufacture ventilator prototype to provide life support to patients in intensive care. Following signature of a contract with the Government of Canada to manufacture and supply 10,000 units, CAE started sourcing components to begin immediate production of the ventilator which has been 20 people. 60 tonnes. certified by Health Canada. 1 goal: To end avoidable blindness In addition, we announced that we are leveraging our global CAE Toronto placed third in the 2019 Orbis Canada supply chain to source scarce N95 masks for humanitarian Plane Pull for Sight. CAE’s 28-member team competed purposes in support of front-line health workers. To date, against 37 other teams to see which one could pull a CAE has secured 600,000 N95 masks, which were delivered 60-tonne FedEx B757 aircraft a distance of 20 feet in to the Quebec and Manitoba governments. the fastest time. Learn more about CAE’s contributions in our COVID-19 In April 2019, members of the CAE team in China helped feature. collect trash during a 3-hour hike. 69 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Diversity and Inclusion Fly Like a Girl CAE encourages women to Fly it forward for women in Women in Defence and fly in Virginia aviation Security CAE was proud to sponsor the award-winning film Fly Like a Girl at CAE’s sponsorship of the Women CAE proudly supports the Institute In partnership with Thales Canada the Sarasota Film Festival in Florida. Can Fly event at Virginia’s Warrentonfor Women Of Aviation Worldwide and L3Harris, CAE launched the Fauquier Airport. (iWOAW). Canadian Industrial Leadership Award (CILA) for Canadian women in the defence and security sectors. Facebook campaign honors Smiles all around at CAE Record generosity at CAE: $1 Million! veterans Barcelona CAE contributed $1,015,015 to Centraide of Greater Montreal (United Way) this CAE USA honoured veterans and Our CAE Barcelona office has been year. During the month-long campaign, CAE Montreal employees participated in all members of defence forces who a proud supporter of Aviación Sin everything from bake sales to soccer tournaments and a karaoke competition serve their countries through a Fronteras (Aviation without borders) to raise funds to fight poverty and isolation through Centraide. Much fun was compelling Facebook campaign. for many years. had by all, while contributing to a great cause. We thank our employees for their generosity and engagement. 70 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Disaster and humanitarian relief Volunteering CAEvolunteering: Recognizing our employees’ 2019 Volunteer of the year awards: community contributions Six winning profiles As part of our commitment to develop a volunteering program There could not be a more poignant time to for our employees, we continued to ramp up CAEvolunteering, recognize CAE’s 2019 Volunteers of the year. a program that recognizes employees who go the extra mile for Over the past few months, people around the their community outside of work. And employees definitely went world have undergone heartbreaking experiences. the extra mile! In this difficult time, we are encouraged by The components of our recurrent, three-pronged program are: those who selflessly give of themselves to help Employees’ generosity made a others – volunteering their time to causes and • Volunteer of the year awards: CAE supports the cause difference in Australia! organizations throughout the year. We are proud of employees who demonstrate outstanding commitment to recognize our 2019 Volunteers of the year. When the call went out for donations to support to outside-of-work engagement and to making a positive Thank you for setting such great examples! wildfire relief in Australia, the CAE community impact on the community. We received 36 submissions, responded with exceptional generosity. and congratulate everyone for their involvement. Again this year, six prizes were awarded: one gold, three silver and A total of $32,189 AUD was donated by employees two bronze. around the world. With CAE’s pledge to match all • Dollars for your cause: CAE gives $250 to support the donations, more than $64,000 AUD was donated cause of employees who volunteer 50+ hours per year, to the Australian Red Cross. Thank you for your outside work hours. In FY20, CAE donated $14,000 under Learn more about the winners generosity! this new program. and the causes they support. • Team volunteering: CAE allows employees to volunteer in We would also like to recognize and thank CAE groups, and during work hours (as a team-building activity). employees involved in both firefighting and In this first year, several teams worldwide took the time to recovery efforts, and those who trained Royal give back to their community through this new addition to Australian Air Force Blackhawk pilots participating our program, from beautifying community spaces, helping in relief operations. Additional coverage is food banks, collecting clothes donations and distributing provided in our feature story. groceries, to cleaning care facilities. Eligible employees from all CAE locations are welcome to apply for or participate in those programs. Innovation Making lives safer and more efficient In the spirit of enhancing safety, improving efficiency, maintaining readiness and solving challenging problems in all aspects of Canadians’ lives, we are involved in the geospatial community as co-chairs of the Open Geospatial Spring flooding in Canada: Consortium’s (OGC's) Canada Forum on Geospatial Standards. The Canada Forum is dedicated to better serving CAE puts a shoulder to the wheel! the country’s needs for geospatial data and services by focusing on the sharing of information, capacity building, innovation, outreach and industry business development. The forum also acts as a venue for enhancing the level of Canadian influence in the OGC geospatial standards process. 71 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Education Helping indigenous students persevere in school Aligned with our objectives, we partnered this year with the non-for-profit organization Indspire to offer scholarships over the next three years to Indigenous students across Canada who wish to pursue their post-secondary studies and need financial assistance. A total of $60,000 will be awarded to 15 students over the course of the program. Participation in FIRST Supporting student Air Cadets visit our Education through case competitions Robotics a continued hackathons and digital Montreal headquarters success literacy We are proud to support a variety of case Cadets from five squadrons in competitions over the years that offer unique CAE is proud to be involved again During the McGill Women in the region came to visit CAE's ways for participants to live an accelerated, this year with FIRST Robotics Computer Science hackathon, Montreal headquarters. value-added hands-on learning experience. Canada. we suggested coding challenges As an example, we support the John Molson MBA and evaluated talented teams. International Case Competition. The competition is open to top business schools worldwide, and is recognized as the largest case competition of its kind. The main purpose of the competition is to bridge the gap between corporate and academic worlds, which ultimately enriches both students and executives alike. Contributing to fundamental and applied research Over the past eight years, we have contributed talent and more than $9 million in funding to collaborative projects with universities and research Promoting STEM careers Welcoming high school Post-secondary institutes. Projects range from basic research to students to consider scholarships Getting young people fired up product, process and service commercialization. careers in STEM about science and encouraging We recognize the significant Examples include: them to explore rewarding careers Over the past year, several contributions that university and in STEM is a mission we strongly hundred students visited our college students and graduates • Founding member of IVADO (Institute for believe in championing. facilities and production cells make to leading-edge R&D in our Data Valorization) and met with our employees. core areas of expertise. • Operational Research Chair at École Polytechnique de Montréal 72 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment • Healthcare partnership with Université de advancement of girls and women in science Montréal and engineering at the University of Ottawa’s Donations and sponsorships in FY20 • Key early member of the Collision Program engineering faculty. The fund will finance activities launched by École de technologie supérieure and initiatives that encourage girls to consider In fiscal 2020, we donated a total of $9.6 million (cash and studies and careers in engineering, and provide in-kind) to local and regional initiatives worldwide via its technology company accelerator Centech them with positive women role models. • Member of the Montreal Natural Language FY20 cash and in-kind donations Processing (NLP) Consortium Championing work-integrated learning Communities $52,762 $260,775 Engaging with stakeholders Innovation, research In FY20, CAE offered more than 500 co-op and $448,153 and development organizations $794,978 Employee We proactively engage with a diverse range of student positions. We plan to do much more, engagement $4,500 $58,377 stakeholders on a broad number of issues. This through our commitment to enhance the number Diversity & Inclusion $14,500 engagement takes the form of conferences, and relevance of work-integrated learning Arts and culture $52,500 sectorial and cross-sectorial initiatives, opportunities. partnerships with government and educational $16,703 Health $453,040 We are a founding member of the Canadian institutions, as well as direct dialogue with various Education $531,421 $6,361,141 Mobility and Aerospace Institute (CMAI), which community groups. $4,842 coordinates and enhances the delivery of WorkCivil Aviation $128,127 Integrated Life-Long Learning (WILL) opportunities Defence & Security $36,000 Developing the talents of tomorrow $102,869 in the transportation and aerospace sectors. Trade, industry associations $17,000 in Quebec and events $249,462 As part of CMAI, we are one of the instigators of the $0 $1,000,000 $6,000,000 In-kind Cash For several years, CAE has helped advance student Student Placement One-stop Tool (SPOT) platform training and education in Quebec universities. We launched in FY20. SPOT is changing and broadening continue to build on that legacy by being actively how we attract and train student interns, making involved in sharing our technical know-how. We work-integrated learning opportunities like are eager to develop the talents of tomorrow. internships and special in-company trainings more Supporting local economies Here are some of the ways we do that: teaching easily available to students globally. Through our presence in more than 35 countries around a credited aerospace undergraduate course the world, we are helping create economic growth by at Polytechnique Montreal, and mentoring As a member of the Business/Higher Education delivering goods to our customers, jobs for our employees, engineering teams working on a variety of Roundtable, CAE is a champion of the organization’s payments to our suppliers, investments in communities, capstone projects and industry challenges. Work-Integrated Learning (WIL) program — WIL in and value to our investors. Here is a snapshot of how CAE Action — for the mobility and aerospace sectors. supported local economies in fiscal 2020. Women in Engineering Chair at The goal is to create an additional 10,000 WIL University of Ottawa opportunities in those sectors. FY20 revenues $3,623.2 As part of this engagement, we take part in Total operating costs $3,086.1 We continue to advocate for more women in various conversations to advocate WIL benefits. Salaries and other short-term employment $1,218.6 engineering through professional networking, In February, we shared our vision and experience training and employment at CAE and across the Corporate income taxes paid $34.2 with more than 60 talent leaders from the industry. Community investment and charitable donations $2.6 corporate, educational and government sectors We are donating $20,000 annually for a period during the Future Talent Council’s Regional Talent In-kind donations $6.9 of three years, for a total of $60,000, toward Roundtable in Toronto. Amounts in millions establishing a fund for the promotion and 73 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Reducing our environmental footprint CAE to become carbon neutral in Summer 2020 We continued to make progress on our environmental objectives in fiscal 2020. Prior initiatives underway to In late November, we announced our commitment improve energy efficiency, lower energy consumption and to become carbon neutral in Summer 2020 by reduce waste across our sites remain on target, further purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates and contributing to CAE’s commitment to become carbon Carbon Offset Certificates for fuel used for all neutral in Summer 2020. live training flights at our academies, all energy consumed at our locations worldwide and the air We are increasingly sharing best practices and initiatives business travel of our employees. throughout our network of 160-plus sites and training locations that address multiple environmental aspects. For details on our global strategy, read CAE’s Our Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy and journey to carbon neutrality. ISO 14001-inspired Environmental Management System (EMS) guide us in managing our environmental impact Creation of a Climate Change Committee across these sites and locations. Our internal newsletter Communicating the use of 100% Enviro-News provides monthly updates on environmental renewable electricity We created a Climate Change Committee (CCC) to get practices, policies and initiatives. This communication a global understanding of the climate change risks and At the end of FY20, 12 CAE sites in Europe offset 100% tool enables us to share corrective actions and stimulate opportunities across our organization. The CCC’s mission of the electricity consumed by their buildings and continuous improvement in our environmental is the integration of climate change into CAE’s business simulators through the purchase of renewable electricity performance. strategy, identifying risks and opportunities. certificates. As a sub-committee of the CSR Committee, the CCC Employee contributions This aligns with CAE’s Summer 2020 carbon neutrality includes representation from key departments sharing commitment and our objective to source 75% of the Once again, CAE employees across the globe found the common goal of addressing climate change issues electricity consumption of CAE’s European sites through creative ways to help us shrink our environmental and improving climate risk management at CAE: renewable energy by FY22.* footprint, leading initiatives to promote energy efficiency • Global Environment and waste reduction. We thought employees, customers and site visitors • Communications The efforts profiled in this section are representative of would appreciate knowing about this environmental • Strategy, Investor Relations and Enterprise Risk contribution. Visuals were provided to each facility to the many efforts taking place worldwide to support CAE’s Management advertise this milestone via TV monitors. environmental targets. • Insurance • Real Estate and Strategic Sourcing Impact of COVID-19 Milan and Stolberg achieved this goal in FY20, joining Amsterdam, Barcelona, Brussels, London Burgess Hill, Progress made during FY20 includes a benchmark On a global level, various environmental-related activities London Gatwick, Manchester, Oslo, Kidlington/Oxford, exercise to get a detailed global view on applicable were delayed or not held due to the COVID-19 pandemic. and Stockholm. climate change risks; development of a methodology to The extent of the impact on our energy consumption and assess each site’s exposure to these risks; a roadmap for waste disposal will be known in the coming months. CAE Stolberg worked with a local energy supplier and, the completion of site risk assessments; and governance with assistance from procurement, amended existing for managing risk assessment per site. contracts very quickly to purchase 100% green energy Deployment of a climate change risk assessment template to cover the site’s entire electricity consumption. Savings to map all our efforts and track all activities was delayed from the conversion is estimated at up to 1,382 tonnes due to the COVID-19 crisis. An initial risk assessment of CO2e over two years. exercise has begun at a selected representative site, with 74 global deployment planned over FY21 and FY22. *At all sites where we have operational control of the building or control on energy sourcing. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Ongoing deployment of the transportation options to help reduce CAE’s CAE Agora workspace design at carbon footprint (carpooling and public Montreal transit support, charging stations for electric vehicles and bicycle storage). In FY20, two Over the past few years, the Facilities successful pilot projects were launched to team at our Montreal headquarters has improve sustainable mobility: been reconfiguring workspaces through CAE Brazil São Paulo • Private shuttle services were offered by Training Centres earn the CAE Agora program to allow a better CAE at no cost to employees between ISO 14001 certification sharing of spaces and to reduce CAE’s Facilities install LED energyour headquarters and the metro, and energy footprint. Deployment of CAE Agora saving solutions between the headquarters and two CAE intensified during FY20, with the renovation buildings nearby. Our objective to install LED or energy efficient of 30,000 square feet. • Free e-bike and helmet rentals were lights across our operations by FY23 is CAE Agora improves environmental available for reservation up to 72 hours. progressing well, with more than two-fifths management of buildings through Additionally, the following improvements of CAE’s total floor area now equipped with easier maintenance and reduced energy were made in FY20 to support sustainable LED/energy-saving lighting systems.* consumption per employee; encourages mobility: a new, more user-friendly and the ongoing transition to a more digitalized CAE Ottawa’s “outMore and more CAE sites are installing intelligent carpooling application; rewards of-box” thinking gets LED lighting in all areas of activity. In some environment (less paper); and helps achieve based on the number of carpooling days waste reduction results locations, corridor lighting operates on a resilient workforce able to work anywhere, completed; more carpooling spaces added in motion sensors and classrooms use switch including from home – contributing to a parking lot; monthly draw for the carpooling controls equipped with overriding passive smaller commuting footprint. community; and more charging stations for infrared sensors. electric vehicles. Through its clean desk concept, CAE Agora In addition to benefits of energy savings helped us achieve the level of surface Stolberg and other CAE Elektronik GmbH reduced carbon emissions and lower disinfection management required with sites participated in a “No cars” campaign operating costs, maintenance becomes much COVID-19. The employees usually working in for the second year. On June 18, participants safer in areas such as simulator halls, where CAE Agora workspaces have the necessary commuted to work using alternative Successful development high ceilings put lights out of easy reach. equipment for mobility and remote work forms of eco-friendly transportation. of simulation (laptops, headsets and soft phones). As the The 31 employees who opted for public technology contributing Our Flight Training Operations team at COVID-19 outbreak hit, they had all they transport, running, skating and more for to reducing GHGs from CAE Mesa found an elegant solution to needed to work from home and were up the day’s commute received a blue t-shirt live training aircraft counter energy consumption attached to air and running in no time! in recognition of their efforts, a win/win conditioning – a necessity given how high initiative for the environment, sustainability temperatures can reach in Arizona. and health. Tainted LED glass windows branded with the CAE logo were installed to help cool down the Repair Station building and reduce costs. Tinted windows were also installed at the Flight School. The team coordinated the Meet more project with a local energy company and Improving sustainable mobility CAE environmental applied available rebates that resulted in a heroes! Our Montreal site added more choices minimal payback period. to its already large offer of sustainable 75 *At all sites where we have operational control of the building or control on energy sourcing. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Our journey to carbon neutrality Feature story Commitment: Summer 2020 Taking the first steps in our journey to carbon neutrality Doing our share in the fight against New climate-change movements and eco-friendly activities climate change In the months leading up to Marc Parent’s announcement that CAE was committing to become carbon neutral On November 28, 2019, President and CEO Marc Parent in Summer 2020, a big movement was underway. Change was in the air. announced CAE’s commitment to become carbon neutral in Summer 2020 at a Montreal Council on Foreign Global airlines such as KLM Royal Dutch, Air France and easyJet, made engagements to create a sustainable Relations (CORIM) event, making us the first aerospace future for aviation by offsetting their CO2 emissions from flights. company in Canada to take this stance. We will achieve “As a CEO and father, I felt responsible to do something and saw a great opportunity for CAE to make a this goal by purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates difference,” Marc recalled. “Our partners took bold stands to reduce their carbon footprints. The time was right and Carbon Offset Certificates for the fuel used for all for us to up our contribution and become a leader in the environment.” the live training flights of our academies, for energy consumption in our locations worldwide and for business air travel of all our employees. Three initial scopes and targets As Marc stated in his CORIM address, “I believe this is a We have organized our strategy into three phases and identified three ways to reduce our carbon footprint: collective responsibility and that companies have a role consume less, consume better, offset carbon emissions. to play. They must link their financial results with the impact of their activities that benefit the community. That is what CAE is doing today.” Scope 1 covers all the direct Scope 2 covers all indirect Scope 3 covers the other indirect emissions from sources CAE owns emissions from the generation emissions, which includes the value Our CEO Marc Parent announces CAE’s commitment or controls. This category includes of purchased electricity, steam, chain (e.g. employee business to become carbon neutral in Summer 2020 at aircraft that we own for flight heating, and cooling. travel, delivery of flight simulators CORIM (in French and English) training operations and training of or important parts delivered by cadets. boats). Watch the video 76 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Our journey to carbon neutrality Our shortand long-term action plan Our carbon neutrality commitment on energy use and business travel in Summer 2020 will be reached through combined short-term actions (purchase of carbon offset certificates and renewable energy certificates) and longterm actions (reduction of our carbon emissions). In addition to preventing millions of tonnes of CO2 being emitted each year by training more than 135,000 pilots in simulators, we will become carbon neutral for our live training fuel emissions, business-related air travel and energy consumption by purchasing carbon offset certificates and renewable energy certificates (RECs). The projects we are considering fall under five categories: international renewable energy, landfill gas, forestry, cook stoves and water filters. Our purchase of carbon offset certificates to fund these GHG reduction projects will An eye to the future follow these criteria : Carbon offsetting and RECs are interim measures that neutrality journey – each step helping us to further reduce • Purchased from well-established, quality offset CAE will take while new technologies and solutions are our global footprint. programs (e.g. project registered under VCS, Gold being developed to reduce emissions. Our long-term Standard) strategy is to determine how we can reduce at the See our Environmental section to learn about other • Not limited to North America but focus where we source. Though we are still at the exploration phase, we initiatives underway across CAE to reduce our are established are committed. environmental footprint. Twelve CAE sites in Europe have offset 100% of the We plan to work with the industry to progressively use electricity consumed by their locations through the electric aircraft for live flight training in our academies. CAE’s carbon neutral commitment purchase of RECs. We will also continue to undertake other measures to reduce our overall emissions, for example, by continually • Report on Scope 1, Scope 2 and business 3 ways to reduce our carbon footprint investing to make our full-flight simulators more energy travel (Scope 3) emissions efficient, therefore allowing our customers worldwide to • Look into reliable projects to compensate reduce their own footprint. our emissions by buying carbon offsets and renewable energy certificates We are looking at biofuels and at potentially integrating • Target: End of September 2020 biofuel aircraft in our own fleet for training. We have • Reduce our emission with green energy asked the manufacturer of our small jets to look into projects in the mediumto long-term future certification of our fleet for biofuels to reduce carbon • Become a leader in sustainable live training by emissions. We are exploring electric aircraft with progressively integrating biofuel and electric potential partners in Europe and have an active interest aircraft in advances made in electric battery technologies. While keeping such exciting environmental developments in mind, we continue to move forward in our carbon 77 Appendix 78 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications Site certifications ISO 9001:2015 Quality management systems – Requirements CAE Montreal Headquarters CAE Cold Lake CAE Trenton NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, 4 Wing Cold Lake, P.O. Box 6759, Station 426 Squadron, 20 Buffalo Avenue, 8 Wing Building H10, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Forces, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, T9M Trenton, Astra, Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 T9M 2C5 2C2 Scope: Design, manufacture, service and Scope: Maintain and service flight training Scope: Provide egress training and aircraft maintenance of simulation products and Scope: Maintain and service flight training devices; provide supply support and maintenance. training solutions. devices; provide supply support and provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ software support; provide data and records Presagis Canada Inc. 400 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, software support; provide data and records management. 4700 De La Savane Street, Suite #300, Quebec, Canada, H4T 1N8 management. Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H4P 1T7 46 Yukon Avenue, 8 Wing Trenton, Astra, Scope: Storage, handling and warehousing. Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 Scope: Provide software technical services CAE Greenwood 105 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, and consultation for defence and aerospace 404 Squadron, Building 250, 14 Wing Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators, Quebec, Canada, H4T 1S6 real-time simulation and See modellings Greenwood, Greenwood, Nova Scotia, aircraft maintenance training devices and applications; include customization and Scope: Assembly and test of simulation Canada, B0P 1N0 associated training equipment; provide onsite integration of COTS software, 3D modeling products. Storage, handling and hardware/software support; manage spares Scope: Maintain and service flight training and synthetic environment creation. warehousing. and inventory; coordinate and schedule devices; provide supply support and 129 Montée de Liesse, Saint-Laurent, training time; provide aircrew training CAE India Private Limited provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ Québec, Canada, H4T 1N4 services; develop and maintain courseware 1st Floor, Survey No. 26 & 27, software support; provide data and records and training documentation; provide data Bandaramanahalli Village, Uganavadi Post, Scope: Assembly and test of simulation management. and records management. Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 562 110, products. CAE Gagetown Karnataka, India CAE Petawawa CAE Ottawa 403 Squadron, Building L24, 403 Squadron, 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron, Building Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, 350 Legget Drive, 2nd floor, Ottawa, CFB Gagetown, Oromocto, New Brunswick, CC12C8, 450 Mattawa Trail, Garrison manufacturing, integration, installation, Ontario, Canada, K2K 2W7 Canada, E2V 4J5 Petawawa, Petawawa, Ontario, Canada, commissioning, maintenance and support of Scope: Provide software development, Scope: Maintain and service flight training K8H 2X3 simulators and engineering systems solutions systems engineering, system integration, devices; provide supply support and for aerospace, defence and power sectors. Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators ISS, operational systems, enterprise training provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ and associated training equipment; provide CAE USA – Tampa and consulting services for the entire system software support; provide data and records onsite hardware/software support; manage 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, lifecycle, including integrated logistics management. spares and inventory; coordinate and Florida, USA, 33634 support. This also includes aircrew training CAE Halifax schedule training time; provide aircrew (including computer-based training); egress training services; develop and maintain Scope: Provide design, integration, testing 36 Solutions Drive, Suite 200, Halifax, Nova training; aircraft maintenance repair and courseware and training documentation; and installation of simulation devices for Scotia, Canada, B3S 1N2 overhaul; aircraft engineering support and provide data and records management. military training. technical management; Training Centre Scope: Provide software development; 5411B Pioneer Park Drive, Tampa, Florida, Operations; and simulation products systems engineering; systems integration; CAE Military Aviation Training USA, 33634 maintenance for defence, aerospace, in-service support; operational systems; and NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), healthcare and public safety applications. enterprise training and consulting services for Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, Scope: Provide assembly and testing. defence, aerospace, public safety and security PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, CAE Moose Jaw CAE USA – Sherwood applications. Canada, S0H 0N0 15 Wing Moose Jaw, P.O. Box 30, Bushell 2402 Wildwood Avenue, Suite 501, Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, S0H 0N0 CAE Mirabel Scope: Provide ground school training; Sherwood, Arkansas, USA 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, aircraft maintenance repair and overhaul; Scope: Maintain and service flight training engineering support; and technical Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, Quebec, Canada, J7N 1H3 implementation and evaluation of integrated devices; provide supply support and management activities. provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ Scope: Provide capacity-service support for training solutions. software support; provide data and records the entire system lifecycle, including systems management. engineering and software and integrated 79 logistic support. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CAE USA – Altus CAE USA Kadena AFB 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility Building CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd 203 North 6th Street, Building 179, Room Building 748, Kadena Air Force Base, 868, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF 154, Altus, Oklahoma, USA, 73523 Okinawa, JA 904-0299 Australia Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, Auckland, 0618, New Zealand Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide systems engineering and installation, maintenance and training. installation, maintenance and training. maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide systems engineering and devices; provide training services using maintenance support for simulation training CAE USA MacDill AFB CAE USA Pittsburgh ANGB simulation training devices. devices. 7800 Hanger Loop Drive, MacDill AFB, 304 Mustang Drive, Coraopolis, PA 15108 RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Tampa, FL 33621 Scope: Provide simulation device integration, 1123 F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Provide simulation device integration, installation, maintenance and training. Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and installation, maintenance and training. Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training CAE USA – Healthcare maintenance support for simulation training devices. CAE USA March ARB 6300 Edgelake Drive, Sarasota, FL 34240 1250 Y Street, March Air Reserve Base, devices; provide training services using Scope: Design, Production, Integration, simulation training devices. CAE Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Riverside CA 92518 Test, and Delivery of Medical Simulation Lot PT25B, Jalan S5, Southern Support Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Technologies and PostDelivery Activities and 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Zone, KLIA, 64000, Sepang, Selangor, installation, maintenance and training. Services. Australia Malaysia Scope: Provide systems engineering, training Scope: Provide training for commercial pilots, CAE USA Fairchild AFB CAE USA Scott AFB services and project management for cabin crew, ramp, guest services and aircraft 101 W. Arnold Street, Fairchild Air Force 5790 Pryor Drive, Scott Air Force Base, simulation training devices; develop growth maintenance. Base, Spokane, WA 99011 Belleville, IL 62225 opportunities within the business. Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, CAE Maritime Middle East LLC installation, maintenance and training. installation, maintenance and training. RAAF Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Addax Tower, 51st Floor, Office 5111, Al Garbutt, QLD 4810, Australia Reem Island, Abu Dhabi, UAE CAE USA Hickam AFB CAE Australia Pty Ltd Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Management of engineering, supply, 395 Mamiya Avenue, Hickam Air Force Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold simulation training devices. installation, commissioning and maintenance Base, Honolulu, HI 96853 Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia of simulator training devices and integrated Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide maintenance support for Army Aviation Training Centre, Army live-virtual-constructive (LVC) training services installation, maintenance and training. simulation training devices. Airfield Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia for Defense Sector. Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, Scope: Provide systems engineering and CAE USA – Mildenhall RAFB maintenance support for simulation training CAE Germany – CAE Elektronik GmbH – NSW 2541, Australia Building 816, RAF Mildenhall, Bury St. devices; provide training services using Stolberg Edmonds, Suffolk, IP28 8NG, United Scope: Provide maintenance support for simulation training devices. CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222Kingdom simulation training devices; provide training D Stolberg, Germany services using simulation training devices. RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron Scope: Simulation device integration, AFS, Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia Scope: Provide operation, development, installation, maintenance and training. Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival manufacturing, technical and logistic Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, Scope: Provide systems engineering and support for training equipment and synthetic CAE USA Grissom ARB Australia maintenance support for simulation training environments, systems and software 4376 Hoosier Boulevard, Grissom Air devices. Scope: Provide systems engineering and applications (mainly flight and tactical Reserve Base, Kokomo, IN 46971 CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, simulators); provide associated training maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide simulation device integration, devices; provide training services using Wellington Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, programs. installation, maintenance and training. simulation training devices. Australia CAE Germany – CAE Services GmbH – 350 Parramatta Road Campus Business Scope: Provide maintenance support for Bückeburg CAE USA Milwaukee ANGB simulation training devices. 1874 E. Grange Avenue, Milwaukee, WI Park Homebush NSW 2140, Australia CAE Services GmbH, Bäckerstr. 18, 31683-D 53207 Scope: Provide systems engineering and 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Obernkirchen, Germany project and program management for Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide maintenance, support simulation training devices; develop growth Australia installation, maintenance and training. and operation of training equipment and opportunities within the business. Scope: Provide systems engineering and synthetic environments (mainly flight and maintenance support for simulation training tactical simulators; provide associated devices. training as required. 80 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CAE UK Plc Defence & Security RNAS Culdrose Sea King & Merlin Training CMMI-SVC V1.3 Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) CAE Burgess Hill (UK), Innovation Drive, Facility, RNAS Culdrose, Helston, Cornwall, for Services, Version 1.3 York Road, Burgess Hill, West Sussex, RH15 TR21 7HR, United Kingdom 9TW, United Kingdom CAE Montreal Headquarters CAE Australia Pty Ltd Scope: Provide design, supply and Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance of training equipment and 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, CAE Heritage Building A, 350 Parramatta maintenance of training equipment and synthetic environments, and the provision of Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Road, Campus Business Park, Homebush, synthetic environments, and the provision of associated training, customer requirements NSW 2140, Australia Scope: Maturity Level 3, Customer Services associated training, customer requirements analysis and through-life support; provide for Defence & Security. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence & Security analysis and through-life support; provide systems and software development and Training Operations (Maintenance). systems and software development and support; provide maintenance management. CAE Mirabel support; provide maintenance management. 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd RAF Brize Norton C-130J Training Facility, RAF Benson Medium Support Helicopter, RAF Brize Norton, Carterton, Oxfordshire, Quebec, Canada, J7N 1H3 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Aircrew Training Facility, RAF Benson, OX18 3LX, United Kingdom Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Maturity Level 3, Operational Systems Wallingford, Oxfordshire OX10 6AA, and In-Service Support (OS & ISS). Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence & Security Scope: Provide design, supply and United Kingdom Training Operations (Maintenance). maintenance of training equipment and Scope: Provide design, supply and synthetic environments, and the provision of maintenance of training equipment and associated training, customer requirements synthetic environments, and the provision of analysis and through-life support; provide CMMI-DEV V1.3 Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) associated training, customer requirements systems and software development and for Development, Version 1.3 analysis and through-life support; provide support; provide maintenance management. systems and software development and CAE Montreal – Headquarters CAE USA – Tampa support; provide maintenance management. CAE Hungary – CAE Engineering Kft. – 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, Budapest Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Florida, USA, 33634 CAE Engineering Kft., Kelenhegyi ut 43. H-1118 Budapest Hungary Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence & Security. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence & Security. Scope: Software Development CAE Mirabel CAE Germany – CAE Elektronik GmbH – 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Stolberg Quebec, Canada, J7N 1H3 CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222AS9100D Quality management systems Requirements for D Stolberg Scope: Maturity Level 5, Operational Systems aviation, space and defence organizations and In-Service Support (OS & ISS). Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defense & Security. The development, integration and delivery of CAE Montreal – Headquarters CAE USA – Sherwood training solutions and associated products 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, 2402 Wildwood Avenue, Suite 501, and support. Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Sherwood, Arkansas, USA Scope: Project management, design Scope: Analysis, design, development, (hardware and software), manufacture, implementation, and evaluation of Integrated CMMI-DEV V2.0 – Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) repair and overhaul of the Magnetic Anomaly Training Solutions. for Development, Version 2.0 Detection (MAD)/AIMS equipment. CAE USA – Tampa CAE Australia Pty Ltd CAE Canada Region – Ottawa 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, 350 Parramatta Road Campus Business Park Homebush NSW 2140, Australia 350 Legget Drive Suite 200, Ottawa, Florida, USA, 33634 Scope: Maturity Level 2 and 3 Practice Areas. Ontario, Canada, K2K 2W7 Scope: The design, integration, test and Scope: Provide business development and installation of simulation devices for military program management of the magnetic training. anomaly detection (MAD)/AIMS equipment. 5411B Pioneer Park Drive, Tampa, Florida, USA, 33634 Scope: Installation, integration, test and storage. 81 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications ISO 14001:2015 Environmental management systems Requirements with guidance for use CAE Military Aviation Training RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, CAE New Zealand Pty Limited CAE South America Flight Training do NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), 1123 F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF Brasil Ltda Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, Australia Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, Avenida Orlanda Bergamo, 490, Cumbica PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, Auckland 0618, New Zealand Guarulhos, SP, 07232-151, Brasil Scope: Provide systems engineering and Canada, S0H 0N0 maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: The rent of full flight simulators Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, devices; provide training services using maintenance support for simulation training and classrooms. Development, sale ground school training and airfield simulation training devices. devices. and application of training and English operations. proficiency tests – ICAO for pilots. 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Australia Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Rua Lucia, 189, Sacoma CAE Australia Pty Ltd Sao Paulo, SP, 04280-070, Brasil Unit 42, Brindabella Circuit, Brindabella Scope: Provide systems engineering, training Scope: Provide systems engineering and Business Park, Canberra Airport, ACT 2609, services and project management for maintenance support for simulation training Scope: The rent of full flight simulators Australia simulation training devices; develop growth devices. and classrooms. Development, sale opportunities within the business. and application of training and English Scope: Provide the development of growth CAE UK PIc Defence & Security proficiency tests – ICAO for pilots. opportunities within the business. Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, CAE Burgess Hill (UK), Innovation Drive, RAAF Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold Burgess Hill, West Sussex, RH15 9TW, Garbutt, QLD 4810, Australia Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia United Kingdom Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide design, supply and simulation training devices. simulation training devices. maintenance of training equipment and Army Aviation Training Centre, Army synthetic environments and associated Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, Airfield Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia training; provide customer requirements NSW 2541, Australia analysis and through-life support. Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide maintenance support for maintenance support for simulation training RNAS Culdrose Sea King and Merlin simulation training devices; provide training devices; provide training services using Training Facility, Building D51, Helston, services using simulation training devices. simulation training devices. Cornwall, TR12 7RH, United Kingdom Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron Scope: Provide design, supply and Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, AFS, Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia maintenance of training equipment and Australia synthetic environments and associated Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and training; provide customer requirements maintenance support for simulation training maintenance support for simulation training analysis and through-life support. devices. devices; provide training services using RAF Brize Norton 24 Squadron HQ, RAF simulation training devices. CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Brize Norton, Carterton, Oxfordshire, OX18 Wellington Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, 350 Parramatta Road, Campus Business 3LX, United Kingdom Australia Park, Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia Scope: Provide design, supply and Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance of training equipment and simulation training devices. project and program management for synthetic environments and associated simulation training devices; provide 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF training; provide customer requirements development of growth opportunities within Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, analysis and through-life support. the business. Australia RAF Benson Medium Support Helicopter, 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building Scope: Provide systems engineering and Air Training Facility, RAF Benson, 868, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, maintenance support for simulation training Wallingford, Oxfordshire, OX10 6AA, Australia devices. United Kingdom Scope: Provide engineering and maintenance CAE Perth Training Centre, 81 Verde Drive, Scope: Provide design, supply and support for simulation training devices; Jandakot, WA 6164, Australia maintenance of training equipment and provide training services using simulation synthetic environments and associated Scope: Provide civil aviation training services training devices. training; provide customer requirements and maintenance support of flight simulators and training devices. analysis and through-life support. 82 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications EcoProfit Environmental AS/NZS 4801:2001 Occupational health and safety management systems Certification Specification with guidance for use CAE Germany – CAE Elektronik GmbH – CAE Australia Pty Ltd RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Stolberg Unit 42, Brindabella Circuit, Brindabella 1123 F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222-D Business Park, Canberra Airport, ACT Australia Australia Stolberg 2609, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: EcoProfit Decrease resource consumption, Scope: Develop growth opportunities maintenance support for simulation maintenance support for simulation reduce environmental impact and save running within the business. training devices; provide training services training devices. costs using simulation training devices. Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd Leebold Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Level 15, 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Australia QLD 4000, Australia RNZAF Base Auckland, Tainui Street, health and safety management Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide systems engineering Whenuapai, Auckland, 0618, New simulation training devices. training services and project management Zealand systems Requirements for simulation training devices; develop Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Scope: Provide systems engineering and growth opportunities within the business. CAE Military Aviation Training Nowra, NSW 2541, Australia maintenance support for simulation NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Colonel Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, training devices. Scope: Provide maintenance support O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, PO Box 120, RAAF Base Townsville, Ingham Road, for simulation training devices; provide 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, S0H 0N0 Garbutt, QLD 4810, Australia training services using simulation training Ave, Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, ground devices. Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide systems engineering and school training and airfield operations. simulation training devices. Simulator Facility, Building 375, Percival maintenance support for simulation Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW Army Aviation Training Centre, Army training devices. 2755, Australia Airfield Oakey, QLD 4401 Australia Cyber Essentials Scheme Test Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and Specification Cyber Essentials maintenance support for simulation maintenance support for simulation PLUS training devices; provide training services training devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. using simulation training devices. CAE UK PIc Defence & Security Heritage Building A, 350 Parramatta RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron Innovation Drive, Burgess Hill, RH15 9TW, UK Road, Campus Business Park, AFS, Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia Scope: Cyber Essentials programme is the CAE. Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and CO.UK network, which is administered by the Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation Defence & Security (D&S) division of CAE (UK) Plc. project and program management for training devices. simulation training devices; develop CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, growth opportunities within the business. Wellington Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building Australia 868, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW Scope: Provide maintenance support for 2314, Australia simulation training devices. Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. 83 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization page 1 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 1 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 1 FY19 Activity & CSR Report: FY18 Activity & CSR Report: Civil pages 19-23 Civil pages 13-16 Civil, pages 12-15 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Defence & Security pages 26-30 Defence & Security pages 18-21 Defence & Security, pages 18-21 Healthcare pages 32-36 Healthcare pages 24-27 Healthcare, pages 24-27 102-3 Location of headquarters page 13 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 7 102-4 Location of operations page 13 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form MD&A pages 107-109 MD&A pages 108-110 MD&A pages 102-104 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-6 Markets served pages 12-13 pages 7-8 pages 6-7 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-7 Scale of organization pages 12-13 pages 7-8 pages 6-7 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI standard 401-1 page 75 pages 64-65 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-12 External initiatives pages 68-75 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 52 pages 58-63 Strategy FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pages 4-8 pages 4-6 pages 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities MD&A pages 37-47 MD&A pages 36-41 MD&A pages 35-41 Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards and norms of 102-16 page 53 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 46 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 5 behaviour Mechanisms for advice and concerns about FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-17 pages 53-59 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 ethics pages 46-50 Governance 102-18 Governance structure page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-19 Delegating authority page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 environmental and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 environmental and social topics 84 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Composition of highest governance body and 102-22 Website Board of Directors Website – Board of Directors Website – Board of Directors its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Website Board of Directors Website – Board of Directors Website – Board of Directors Nominating and selecting the highest FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular – FY18 Proxy Circular – 102-24 governance body FinancialReports Financial Reports Financial Reports 102-25 Conflicts of interest page 56 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 49 n/a Role of highest governance body in setting FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-26 Website Governance Website Governance purpose, values and strategy pages 30-31 Collective knowledge of highest governance FY20 Proxy Circular – FY19 Proxy Circular – FY18 Proxy Circular – 102-27 body Financial Reports Financial Reports Financial Reports Evaluating the highest governance body’s FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular FY18 Proxy Circular 102-28 performance Financial Reports Financial Reports Financial Reports Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 MD&A, pages 37-47 FY19 MD&A, pages 34-41 FY18 MD&A, pages 35-41 environmental, and social impacts FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular FY18 Proxy Circular 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Review of economic, environmental and social 102-31 page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 topics Highest governance body’s role in 102-32 page 43 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns page 56 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 49 n/a 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns page 56 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 49 n/a FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular FY18 Proxy Circular 102-35 Remuneration policies Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular FY18 Proxy Circular 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation FY20 Proxy Circular FY19 Proxy Circular FY18 Proxy Circular 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation Stakeholder engagement FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups pages 42-43 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 33 pages 36-37 Collective bargaining agreements / Percentage 102-41 55 / 21% 59 / 22% 43 / 18% of employees covered by collective agreements 85 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 GENERAL DISCLOSURES FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pages 42-43 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 pages 36-37 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pages 42-43 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 pages 36-37 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pages 42-43 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 pages 36-37 Reporting practices Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial Reports: Financial Reports: Financial Reports: 102-45 statements FY20 Annual Information Form FY19 Annual Information Form FY18 Annual Information Form FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries pages 42-43 pages 36-37 pages 33-34 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-47 List of material topics pages 42-43 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 pages 36-37 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, 102-49 Changes in reporting pages 42-43 pages 36-37 pages 33-34 102-50 Reporting period page 2 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 102-51 Date of most recent report FY19 Activity & CSR Report FY18 Activity & CSR Report FY17 Activity & CSR Report 102-52 Reporting cycle page 2 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 page 2 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 report FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 102-55 GRI Content Index pages 84-94 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 60 pages 70-77 86 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Economy Explanation of the material topic and its 301-1 boundary MD&A, pages 37-47 FY19 MD&A, pages 34-41 FY18 MD&A, pages 35-41 The management approach and its FY19 Proxy Circular – FY18 Proxy Circular – 301-2 components Proxy Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance FY19 Proxy Circular – FY18 Proxy Circular – 301-3 Evaluation of the management approach Proxy Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Economic performance Direct economic value generated and 201-1 distributed Direct economic value generated ($M) 3,623.2 3,304.1 2,823.51 Cost of sales ($M) 2,539.6 2,362.6 1,945.61 Research and development expenses 241.2 232.1 182.7 ($M) Selling, general & administration 437.5 415.2 380.8 expenses ($M) Finance expenses net ($M) 144.4 80.9 77.2 Income tax expenses ($M) 73.8 59.6 30.9 Economic value retained ($M) 214.5 205.7 274.7 Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 MD&A page 41 FY19 MD&A page 37 FY18 MD&A page 38 opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other 201-3 212.8 212.6 200.6 retirement plans ($M) 201-4 Funding received from government ($M) 33.6 45.2 29.0 Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community2 Canada 98% 100% 99% US 86% 78% 79% Other 83% 92% 92% Overall 92% 90% 94% 1 FY18 numbers were restated following the retroactive adoption of the new IFRS 15 accounting standard. 2 Director and up, citizenship in the country in which they work. 87 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Economy Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Australia 91% 87% 77% Asia 83% 89% 78% Europe 80% 80% 47% Middle East 81% 85% 83% North America 63% 50% 63% South America 84% 77% 80% Anti-competitive behaviour Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 206-1 0 0 0 anti-trust, and monopoly practices Customer satisfaction CAE-ECO-101 Customer satisfaction page 66 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 56 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 47 Innovation CAE-ECO-201 Investments in research and development ($M) 241.2 232.1 182.7 CAE-ECO-202 Number of patents requested 241 82 78 CAE-ECO-203 Number of patents obtained 30 39 51 Contribution to local economy FY19 Activity & CSR Report, CAE-ECO-401 Charitable donations and sponsorships pages 68-73 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 52 pages 58-63 1 We have prepared many new patent applications and some were filed in FY20, but most will be completed and filed in FY21 due to the pandemic. 88 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Environment Explanation of the material topic and its 301-1 Boundary pages 95-100 n/a n/a The management approach and its 301-2 components pages 95-100 n/a n/a 301-3 Evaluation of the management approach pages 95-100 n/a n/a Energy Energy consumption within the organization 302-1 272,8141 281,2551 292,5601,4 (MWh) Natural gas (MWh) 6,0421 13,4041 15,5071,4 Electricity (MWh) 186,7451 189,0521 186,2531,4 Diesel, heating oil, propane, fuel for aircraft and cars, hot and chilled water 80,0271 78,7991 90,8001,4 (MWh) FY19 Activity & CSR Report, CAE-ENV-101 Renewable energy programs and targets pages 68-75 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 50 pages 58-63 302-3 Energy intensity (MWh/$million revenue) 75.3 85.12 103.624 Water (and effluents)2 303-1 Water withdrawal by source (m3) 315,307 328,848 344,7983 Emissions5 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 23,626 25,213 28,4244 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG emissions 81,100 87,825 90,1044 (Scope 1 and 2 location based) (tCO2e) GHG emissions 76,622 80,550 84,9754 (Scope 1 and 2 market based) (tCO2e) Energy indirect GHG Emissions 57,474 62,612 61,6804 (Scope 2 location based) (tCO2e) Energy indirect GHG Emissions 52,996 55,336 56,5514 (Scope 2 market based) (tCO2e) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) Business travel: 13,9566 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pages 68-75 pages 58-63 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 50 1 Conversion rates vary for each country and province. Estimates were done for sites for which information was not yet available based on data from sites with the same type of activities. 2 For sites where we have operational control of the building. 3 Data published in the FY18 report is corrected due to an error in unit of measure. 4 Data published in the FY18 report is updated to reflect updated methodology. 5 A decrease in carbon emissions was observed during FY20. Even if each site is facing different energy challenges with variation in the evolution of the intensity of its activities, the past years, reduction trend was confirmed thanks to the sourcing of renewable energy and the implementation 89 of energy-saving initiatives. 6 CAE extended this year the scope of its carbon emissions calculations by reporting for the first time its business travel-related emissions (air/car rentals/train) Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Environment Effluents and waste1 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method (Montreal only) Waste generated absolute (tonnes) 2,000 1,401 1,603 Total weight of hazardous waste 50 46 62 (tonnes) Total weight of non-hazardous waste 1,950 1,355 1,541 (tonnes) Non-hazardous waste recycled (%) 89.892 852 862 Environmental compliance Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 No significant fine No significant fine No significant fine regulations 1 A solid FY20 year, with many simulators built and a significant rise in hiring explain the sharp increase in waste disposal. The higher percentage of non-hazardous waste recycled is caused by the ongoing improvement of the implemented recycling system. 2 Includes composting. 90 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Social Explanation of the material topic and its 301-1 pages 68-73 n/a n/a Boundary The management approach and its 301-2 pages 68-73 n/a n/a components Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Total employees 12,164 11,764 9,635 Total number of employees CAE 11,626 11,314 9,167 Number of employees (permanent) 1 10,536 3 10,032 4 8,0005 Number of employees (temporary)1 1,090 1,282 1,167 Total number of employees in our joint 538 450 468 ventures2 Employees by gender Number of employees (female) 2,610 2,408 1,931 Number of employees (male) 9,554 9,356 7,704 % of female employees 21% 20% 20% % of male employees 79% 80% 80% Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Number of employees 2,600 2,600 1,700 % of employees 21% 22% 18% Number of non-unionized employees 9564 9,164 7,935 New employee hires Total number of new employee hires 2,101 3,667 1,920 New employee hire rate (% of total 17% 31%6 20% employees) Age group New employee hires below 30 years old 526 875 583 1 Changed methodology by adding two categories. 2 Only for joint ventures that are material. 3 Includes 262 part-time employees. 4 Includes 214 part-time employees. 5 Includes 208 part-time employees. 6 Increase year over year is mainly due to the onboarding of employees from our acquisitions. 91 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Social % new employee hires below 30 years 25% 24% 30% old New employee hires 30-50 years old 1,042 1,624 865 % new employee hires 30-50 years old 50% 44% 45% New employee hires above 50 years 533 1,168 472 old1 % new employee hires above 50 years 25% 32% 25% old1 Contractors in instruction roles2 Total number of contractors 1,070 1,191 976 Number of contrators at CAE 938 1,088 889 Number of contrators in our joint 132 103 87 ventures Employee turnover number 1,522 1,029 1,064 Employee turnover rate (% of total 14% 10% 13% employees) Age group Employee turnover below 30 years old 302 213 213 % employee turnover below 30 years 20% 14% 20% old Employee turnover 30-50 years old 721 470 516 % employee turnover 30-50 years old 14% 9% 12% Employee turnover above 50 years old 499 346 335 % employee turnover above 50 years 13% 9% 11% old Gender Employee turnover for women 379 219 240 % employee turnover for women 17% 10% 13% Employee turnover for men 1,143 809 824 % employee turnover for men 14% 10% 10% 1 Above 50 years old category was not included in 2018 report. 2 Change in methodology: only contractors who are in instruction roles are included as they represent a key component of delivering training to our customers. In FY18, all contractors were included regardless of their role. 92 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Social Occupational health and safety 3 most frequent types: 3 most frequent types: 3 most frequent types: Slips/trips/falls 21% Slips/trips/falls 24% Slips/trips/falls 33% Types of injury and rates of injury, Laceration 10% Struck by/on 10% Struck by/on 23% 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism Ergonomics 9% In contact with 7% In contact with 20% and number of work-related fatalities1 Struck by/on n/a2 Laceration n/a2 Laceration n/a2 In contact with n/a2 Ergonomics n/a2 Ergonomics n/a2 Incident Frequency Rate (IFR)1 0.52 0.54 0.39 Days Lost Rate (DLR) 1 3.93 2.62 1.35 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)1 0.21 0.24 0.16 Near Miss Rate (NMR) 1 1.06 0.92 3 1.21 Work-related fatalities 0 1 1 Training and education Programs for upgrading employee skills and FY19 Activity & CSR Report, 401-2 pages 48-52 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 40 transition assistance programs pages 42-45 CAE-SOC-302 Number of internships (Montreal only) 293 235 214 % of students hired into a full-time position CAE-SOS-303 following a CAE COOP experience 14%4 9%4 9% Diversity and equal opportunity General employee population: 21% 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 20% 18% Governance bodies: 20% Professional Women’s Network has CAE-SOC-101 Diversity mentorship program pages 49-52 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 mentorship program for women Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective 406-1 page 56 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 49 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 actions taken CAE-SOC-201 Number of foreign agents we hire page 57 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 48 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 43 Report on training completion and Code FY18 Activity & CSR Report, CAE-SOC-202 of Business Conduct acknowledgement page 55 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 48 page 43, page 45 completion Talent retention and attraction 9 major initiatives CAE-SOC-301 Initiatives for talent development pages 49-52 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 including training sessions 1 Per 200,000 hours worked. 2 Not in top three for this reporting period. 3 Data published in the FY19 report has been corrected due to an error in the count of near miss reported 93 4 Number of COOP students hired as regular employees vs total number of COOP students during fiscal year. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY20 FY19 FY18 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Social Employee engagement FY19 Activity & CSR Report, FY18 Activity & CSR Report, CAE-SOC-401 Discussion of Management Approach (DMA) pages 48-52 pages 42-45 pages 40-41 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions 0 0 0 Customer health and safety CAE-SOC-501 Flight safety Number of voluntary reports 61.61 39.3 41.02 (per 10K flight hours) Number of incidents >$50K in damage 0.39 0.33 0.39 (per 10K flight hours) Live flight aviation safety reviews external 19 10 1 Live flight aviation safety reviews internal 13 13 1 (per training location) Marketing and labelling Requirements for product and service 417-1 pages 58-59 FY19 Activity & CSR Report, page 50 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 44 information and labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning 417-2 0 0 0 product and service information and labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning 417-3 0 0 0 marketing communications Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 0 0 0 data Socio-economic compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations 419-1 0 0 0 related to socio-economic matters 1 Our Aviation Safety “Just Culture” is continuing to strengthen, as seen by the increase in our voluntary safety report over the last year. 2 Data published in the FY18 report is updated to reflect updated methodology. 94 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) TCFD Index With the rising global awareness of climate change as a systemic issue and financial risk that has potentially significant repercussions on businesses Recommendation Recommended disclosures Content location around the world, investors – and other capital market participants – are seeking increased transparency on climate-related risks and opportunities TCFD appendix: a) Describe the Board’s oversight of Governance, p. 96 so that they may make more informed financial decisions. climate-related risks and opportunities. Also Proxy Circular p. 27 Governance The recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial b) Describe Management’s role in TCFD appendix: Disclosures (TCFD) were released in June 2017 as a tool to facilitate this assessing and managing climateGovernance, p. 96 transparency. These recommendations are voluntary, consistent climaterelated risks and opportunities. related financial risk and opportunity disclosures for use by companies a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has TCFD appendix: in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers and other identified over the short, medium and Strategy, p. 96-99 stakeholders. As of February 2020, support for the TCFD had grown to long term. over 1,000 organizations, representing a market capitalization of over b) Describe the impact of climateUS$12 trillion. (source) This includes 473 financial firms with assets under related risks and opportunities on the TCFD appendix: management of US$138.8 trillion. (source) Strategy organization’s businesses, strategy and Strategy, p. 96-99 financial planning. As part of our commitment to carbon neutrality, in fiscal 2020 we embarked c) Describe the resilience of the on a more formal process to comprehensively address climate change. organization’s strategy, taking into TCFD appendix: consideration different climate-related Our Climate Change Committee (CCC) – described below – has been Strategy, p. 96-99 scenarios, including a 2°C or lower tasked with conducting a full assessment of climate-related risks and scenario. opportunities. The CCC’s ultimate purpose will be to oversee the integration TCFD appendix: a) Describe the organization’s processes of climate-related issues into CAE’s business strategy, and to identify and for identifying and assessing climateManagement, p. 100 manage risks and opportunities around dedicated projects. related risks. Also MD&A, page 41 TCFD appendix: We believe that reporting practices bring discipline and accountability that b) Describe the organization’s processes Management, p. 100 enhance our ability to manage our key business issues and execute our Risk management for managing climate-related risks. Also MD&A, page 41 strategy. Therefore, we have chosen to implement the TCFD disclosure c) Describe how processes for recommendations as part of our CSR reporting practices. We recognize identifying, assessing and managing that we are at the beginning of a continuous improvement process, and TCFD appendix: climate-related risks are integrated Management, p. 100 we expect our climate-related reporting to improve as we mature in our into the organization’s overall risk identification and management of material climate-related risks and management. opportunities. a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related TCFD appendix: risks and opportunities in line with its Performance, p. 100 strategy and risk management process. “We want to do our share in the fight against climate b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if TCFD appendix: change for the well-being of future generations.” Metrics and appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas Performance, p. 100 targets (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. Also GRI Content Index p. 89 Marc Parent, c) Describe the targets used by the President and Chief Executive Officer organization to manage climateTCFD appendix: related risks and opportunities and Performance, p. 100 performance against targets. 95 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) Governance issues into CAE’s business strategy, and to identify and management activities and provides regular briefings on manage risks and opportunities around dedicated ERM to the EMC and to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has oversight and the Executive projects. The CCC meets at least quarterly and as needed In addition, the Chief Compliance Officer provides Management Committee (EMC) has responsibility for to execute its mandate and reports to the CSR Committee monthly compliance reports to the EMC and quarterly climate-related issues. Such issues are reviewed by the described below. reports to the Board. Board, as needed, to allow for review and guidance on Within the scope of the CCC, the Global Manager, strategy and major plans of action, as well as monitoring Environment is responsible for providing guidance with of implementation and performance against any goals climate-related issues. He maintains regular contact and targets. In addition, the Board has responsibility for with all CAE sites and has a good understanding of Strategy reviewing and approving the Annual Activity and CSR their environmental impacts and challenges. He also Report, including the underlying sustainability roadmap, In our FY19 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report, involves other departments, as appropriate, depending objectives and performance data. we identified several risks and opportunities with the on the nature of the climate-related issue needing to potential to have a substantive financial or strategic As part of the Company's ongoing enterprise risk be addressed. He reports to the Director, Environment, impact on our business, which are described in the management (ERM) process, each quarter the Board Health & Safety, who reports to the head of Global tables below. These were identified over different time and Management discuss the principal risks facing Manufacturing. Reports are submitted to the Vice horizons, where we considered short term to mean our business, as well as annually during the strategic President, Global Operations, Technologies & Innovation, 0-3 years, medium term to mean 3-5 years, and long term planning and budgeting processes. These risks are who is part of the EMC and informs the Board of Directors to mean 5-10 years. They were also identified as falling categorized as industry-related risks, risks specific to CAE as needed. into one of the following categories: regulatory (current and risks related to the current market environment. In parallel, CAE's CSR Committee oversees the and emerging), technology, legal, market, reputation, and Environmental risks, including climate-related risks, are identification, management and reporting of the acute and chronic physical risks. part of this process. The Board receives quarterly reports Company's most material environmental, social, that address climate-related issues, as needed, including governance and social responsibility issues. The CSR Global Operations, Technologies & Innovation, Public Committee includes three members of the EMC as Affairs and Global Communications, as well as Strategy well as members from all key departments impacted and Investor Relations. The Board reviews these reports by sustainability issues and reporting: Environmental, as guidance and orientation. Health & Safety; Communications; Strategy and Investors For more information about the governance of the Relations; Human Resources; Finance; Legal; Compliance; Company’s ERM process, refer to CAE's Management Export Control; Global Operations; Innovation and Proxy Circular, p. 27. Strategic Sourcing. From a management perspective, the EMC leads The Vice President, Public Affairs and Global and oversees climate-related issues. The EMC guides Communications chairs the CSR Committee. She is the various teams and ensures that the appropriate responsible for reviewing the outputs of the CCC as resources and targets are in place and executed. well as elaborating and implementing the Company's In FY19, the CCC was created to specifically address sustainability roadmap. She is responsible for reporting climate-related issues. The Committee includes on sustainability practices on a quarterly basis to the representation from Global Environment and Health and EMC, and for reporting to the Board as important Safety, Global Communications, Strategy and Investors matters arise. She is also responsible for producing the Relations, Global Insurance, Global Real Estate and Company's sustainability reporting on an annual basis. Global Strategic Sourcing departments; other members The Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations is are invited to participate as needed. The Committee’s responsible for the development and implementation of purpose is to oversee the integration of climate-related ERM within CAE. He receives reports on progress of risk 96 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES VALUE OPPORTUNITY PRIMARY FINANCIAL NAME DESCRIPTION HORIZON LIKELIHOOD MAGNITUDE STRATEGY TO REALIZE OPP CHAIN TYPE DRIVER IMPACT Customers seeking to reduce their carbon footprint will tend to curtail live training in favour of simulationbased training. CAE provides Development Increased simulation-based training to Customers and/or revenue through its customers. Pilot training reducing Direct Products and expansion of demand for in a flight simulator has a Short term Likely Medium low N/A their carbon operations services low emission lower emissions significantly lower carbon footprint goods and products and footprint than live training in services services an actual aircraft, therefore allowing CAE's customers worldwide to reduce their own footprint. This represents tangible opportunities for CAE in pilot training. Development Increased More stringent regulations on Monitoring of regulation and/or revenue through carbon taxes could result in changes. Cost to realize Direct Products and expansion of demand for Medium Carbon pricing a wider share of simulationAs likely as not Medium low opportunity is integrated operations services low emission lower emissions term based training versus live into our market intelligence goods and products and training in an actual aircraft. monitoring. services services Development Increased We monitor changes in More stringent regulations and/or revenue through regulation that could affect Aircraft on the aircraft types used for Direct Products and expansion of demand for Medium our operations. The cost to emissions live training could result in As likely as not Medium low operations services low emission lower emissions term realize opportunity is integrated regulations a wider share of simulationgoods and products and into our market intelligence based training. services services monitoring. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS VALUE PRIMARY FINANCIAL NAME RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION HORIZON LIKELIHOOD MAGNITUDE MANAGEMENT METHOD CHAIN DRIVER IMPACT We monitor any change in regulations that could affect Increased Canada has developed a our operations. We deploy operating costs national policy to address energy-saving initiatives at (e.g. higher Carbon Direct Policy and greenhouse gases that will sites where we can influence Transition compliance Short term Very likely Medium low pricing operations legal costs, increased include a tax on carbon or a operational control of energy trading scheme, depending consumption. Management insurance on the provincial regulations. costs are integrated into day-topremiums) day operations and into the risk management process. 97 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) VALUE PRIMARY FINANCIAL NAME RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION HORIZON LIKELIHOOD MAGNITUDE MANAGEMENT METHOD CHAIN DRIVER IMPACT Addresses more stringent regulation on the carbon emissions of aircraft used for training. Adoption of the Carbon Offsetting We review existing opportunities Increased and Reduction Scheme to optimize our aircraft fleet and operating costs for International Aviation reduce our carbon footprint. Aircraft (e.g. higher (CORSIA) by the International We also monitor any change in Direct Policy and Medium emissions operations Transition legal compliance Civil Aviation Organization term As likely as not Medium low regulations that could affect our regulations costs, increased (ICAO) must be closely operations. Management costs insurance followed, even if CORSIA's are integrated into day-to-day premiums) obligations cover CO2 operations and into the risk emissions from international management process. civil aviation for now, and even if there is no immediate impact for CAE on CO2 offsetting and reduction. We have processes in place Some sites are exposed to to address potential impact Increased Reduced revenue severe weather or other from hurricanes at sites with severity of from decreased natural hazard conditions, higher risk. Our CCC is also extreme production such as tropical cyclones, mapping risks associated with Direct capacity (e.g. flooding and earthquakes. climate change issues. For cost weather operations Physical Acute transport Increased frequency or Short term As likely as not Medium low management, CAE maintains events such difficulties, severity of these events may a certain level of insurance as cyclones supply chain impact CAE’s operations and coverage for natural hazard risks and floods interruptions) generate partial or complete and annually evaluates coverage business disruption. to be purchased based on market availability, Increased Our management method operating costs includes mitigating the (e.g. inadequate fluctuations of the cost of energy water supply CAE operates in regions which Rising mean Direct Medium More likely and investing in energy-efficient Physical Chronic to power for could be affected by extreme Low temperatures operations hydroelectric temperatures. term than not buildings and HVAC systems. The CCC is also mapping risks plants or to cool associated to climate change nuclear and fossil issues. fuel plants) Cap and trade schemes We monitor any regulation may constitute additional changes that could affect Increased operational costs. Quebec our operations. We deploy operating costs is part of a carbon trade energy-saving initiatives at (e.g. higher agreement with California. Cap and trade Direct Policy and sites where we can influence Transition compliance Currently, the trade does Short term As likely as not Medium low system operations legal operational control of energy costs, increased not affect our industry, but it consumption. Management insurance could in the future. Our main costs are integrated into day-topremiums) manufacturing site is based day operations and into the risk in the province of Quebec management process. (Canada). 98 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) In FY20, the CCC was tasked with conducting a comprehensive risk assessment. To date, the CCC has refined and expanded the above list of potential Methodology to determine the model of Climate Change risk assessment risks; developed a methodology to assess each site’s exposure to these risks; and begun testing this methodology at one facility. The Committee has also 1 2 3 structured a roadmap to complete risk assessment of the Company’s significant sites by the end of FY22. Establish the context Identify the risks Analyze the risks In the course of these assessments, risks will be • Organization context: • Attached to each Climate • Review the controls or • Description: scope of Change scenario responses already in place prioritized based on their current and future impact to mitigate the Climate work (global, local, etc.) • List of the on the Company's commercial activities, reputation, • Objectives: purpose/ consequences of the Change risks business of the climate phenomenon • Assessment of the regulatory obligations, operations and financial consequences of each company • Impacts for each of the performance. This will form the basis for a risk • Stakeholders: concerns key elements of the risk on the success of organization the Company’s regular identification, assessment and management process and objectives of the business, given the existing main stakeholders controls specific to climate-related issues. This exercise • Criteria: conditions of • Assessment of the may result in our using different time horizons and success of the regular likelihood of each risk business different risk categories than those used in the past, • Global evaluation of • Climate Change scenarios • Risks for each key element the level of risk of the shown above. of the company organization for each of the Climate Change scenario Ultimately, the site-level assessments will be rolled up into a climate assessment for the Company as a whole. This will allow us to determine the most critical climaterelated risks and opportunities for the Company, and to 4 5 detail how these risks are to be managed through our Evaluate the risks Treat the risks existing governance, ERM and monitoring processes. • Ranking of the risks in • Identification of the This will also serve as the basis for the integration of terms of severity relevant options to climate-related issues to CAE’s business strategy and • Screening out of minor mitigate and control each risks that can be set aside of the top priority risks serve to identify and manage risks and opportunities • Identification of top • Selection of the best around dedicated projects. priority risks options for risk mitigation, incorporating these In FY23, we expect to develop and implement risk into forward plan and implementing them mitigation plans for those most critical climaterelated risks and opportunities. Furthermore, while the methodology shown above does take into consideration different possible scenarios, we have not yet conducted a formal scenario analysis. We intend to incorporate a scenario analysis to assess potential business, strategic and financial implications of climate-related risks and opportunities and to develop strategic plans that are more flexible or robust to a range of plausible future states. This is especially important given the very long-term implications of climate-related issues. 99 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reporting (TCFD) Management Performance Targets ERM is essential to CAE given the size, nature We have been reporting our global Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions In FY18 we set an objective for 75% of the electricity and complexity of its operations. CAE has as part of our CSR and CDP reporting practices since FY17. consumption of our European sites to come from implemented an ERM Policy, which sets out a renewable energy by FY22 (more specifically, for all framework and processes to ensure that risks Pursuant to our carbon neutrality pledge, this year we have begun to CAE sites where we have operational control of the are identified, measured, managed and reported measure some of our Scope 3 emissions – those related to business building and control of energy sourcing). This was proactively, and in a manner that is consistent with travel by plane, train and car rental – and expect to expand this done through the purchase of renewable energy the expectations of the Board and the interests of measurement over time. certificates. Our objective was achieved and even CAE’s internal and external stakeholders, including surpassed, reaching 94% in FY19. employees, shareholders, clients and suppliers. CAE's GHG emissions In November 2019, we announced our Pursuant to our policy, our business units exercise METRIC FY20 FY19 FY18 commitment to become carbon neutral in Summer the daily management of their risks and controls 2020 for our carbon emissions from fuel used for and implement corrective actions, as necessary. Scope 1 in tCO2e 23,626 25,213 28,4241 all live training flights at our academies, all energy As mentioned above, the CCC will prioritize consumed at our location worldwide where we climate-related risks by assessing their current Scope 2 – location based in have the operational control on our activities and 81,100 87,825 91,1041 tCO2e and future impacts on the Company's commercial the air business travel of our employees. In the activities, reputation, regulatory obligations, short term, we intend to achieve this objective Scope 2 – market based in operations and financial performance. 76,622 80,550 84,9751 by purchasing renewable energy certificates and tCO2e looking into reliable projects to compensate our In rolling up site-level assessments into a corporate emissions by buying carbon offsets. Over the Scope 3 – partial level climate assessment, the Strategy group will longer term, CAE will work with the industry to (business travel by plane, 13,9562 n/a n/a be responsible for incorporating material climatetrain, car rental) in tCO2e progressively use electric aircraft for the live flight related risks to the Company's ERM process. training in our academies. We will also undertake It will also be responsible for detailing how these Emissions intensity other measures to reduce our overall emissions, risks should be managed through our existing 75.3 85.12 103.621 (MWh/million $ revenue) for example, increasing the energy efficiency of governance, management and monitoring our buildings, reducing aviation fuel consumption processes. Furthermore, we expect to develop 1 Data published in the FY18 report is updated to reflect updated methodology. and business travel, and by continually investing 2 CAE extended this year the scope of its carbon emissions calculations by reporting for the first time its and begin implementing risk mitigation plans no business travels-related emissions (air/car rentals/train) to make our full-flight simulators more energy later than FY23. efficient, therefore allowing our customers worldwide to reduce their own footprint. For more information about the Company’s ERM As we complete the process of more clearly defining our material process, refer to the MD&A, p. 41. climate-related risks and opportunities, and begin implementing management and mitigation measures, we expect to develop additional appropriate key performance indicators with which to track our progress. A decrease in carbon emissions was observed during FY20. Even if each site is facing different energy challenges with variation in the evolution of the intensity of the activities, the past years reduction trend was confirmed thanks to the sourcing of renewable energy and the implementation of energy-saving initiatives. 100 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2020
