SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 COMMITMENT I n spire s 2 01 9 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C E L E B R A T I NA G 9 0 Y E A R S COMMITMENT I n sp i re s 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS  5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 MESSAGE FROM OUR LEADERS 12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 MAKING LIVES BETTER 30 PROUD OF WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT 44 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES 56 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 59 REPORTING INDICES 66 DEVELOPMENT GOALS B OPPORTUNITY 1 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS ‘LEADING’ 3RD YEAR rating achieved in included in Dow Jones Sustainability ACSI ESG reporting review Index (World and Australia) US $6M 1,600+ value of infrastructure projects delivered Oil Search employees by Oil Search under PNG’s ITCS TOP QUARTILE ~290 of Carbon Tracker’s climate-resilient Alaskans attended basketball oil and gas companies and skiing workshops 36% CLIMATE VULNERABILITY decrease in high potential ASSESSMENT TOOL incident frequency rate to 0.72 developed for PNG communities FINAL APPROVAL 5% for Pikka Unit Development of our Alaskan workforce Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) are Alaska native 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 US$628M 0 total socio-economic contribution Major non-conformances in PNG and the USA in PNG ISO 14001 audit 5 COMPLETED Tier 1/Tier 2 process safety Physical Climate Change events in our PNG operations Risk Assessment 126 US $77M post-earthquake water tanks supplier and contractor payments installed by OSF in Hela Province to PNG Landowner Companies ~3,055 SIGNED hours of human rights training with our Land Use Agreement with Kuukpik, security providers in PNG and Alaska the Nuiqsut Village Corporation 67% 39% of leadership roles in PNG increase in the percentage of women held by PNG citizens in senior leadership roles since 2015 3 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT At Oil Search, we are committed environmental, social and economic X The Oil Search website describes issues in the countries in which we our overall approach to managing to transparently reporting operate. Representatives from across material environmental, social and on our approach to, and the business have worked with the governance issues. management of, material social Social Responsibility team to compile a responsibility issues. For this summary of our 2019 performance, and INDEPENDENT ASSUR ANCE it has been reviewed by the Executive reason, we regularly provide To enhance confidence in the integrity Team and the Board Health, Safety and a balanced and timely view on Sustainability Committee (HSSC). of information and underlying processes our performance across these for this Report, as well as help us identify As well as being part of Oil Search’s improvements for future reporting, areas. This enables stakeholders reporting suite, this Report serves our social responsibility reporting has such as shareholders, investors, as our required Communication on been subject to independent assurance project area communities and Progress report as a UN Global Compact since 2011, with the assurance findings governments to review our (UNGC) member. presented to the Executive Leadership Team and the HSSC. performance, compare it to Other elements in our reporting previous years and that of our suite include: For this Report, we obtained independent industry peers, and provide limited assurance from Deloitte Touche X The 2019 Oil Search Annual Report Tohmatsu (Deloitte) over selected social informed feedback. includes a summary of material responsibility data in accordance with aspects of our performance in 2019. This Report provides an update of our Australian Standards on Assurance X The Transparency Report summarises Engagements ASAE 3000. Deloitte’s performance against three key themes: information about payments we Limited Assurance Statement outlines the Making lives better, Proud of what we made in 2019 to governments of scope and basis of the assurance they do and how we do it and Engaging and the countries where Oil Search have provided. empowering our people. has a presence, as well as other It presents an update on Oil Search’s socio-economic contributions. This Deloitte is Oil Search’s external auditor as social responsibility performance relating information also informs our Extractive well as our social responsibility reporting to projects in Papua New Guinea (PNG) Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) assurance provider. The Audit and and Alaska under our operational control submission for PNG. Financial Risk Committee oversees the for the 2019 calendar year, as well as independence of this relationship and X The Data Centre contains multiour plans to address broader social governs the approval processes. year performance data across a responsibility impacts in our supply chain. range of environmental, social and governance indicators in accordance DISCLAIMER Our non-operated equity interests in the with external benchmarks and This Report contains some forward-looking PNG LNG Project and Papua LNG Project standards, including the Global statements that are subject to particular are not included. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards risks associated with the oil and gas 2016. The data is supported by a industry. Actual outcomes could differ O U R 2 019 R E P O R T I N G S U I T E detailed Basis of Preparation. materially due to a range of operational, Oil Search recognises the importance X The VPSHR Report outlines Oil cost and revenue factors and uncertainties of public disclosure. Being transparent Search’s progress on implementing including: oil and gas prices, changes about our social responsibility activities the Voluntary Principles on Security in market demand for oil and gas, and performance makes us accountable and Human Rights (VPSHR) in 2019 currency fluctuations, drilling results, field to our stakeholders, supports informed performance, timing of well workovers X The Modern Slavery Statement decision-making and provides an and field development, reserves depletion describes Oil Search’s modern opportunity to incorporate stakeholder and fiscal and other government issues slavery readiness plan, with actions feedback into our strategic planning. and approvals. for establishing socially responsible Our 2019 reporting suite outlines our business practices in our supply chain. approach to considering and addressing 5 EILEEN DOYLE M E S SAG E F RO M O I L S E A RC H ’S H S S CO M M I T T E E C H A I R The Oil Search 2019 Social WORKING WITH delivered initiatives aimed at improving Responsibility Report reflects our COMMUNITIES community access to health services commitment to operating in a socially A key focus area is Oil Search’s ongoing and education opportunities, as well responsible manner and sets out Oil engagement with the communities improving literacy and protecting and Search’s social and environmental who live in the areas in which we empowering women. We applied a performance during the year. operate, including those closest to our similar approach in Alaska, focusing on operations in Alaska. In 2019 we worked youth engagement and wellbeing and Our industry faces increasing scrutiny providing support to local community and enquiry and higher expectations closely with these local communities to listen to and address their concerns in members and organisations, including for responsible business conduct. protecting and celebrating Nuiqsut’s Oil Search will of course maintain its relation to any potential impacts on the environment, including subsistence. cultural heritage. focus on health and safety and with our proud history of working closely Long-lasting relationships with these communities are vital to the success C L I M AT E C H A N G E with local communities in mutually beneficial relationships, we are well of our Pikka Unit Development Project We recognise that investor and placed to effectively embrace evolving and we want future generations to also stakeholder interest in climate change sustainability issues as well as broader share in its success. This transparent has increased significantly and will issues related to the energy transition. and meaningful engagement helped to continue to grow. Meeting growing These themes will be considered as part achieve several significant milestones demand for energy while ensuring that of the strategic review to be undertaken during 2019, including the signing of the supply is reliable, affordable, clean during the first half of 2020. the Land Use Agreement with Kuukpik and low emission is both a challenge (the Nuiqsut Village Corporation). and an opportunity for our industry. Oil Search supports the Paris Agreement In PNG we continued to work with implementation efforts. We are listening local communities, including through to all our stakeholders, including the Oil Search Foundation, to local communities, our shareholders understand their needs. In 2019 we 6 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 and our own people. Sustainability, Principles and Recommendations (the To reflect its consideration and oversight climate change and energy transition ‘ASX Principles’). The fourth edition of evolving and broader sustainability are key elements of Oil Search’s 2020 of the ASX Principles took effect on 1 issues in 2020, the Board’s Health, strategic review. January 2020. Among other changes, Safety and Sustainability Committee it asks ASX listed companies to will be re-named the Sustainability During 2019, we extended our climate consider how they manage social and Committee and its charter updated resilience work to include communities environmental risks, including climate to reflect, amongst other things our in PNG. We also improved our methane change. Our 2019 Annual Report increased focus on social responsibility, emissions reporting capability and reports on exposures to these risks, sustainability and climate change. undertook an assessment of the physical including climate change and human These changes will assist the Committee impact of climate change on our assets. rights, and details how we manage their to discharge its responsibilities with In September 2019, Oil Search’s assets potential impact. respect to monitoring current and future were assessed to be within the top environmental, social and governance quartile of projects with the lowest The ASX Principles also encourage issues and overseeing Company-wide exposure to climate change transition companies to consider whether they efforts to ensure we have a long-term, risk by Carbon Trackers Paris-aligned have any material exposure to climate sustainable future. investment report”, which evaluates change risk by reference to the Financial oil and gas investment required under Stability Board’s Task Force on ClimateI hope you find this Social Responsibility different climate change scenarios. related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report informative. If you have and if they do, to consider making the any feedback, please send it to I M P R OV I N G G OV E R N A N C E disclosures recommended by the TCFD. socialresponsibility@oilsearch.com. The Company released its first Climate The Company remains committed Change Resilience Report prepared to ensuring that it has appropriate under the TCFD in 2018 and continues governance arrangements in place to make disclosures aligned with TCFD and reports against the ASX Corporate recommendations. Eileen Doyle Council’s Corporate Governance HSS Committee Chair 7 MESSAGE FROM OUR LEADERS 8 PETER BOTTEN M E S SAG E F RO M O I L S E A RC H ’S M A NAG I N G D I R E CT O R By engaging collaboratively with To protect women and families against While workplace safety performance communities, Oil Search has achieved endemic family and sexual violence in PNG was challenged by onshore mutually beneficial, sustainable (FSV) in PNG, OSF supported FSV and offshore exploration and appraisal outcomes for 90 years. Our training programmes and emergency programmes, there were discrete areas of commitment has made a substantial accommodation initiatives in 2019. Bel safety excellence, particularly in Alaska. long-term contribution that has isi PNG referral rates exceeded annual However, in PNG, high-risk activities changed lives. targets by 25%, and client numbers at impacted our safety performance, so A key component to achieving Hela Family Support Centre increased we implemented targeted improvement sustainable change is our work through 100% from 2018. programmes that led to performance the Oil Search Foundation (OSF), with improvement by year end. SUPPORTING BETTER its innovative, integrated and effective E N E R GY AC C E S S FA R E W E L L approach. Improving access to clean, affordable Reading through this Report, I am L E A D I N G T H E WAY energy remained a strategic priority for reminded of another busy and During 2019, OSF continued Oil Search. We successfully completed constructive year of building on our supporting the PNG Government’s construction of the natural gas-powered proud history. The recognition of Oil health service delivery. Expanding NiuPower Port Moresby power station, Search’s unwavering commitment outreach patrols resulted in a 20% which began supplying cleaner, lowto sustainable development in the increase in immunisations. They also cost electricity to the local grid. We also SAM Sustainability Yearbook 2020 contributed to keeping malaria rates progressed basic engineering work on was a terrific way to end my 26-year low and a dramatic increase in family PNG’s first utility-scale biomass power leadership. I thank past and present planning services uptake. plant and made other preparations for employees, governments, OSF, our the Final Investment Decision in 2020. partners, our shareholders and the Improving literacy and access to quality PNG people for their support and education has profound long-term KEEPING PEOPLE SAFE encouragement in this area, which is social results. Since OSF partnered with close to my heart, and look forward Ensuring the safety of our people, Buk bilong Pikinini to create remote to continuing my association with communities and assets remained early childhood literacy libraries, more PNG as OSF Chairman. our top priority. A post-earthquake than 400 children have received the programme ensured the safety and opportunity to learn to read. reliability of our PNG drilling and production assets before they returned to operation. Peter Botten Managing Director 9 KEIRAN WULFF M E S SAG E F RO M O I L S E A RC H ’S I N CO M I N G M A NAG I N G D I R E CT O R It is an honour to be selected as Oil multiple challenges in this transition, With world-class assets and proven Search’s next Managing Director. Like including evolving stakeholder capability to create shared value, we are Peter Botten, I am passionate about expectations around responsible well positioned to thrive in an evolving Oil Search’s ability to contribute to the behaviour. As we enter our next world and energy transition era where wellbeing of local communities, and I growth phase, Oil Search is well-placed social responsibility and environmental want us to remain leaders in responsible to meet these expectations as well as sustainability are key to ongoing project and programme delivery and to identify opportunities. success. This review will also ensure our social responsibility. operations and project execution remain I am confident about our future, environmentally and socially responsible. As we expand Oil Search’s operations given that we are building on a and consider our position in the energy strong foundation, for which unique Oil Search’s unique commitment to transition, we have a great opportunity community engagement and operating social responsibility is an integral part to make a real contribution by building responsibly are integral parts. of its DNA. I am committed to building on our social development expertise and Throughout our history, one of our key on our social development and to delivering a unique model that continues strengths has been the ability to adapt socially and environmentally responsible to set us apart in terms of project delivery and evolve, by identifying and moving operations as well as open, transparent and equitable value for all stakeholders. swiftly on opportunities, and we will stakeholder engagement. Our goal is continue to do so. to not just continue, but to enhance, As always, our actions will continue to Oil Search’s high standards. be guided by our core values and our S T R AT E G I C R E V I E W commitment to safety and long-term I look forward to sharing the outcomes sustainable value creation, in line with the Positioning ourselves within a changing from this process in the second half principles of the UN Global Compact. world requires strategic planning and of 2020 and to meet and exceed implementation. In the first half of 2020 stakeholder expectations. MEETING we are conducting a comprehensive CHALLENGING TIMES strategic review, which will re-evaluate Oil Search’s long-term vision, strategic The global energy industry’s transition focus and path for generating top to lower emission technology is clear, quartile returns for stakeholders and Keiran Wulff although it is happening at an uneven delivering wide stakeholder value. Managing Director Designate pace. The oil and gas industry faces 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 11 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 90 YEARS OF COMMITMENT Maintaining a stable operating committing to open and transparent engagement, Oil Search aspires to meet environment has been a society’s expectations, deliver against strategic priority for Oil Search our corporate strategy and achieve for nine decades, and our our vision. longstanding commitment to being socially responsible D E L I V E R I N G S T R AT E G I C A L LY has played a major role in A L I G N E D AC T I O N helping us to achieve it. Oil Search’s vision is to generate top quartile returns for shareholders through From supporting sustainable excellence in socially responsible oil and development and institutional gas exploration and production. transparency to investing in Our social responsibility approach infrastructure and helping supports this vision by promoting community resilience, our local stability. We focus on achieving social responsibility approach measurable goals as part of our and initiatives promote growth contribution to socio-economic development and reflect our and stability in the countries commitment to continuously improving where we operate. performance while also engaging and empowering employees. Oil Search’s approach to Social Responsibility is guided by the One of the key strengths of Oil Search’s principles of our Social Responsibility sustainable business success is its ability Policy and integrated with the to adapt to evolving market conditions business’s broader strategic objectives. and expectations, which we believe It prioritises initiatives and improvement also present new opportunities. In the areas with material business value and first half of 2020 we are conducting a provides a framework for optimising comprehensive strategic review which the positive impact of our social will assess the optimal configuration of responsibility activities. our business, the energy transition and Oil Search’s role in providing reliable By having a robust strategic social and cleaner energy. responsibility framework and 12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 13 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DE L I V E R I NG ST R AT EGICA L LY A L IGN E D ACT ION MAKING LIVES BETTER P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H OW W E D O I T We seek to adopt industry best practice when managing We aspire to set the standard for private sector material social responsibility issues, exceeding contribution to sustainable development stakeholder expectations for environmental and social performance wherever we can E N G AG I N G A N D E M P OW E R I N G O U R E M P LOY E E S We seek to provide a workplace that celebrates diversity, supports learning and development and drives high performance ENHANCING OUR external stakeholders. Implementation Expanding local resources E N G AG E M E N T A P P R OAC H of the new grievance management To support these goals, we expanded Successful stakeholder management is system has commenced, which will our Alaska EA team to reflect the variety a key element in Oil Search’s business improve the transparency, oversight and depth of project stakeholders. success. From local communities to and consistency of stakeholder issues Nine industry professionals joined the government agencies, we have a management from receipt to resolution. team, providing significant government long track record of building strong, experience and extensive local mutually respectful relationships with knowledge of, and connections with, key stakeholders. Through regular the Nuiqsut community. communication and engagement, we keep up with their priorities and A key position was the new full-time concerns, make sure we respond Community Liaison Officer , whose quickly and appropriately, and keep role was crucial in facilitating questions them informed about what we are doing We are committed to and concerns and fostering two-way and why we are doing it. helping preserve the local dialogue between Oil Search and Alaska North Slope communities In 2019, we strengthened and community’s subsistence during the year. articulated more clearly our stakeholder lifestyle and culture and engagement capability and processes. ensuring all stakeholders Priorities in 2019 As part of the changes, a new benefit from the Pikka X Fostering meaningful and lasting community partnerships, corporate External Affairs (EA) team Unit Development. maximising cooperation and was introduced to support the external mutual understanding. affairs teams embedded in our PNG and Alaska Business Units. This will help X Communicating Oil Search’s sincere us to maintain a consistent stakeholder commitment to working closely engagement philosophy and approach Alaska with local partners and communities across the business. toward positive outcomes and With business activity ramping up for a sustainable impact that lasts We also developed an organisationour 30-year investment in Alaska, a beyond the lives of our projects. wide grievance management major focus during 2019 was building stakeholder relationships by working X Engaging with local people and procedure and process for external closely with the community to businesses, including area and stakeholders, using the results of understand their needs. regional industry operators, to build the 2018 review of our community our collective ability and capacity engagement and grievance We are committed to helping preserve to fulfil employment opportunities management practices and processes. the local community’s subsistence through local and regional hiring. The new procedure outlines the lifestyle and culture and ensuring process and mechanisms for capturing, all stakeholders benefit from the assessing, escalating and responding Pikka Unit Development. to a broad range of issues raised by 14 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 X As part of the wider BU team, X Disappointingly, despite lengthy Three additional workshops of the same working closely with local, state discussions with the PNG training will be convened in 2020, and federal governments to secure Government’s State Negotiating targeting 30 Community Affairs staff. the required permits for our winter Team, agreement on appropriate exploratory programmes and terms for the P’nyang Gas Industry collaboration progress plans for constructing Agreement was not reached and Oil Search collaborates and actively the Pikka Unit Development. formal talks were suspended on engages with peers to facilitate Receiving the United States Army 31 January 2020. Since that time, greater understanding of community Corps of Engineers (USACE) Record both ExxonMobil and Total (as engagement and other issues related of Decision (ROD) for the project’s operators of PRL 3 and Papua LNG, to the industry. Environmental Impact Statement respectively) have indicated their and Borough approval for the continued support for the existing During 2019, we continued to be Master Plan, along with signing the three-train integrated development. active members of IPIECA and the Land Use Agreement with Kuukpik The project proponents, including Global Compact Network Australia (the Nuiqsut Village Corporation), Oil Search, strongly believe that the (GCNA) and to be involved in were key achievements. optimal way of developing both the several task forces and working P’nyang field and the Papua LNG groups. These forums provide a Regular communications Project is through the integrated strong platform for multi-stakeholder In April, we began producing and development, which creates dialogue and an opportunity to distributing the monthly Oil Search substantial value for all stakeholders. discuss challenges, tools and guidance. Bulletin. This provides local people X We are working closely with our with operations updates, community partners and the PNG Government, O I L S E A R C H ’S S TA K E H O L D E R activity information and job and training to help facilitate re-engagement I N T E R AC T I O N S I N 2 019 opportunities. The Bulletin is posted on the P’nyang Gas Agreement Oil Search engages with governments, on a community Facebook page and and ensure that the integrated investors, business partners, printed and mailed to every household. three-train development proceeds non‑government organisations (NGOs), into Front‑end Engineering Design communities, our people and other To further our Alaskan team’s (FEED) in a timely manner. stakeholder groups so we can better understanding of local culture, we printed Nuiqsut Heritage: A Cultural X Proactively engaging with understand the potential impacts Plan — also known as the Paisanich – stakeholders and landowners, and opportunities of our activities a natural history of the community of including the management and and any stakeholder concerns. By Nuiqsut. This was distributed to leaders de‑escalation of landowner taking part in ongoing engagements in our drilling and Alaskan Business Unit grievances. We progressively and discussions during the year we teams and to the Oil Search Executive addressed a number of outstanding addressed emerging risks by ensuring Leadership Team. landowner grievances, resulting in our strategy, public reporting and the signing of a return-to-service grievance management processes PNG agreement with Moran Oilfield met stakeholder expectations. In PNG, the focal point for our landowners. EA team was creating a stable We also continued enhancing operating environment and value the stakeholder engagement and for our shareholders in a way that community development capability was both socially responsible and of our PNG Community Affairs accommodated political changes. staff during the year. Sixteen team members received training that Priorities in 2019 enhanced key strengths: X Actively pursuing key government and X Effective community consultation stakeholder alignment and support and engagement. for growth and expansion projects, including those that had been agreed X Local community stakeholder with the previous government. The mapping and data collection. new PNG Government leadership X Planning and measuring community team validated the terms of the development project impacts. landmark Gas Agreement for the Papua LNG Project in May. 15 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HOST GOVERNMENTS (PNG, STATE OF ALASKA, AUSTRALIA) WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Permits, agreements and licences X Revenue from resources X Participating in meetings, X Permits and approvals workshops, initiatives and X Land access rights X Development partners X Tax policy working groups X Regulatory policy, compliance X Skills and experience in project X Security X Supporting the government health and management delivery sector and service delivery X Nationalisation of resources X Protecting secure and stable X Subject matter expertise X Supporting with logistics, X Loans and dividends operating environment X Land access information and advice X Papua LNG Gas Agreement X Effective governance and when requested X Local employment, business execution and review judicial system development and training X Licence applications, plan X PNG foreign exchange issues X Licence to operate submission, lessee, and permits X Improving governance and X Partnership opportunities X Investor and partner transparency X Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme for development submissions and reviews X Earthquake assistance X Fiscal stability X Infrastructure delivery X Energy policy and climate change X Benefits distribution SHAREHOLDERS, ANALYSTS AND THIRD-PARTY BENCHMARKS WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Provide capital X Provision of accurate information X Regular results announcements, X Papua LNG Project Gas for informed investment decisions media releases, presentations Agreement X Rate and compare our and webcasts performance X Open, effective and transparent X P’nyang Gas Agreement communication X One-on-one telephone calls, X Influence public and investor X PNG domestic political stability meetings and briefings with perception investors and broking analysts X PNG foreign exchange issues X Reflect societal sentiment and X Investor roadshows in key X Organisational restructure expectations domestic and international X Alaska resource potential, locations appraisal programme, X Annual field trips to operations development path X Responses to reports, X Oil price questionnaires, benchmarks, X Climate change rankings and information requests X Annual regulatory and voluntary reports, website and social media BUSINESS PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Provide expertise, goods, services X Business development and local X Pre-qualification and screening X Local business opportunities and equipment employment X Site visits and audits X Capability development X Share resources and capability X Economic development X One-on-one meetings X Local employment X Raise industry standards X Responsible supply chain X Contractor induction, ongoing X Potential partnerships management X Performance and risk management training and awareness X Logistical challenges and solutions X Performance and risk management X Foster relationships X Business development, X Personnel safety X Compliance with contract governance and safety X Reputation and responsible supply requirements, regulations X PNG foreign exchange shortages chain management X Support for PNG Lancos and statutes X Contract and procurement X Application of local knowledge management and best practice X Compliance reviews 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 PROJECT AREA COMMUNITIES WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Directly and indirectly impacted by X Directly and indirectly impacted by X Community/Village Liaison Officer X Access to infrastructure our activities our activities roles, networks and committees and services X Maintain a stable and safe X Business and employment X Regular visits to villages/towns X Delivery of community projects operating environment opportunities X Sponsor community activities X Project development feedback X Diverse and resilient local X Development opportunities and and events X Land access and compensation economies partnering X Meetings/workshops with X Employment, education, training X Provide employees, suppliers, X Community shareholding community leaders and and business opportunities services and equipment participation representatives X PNG benefits distribution X Risk management X Economic development X Sustainable development programmes/investment X Implementation of PNG X Local knowledge X Public-Private Partnerships Government commitments X Grievance management process X Influence on regulators, Lancos and NGOs. X Socio-economic surveys X Community newsletters X Annual reports, website and social media OUR PEOPLE WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Key asset for delivering our X Learning and development X Town Hall sessions X Business Strategy and changes Business Strategy opportunities X Annual career development, X Organisational restructure X Technical expertise X Career progression training and performance X Safety and sustainability processes X Advocate in the community X Succession planning X Diversity and inclusion X Employee engagement survey X Source of local knowledge and X Values alignment X Citizen development expertise X Employee newsletters and intranet communications X Employee development X Organisational culture opportunities X Presentations, webcasts and direct meetings X Workplace flexibility X Q&A sessions CIVIL SOCIETY, NON-GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY ORGANISATIONS WHY THEY ARE WHY ENGAGEMENT IS HOW WE INTERACT KEY TOPICS IN 2019 IMPORTANT TO US IMPORTANT TO THEM X Specialist skills and expertise X Partners for sustainable X One-on-one briefings/meetings X Benefits and payments development investment and transparency X Local networks and experience X Respond to information requests initiatives X Supplier development X Resources X Membership of industry X Complementary skillsets and associations X Human rights and modern slavery X Knowledge-sharing experience X Participation in multi-stakeholder X Sustainable development priorities X Ability to influence other X Contribute industry or third-party forums and conferences and partnership opportunities stakeholders perspective X Representation on governance X Climate change X Reflect societal expectations X Organisational performance bodies X Human rights X Subject matter expertise X Contribution to submissions X Taxation X Sponsorship and presentations X Women’s empowerment X Partnership opportunities and protection, family and sexual violence X Support for industry submissions on relevant legislation and policy initiatives 17 MAKING LIVES BETTER C O L L A B O R AT I V E , P R A C T I C A L A N D R E SOU RC E F U L Oil Search aspires to be at the develops skills and provides training to local people, encourages women’s forefront of working with local empowerment and improves local and communities and sustainable national infrastructure. development, a responsible Partnerships are one reason for our corporate citizen and to deliver success. As a long-term Operator, we value to communities, including have spent decades building strong, how we plan, develop and mutually respectful local relationships. carry out life-changing projects By collaborating with governments, land owners, NGOs, development partners and programmes. and our industry peers, we can pool We invest in community projects and resources, knowledge and skills and create social investment programmes broaden our reach. Together, we have that align with local needs and a greater positive social impact than as our business activities. As well as individual organisations. maintaining a stable operating This socially responsible approach environment, this is a powerful way to doing business is important for Oil to improve social and economic Search and its future and has helped conditions in countries where we to shape our past. After 90 years, we operate and provide sustainable have a proud legacy of sustainable benefits to communities. development, particularly in PNG. We engage with governments, local From providing Southern Highlands communities and non-governmental villages with access to power for the first organisations to identify opportunities time to rebuilding damaged communal to do this. Working closely with local buildings after natural disasters, we people and authorities, we plan are committed to supporting local and deliver sustainable projects that communities and businesses, building make life better for individuals and a workforce that draws from local and communities. Every day, Oil Search other PNG communities and working supports local small businesses, enables to maximise our social impact while access to better health and education, minimising our environmental footprint. 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 19 MAKING LIVES BETTER 2019 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY US$628M ~150 US$6M total socio-economic Alaskan young people value of infrastructure contributions in PNG attended our sponsored projects delivered by and the USA basketball camps at the Oil Search under PNG’s ITCS Nuiqsut Trapper School PNG’S FIRST GRIDUS$15M CLIMATE VULNERABILITY CONNECTED GAS-FIRED contributed to the ASSESSMENT TOOL POWER STATION Oil Search Foundation developed for commissioned in Port PNG communities Moresby by NiuPower, a 50:50 joint venture between Oil Search and Kumul Energy 1,650 ~150 100 survivors of family and sexual Children learned to read Alaskan children and young violence supported in PNG in three OSF-funded people improved their skiing through OSF partnerships literacy libraries skills through an Oil Search supported programme 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 B E T T E R AC C E S S T O C L E A N , A F F O R DA B L E P OW E R In PNG, only around 13% of the population is connected to the electricity grid and much of the electricity is generated from diesel. Oil Search helps to grow the PNG domestic energy supply, which in turn creates jobs, drives economic development and improves quality of life. We have worked on opportunities in PNG for renewable biomass energy, gas-fired power and domestic LNG distribution for power generation, transport and mining. Our plans also support national development and climate change goals. The PNG Government has committed to providing 70% of households with access to electricity by 2030 PNG Biomass project and transitioning to 100% renewable Underway in the Markham Valley energy by 2050. in Morobe Province since 2011, this renewable project consists of a 30 MW Oil Search’s commitment to making Partnerships are one biomass power plant integrated with power distribution more efficient and dedicated sustainable forestry cleaner continued in 2019, when we of the keys to our success. plantations to provide domestically consolidated our activities to deliver a high-impact power plant project in Port Together, we have a sourced and generated biomass greater positive electricity for the Ramu Grid. In 2019, Moresby and progress a renewable, 750 hectares or approximately 1 million biomass project in the Markham Valley. social impact than as seedlings were planted, bringing NiuPower Port Moresby power station individual organisations. the total trees planted since 2011 to 3.5 million. The plantations will be In March 2019, NiuPower Ltd — which managed following sustainable forestry is owned 50:50 by Oil Search Power principles to maintain their full range of and Kumul Energy — completed the environmental, social and economic construction and commissioning of to PNG Power Limited, a national electricity distributor. The Port Moresby values in the long-term. PNG’s first dedicated, grid-connected gas-fired power plant. power station currently supplies around The power plant is designed to provide 32 MW of electricity to the Port Moresby domestic low-emission renewable Construction of the 58 MW power electricity grid, with plans to reach full energy while providing local rural station at Port Moresby was conducted 58 MW capacity during 2020, now communities with substantial economic to stringent environmental and safety that the new 80 MW transmission line growth opportunities, so it supports standards. No recordable safety or is completed. our sustainable development and environmental incidents occurred and climate change goals. there were no community disruptions. At full capacity, the plant can supply During the construction phase of the about 75% of Port Moresby’s average Basic engineering work commenced project, the workforce exceeded 300, daily electricity requirements and in May 2019, and the layout and design of which over 80% were PNG citizens. generates the lowest-cost hydrocarbon is currently being updated. The project Next to the PNG LNG facility, the power fuelled power in the region. As it is is in the process of validation and plant is fuelled by gas sourced from the powered by natural gas, it provides a registration under the Gold Standard of PNG LNG joint venture facilities. much cleaner energy supply than the the Global Goals and has the potential existing heavy oil and diesel fuels used to generate approximately four million In late 2019, NiuPower was granted for the majority of Port Moresby’s power tonnes of carbon offsets over its life. a generation licence by the PNG generation needs. Government and began selling power 21 MAKING LIVES BETTER OSF’s close involvement in governance provides a strong foundation for helping the three PHAs and their respective health facilities to improve some of the worst health indicators in PNG by providing sustainable health service delivery in Oil Search project areas. Among other activities, OSF: X Supported financial governance reforms, leading to an increase in government funding flowing to health services X Provided supplementary funding for doctors’ salaries to retain doctors in remote areas X Managed and supported health facility infrastructure upgrades, including major work at Hela Provincial Hospital and Nipa‑Kutubu‑District Hospital X Provided medical equipment X Supported advisory and logistical support for improving public health and clinical governance X Leveraged funding from other donors and government to support We expect to make a Financial Partnering with PHAs to strengthen improvements in health. Investment Decision on the PNG health governance Biomass project mid-2020. OSF supports government health Immunisation service delivery through strong In October, the Gulf PHA launched a S T R O N G E R H E A LT H S E R V I C E S partnerships with Provincial Health three-year donor-funded Accelerated Most of Oil Search’s PNG operating Authorities (PHAs) in Hela, Gulf and Immunisation and System Strengthening locations are in rural and remote areas Southern Highlands provinces. project in partnership with OSF, with challenged public health care These partnerships succeed because WHO and UNICEF. OSF will manage services and infrastructure. Since 1992, they are built on transparency and the grant funding for this project, we have directly provided or worked collaboration and because we align working with the Gulf PHA to achieve through the Oil Search Foundation (OSF) our health service goals with those routine immunisation programmes by and their networks and partnerships to of the PNG Government. 2022 for children aged under five years improve the health programmes and to increase immunisation coverage Oil Search and OSF Board Directors to 80% by 2022. This support will be hospital services available to members hold chairperson positions on the extended to the Southern Highlands of our local communities. governance bodies of the Hela and Province in 2020. We do this work in a way that Southern Highlands PHAs. When the complements and helps to strengthen Gulf PHA was launched in July 2019, the public system. We also draw on another OSF Board Director was Oil Search’s technical knowledge appointed to its Board so OSF now in areas such as infrastructure chairs all three PHAs, which together development and capacity building. are responsible for health service delivery for around 1 million people. 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Wok Bung Wantaim health care facilities if required. These Expanding health infrastructure OSF’s partnership with the PNG services are a critical lifeline to isolated Through our participation in the PNG Government, Australian Government communities. In 2019, 3,651 community Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme and other donors working through the members, including members of (ITCS), Oil Search supports the Wok Bung Wantaim (‘Working together employee’s families, were treated at PNG Government’s development, in Partnership’) approach continued an Oil Search clinic and 96 medical rehabilitation and maintenance of to improve health outcomes. In 2019, evacuations or transfers occurred. health care facilities in our project the partners: area communities. Malaria X Supported Hela and Southern The Foundation continued to partner Highlands PHAs to meet national with Rotarians Against Malaria (RAM), targets for delivering polio which assists in keeping malaria rates and measles vaccinations in low. Logistical support to RAM enabled both locations. delivery of bed nets, training for PHA X Helped Hela PHA to implement service level agreements with all staff, distribution of testing kits and treatment drugs to communities in 15 church-managed health services for Hela, Southern Highlands and Gulf remote outreach patrols the first time – 70% of Hela health provinces and keeping RAM informed facilitated delivering facilities are managed by churches – of potential outbreaks in high-risk areas. by setting new targets and improving These services helped to maintain 5,716 services to over accountability for the use of health low malaria rates in Oil Search project 40 communities services funding. area communities and consequently X Mobilised clinical governance and executive management training for in OSF sites. 343 Hela PHA senior executives and Family planning people completed middle managers under the Health OSF’s partnership with, and funding six‑month TB Sector Services Development for, Marie Stopes PNG, which treatment courses Program, which is funded by the commenced in 2017, has proved an Asian Development Bank. outstanding success. Marie Stopes X Leveraged US$1 million from Open Members (of PNG Parliament) PNG provided 3,241 Couple Years Protection (CYP) through 1,087 family 11,948 through District Development planning interventions in 2019. immunisations Authorities (DDAs) to support 17 CYP is the internationally accepted delivered to children health facility upgrades across Hela. family planning measure used to under 1 year of age estimate years of protection provided Improving outreach and by different family planning interventions. service delivery It estimates the protection provided Around 85% of PNG’s population lives by contraceptive methods during in remote areas such as the Southern a one‑year period, based on the During 2019, we continued to deliver Highlands and Hela, where the nearest volume of all contraceptives sold or critical health infrastructure in Hela health facilities can take days to reach distributed free of charge to clients Province. This included building by foot. OSF works with PHAs to plan during that period. new nurses’ accommodation and and facilitate extended and integrated a hospital kitchen, installing new X-ray outreach patrols into very remote areas. The outcomes exceeded targets for units in two hospitals, and renovating In 2019, 15 extended patrols were family planning services in all three earthquake‑damaged major health conducted with partners, reaching provinces by over 100%. Take-up rates facilities. See page 29 for further over 40 communities and delivering in Hela Province exceeded expectations information on Oil Search’s rehabilitation 5,716 services. in the first six months of service delivery efforts following the 2018 earthquake. for the year, with over 90% of couples Oil Search also provides medical choosing extended protection, which Infrastructure improvements were also support directly to members of the was achieved through implants. made to three health facilities in Kikori community in PNG by providing access District, including renovations of Aid to on-site clinics inclusive of emergency Posts that have been closed for nearly medivacs or patient transfer to primary two decades. 23 MAKING LIVES BETTER Through OSF, Oil Search also supported the refurbishment of Basic Management Units for treating Tuberculosis (TB) in three health facilities in Hela and Kikori. This increased local people’s access to diagnosis and treatment of what is becoming a major public health issue for many parts of PNG. Altogether, 343 people completed six-month TB treatment courses, a 37% increase from 2018. MORE OPPORTUNITIES F O R L I F E LO N G E D U C AT I O N Access to education improves people’s employment prospects and health outcomes. It also helps women to The newest library is in Fugwa, a remote In addition to the new OSF programme, become more empowered. For community in Hela Province. It is a joint Oil Search continued its scholarship communities, improving access to venture between the Open Member of programme for young people from education promotes local stability Parliament for Koroba/Kopiago and OSF project area communities. Throughout and helps to provide Oil Search with and was completed in October 2019. 2019, we supported 111 young people a diverse and skilled workforce. The new literacy library building in Kikori to continue with their tertiary education which was completed in 2019, enrolled in a range of disciplines. Education therefore plays a critical 112 children in early 2019 and 76 role in sustainable development and children completed a full year of classes. Supporting the education system improving literacy and access to quality In Habare library in Hela, 78 children During the year, OSF finalised a education in PNG remains a priority. completed a full year of literacy classes. Memorandum of Understanding Our development activities help to (MoU) with the National Department of Providing student scholarships Education to enhance the sustainability increase awareness within project area communities of how important OSF completed the full implementation of its education programmes, support education is for adults and children. of its scholarship programme during development of the 2020-2030 Together, Oil Search and OSF deliver the year. The scholarships focus on Education Plan and introduce a many programmes that improve literacy, students studying medicine, nursing, new education policy. support education delivery and increase community health, midwifery, education and business and financial management. The Foundation also commenced participation by children, young people discussions with the National and adults. They also offer opportunities to develop leadership skills through Research Institute on establishing structured training, mentoring and a school readiness research project Building literacy libraries work placements. and a baseline study of early Launched in partnership with Buk bilong childhood literacy. Pikinini, the number of OSF-funded early In 2019, 25 students completed childhood literacy libraries grew to three their academic year through these Oil Search’s Community Affairs team in 2019, with 148 children learning to scholarships including nine funded by continued to support teachers from read during the year. OSF are planning the Australian Government. Nine 2018 schools within the project impact two more new libraries, in Samberigi scholarship recipients who graduated area who must upgrade their training and Pimaga in 2020. as medical doctors in early 2019 took qualifications from certificate holder to up residencies in Provincial Hospitals diploma level to meet PNG Education Focused on empowering children Department qualification standards. across PNG. Three 2019 scholarship through literacy, the library programme In 2019, we supported 12 teachers recipients who will graduate as has provided the opportunity for to ensure that they could continue medical doctors in early 2020 have more than 400 children to learn to working in their communities. been assigned to Hela Provincial read since it began. Hospital as residents. 24 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 E X PA N D E D S U P P O R T F O R Skiing Search and Rescue AL ASK AN COMMUNITIES Many Alaskan children look forward Working with Nuiqsut Search and As part of our sustainable development to winter and spring as they love skiing. Rescue (SAR) to upscale, support and and community engagement In April, Oil Search was the Nuiqsut maintain their wider operations is a programme for our Alaskan project area sponsor for Skiku, an organisation unique opportunity for Oil Search. communities, Oil Search is promoting that aims to get Alaskans healthy and Our support and investment will and supporting safety, health and active by skiing. provide tangible benefits to the wellness initiatives and contributing whole community and strengthen our to community organisations. Skiku’s world-class Olympic athlete staff relationship with community members. and volunteers provided cross-country Promoting healthier lifestyles ski clinics during and after school hours After extensive discussion and in April for around 100 students of all collaboration with the Nuiqsut SAR Throughout 2019, we worked to ages from the Nuiqsut Trapper School. team, our initiatives and support promote the need for young people through 2019 included: and families in Nuiqsut (the community Supporting community organisations closest to our North Slope operations) X Providing two outboard motors to make informed and healthier choices. Staffed by people with deep knowledge for their riverine and ocean rescue of local needs and wants, communitycraft to replace defective or Cycling facing organisations provided an problematic motors. effective conduit for Oil Search’s In August, we partnered with the X Delivering first responder support in 2019. Nuiqsut Fire Station to host the inaugural medical kits. Kids’ Bike Safety and Tune Up Day, Local schools X Commissioning and delivering two during which Oil Search employees and We supported the Nuiqsut Early Learning sled-based emergency shelters Fire Station staff: Center (NELC) in its quest for state to Nuiqsut for key subsistence X Raffled bicycles. licensing by buying and delivering areas south and west of the village. X Provided free accessories such as furniture, educational toys, computers, The shelters have been equipped helmets, locks, bells, streamers and software and first aid kits. Once it is to meet Arctic conditions and water bottles. licensed, the NELC will be able to offer include an emergency beacon, quality early learning opportunities to heating, sleeping fittings and antiX Worked directly with budding local intrusion devices. bicycle mechanics to repair more local families. We also provided first aid than 40 bicycles. supplies to the Nuiqsut Trapper School. X Built a cycling obstacle course and presented a helmet safety demonstration. X Hosted a tour of the fire station. Basketball Challenge for Life is a North Slope organisation focused on helping Alaskans make positive life choices, such as through participation in various outdoor, family friendly sport programmes. In March and September, we partnered with Challenge for Life to host basketball camps at the Nuiqsut Trapper School. Altogether, these multiday events featured 16 coaching clinics and two family tournaments. Around 150 young people and 40 adults attended. Given that the total population of Nuiqsut is about 430 people and 170 children and young people attend the school, these are significant figures. 25 MAKING LIVES BETTER Respecting traditional and cultural To support our climate change and options for on-the-ground adaptation celebrations sustainable development priorities, we initiatives that align with our existing are helping communities in our project community development projects. In Oil Search worked with several area communities to become more future, we plan to use the vulnerability community organisations to support resilient to the impact of climate change and adaptation tool as part of our cultural and traditional community and to manage natural disasters. community assessment programmes. celebrations throughout the year. Some focused on nationally and globally We do this through Public-Private Sharing our research recognised holidays such as Christmas, Partnerships that provide them with Halloween and US Independence Day, In early 2019, OSF held a summit access to a range of resources, skilled while others were unique to Inupiat ties with PNG agriculture experts so both services, emergency response and to the land and subsistence way of life. groups could better understand the redevelopment, and in-kind donations. risks and opportunities for agriculture They included those related to whaling. programmes in PNG and how OSF Partnering with experts Oil Search respects the Inupiat whaling and Oil Search can best contribute. tradition. It is conducted in accordance Since 2018, Oil Search has partnered with management practices defined by with PNG’s Climate Change and Oil Search presented preliminary the International Whaling Commission — Development Authority (CCDA) under findings from our Physical Climate the global authority and leading research a Memorandum of Understanding Change Risk Assessment project body on cetaceans as well as the (MoU). Together, we are developing (see page 34) and discussed regulation of whaling — and the Alaska and demonstrating climate adaptation different climate change scenarios Eskimo Whaling Commission, whose initiatives that contribute to the and the associated projected mission is to safeguard the bowhead resilience of PNG communities. We climate change risks. whale and its habitat and to support are collaborating over climate change adaptation, sharing and leveraging This new climate change information the whaling activities and culture of its knowledge, and contributing to PNG’s will enable the experts to develop member communities. National Determined Contributions agriculture options that are robust under During 2019, we supported whaling adaptation targets. a range of climate change pathways. crews during their seasonal hunts by providing food, supplies, trauma kits and In 2019, we began assessing and I M P R OV E D LO C A L B U S I N E S S safety equipment to Whaling Captains planning our first joint project. It is a OPPORTUNITIES in Nuiqsut and other North Slope small-scale community agriculture, food and water security programme Oil Search is committed to creating communities. Oil Search was honoured designed to adapt Southern Highlands job opportunities and growing local to support and participate in multiple Province communities to climate businesses in the rural and remote Nalukataqs (also known as the whaling extremities. Due to the Pacific Monsoon communities in which we operate. festival or blanket toss) to celebrate the and El Niño Southern Oscillation, In these communities, there are often success of the whaling crew and Captain climate and weather extremes such just a handful of employers and limited during the previous year’s hunt and as drought, frost, increased surface opportunities for locals to build a prepare for success ahead of their 2019 temperatures and heavy rainfall meaningful business or enjoy good whaling season. need to be considered for these employment prospects. We aim to and other communities. maximise the involvement of local B U I L D I N G C L I M AT E businesses in opportunities that arise RESILIENCE IN PNG We are working with the CCDA from our operations. COMMUNITIES to develop a climate vulnerability assessment tool to help identify This approach has several More than 90% of households in critical climate change risks impacting benefits, including: our PNG project area communities depend on income and nutrition from these communities and the potential X Contributes to host communities’ traditional subsistence living. They can adaptation opportunities. We will economic development. be vulnerable to natural disasters or conduct a climate change vulnerability X Supports our operational stability. incremental changes caused by climate and adaptation assessment using the findings in early 2020 for one pilot X Helps to mitigate change, such as droughts and floods. community in the Southern Highlands. landowner‑related conflict. They are not alone. Around the world, X Helps small-to-medium the changing nature, size and frequency What we learn from this assessment enterprise development. of natural disasters is affecting will help to inform a community climate communities and changing how they change adaptation plan that identifies, manage the impact. conceptualises and designs potential 26 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 We continued working with local to providing opportunities for Kuukpik During 2019, OSF and its partners business owners throughout 2019 to shareholders, subsidiaries and partner ensured more women and families mutually explore the opportunities and companies and residents of Nuiqsut received information and support expectations when working together. and the North Slope. to help them address this violence and lead positive change within PNG Landowner Company workshops As part of the strategy development, their communities. we conducted contractor workshops During 2019, Oil Search conducted two and facility visits to discuss our values, Employee survey workshops with the senior managers of charters, planning processes, mobility 16 PNG Landowner Company (Lancos) A gender baseline survey conducted efforts, contracting processes and that currently service our operating by OSF among our PNG employees lessons learned. Our aim was to manage areas. We shared experiences and during 2019 received a 33% response any business opportunities and Oil challenges associated with rate. It showed a high level of awareness Search’s processes collaboratively. working in remote environments of FSV and a high interest in improving and identified opportunities for knowledge of how to seek help and ENHANCED PROTECTION FOR address violence. This analysis will assist efficiencies and improvement W O M E N A N D FA M I L I E S us in tailoring training and awareness Some Lanco representatives described PNG experiences high levels of genderprogrammes for our employees, how they had successfully diversified based violence, especially family and supervisors and managers. into new business activities. For sexual violence (FSV) directed against example, Trans Wonderland — a FSV training and awareness women and children. An estimated transportation, logistics and technical two‑thirds of women across both rural In 2019, OSF supported multiple services company — has branched and urban areas experience sexual FSV training and awareness out into shipping, aerial imaging violence at some time. programmes in PNG: and data gathering services and expanded its reach into the Asia-Pacific FSV has a big impact on many women X Supported training by the region. Its success meant it was able in our host communities and within Department of Justice and Attorney to pay US$886,000 in dividends to our workforce. It threatens the General and the National Family and shareholders on its 10-year anniversary. stabilising role women perform in PNG Sexual Violence Action Committee communities and is one of the biggest on the Family Protection Act for Alaskan strategy development obstacles to women’s empowerment Police from Southern Highlands Oil Search continued developing a and economic advancement. and Village Court Officials from local business strategy to maximise Kutubu and Kikori. the value and opportunities for local suppliers and support our commitment SUPPORTING LOCAL FOOD PRODUCERS Obtaining enough quality fresh fruit and vegetables from The FPDA is conducting a scoping study to obtain baseline local communities in remote areas can be difficult, leading information that will inform the interventions needed to to supply inconsistencies. Therefore, most of the produce support local farmers, enhance their capabilities and used by Oil Search’s catering services is sourced from increase their fresh produce production income. provinces outside our project areas. As part of the MoU, a Fresh Produce Development In 2019, we signed a tripartite Memoradum of project has been established to build on existing Understanding (MoU) between PNG Mining and sustainable agriculture programmes within Oil Search. It Petroleum Hospitality Services (PNGMPHS) and the will be supported by FPDA training in vegetable and fruit Fresh Produce Development Agency (FPDA) to establish production, harvesting, packaging and marketing. a consistent supply of good-quality produce from local entrepreneurs. The agreement will provide employment PNGMPHS will provide the quality control and set food opportunities and income streams for local community quality standards, and its catering services will buy eggs, members, particularly women. produce and materials from Oil Search’s Women in Sustainable Agriculture Programme participants. 27 MAKING LIVES BETTER X Conducted awareness sessions and sexual violence. Bel isi PNG is a E X PA N D E D I N F R A S T R U C T U R E for over 2,000 employees of public, private, civil society partnership Oil Search further supported the 13 companies subscribing to jointly funded by OSF, the Australian socio‑economic development of Bel isi PNG. Government, Bank of South Pacific, PNG in 2019 by supporting regional Steamships and subscriptions from infrastructure development such Family Support Centres large employers. as roads, hospital and school Hela PHAs’ Family Support Centre redevelopments and other projects, During 2019, referrals to Bel isi PNG (FSC) provides emergency medical in line with the PNG Government’s continued to grow, exceeding annual and psychosocial care for women national development priorities. targets by 25%, with around 25% of and children experiencing FSV. OSF referrals from subscribing companies. These developments were funded under provides additional funding support Thirteen companies have subscribed to the ITCS and the National Infrastructure to the FSC to employ a counsellor and Bel isi PNG since its inception and over Tax Credit Scheme (NITCS). During the a Health Extension Officer to provide 400 people have accessed Bel isi PNG year, the PNG Government continued medical assessments. It also funds two services since October 2018. reviewing the ITCS legislation to: Public Health Officers to run community awareness and training sessions on FSV OSF supported renovations to two X Align it with other government in communities across Hela. local and longstanding safe houses infrastructure priorities. in Port Moresby leveraging funding X Expand its scope to all provinces. During 2019, there was a 100% increase from partners and fund-raising efforts. in new clients at the Hela FSC from 2018. X Increase the eligible tax credit These were the first renovations in nearly Altogether, there were 1,250 new clients percentage from 0.75% to 2%. two decades. and a total of 2,720 services provided. This reflects an increase in the Centre’s Implementation guidelines and review Champions of Change capacity and ability to provide essential findings are under discussion within PNG support to survivors of family and Developed and driven by OSF, the Government. Some ITCS projects are on sexual violence. Champions of Change initiative aims to hold until this process is completed. create positive change. It offers small OSF is supporting Southern Highlands grant funding, information and toolkits to Major projects progressed and Hela PHAs to expand the FSC our employees so they can drive change In 2019, we progressed infrastructure network into District Hospitals in Hela and in their communities. projects worth an estimated US$6 Southern Highlands Provinces in 2020. In 2019, 34 PNG employees million, including: Case management support and safe participated, an 89% increase on X Kupiano Hospital redevelopment house accommodation 2018. They used the funding for projects Completed an administration addressing access to clean water, and a power generation building, The Bel isi PNG (‘Peaceful PNG’) initiative solar power, small scale agriculture, laundry and shower blocks. We also was launched in 2018 to provide case family violence, community education began building general, maternity, management services and emergency and health promotion, and drug and outpatient and emergency wards. accommodation for survivors of family alcohol issues. 28 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 REBUILDING A COMMUNITY Yalanda, a small Southern Highlands village with a X Distributing food supplies, including nutritional population of 1,300 people, was severely impacted supplements for children and pregnant women. by the earthquake. Six villagers died, many were injured X Providing temporary shelter kits and building tools, and more than 600 were relocated. solar lights and female hygiene kits. While the people of Yalanda are now spread across X Training community members in rebuilding safely. three different locations, the community is determining X Conducting awareness campaigns on hygiene, its future with support from OSF and assistance from family planning, malaria, HIV and TB prevention. NGO and government partners. X Working with the Provincial Government and PHA In 2019, they all worked together to ensure there was to restore education and health services. enough food, safe water and sanitation, access to health services and the right equipment for rebuilding homes, The partners are currently collaborating with the National schools, and gardens by: Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) and the Department of Agriculture and Livestock to assist with enterprise X Conducting health and environmental assessments development within the community. They are also helping and delivering basic health services. to restore Yalanda’s school classrooms and footbridge. X Installing four water tanks, constructing four rainwater catchments, repairing eight pit latrines and addressing hygiene practices in the communities. X Komo-Ajakaiba road R E H A B I L I TAT I O N E F F O R T S Together with OSF, Oil Search: and bridges Completed five river F O L LOW I N G T H E 2 018 X Began work at Koroba and crossings, including two bridges, E A R T H Q UA K E Kopiago health facilities to two culverts and one causeway. We On 26 February 2018, an earthquake undertake extensive renovations expect this project to be completed measuring 7.5 on the Richter scale struck and construction of new buildings in early 2020. the PNG Highlands causing substantial following a detailed earthquake X Mendi police housing Began damage to Southern Highlands, Hela, damage engineering assessment of working on Police housing in Mendi, Gulf and Western provinces with some all health facilities in Hela Province. Southern Highlands Province, which consequential impact of debris on rivers X Delivered and installed containerised includes 20 houses and two singlein Gulf Province. Aid Posts for the remote Huiya, person barracks. This project is Dodomona and Mologu scheduled for completion in 2020. With 90 years of experience in helping our project area communities after communities, which were severely Outside of the ITCS, Oil Search natural disasters, Oil Search was wellaffected. This work was completed supported OSF in delivering over placed to support the PNG Government with support from the Australian US$4.5 million of infrastructure. and local authorities as they dealt Government and PNG Emergency This included completing nurses’ with the results. Alongside OSF, we Controller’s Office. accommodation and a kitchen mess provided comprehensive earthquake X Delivered and installed 126 water at Hela Hospital, starting work on an recovery support, accounting for nearly tanks in health facilities, schools Accident and Emergency Building 80% of all first responder and follow-up and churches in Hela Province, at Hela, and constructing the Kikori aid to local communities in the following exceeding the target agreed with Literacy Library. weeks and months across 2018. the Emergency Controller’s Office. In 2019, we turned our attention to X Supported the rebuilding of Kutubu rehabilitation by working closely with Secondary School so 700 students governments, partners, donors and could return to classes after more communities. We concentrated on than ten months without schooling. rebuilding homes, re-establishing schools and small businesses and restoring water supplies. 29 P R O U D O F W H AT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT P A R T N E R S H I P , C O L L A B O R AT I O N A N D C O N T I N U O U S I M P ROV E M E N T When managing our most PRIORITISING SAFET Y important social responsibility The diverse and sometimes extreme issues, Oil Search believes in nature and location of our operations means Oil Search faces unique safety consulting and collaborating challenges. We generally operate with stakeholders, measuring in remote areas, many of which are outcomes and analysing affected by environmental factors lessons learned. Our years of such as dense, steep jungle and Arctic terrain. experience have shown that this is the best way to deliver Our complex supply chain involves effective, pragmatic projects multiple contractors who transport personnel and equipment using rivers, and programmes and keep bush tracks, ice roads and helicopters. improving our performance. Occasionally, natural disasters such as We take this approach whether landslips, flooding and earthquakes we are focused on safety, impact our operations, such as the 2018 earthquake in PNG. human rights, the environment or climate change. Mitigating and managing the related risks to the safety of our workforce By seeking to adopt industry best and local communities is an practice, we aim to exceed stakeholder ongoing challenge. expectations for environmental and social performance wherever we can. 30 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Mitigating and managing the related risks to the safety of our workforce and local communities is an ongoing challenge. 31 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T 2019 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY COMPLETED TOP QUARTILE US$77M Physical Climate of Carbon Tracker’s in supplier and contractor Change Risk climate-resilient oil payments to PNG Assessment and gas companies Landowner Companies 0 1.7 FINAL APPROVAL Major non-conformances Total Recordable for Nanushuk (Pikka Unit in ISO 14001 audit Injury Rate (TRIR) Development) Project Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) 36% UPDATED 5 decrease in high our Human Rights Tier 1/Tier 2 process potential incident Impact Assessment safety events in our frequency rate PNG operations to 0.72 32 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Workplace safety Our safety performance was commitment to minimising exposure In 2019 in PNG, we continued to challenged due to: to high risk activities — those with the recover from the 2018 earthquake while X Eight recordable injuries potential to result in serious injury or simultaneously conducting several experienced on a remote fatal consequences. All HiPo incidents activities in operationally challenging jungle seismic programme. Our are subject to detailed incident regions, including the second phase investigation analysis identified heat investigation and analysis and we of the Eastern Foldbelt heli-supported stress and fatigue as contributing to develop associated corrective action seismic programme, the Muruk 2 these incidents. We implemented and prevention programmes. well drilling completion and offshore a targeted improvement programme The Oil Search safety management diving works. In Alaska, during our that focused on applying lessons approach focuses on the cornerstone inaugural season of winter activities, learned from incident investigations. principles of strong safety leadership, we successfully constructed 42 km This resulted in an improvement planning and risk management. of ice roads to provide winter access in performance over the course In 2019, we: and drilled two appraisal wells with of the campaign. no recordable injuries and no high X Revised our Company Life Saving X Three marine-related incidents that Rules to align with International potential (HiPo) incidents. prompted a review of our marine Association of Oil and Gas While we are aware of the risks vessel selection and contractor Producers (IOGP) industry best associated with operating and pre-qualification processes for practice guidelines. exploring in challenging terrains, it is offshore works. X Developed improved governance our goal to achieve zero recordable X Several incidents related to processes for land transportation, injuries, focusing on the safety of our contractor management and marine and aviation activities. staff and contractors across all our supervision. In PNG we held a operations. Despite pockets of safety Safety Summit in July 2019 that X Revised our approach to learning excellence across the business, our was attended by Oil Search from incidents. 2019 Company safety performance representatives and our service Our key focus areas for 2020 include: was below expectations. Our Total partners to reset and refocus for the Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) increased second half of the year, with positive X Visible and proactive to 1.7 in 2019 from 1.58 in 2018. There results such as fewer HiPo incidents. safety leadership. were no fatalities and three lost time X Using data-driven insights injuries recorded across our global While the injury frequency rate to prioritise controlling our activities, so the Lost Time Injury Rate increased, the HiPo incident frequency highest risks. (LTIR) increased to 0.27 in 2019 from rate decreased, falling to 0.72 in 2019 0.19 in 2018. from 1.11 in 2018. This reflects our 33 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T X Applying our recently implemented in the production facilities following and crisis response planning become HSES Event Reporting and the earthquake. To lead a step-change critically important as they mean we can Investigation Procedure to improvement in process safety act quickly and effectively to minimise improve the quality of incident management, we established a Process any impact. Keeping the associated investigations and learnings. Safety Taskforce. The taskforce revised plans up-to-date and providing the the Process Safety Steering Committee dedicated personnel with regular Process safety Charter and developed a targeted set of training are essential. Oil Search’s approach to process safety key performance indicators to support performance improvement. No PSEs During 2019, our crisis and emergency focuses on managing the hydrocarbon were recorded in Alaska. preparedness teams were updated loss of containment hazards that are and several training exercises associated with drilling and production Our focus in 2020 will be the Process were held in PNG, Alaska and activities. Our Process Safety Safety Framework review and its our corporate headquarters. Framework for managing these hazards application to both our existing ensures robust controls are in place to operations in PNG and our new U N D E R S TA N D I N G P H YS I C A L mitigate them. development projects in Alaska C L I M AT E C H A N G E R I S K S Our key process safety focus areas in and PNG. Oil Search’s assets, supply chains 2019 were maintaining safe and reliable Emergency preparedness and crisis and project area communities in PNG production from our PNG operating management and Alaska are exposed to the future assets after return to service from the physical impacts of climate change 2018 earthquake; well control during Oil Search’s goal is to create a such as floods, landslides and drought. PNG and Alaska drilling activities; and controlled work environment where Understanding the location, nature the well integrity of PNG operating wells. our people and assets are safe and and scale of these potential impacts our operations have minimal impact is important if we are to help mitigate During the year, we recorded one Tier on the environment and project their impact. 1 PSE and four Tier 2 process safety area communities. events (PSEs) in our PNG production We committed to completing a physical operations. Two of the Tier 2 PSEs During unplanned events, contingency climate change risk assessment in our related to ‘return to service’ activities measures such a robust emergency 2017 Climate Change Resilience Report. 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 PH YSICA L CL I M AT E CH A NGE SCE NA R IO A N D R ISK A SSE SSM E N T (PSR A) P H AS E 1 P H AS E 2 P H AS E 3 GEOGRAPHIC RISK ASS E SS R I S KS FO R E X I ST I N G E M B E D F I N D I N G I N TO S C R E E N I N G FO R P N G ASS E TS , S U P P LY C H A I N S FUTURE DESIGN DECISIONS A N D A L AS KA A N D CO M M U N I T I E S To help asses and quantify the risks, we X Scientific knowledge on how Phase 2: Assessing climate risks for have begun a Physical Climate Change components of the climate system existing assets, supply chains and Scenario and Risk Assessment (PSRA) interact is continuing to improve. communities covering three elements. Phase 2 of the PSRA involved testing the While acknowledging this unavoidable uncertainty, Oil Search’s study focused identified geographic climate change Phase 1: Geographic risk screening on using the best available climate risks with key internal stakeholders. In 2019, we partnered with a specialist These included representatives change information to assess the range advisory and analytics company with from our Drilling, Production, Safety, of potential climate change futures and expertise in climate change risk to Community Affairs and Environment identify and implement adaptation complete Phase 1 of the PSRA. teams at corporate and Business Unit actions that perform well under current and possible future climatic conditions. level. Our goal was to assess potential Firstly, research was conducted on impacts on our assets, supply chains the availability of existing information For our analysis, we used a range of and communities. sources. They found there are already climate change scenarios to assess reputable and useful climate change The analysis demonstrated that under a physical risk. They included the IPCCs models and data for PNG and Alaska, high emission scenario, climate change Representative Concentration Pathway particularly high-quality climate change is unlikely to have a material impact on (RCP) 8.5 ‘High Emission’ scenario data around climate change impacts to Oil Search’s PNG assets or production. and the RCP 6.0, RCP 4.5 and RCP 2.6 Alaska’s Arctic environment. In Alaska, it will be considered as a part scenarios. The RCPs predict how GHG concentrations will change in the future. of asset design. While there are fewer sources of climate data for PNG, they include While our physical assets may be Phase 1 of the project also identified the the latest Intergovernmental Panel on resilient, the communities surrounding key geographic climate change risks for Climate Change (IPCC) projections, them may be more exposed to PNG and the North Slope of Alaska. which are provided by world-leading climate change risk. For example, as climate change institutions with strong X The North Slope has already temperatures increase, we expect scientific credentials. experienced temperatures increases incidences of malaria to increase in more than twice the global average already at-risk areas and to expand In Phase 1, we also addressed the issue and is expected to face more into previously risk-free areas such of the uncertainty inherent in all climate warming under all climate change as the Central Highlands. By 2050, change models and studies. These scenarios. Its key future climate PNG may experience malaria models are continually improving but change risks include temperature outbreaks in Highland areas at cannot predict future climate change increases, melting permafrost and elevations below 2,100 metres. conditions because: coastal erosion. X The scale of future greenhouse X Climate change impacts in PNG are The increasing frequency and gas (GHG) emission reductions less compared to Alaska. However, magnitude of extreme events (e.g. is unknown. PNG is likely to experience floods and landslides) is likely to increasing temperatures, more increase the hazard posed to human X Technology may change faster extreme weather and episodes settlements and the ecosystems and than currently anticipated. of drought triggered by El Niñoinfrastructure they depend on. Such Southern Oscillation events. events can damage water, sanitation and health-related infrastructure, 35 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T increasing indirect risk to human health included potential future climate change X Developing a new, externally wherever communities lack clean water, impacts in the Pikka Unit Development assured methane venting reporting safe food or basic health care. The risk Project design. methodology to improve our of vector-borne diseases and pests methane emissions reporting increases during wetter periods and We plan to further embed physical and accuracy. droughts caused by El Niño events (such climate findings into our existing business processes in 2020. This will X A desktop review of our PNG as occurred in 2012) can lead to disease operating assets, including outbreaks and ill-health, especially in help ensure we manage physical climate change risk in the same way as other examining the asset equipment areas with poor water, sanitation and and plant design to identify health care services. See page 26, for material business risks. other potential sources of information on the progress Oil Search methane emissions. made in this area in 2019. A D D R E S S I N G O P E R AT I N G EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE X Site visits to all PNG operated Phase 3: Embedding physical facilities to confirm our desktop Oil Search is committed to protecting findings and workshop climate risk considerations into air quality by managing emissions methane assessment and design decisions from our operations and contributing reduction opportunities with To ensure future projects consider to improvements. site superintendents. physical climate change risk, all new Oil Search projects must identify and assess Incentivising proactive management As a result of this work, we identified potential impacts from climate variability As a further component of Oil Search’s shortand medium-term opportunities on new facilities and infrastructure as commitment to managing climateto reduce methane emissions and part of the engineering risk management related risks, we included a new metric developed a work plan to assess and process. Phase 3 of the PSRA supported in our executive Short-Term Incentive evaluate their implementation in 2020. this process by starting to embed PSRA (STI) scheme in 2019 to encourage findings into future design decisions. Measuring emissions proactive management of methane During 2019, senior representatives from emissions in our PNG operating assets. Oil Search’s operated greenhouse Alaska considered the potential physical gas (GHG) emissions intensity in 2019 Methane Assessment Project climate change risks under different of 44.8 ktCO2e/mmboe was similar climate change scenarios, discussed We initiated a Methane Assessment to our performance in 2018 of 44.0 the findings of the risk assessment and Project that included: ktCO2e/mmboe. Total GHG emissions 36 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 increased 5% in 2019 from 570,000 being progressively addressed in our X Developing an RSC supplier risk Tonnes CO2e in 2018 to 598,000 in human rights plan. A summary of the framework that considers key 2019. The increase in GHG emissions key findings was presented to the worker, community, environmental expected for 2019 as a result of a return Board in April. and ethical aspects, as identified to full production after the earthquake in the HRRA and other sources, in 2018 was less than expected due to Using the results of the 2018 review such as the Global Slavery and the production impacts associated with of our community engagement and Environmental Performance Indices. issues with the mooring buoy at the grievance management practices and processes, we commenced X Analysing and preparing Oil Search Kumul Marine Terminal. supplier data and other materials, implementation of a new organisationIn 2019 we expanded our air emissions wide grievance management including a supplier self-assessment reporting to include nitrogen dioxide procedure and process for external questionnaire, so we can conduct (NO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), and stakeholders. The new procedure supply chain mapping. volatile organic compounds (VOCs). outlines the process and mechanisms In 2020, we will focus on mapping for capturing, assessing, escalating and suppliers against the supplier risk Collaborating with our peers responding to a broad range of issues framework and finalising the Oil Search Oil Search is an active member raised by external stakeholders. responsible sourcing performance of IPIECA’s Climate Change standards and procedures. The development of a Human Rights Working Group and is involved Policy is scheduled for 2020, as a part For more information on our approach in several initiatives: of a broader Oil Search Company to addressing modern slavery, see our X The Adaptation Working Group, Policy refresh. 2019 Modern Slavery Statement. which is developing a physical climate change risk methodology Responsible supply chain Human rights training for for the oil and gas industry. management security providers X The Methane Working Group, Responsible supply chain (RSC) During the year, we conducted 3,055 which is monitoring developments management forms a key part of Oil hours of training or induction sessions in methane reporting and learning Search’s commitment to operating covering the Voluntary Principles good practice for reducing in alignment with the UN Guiding and Oil Search Code of Conduct methane emissions. Principles on Business and Human expectations with security personnel. X The Taskforce on Climate Change Rights and our response to the This included 204 public, 201 contract, Scenarios, which we are leading. Australian Government’s Modern and 12 Oil Search security personnel in Slavery Act. PNG and Alaska. W O R K I N G W I T H PA R T N E R S By adopting and improving RSC In 2019, Oil Search reported zero TO P R O M O T E A N D P R O T E C T management processes, we aim to security related human rights incidents. HUMAN RIGHTS promote and protect the wellbeing Respect for human rights and the of supply chain workers, local For more information on our approach desire to do no harm underpin Oil communities and the environment. and performance regarding human Search’s commitment to sustainable This approach mitigates our business rights and security providers, see our development and our approach to risks and builds trust with stakeholders. 2019 VPSHR Report. operating responsibly. We have been During 2019, we focused on improving Throughout 2019, Oil Search again formally committed to the Voluntary internal alignment, awareness and participated in the GCNA’s Modern Principles on Security and Human ownership of key RSC management Slavery Community of Practice and the Rights (VPSHR) since being accepted objectives and progressing the IPIECA Social Responsibility, Human as a corporate participant in the global development of the core elements of Rights and Supply Chain Working Voluntary Principles in 2017. our RSC approach by: Groups. These forums provide us with Combatting human rights issues is X Identifying key internal stakeholders valuable opportunities to discuss human an ongoing and evolving challenge. and convening the business-wide rights, modern slavery and supply We completed an organisation-wide Responsible Sourcing Steering and chain challenges with our peers and Human Rights Risk Assessment (HRRA) Working Groups. others, as well as to contribute to tools in 2019. This examined the human rights and guidance. X Drafting and commencing internal risks and impacts associated with each consultation on our RSC expectations type of our operational, corporate and performance standards. and supply chain activity. The results of HRAA will inform the initiatives 37 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T STRENGTHENING completed after additional burners areas for improvement and better E N V I R O N M E N TA L were installed so it could be fuelled communication between our project PROTECTION MEASURES by diesel. In December 2019, this teams and HSES teams. Extracting and processing incinerator was back online. The waste-sharing agreement with Exxon Spills performance hydrocarbons can pose a risk to the natural environment, so Oil Search’s Mobil, which was signed in 2018, was In 2019 there were five spills greater facilities and management systems suspended for most of 2019, but was than one barrel that reached the have been designed to mitigate re‑established after the incinerators environment. Of these, all occurred and manage these risks. were returned to operation. in our PNG operations and were attributed to transportation activities High Priority Tracker Inspections, reviews and audits or equipment damage. In Alaska, four A series of site inspections identified spills totalling 80 litres were reported to In 2019, we strengthened our the state and local governments, as per governance around managing the issues related to waste chemical state law and permit conditions. environmental impacts of the 2018 management, hydrocarbon handling earthquake by using a High Priority and housekeeping. Work is underway In October our Alaskan operations Tracker. This consolidated and to reduce the inventory of waste successfully conducted their second prioritised requirements from our chemicals stored onsite and to annual spill drill. The drill was witnessed environmental permit, our Operational implement enhanced hazardous waste by local, state and federal officials, and Plan, and findings from periodic ISO management disposal process. demonstrated Oil Search Alaska has appropriate spill response plans in place 14001 audits. We also conducted significant and is capable of executing those plans. This process included reviewing inspections and reviews to assess and testing secondary containment Oil Search’s environmental processes BUILDING STRONG structures (bunds) to determine their across our PNG drilling activities and E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D integrity following the earthquake logistics areas. These ensured we were SOCIAL BASELINES and prioritising repairs for the bunds prepared for the external ISO 14001 Oil Search is committed to ensuring we that were deemed critical to protect audit. This was completed in October, collect and understand the information the environment. and no major non-conformances we need to create a baseline from which were reported. to effectively manage and mitigate Incinerator repairs the potential social and environmental Environmental compliance was part of We rectified earthquake damage to impact of our operations. This requires our internal audit program in 2019. We one incinerator and began repairing effective consultation, engagement and carried out a compliance assessment the other. In late 2019, works on input from many stakeholders, including for small construction projects within members of the local community prior the main incinerator at Kutubu were our operational areas. This identified to any project work commencing as well as throughout the life of our assets. Laying the foundations in Alaska During the year, we focused our efforts on: X Ensuring the Alaskan Environmental Management System was ready to support our 2019-2020 winter activities. X Identifying our resource requirements. X Preparing the required Environmental Management Plans. X Consulting with local stakeholders. The year was characterised by a number of significant achievements that advanced the development of our Alaskan assets. So far, Oil Search has received approximately 100 local, State 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 and Federal permits primarily focused on the environment, supporting the Pikka Unit development project as well as two winter exploration seasons. All the permits, agreements and approvals we obtained during 2019 were the result of focused and direct consultation and collaboration with local communities and extensive environmental and cultural studies and monitoring in the Pikka Unit project area. These have established baseline data and reinforced Oil Search’s commitment to ensuring our Alaskan activities are conducted responsibly so that our presence has lasting benefits for local people and communities. Collecting baseline data In PNG, we undertook initial hydrogeological groundwater studies for Gobe and Kopi and a second-year groundwater assessment in the Kutubu area. These studies helped us to identify areas of potential risk to groundwater resources from our operations. We also completed environmental impact communities in the Kutubu area. This will allow Oil Search to understand its assessments for seismic activities and socio-economic data will be used by Oil neighbouring communities’ makeup proposed construction activities. Search in future project works planning and infrastructure on the ground to to ensure projects are implemented inform planning of future community Socio-economic baseline studies in a manner that minimises negative assistance programmes. covering elements such as ecosystem impacts and optimises positive services, health, and cultural heritage outcomes for communities. The inAll these assessments are adding to our were completed in 2019 with 14 depth demographic data gathered existing baseline data and helping us S T R AT E G I C B I O D I V E R S I T Y MANAGEMENT Oil Search actively works to mitigate our impacts on X Participating in the Ramsar Advisory Mission, which biodiversity by recognising that these ecosystems support was organised by the PNG Conservation and a variety of species and contribute to the sustenance of Environment Protection Agency to review and develop local communities. recommendations for improved management of the Lake Kutubu Wildlife Management Area. In 2019, we supported biodiversity initiatives and offset programmes in PNG that included: During the year, we continued to participate in the X Sponsoring the Yumi Kikori 2019 Invasive Tilapia Fishing Chamber of Mines and Petroleum Environmental Competition in October 2019. This biodiversity offset Committee and IPIECA and IOGP environmental working programme supports endemic fish in Lake Kutubu that groups to review biodiversity and other environmental are threatened by non-native tilapia fish. issues and provide technical feedback. 39 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T KEY MILESTONES ACHIEVED IN ALASKA IN 2019 X Federal Record of Decision: We received the United the community located nearest to the development. States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE Record An unprecendented agreement, the LUA ensures of Decision (ROD) for the Nanushuk (Pikka Unit mutual benefits to Kuukpik and Oil Search, with a focus Development) Project Environmental Impact Statement on protecting the land for subsistence use by residents (EIS) in May, which allowed USACE to issue a permit for of Nuiqsut and other North Slope communities so they the Project. During the initial phase of the EIS process, can continue their traditional subsistence lifestyle. USACE invited, and NVN accepted the invitation X North Slope Borough approval: in December, the North offer to become a cooperating agency. For more Slope Borough Assembly (all the local government information about this cooperation and the related authorities of the Alaskan North Slope) unanimously landowner consultation process, see Sections 3 and 5 approved the Master Plan for the development. of Nanushuk Project Final EIS. This process also resulted in an amendment to the X Kuukpik Corporation Land Use Agreement: In October, Borough zoning map to re-zone the land to a Resource we signed the final collaborative Land Use Agreement Development District, which allows construction of (LUA) with Kuukpik Corporation, the Village Corporation the infrastructure we need to support the Pikka Unit for Nuiqsut and surface land owner of nearly 14,000 Development. acres of the Pikka Unit Development area. Nuiqsut is 40 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 minimise the disruption caused by our be well planned, environmentally will conduct work on Kuukpik and PNG operations to local communities responsible and address stakeholder neighbouring lands. It also outlines how and the environment. issues and concerns. we will collaborate with the community to protect their subsistence lifestyle In Alaska, we undertook a significant As part of the process, we changed beyond our time on their land and help summer field work programme in our project plans in multiple ways in them achieve their long-term goals. May consisting of archaeology, response to feedback from the local bathymetry, fish and water quality community, including: Subsistence representatives and studies. More than 60 regulatory-driven X Adopting alternative gravel road ice road monitors environmental studies were conducted alignments, which reduced the 2019 was Oil Search’s first year of to ensure our activities have a minimal amount of proposed gravel road integrating subsistence representatives environmental impact. within the Colville River floodplain and ice road monitors from the local We also coordinated with local to potentially reduce the impact on community into our daily operations agencies over long-term studies subsistence resources (migrating This collaborative and interactive regarding caribou, water birds, fish and caribou) and users. arrangement is a good example of Oil subsistence, which are scheduled to X Relocating the proposed oil and gas Search listening to, engaging with and begin in summer 2020. processing facility and operations respecting local land rights, usage, centre (camps, storage, maintenance access and impacts. Extensive stakeholder consultation shops and warehousing) away from Subsistence Representatives and Ice We engaged with multiple stakeholder the Colville River and the Road Monitors were first established groups throughout 2019 as part of the mouth of the Miluveach River, during the early days of oil exploration regulatory processes required to obtain both subsistence use areas. and development on Kuukpik lands the necessary permits, agreements and X Adding a boat ramp and parking and are managed through the Kuukpik approvals in Alaska. They included: area to the planned project Subsistence Oversight Panel (KSOP). X Project area landowners who are infrastructure. This will give community members closer The programme embeds local Alaska Native Corporations — access to the year-round gravel Nuiqsut (Inupiat) people with our daily both surface owners (Kuukpik Village road network, improving safety North Slope operations to provide Corporation) and subsurface owners and reducing the cost and time of guidance, mitigation strategies and (the State of Alaska and the Arctic travel during open water season. impact assessments on the way we Slope Regional Corporation). The additions could also improve operate. Between them, Subsistence X The Federally recognised tribe Representatives and Ice Road Monitors access to traditional use and of the community closest to the monitor ice road construction and subsistence hunting areas. project area, the Native Village maintenance activities, assist with spill of Nuiqsut (NVN). impact assessments, help with village SUPPORTING SUBSISTENCE X The City of Nuiqsut, whose liaison issues and provide general O N A L A S K A’S N O R T H S LO P E population is around 90% guidance to our operational staff. Indigenous. Most Nuiqsut Hunting, fishing, living off the land and They work closely with the Oil Search residents are also shareholder other subsistence activities remain an Environmental and External Affairs members of one or both of the integral way of life on the North Slope teams, who liaise directly with KSOP landowner corporations. and in Nuiqsut. The Colville River Delta to ensure we comply with land use is a place where traditional values and expectations relating to operations Altogether, a four-year consultative lifestyles can be combined with modern on native land. process was undertaken with these technology to create a healthy, satisfying and other stakeholders to create a and family-friendly quality of life. Supporting ties to the land development plan that minimises The Pikka Unit Development is 10 km Identifying and protecting historical the project’s environmental footprint from the village of Nuiqsut and Oil sites is part of Oil Search’s commitment and optimises the benefits for Search is constructing roads, pipelines, to responsible development. local communities. The process involved developing and issuing the and facilities nearby. Oil Search is In 2019, Oil Search arranged for a Environmental Impact Statement committed to operating in a socially Nuiqsut representative to visit one (EIS) and included numerous public responsible way to ensure minimal of our operational sites to talk to rig comment periods and solicitation of disruption to subsistence hunting. crews in the field at the start of drilling feedback from Federal, State and local operations. Rig crew personnel The LUA with Kuukpik Corporation agencies. Overall, this consultative heard first-hand from an Elder who sets the standard for how Oil Search approach ensured the project would 41 P R O U D O F W H AT W E D O A N D H O W W E D O I T Under the collaboration, Oil Search provided advance notification of our summer activities programme through regular community meetings and monthly bulletins outlining programme elements, locations, timelines and helicopter identification detail. During the programme, we coordinated daily with the key stakeholders, assisted by the Nuiqsut-based Oil Search Community Liaison Officer (CLO), who provided real-time community feedback. This helped all the Operators conducting helicopter operations around Nuiqsut to ensure subsistence activities were not interrupted, especially the caribou harvest. This approach reduced industry disruption to subsistence activities. Hunting, fishing, living off the land and other subsistence activities remain an integral way of life on the North Slope and in Nuiqsut. Improving subsistence fisheries access and aquatic health During the year, Oil Search committed to providing the Nuiqsut community is a Kuukpik shareholder and KSOP raised, and the family observed artefacts with a boat ramp on the lower Board member about his bonds to the there. They also visited the mouth of Kachemach River and an associated land and subsistence lifestyle, cultural the Itqiliqpaa River (or Itkillik River), parking area on the east side of the site histories and the importance where the gravesites of Elder’s younger Colville River at the project site. of respecting the land. The Elder siblings are located. encouraged the rig crew to maintain In April, we met the Nuiqsut Whaling clean operations, respect all residents, Helicopter mitigation plan Captains to gather their input for the and respect the environment that the In 2019, Oil Search participated in early planning stages of the boat ramp. community depends on. an annual summer collaboration We then responded to requests to between Operators and KSOP to change the location to improve access Also during the year, we hosted a mitigate helicopter activities in and during periods of low water. After visiting Nuiqsut Elder and her son at historic sites around Kuukpik lands and associated potential sites, we agreed on the new near Oil Search’s planned development. subsistence areas. location then completed additional The trip included the site of their family’s surveys and worked with regulators 1943 sod house, where the Elder was to accommodate the change. 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 We also began designing improvements Based on current assessments, In 2019, our priorities for advancing to the Boat Ramp Access Road we expect production of oil and the Plan included: in Nuiqsut to re-establish natural gas in Oil Search’s Gobe oil fields X Developing and establishing hydrologic drainage patterns and fish to reach its end‑of-life over the agricultural enterprises in Gobe passages. This compensatory mitigation medium‑term, requiring some assets that focus on the complete value project will increase consistency of to be decommissioned. The potential chain, from farmers to consumers. access to the existing community boat transition represents the first of its kind A scoping study conducted by ramp and reduce annual maintenance in the oil and gas sector in PNG. To the FPDA in October 2019 (see costs. The project will also improve the effectively manage this and ensure we page 27) assessed suitable crop local stream channel and connected set a positive precedent for the asset and growing conditions. This will waterbodies, which are important to planning process, we are developing form the foundation for developing subsistence fisheries. a Sustainable Development Plan local enterprises and creating based on impact assessments and market access. In addition, we began working with baseline studies. the North Slope Borough and the City X Collaborating with OSF’s early of Nuiqsut to design and implement The Plan will address aspects such childhood learning literacy improvements to wastewater handling as developing alternative livelihoods library initiative, which is due for and treatment in Nuiqsut, sanitation outside the resource sector and health, completion in 2020. The library within the community and water education and infrastructure planning. will provide early childhood quality conditions in aquatic resources It will also identify appropriate partners education opportunities for children surrounding the community. to deliver each development priority in Samberigi Valley and the local and involve an extensive stakeholder community will participate in P L A N N I N G F O R S U S TA I N A B L E engagement process that ensures constructing a new building. D E V E LO P M E N T A F T E R A S S E T strong community ownership and X Taking part in the ITCS legislation END ‑ OF-LIFE acceptance of outcomes. We will roll review, which will further advance out the Plan over the next five years. works on the economically Understanding the actual and potential social impacts of our operations and important Erave to Samberigi road sustainable development projects is that links the south coast road essential. It underpins our approach to the Highlands highway and to social responsibility, helping will improve market access for us to realise opportunities and Gobe communities. mitigate impacts. SUPPORTING THE WORLD BANK IN DEVELOPING INFRASTRUCTURE IN PNG In May 2019, the World Bank undertook a scoping mission support, and our Community Affairs officers provided to evaluate the possibility of developing an efficient land briefings and guidance. and sea transport route from the Highlands to Port Moresby through the Gulf Province. Following the visit, the World Bank decided to conduct a feasibility study of the proposed route to define investment Given the challenges presented by the remote nature of costs, identify environmental and social impacts, determine the area and the lack of commercial providers, Oil Search the status of land ownership along the corridor and model supported the World Bank’s efforts with logistics and the economic benefits. 43 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES VA L U E S , D I V E R S I T Y A N D L E A R N I N G Everyone who works for B U I L D I N G O R G A N I S AT I O N A L C O M P E T E N C Y A N D C A PAC I T Y Oil Search is guided by our core values: Responsibility, Employee development is a key focus for Oil Search. We have several Diversity, Respect, Caring, initiatives underway to develop Excellence, Integrity and workforce capability, foster employee Passion. Our commitment engagement and manage a pipeline to these values provides of people we have identified for career progression. continuity, keeps our business competitive and strengthens The business continually invests how we work by enabling each in valuable opportunities for our employees to gain experience, skills person to contribute to the and vocational qualifications throughout business’s success. their careers with us, enabling us to attract and retain the best people Our people support our strategic for achieving our business and objectives of enhancing our growth objectives. organisational capability to deliver and provide an enjoyable, safe and productive work environment that celebrates diversity, supports learning and development and drives high performance through engagement and empowerment. 44 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 45 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES 2019 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 1,600+ 33% 39% Oil Search employees female representation increase in the percentage of on the Board women in senior leadership roles since 2015 35 >800 85% participants in Leading our Employees attended PNG citizens in Way for Women programme men’s and women’s health PNG workforce since 2018 awareness sessions 67% 32 334 of leadership roles in PNG graduates and apprentices participants in the held by PNG citizens hired in 2019 Coaching Our Way programme since 2018 46 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Leadership development Following its success in Sydney and Leaders Forum with about 240 peers programmes Port Moresby, in 2019 we expanded from different industries. This unique Oil Search’s leaders are responsible Coaching Our Way into our Anchorage learning experience gave participants for ensuring their teams operate in and PNG field teams. It has now been the opportunity to explore diverse a way that supports the business’s delivered to 334 senior managers, thinking and approaches in an open, strategic direction and reflects our managers and supervisors. non‑judgemental environment. Company values. Senior Leadership Growth, empowerment and During 2019, we continued to deliver development process engagement in Alaska our leadership development curriculum, This enables Senior Vice Presidents Since assuming Operatorship of our which provides the support and tools and functional leaders to expand their Alaskan assets in March 2018, Oil that leaders at all levels need so they leadership capabilities by engaging in Search has built a highly experienced and their teams can excel. different development pathways within in‑country leadership team and the business. The process includes a workforce. The total Alaskan workforce Coaching Our Way rigorous, external upfront assessment has grown to a combined total of 166 This programme equips leaders to and individual development strategies employees, contractors and expatriates, create an engaging and inclusive ranging from executive education, to up from 86 at the end of 2018. work environment and enhance coaching, mentoring and involvement the employee experience through in business projects. Six leaders Ten employees from Australia have recognition, development, learning participated during 2019. received expatriate opportunities and growth. The programme, which in Alaska, providing them with is designed to align with Oil Search External development development opportunities and values and behaviours, is based on the supporting the Alaskan team with In 2019, a gender-balanced group principles of psychological safety and organisational knowledge and of Oil Search emerging leaders having a growth mindset. understanding of the Oil Search from Alaska, PNG and Australia values and behaviours. participated in the McKinsey Young 47 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES Our leaders in Alaska model and support our goal of achieving External Affairs function to develop the Company values and consistent behaviour and actions a monthly newsletter for Oil Search possess the deep technical and across the business. Alaska’s workforce. Launched in commercial capability required April, Alaska Connection provides to deliver success in a greenfield, During 2019, we nurtured engagement a fun and consistent way of sharing Arctic environment. A culture in the Alaska Business Unit through a information from our leaders, of interdependency is being range of initiatives. the wider Oil Search business intentionally fostered across the X Every new team member and the Anchorage and North leadership team, creating cohesive, participated in a half-day induction Slope communities, and includes unified and sustainable leadership. that included our values and safety information, celebrations behaviours together with cultural and successes. We have also invested in development sensitivity training so everyone and stretch assignments to accelerate X Based on a recommendation understood our commitment of from the Oil Search Wellbeing the progression of individuals with the partnering with communities in potential to develop and take on roles Empowerment Team, we the areas where we operate and implemented a peer-to-peer of increasing seniority. what it meant in real terms. recognition programme in June. Three cross-functional empowerment X Broad cross-team participation, This gives every Alaskan team teams were launched in 2019 to to support our goal of achieving member the ability to recognise a promote team spirit, empowerment and consistent behaviour and actions colleague for demonstrating the innovation across our Alaskan business. across the business. These creative Oil Search values and behaviours. These teams are focused on three key development opportunities The programme is enabled by an areas: technology and innovation; are essential for developing electronic nomination, recognition employee wellbeing; and broadfuture talent. and tracking system. based community and stakeholder X To help keep our people informed engagement. They are helping to PEAK Performance and engaged and foster a sense of provide leadership development community, the Alaskan Business In late 2019, we introduced PEAK to our high-potential employees Unit worked with the corporate Performance, a new, simplified approach to employee performance and development. PEAK Performance recognises that the focus and performance of teams are lifted when each employee understands how they contribute to and share in the success of the business. This approach emphasises empowerment and accountability through constructive and frequent conversations. It is supported by a new human resource information system and a comprehensive launch strategy. Technical development and competency Attracting and retaining the best technical employees globally in areas such as exploration, drilling, production and engineering remain critical to our future success. During 2019, we began working on a refreshed technical career framework in core technical disciplines. The framework seeks to build and enhance Oil Search’s technical capability and provide opportunities for development across the business. Implementation 48 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 J O U R N E Y TO O P E R AT I O N A L E XC E L L E N C E A collaboration between Oil Search and specialist X Developing and deploying a clear Maintenance consultants, Nambawan Operational Excellence is and Reliability Strategy. an Oil Search PNG transformation inititative that is X Making project processes more robust. building deep operational excellence capability, reducing risk and improving process efficiency X Developing supply chain and productivity. Overseen by the Nambawan management capabilities. Steering Committee, the overall aim is to ensure The Nambawan foundational leadership practices the PNG BU is safer and more productive. and competencies underpin the business Since early 2019, a dedicated Nambawan team transformation. has been working with the PNG business to focus The leadership training modules deliver a shared on actions that will realise high-value opportunities understanding of what operations excellence in 2020 and beyond. looks like and the leadership practices required These include improving compressor availability to to achieve it, including leading and managing increase production and revenue, and deploying change, managing business performance, robust business process frameworks that support courageous conversations, coaching and achieving Oil Search’s shortand long-term goals feedback and Oil Search values and behaviours. and enable sustainable business improvement. The intention is these practices become leadership norms, supporting a culture of The Nambawan initiative has identified several operational excellence. high-gain opportunities, including: Participants are also provided with additional, X Building leadership capabilities through ongoing, on-the-job coaching based on their senior leader and area transformation. specific needs and existing competency levels. X Creating and implementing integrated business management processes with a rolling 24-month plan. X Strengthening process safety management. 49 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES is planned for 2020 and will include a competency assessment and development process supported by our FOCUS AREA 2020 GOAL 2019 STATUS new human resource information system. We also continued to deliver Oil Search’s Competence Assurance Programme (CAP), which complements At least 30% female Executive Progressing, the technical career framework and Vice Presidents on the Executive 14% action plans develops the technical capability of our Leadership Team by 2020 in place facility operations workforce. Under this programme, competency profiles and an assessment approach underpin all stages of technician development. There were Progressing, Gender 30% female representation at Senior 25% action plans 434 members of our facility operations diversity Manager level by 2020 in place workforce covered by CAP in 2019, an increase from 385 in 2018. Progressing, 50% female representation in 83% action plans graduate intakes 2018-2020 in place Having a diverse and Citizen 73% PNG citizens in leadership roles Progressing, 67% action plans inclusive workforce that development in PNG by 2020 in place reflects the areas where we operate strengthens Progressing, Inclusive Consistently improve Inclusion Index Oil Search’s capability workplace results compared to the 2017 baseline NA* action plans in place and resilience. * Employee survey to be undertaken in 2020. UNCONSCIOUS BIAS: PROMOTING AWA R E N E S S A N D U N D E R S TA N D I N G Despite their best intentions, many people unconsciously Participants received tips on how to be mindful and judge others based on past experiences and stereotypes inclusive in their communication, decision-making, around characteristics such as race, age and gender. team leadership, recruitment and performance evaluation. During 2019, we conducted a series of workshops in Altogether, 77 employees participated in the workshops, Sydney and PNG to help our people leaders recognise and describing them as engaging and timely with practical manage how these unconscious biases can influence their strategies for addressing biases and supporting assessment of other people. The workshops supported inclusive leadership. Oil Search’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategy by focusing on gender diversity, citizen development and creating an inclusive workplace. 50 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 In 2019, we focused on selecting and During 2019, we remained focused Targeting women in developing high-performing apprentice on improving diversity through our STEM‑based roles technicians, using a changed selection 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, During the year, we addressed the methodology to identify 19 apprentices. which prioritises gender diversity, PNG gap in women pursuing technical roles They went on to complete the first 12 citizen development and an inclusive through initiatives such as scholarships months of their development overseas at workplace. We also refreshed our that support careers in science, a world-class oil and gas training facility. Diversity and Inclusion Policy. technology, engineering and maths We are proud that at the end of (STEM) and through our Graduate FOCUSING ON DIVERSIT Y Development Programme. As a result, 2019, our female employment rate AND INCLUSION 83% of female graduates selected in reached 27%, with 25% of senior Having a diverse and inclusive management roles held by women. 2019 for the 2020 intake were females, workforce that reflects the areas We want our female employment rate a significant increase from 46% the where we operate strengthens Oil to keep growing and will continue previous year. Search’s capability and resilience. We implementing initiatives that improve Targeted leadership development aim to provide an equal opportunity the under-representation of females in work environment that is free from the oil and gas industry and foster a truly Delivered for the past two years, Oil harassment and discrimination and inclusive workplace culture. Search’s Leading Our Way for Women promotes unbiased decision-making. programme has strong senior leader Supporting working parents sponsorship and an active alumni We employ and develop people community. Participants have benefited We are constantly challenging based on merit and our systems, from an intensive development ourselves to make it easier for parents processes and practices are designed experience, with their managers and across all Oil Search locations to to empower fair treatment. We senior leaders involved to promote remain in the workplace while raising undertake an annual remuneration greater understanding and empathy for children. We do this by providing benchmarking assessment to ensure the development barriers women face paid parental leave and part-time and there is equitable remuneration for and how best to address them. flexible work arrangements that assist like-roles, independent of gender. employees to meet their work and The programme combines cohorts The results of the review are reported home responsibilities. from PNG and Australia and has to our Board People & Nominations Committee annually. enhanced cultural understanding and cemented constructive networks across the business. 51 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES Since it began, 11 programme as Courageous Conversations. Their In partnership with OSF, Oil Search participants have progressed into involvement is building the business’s implemented the Oil Search STEM new or more senior roles. capacity for change as well as enhancing Scholarship and Awards Programme their personal breadth of experience in 2019. The programme is taking a Citizen Development Programme and leadership profiles. planned and consolidated approach Our Citizen Development Programme to developing STEM skillsets in young (CDP), which was established in 2016, P R OV I D I N G PAT H WAYS TO Papua New Guineans, with a focus on provides clear development and E M P LOY M E N T the early identification and attraction of employment opportunities for highlocal technical and leadership talent. Developing and fostering career It provides educational resources and performing PNG citizens. Cumulatively, opportunities for local and regional student opportunities at secondary and 67% of our leadership roles in PNG community members is both an university level, including: are now held by PNG citizens, and we important way for community members continue to make progress towards our X Science resources for secondary to benefit from our activity and a key 2020 goal of 73%. schools in local community areas. element of our approach to addressing We have identified several CDP global shortages of people with the X Comprehensive pre-employment participants with near-term potential skills and experience we require. technician training for trainees from for leadership roles and they are the local communities. Applying the same organisation-wide receiving extensive development, from X Internships and approach and values tailored to local coaching to secondments, leadership final year scholarships needs, we were able to offer members programmes, formal tertiary education for engineering students. of the local community both in PNG and and project-based work. During 2019, Alaska access to a number of specially36% of CDP participants identified with Investing in graduate recruitment developed programmes in 2019. near-term potential were promoted into Oil Search’s three-year Graduate leadership roles. STEM Scholarships and Development Programme (GDP) Awards Programme includes job placements in PNG CDP participants were also change champions for key initiatives across There is a global shortage of people that offer exposure to the business the PNG Business Unit during the year, with STEM skills in our industry so and provide valuable on-the-job from new system implementations addressing the impact of this on our perspectives on life at Oil Search. to cultural change programmes such recruitment levels is a priority area for us. 52 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 In 2019, we continued to improve our Nuiqsut Trapper School Internships graduate recruitment process with a In collaboration with Kuukpik In 2019, Oil Search partnered with strong presence at university career Corporation and ConocoPhillips Alaska Alaska Clean Seas (ACS) and Arctic fairs and new assessment tools to assist Inc. (CPAI), Oil Search sponsored Slope Regional Corporation (ASRC) with the objective identification of Alaska Resource Education (ARE) to to set up a two-year internship for candidates. As a result, we attracted a provide industry-based awareness Spill Response Technician training strong pool of 2,011 applicants. and education programmes at Trapper and development. We also strengthened our engagement School in Nuiqsut. Our intent was to recruit and develop with the PNG University of Technology ARE is a non-government organisation this capability from within the native (Unitech), a key source of engineering which strives to deliver learning Alaskan North Slope community, talent in PNG. Unitech Heads of programmes that inform impacted particularly the village of Nuiqsut. Departments participated in a site communities and school teachers Following a collaborative effort between visit to Oil Search field facilities about local industries and the career Oil Search, ACS, ASRC and the village and met with early-career and opportunities they present. of Nuiqsut, we identified a successful experienced engineers to understand candidate, who joined ACS as an intern work‑based requirements. The Oil Search programme includes in November. teacher instruction (which counts During this visit, Oil Search announced towards State annual teacher The internship includes being educated a US$29,500 contribution towards development ‘credits’) and interactive and trained in the elements and improving facilities to support Unitech’s teacher/student lessons where our disciplines related to oil spill mitigation efforts to achieve accreditation from employees can speak to students and and recovery, including participating in Engineers Australia for its degrees. share career specifics and industry both Operator and ACS run training and practices related to exploration attending real-time events. At the end drilling, production, finance and of the programme, the intern will have a other career options. career pathway for this key response area with either ACS or the wider industry. PA R T N E R I N G TO C R E AT E O P P O R T U N I T I E S FOR NORTH SLOPE STUDENTS GeoFORCE Alaska: Oil Search supported this outreach I isaġvik College Tribal College in Utqiagvik: Iisaġvik programme at the University of Alaska Fairbanks for provides quality post-secondary academic, vocational rural students from the North Slope, Northwest Arctic and technical education in a learning environment that and Interior. Students were recruited in 8th or 9th perpetuates and strengthens Iñupiat culture, language, grade and travelled around Alaska and throughout the values, and traditions. It aims to develop a well-educated country to learn about geology and career paths in and trained workforce who meet the human resource the geoscience industry. needs of North Slope employers and the state of Alaska. Ilisagvik partners with industry and offers communityThe cohort of 22 students from the North Slope and based training opportunities in Nuiqsut, facilitating Northwest Arctic completed the programme in 2019. capacity-building and providing a ready workforce for Of the six students who graduated high school in May local hire and long-term careers. 2019, 100% attended college and half of them chose to study for a Geosciences degree. The North Slope Arctic Education Foundation: This private non-profit students who participated included one from Nuiqsut, organisation is committed to providing financial assistance one from Anaktuvuk Pass, two from Point Lay, and ten to eligible applicants who are pursing higher education, from Utqiagvik. including Northern Alaskan Iñupiat, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation shareholders and their descendants. Its goal is to partially finance students who are furthering their education beyond high school or wish to be job ready. 53 ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES From June to August 2019, Oil Search skills such as resume writing, attending worked with ASA to develop and hosted four engineering interns through interviews, professional office etiquette deliver customised, project-specific our partnership with the Alaska Native and presentation skills. training in conjunction with the North Science and Engineering Program Slope Training Cooperative (NSTC). (ANSEP) at the University of Alaska. Training and promoting local The training targeted direct and indirect The interns were part of a structured job opportunities employees and contractors working programme providing direct, consistent Oil Search continued to partner with on the Pikka Unit Development, setting mentoring supported by a technical local area operators in 2019 to support the stage for a safe, compliant and coach and a supervisor. local recruitment in Alaska. successful 2019-2020 field season. As part of the internship, they We coordinated the promotion of STRENGTHENING OUR took part in discrete engineering job opportunities at the Pikka Unit W H I S T L E B LOW E R projects that contributed directly to Development with over a dozen PROTECTION Pikka Unit Development activities. contract companies. Many joined us Their completed projects included at the annual job fair in Nuiqsut, which The Oil Search Code of Conduct significant contributions to the scope, provided a key opportunity to capture represents our commitment to orientation, layout, and schedule local interest in short-term and longerupholding ethical business practices. requirements for the development’s term job opportunities. We believe a consistent and principled operations pad. They provided approach to conduct builds trust, options for layout optimisation and In the spring and summer of 2019, our generates stakeholder support and construction and schedule efficiencies, Community Liaison Officer connected makes us a partner of choice. wrote a contracting strategy for each interested job-seekers, including local Scope of Work and the Statement community members, with local training At Oil Search, known or suspected of Requirements, and generated all opportunities for our industry, to breaches of the Code can be reported aspects of the design process for the improve their employment prospects. in confidence and anonymously project telecommunications systems. through our independent and externally In 2019, Oil Search joined the Alaska managed Whistle-blower Hotline. The interns also received professional Safety Alliance (ASA), Alaska’s nonWhistle-blowers play an important training and advice in core job-seeking profit, regional safety council. We role in identifying and calling out 54 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 misconduct and we strive to prohibit any form of retaliation against the person making the disclosure. In July 2019, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 expanded its requirements to provide greater protections for whistleblowers. Oil Search therefore developed a Whistle-blower Policy, which became effective in October 2019. This was one of several policies that were refreshed during the year to ensure we continued to meet good governance expectations. Other policies updated were our Diversity and Inclusion, Share Trading, Corruption Prevention and Public Disclosure Policies. In 2019, all Oil Search employees underwent mandatory training on the Code of Conduct through online training modules. This was further supported by face-to-face training to encourage discussion and S U P P O R T I N G E M P LOY E E change management and personal create awareness about the options M E N TA L H E A LT H A N D distress. Our managers and human available for speaking out. WELLBEING resources teams also used the services At Oil Search, we take a holistic to better understand the need for them We investigate all reported and and to learn proactive approaches to approach to employee health: suspected breaches of our Code employee management. physical and mental, workplace and of Conduct. Following appropriate home. All aspects are equally important investigations, 29 matters were Domestic violence when aiming to create a healthy, substantiated during the year, which productive workplace. We conducted an interactive training resulted in disciplinary action including programme in 2019 which provided coaching and training, records of In 2019, Oil Search’s wellbeing more than 500 employees with discussion, written warnings and programme, Lifestyle Connect, focused information about domestic violence termination of employment. The on helping employees actively manage and created more awareness. It substantiated breaches related to specific health issues by promoting covered what actions constitute conflict of interest, harassment and a proactive and positive approach to domestic violence, why these actions bullying, fraud, theft, breach of policy their overall health management. are unacceptable, the consequences or procedures, and health, safety, of such actions and pathways to help environment and security matters. Mental health services employees manage domestic violence. Eight reports were made through our We aim to create a psychologically healthy workplace by helping to Family and gender health support Whistle-blower Hotline. These related to discrimination, conflict of interest, protect our employees’ mental health. We designed and delivered men’s and harassment and non-compliance with Building on the success of our Better women’s health programmes to over Company policy. All were investigated. Mental Health training programme 800 employees during 2019 to create We found four reports were in 2018, during 2019 we provided awareness around preventative and unsubstantiated and four substantiated. onsite counselling services by qualified ongoing health issues and to optimise All these whistle-blower cases have psychologists to support mental health health and wellbeing at and beyond been closed out in accordance with our issues. These were available each work. There was also information whistle-blower investigation process. week in Port Moresby and Sydney and for parents to help them understand quarterly at PNG field-based locations. their children’s health, so they could be more health-aware and be more A number of employees in PNG and comfortable with specific aspects of Sydney accessed these services in 2019, child development. for topics ranging from workplace stress, 55 A S S U R A N C E S TAT E M E N T [Embed here in the PDF version of this document] Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ABN 74 490 121 060 Grosvenor Place 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place Sydney NSW 1220 Australia Tel: +61 2 9322 7000 Fax: +61 2 9322 7001 www.deloitte.com.au Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on the 2019 Social Responsibility Report to the Management of Oil Search Limited We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement relating to the subject matter detailed below (the ‘Subject Matter’) presented in Oil Search Limited’s (‘OSL’) 2019 Social Responsibility Report for the period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria in scope of our limited assurance engagement for the period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 and disclosed in the OSL’s 2019 Social Responsibility Report is as follows: Subject Matter Reporting Criteria Total Recordable Injury Rate Total Lost Time Injury Rate Total Number of High Potential Incidents Total Number of Tier 1 Process Safety Events (‘PSEs’) and Total Number of Tier 2 PSEs Total Number of Fatalities Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Emissions and GHG emissions intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) OSL’s 2019 Social Responsibility Reporting Basis of Preparation Total number of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon spills, which involved (‘the Criteria’) greater than 1 barrel spilt into the environment, and total volume of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon spilt into the environment that were greater than > 1 barrel % females on Board & Board Committee, Senior Management and overall workforce % PNG nationals on Board & Board Committee, Senior Management and overall workforce Employee turn-over by gender Selected Assertions Global Reporting Initiative’s Selected material assertions from the 2019 Social Responsibility (‘Selected Reporting Principles for defining Assertion Assurance’) report content and quality. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network 56 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Responsibilities of Management Management of OSL is responsible for: • Ensuring that the Subject Matter is properly prepared and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria • Confirming the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the applicable criteria, including that all relevant matters are reflected in the subject matter information • Designing, establishing and maintaining internal controls to ensure that the Subject Matter is properly prepared and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Assurance Practitioner’s Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE 3000’) issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in order to express a conclusion whether, based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. ASAE 3000 requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying areas where a material misstatement of the Subject Matter information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and considering the process used to prepare the Subject Matter. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and consisted primarily of: • In respect of the Selected subject matter data: − Performing interviews with a selection of OSL’s data owners responsible for the selected Sustainability Performance Indicators to confirm our understanding of the compilation and review process − Analysing and inspecting on a sample basis, the key systems, processes and procedures and controls relating to the collation, validation, presentation and approval process of Selected Performance Indicators information included in the 2019 Social Responsibility Report − Review underlying evidence on a sample basis to corroborate that the information is prepared and reported in line with the relevant Reporting Criteria. • Reviewing a sample of assertions from the draft 2019 Social Responsibility Report against underlying evidence (‘Selected Assertions Assurance’) to confirm that information has been prepared and reported in accordance with the underlying evidence. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network 57 A S S U R A N C E S TAT E M E N T Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion providing reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter has been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Inherent Limitations There are inherent limitations in performing an assurance engagement for example, assurance engagements are based on selective testing of the information being examined – and it is possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. An assurance engagement is not designed to detect all misstatements, as an assurance engagement is not performed continuously throughout the year that is the subject of the engagement and the procedures performed on a test basis. The conclusion expressed in this report has been formed on the above basis. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such data. Limitations of Use This report has been prepared for use by Management of OSL for the purpose of enabling OSL to include the assurance report in their in the 2019 Social Responsibility Report. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report to any person other than the Management of OSL or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter have not been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria in OSL’s policies and procedures. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Chi Mun Woo Partner Sydney, 24 March 2020 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network 58 REPORTING INDICES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE AND IPIECA REPORTING INDEX This table references the Standards or sections of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016. GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organisation profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation Oil Search Limited GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Website What we do GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea Website What we do GRI 102-4 Location of operations Social Responsibility Report 2019 –About this Report Website Who we are GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 2019 – Shareholder information Most of the crude oil and natural gas produced is sold into the AsiaGRI 102-6 Markets served Pacific region. Our customers include integrated oil companies, refiners, commodity trading organisations and energy generators. Annual Report 2019 Overview of Operations GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Annual Report 2019 Ten-year summary Annual Report 2019 Highlights GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Website Data Centre – People and organisation – Workforce Website What we do Website How we work Human rights GRI 102-9 Supply chain Social Responsibility Report 2019 Working with partners to promote and protect human rights Social Responsibility Report 2019 Message from our leaders Significant changes to the organisation and its GRI 102-10 supply chain Annual Report 2019 – Update from the Managing Director Peter Botten Website How we work – Social Responsibility Strategy Social Responsibility Policy GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Website How we work Responsible operator GRI 102-12 External initiatives Website Memberships and commitments GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Website Memberships and commitments 59 REPORTING INDICES GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Social Responsibility Report 2019 Message from our leaders Annual Report 2018 – Directors' Report: Material business risks Climate Change Resilience Report 2017 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Social Responsibility Report 2019 Enhancing our engagement approach Ethics and integrity Website How we work -Oil Search leadership behaviours Business Values, principles, standards, and norms Website How we work Integrity and transparency GRI 102-16 ethics and of behaviour Oil Search Code of Conduct transparency Website Who we are Policies and standards Mechanisms for advice and concerns Website How we work Integrity and transparency GRI 102-17 Business about ethics Corruption Prevention Policy ethics and transparency Website Integrity and transparency Governance Website Who we are Board GRI 102-18 Governance structure Website Who we are Board Committees Website Who We Are Board committees GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Health Safety and Sustainability Committee Executive-level responsibility for economic, GRI 102-20 Website Who we are Board Committees environmental, and social topics Website Who we are Governance Consulting stakeholders on economic, Website How we work Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-21 environmental, and social topics Social Responsibility Report 2019 Enhancingour engagement approach Composition of the highest governance body Website Who we are Governance GRI 102-22 and its committees Corporate Governance Statement 2019 The Chair of the Board is a Non-Executive Director. As per the Oil Search Board Charter, the Board will elect one of the Directors to GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body act as Chair who: (a) is a Non-Executive Director, and (b) has not previously served as Managing Director of the Company Nominating and selecting the highest GRI 102-24 Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance governance body Governance Website How we work Integrity and transparency Corruption Prevention Policy GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance Role of highest governance body in setting GRI 102-26 Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance purpose, values, and strategy 60 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES Governance Collective knowledge of highest governance Website Who we are Governance GRI 102-27 body Corporate Governance Statement 2019 Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance Evaluating the highest governance body’s GRI 102-28 performance Website Who we are Governance Corporate Governance Statement 2019 Website Who we are Governance Corporate Governance Statement 2019 Identifying and managing economic, GRI 102-29 Website Who We Are Board committees environmental, and social impacts Health Safety and Sustainability Committee Website Who we are Risk and assurance Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Website Who we are Risk and assurance Review of economic, environmental, Website Who We Are Board committees GRI 102-31 and social topics Health Safety and Sustainability Committee Highest governance body’s role GRI 102-32 Board Health, Safety and Sustainability Committee in sustainability reporting Website Who we are Governance GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement 2019 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2019 Remuneration Report Annual Report 2019 Remuneration Report GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Website Who we are – Governance – Board Governance Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Stakeholder engagement Website How we work Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Social Responsibility Report 2019 Enhancing our engagement approach GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Website How we work Workforce management GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Website How we work Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Website How we work Stakeholder engagementt Social Responsibility Report 2019 Enhancing our engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised approach Entities included in the consolidated financial Annual Report 2019 Subsidiaries and interests in joint GRI 102-45 statements arrangements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Social Responsibility Report 2019 –About this Report Website How we work Social Responsibility Strategy GRI 102-47 List of material topics Social Responsibility Report 2019 Enhancing our engagement approach Changes and restatements, where made, are indicated as GRI 102-48 Restatements of information footnotes in the Data Centre. 61 REPORTING INDICES GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES Stakeholder engagement Annual Report 2019 – Letter from the Chairman; GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Update from the Managing Director; Letter from Keiran Wulff The 2019 Social Responsibility Report covers performance GRI 102-50 Reporting period between 1 January and 31 December 2019. The previous Social Responsibility Report was released in March GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 and covered the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Contact point for questions regarding GRI 102-53 SocialResponsibility@oilsearch.com the report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 GRI-referenced Report GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index Social Responsibility Report 2019 Reporting index GRI 102-56 External assurance Social Responsibility Report 2019 Independent limited assurance Management approach Social Responsibility Report 2019 SE1; Explanation of the material topic SE2; GRI 103-1 Website How we work and its Boundary SE9; Social Responsibility Report 2019 –About this Report SE18 SE1; The management approach SE2; GRI 103-2 Website How we work and its components SE9; SE18 ECONOMIC INDICATORS Economic performance Website Data Centre Integrity and transparency; Sustainable development Direct economic value generated and Social Responsibility Report 2019 Making lives better SE4; GRI 201-1 distributed SE13 Transparency Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 10-year summary Climate Change Resilience Report 2017 Financial implications and other risks and GRI 201-2 Website How we work Climate change opportunities due to climate change Annual Report 2019 Directors’ Report: Material business risks Economic performance Defined benefit plan obligations and other GRI 201-3 No Oil Search employees are in a defined benefit fund retirement plans Social Responsibility Report 2019 – Expanded Infrastructure Financial assistance received GRI 201-4 SE13 from government No other significant financial assistance has been received from governments at any of our operational areas. 62 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE ECONOMIC INDICATORS Market presence Social Responsibility Report 2019 – Focusing on diversity and inclusion Proportion of senior management hired from GRI 202-2 Website Data Centre – People and organisation Workforce and SE6 the local community senior management diversity Annual Report 2019 Strengthened Organisational Capability Indirect economic Impacts Infrastructure investments and services GRI 203-1 Social Responsibility Report 2019 Expanded Infrastructure SE4 supported Social Responsibility Report 2019 Making lives better GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SE4; SE6 Website Data Centre – Sustainable development – Socio-economic contribution Volume and type of estimated proved OG1 Annual Report 2019 Reserves and resources reserves and production Procurement practices Website Data Centre – Sustainable development Supplier and contractor payments GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SE5; SE7 Social Responsibility Report 2019 Improved local business opportunities; Working with partners to promote and protect human rights Anti-corruption Website How we work Integrity and transparency Communication and training about GRI 205-2 Social Responsibility Report 2019 – Working with partners to SE11 anti-corruption policies and procedures promote and protect human rights; Strengthening our whistleblower protection Social Responsibility Report 2019 Working with partners to Confirmed incidents of corruption and GRI 205-3 promote and protect human rights; Strengthening our whistleSE11 actions taken blower protection ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Website Data Centre Responsible operator Energy E2 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Website Data Centre Responsible operator Energy E2 OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy Website Data Centre Responsible operator Energy E3 Water GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Website Data Centre Responsible operator Water use E6 Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Website Data Centre Responsible operator Climate change E1 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Website Data Centre Responsible operator Climate change E1 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Website Data Centre Responsible operator Climate change E1 63 REPORTING INDICES GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Emissions Website Data Centre Responsible operator Climate change GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity E1 Climate Change Resilience Report 2017 Social Responsibility Report 2019 – Addressing operating GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions E1 emissions performance Effluents and waste GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Website Data Centre Responsible operator Water use E7 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Website Data Centre Responsible operator Waste E10 Website Data Centre Responsible operator GRI 306-3 Significant spills E9 Spills that reach the environment Volume and disposal of formation or OG5 Website Data Centre Responsible operator Water use E7 produced water Environmental compliance Non-compliance with environmental laws and Oil Search has had no sanctions or fines for non-compliance with GRI 307-1 regulations any environmental laws and regulations. SOCIAL INDICATORS Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Website Data Centre People and organisation SE15 Benefits provided to full-time employees that GRI 401-2 are not provided to temporary or part-time Website How we work Performance and remuneration employees GRI 401-3 Parental leave Website Data Centre People and organisation Occupational Health and Safety Workers representation in formal joint Website How we work – Responsible operator – Health, safety GRI 403-1 management–worker health and safety HS1 and security committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Social Responsibility Report 2019 Prioritising safety GRI 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and HS3 number of work-related fatalities Data Centre – Responsible operator Social Responsibility Report 2019 Prioritising safety HS5 Number of process safety events by business OG13 activity Website Data Centre Responsible operator Training and education Average hours of training per year per GRI 404-1 Website Data Centre People and organisation SE17 employee Website How we work Training and development Programs for upgrading employee skills and GRI 404-2 SE17 transition assistance programs Social Responsibility Report 2019 Building organisational competency and capacity Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 404-3 performance and career development Website Data Centre People and organisation SE17 reviews 64 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI STANDARD – IPIECA GRI NUMBER REFERENCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE SOCIAL INDICATORS Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and GRI 405-1 Website Data Centre People and organisation SE15 employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration GRI 405-2 Website Data Centre People and organisation SE15 of women to men Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective Social Responsibility Report 2019Focusing on diversity and GRI 406-1 SE8; SE18 actions taken inclusion; Strengthening our whistle-blower protection Security practices VPSHR Annual Report 2019 Security personnel trained in human rights GRI 410-1 SE10 policies or procedures Social Responsibility Report 2019 Working with partners to promote and protect human rights Human rights Social Responsibility Report 2019 Working with partners to Operations that have been subject to human promote and protect human rights GRI 412-1 SE8 rights reviews or impact assessments VPSHR Annual Report 2019 Employee training on human rights policies or GRI 412-2 VPSHR Annual Report 2019 SE8 procedures Significant investment agreements and GRI 412-3 contracts that include human rights clauses or VPSHR Annual Report 2019; Modern Slavery Statement 2019 SE8 that underwent human rights screening Operations where involuntary resettlement OG12 took place, number of households resettled Website – Data Centre SE3 and how livelihoods were affected Local communities Website How we work Society Website How we work Sustainable development Operations with local community GRI 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and SE1 Social Responsibility Report 2019 Making lives better development programs Social Responsibility Report 2019 Proud of what we do and how we do it Public policy Oil Search does not make payments in cash or in kind, directly or indirectly, to politicians, political parties, political organisations, their representatives or any independent candidates engaged in GRI 415-1 Political contributions politics. Oil Search personnel must not give, pay, offer, promise, SE13; SE14 directly or indirectly, any benefit, including case, per diems, donations, gifts entertainment or any other benefits of any kind to a Government Official. Socio-economic compliance Oil Search has had no non-monetary sanctions or fines issued for non-compliance with laws and regulations. There have Non-compliance with laws and regulations in GRI 419-1 been no fines issued against us for non-compliance with laws the social and economic area and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 65 D E V E LO P M E N T G O A L S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) AND PNG VISION 2050 This table references the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and objectives of the Papua New Guinea Vision 2050. SR REPORT SECTIONS PNG VISION 2050 SDG DIRECT IMPACT SDG INDIRECT IMPACT MAKING LIVES BETTER 1.17.7.3 Infrastructure and Better access to clean, Utilities; 1.17.9 Environmental affordable power Sustainability and Climate Change Stronger health services 1.17.3 Health More opportunities for 1.17.2 Education lifelong education Expanded support for 1.17.3 Health Alaskan Communities 1.17.9 Environmental Building climate resilience Sustainability and Climate in PNG communities Change 1.17.4.1.2 Agriculture; Improved local business 1.17.6.14 Robust Economic opportunities Growth; Enhanced protection for 1.7.2 Equality and Participation woman and families 1.17.7.3 Infrastructure and Utilities; 1.17.1 Human Expanded Infrastructure Development; 1.23.1 Infrastructure Rehabilitation efforts following the 2018 earthquake 66 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 SR REPORT SECTIONS PNG VISION 2050 SDG DIRECT IMPACT SDG INDIRECT IMPACT PROUD OF WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT Prioritising safety 1.17.3 Health 1.17.9 Environmental Understanding physical Sustainability and Climate climate change risks Change 1.17.9 Environmental Addressing operating Sustainability and Climate emissions performance Change; Working with partners to promote and protect 1.17.1 Human Development human rights Strengthening 1.17.9 Environmental environmental protection Sustainability and Climate measures Change 1.17.1 Human Development Building a strong and 1.17.9 Environmental environmental and social Sustainability and Climate baseline Change Supporting subsistence in 1.17.1 Human Development Alaska North Slope Planning for sustainable development after asset 1.17.1 Human Development end-of-life ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES Building organisational 1.7.1 Integral Human competency and capacity Development Focusing on diversity and 1.7.2 Equality and Participation inclusion 1.25 Citizen Participation Providing pathways to 1.7.1 Integral Human employment Development Strengthening our 1.7.2 Equality and Participation whistle-blower protection Supporting employee mental health and 1.17.3 Health wellbeing 67 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 2 0 1 9 S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R TS P R E L I M I N A R Y M O D E R N S L A V E R Y S TAT E M E N T 2 0 1 9 COMMITMENT PRINCIPLES INTEGRITY AWARENESS I n sp i r e s In spire In spire s In spire s 2 019 2 019 2 01 9 2 01 9 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT V O L U N TA R Y P R I N C I P L E S O N S E C U R I T Y TRANSPARENCY REPORT PRELIMINARY MODERN AND HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT S L AV E R Y S TAT E M E N T C E L E B R AT I N G 9 0 Y E A R S C E L E B R AT I N G 9 0 Y E A R S C E L E B R AT I N G 9 0 Y E A R S C E L E B R A T I N AG 9 0 Y E A R S Social Responsibility VPSHR Report Transparency Preliminary Modern Report Report Slavery Statement Enquiries and feedback on this reporting and peformance are welcome. Please contact the Oil Search social responsibility team on: socialresponsibility@oilsearch.com This report is printed using Monza Recycled paper. Monza Recycled contains 100% recycled fibre and is FSC® Mix Certified, which ensures that pulp is derived from well-managed forests FSC LOGO TBS and recycled wood of fibre. Monza Recycled is manufactured by an ISO 14001 certified mill. Designed and produced by Helicopter Creative | www.helicoptercreative.com.au W W W. O I L S E A R C H . C O M 70
