2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS ABOUT THE REPORT 05 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 07 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 09 ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING 10 KİBAR GROUP 12 GOVERNANCE IN KİBAR GROUP 17 SUSTAINABILITY IN KİBAR GROUP 21 WE GROW 29 WE EMPOWER 37 WE INNOVATE 47 WE CARE 61 WE ENCOURAGE 73 WE SHARE 79 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 86 GRI CONTENT INDEX 89 2 1 “Successful companies are like stars. They radiate light around them.” Asım Kibar Founder and Honorary President Kibar Holding 2 3 GRI 102-1, 102-45, 102-46, 102-49, 102-50, 102-54 Kibar Holding, with its sixth sustainability report in 2018, provides a summary of its economic, social and environmental performance to all its stakeholders. The purpose of the 2018 Sustainability Report is to share accurate and up-todate information about Kibar Group’s corporate values, business conduct and performance in accordance with international standards. The information included in the report, covering the period between January 1 December 31, 2018 includes the consolidated data of Assan Alüminyum, Assan Foods, Assan Hanil, Assan Panel and İspak, which are Kibar Holding’s main companies, and Kibar Group’s sustainability approach. ABOUT THE The data shared in the “About Kibar REPORT Holding” section provide information about Kibar Holding A.Ş. Group companies and their subsidiaries. Kibar Holding 2018 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This report also aims to meet the annual Progress Reporting requirements of the Global Compact signed by Kibar Holding in 2013. The report includes the performance of Kibar Holding in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 5 GRI 102-14 Dear Stakeholders, Our world, especially towards the end of the added value for our country. In all of our facilities, 20th century, has faced environmental problems we pay attention to continuous improvement on a global scale with the effect of increasing based on operational excellence, to increase population and industrialization. The secret of efficiency, to develop resources and capacity, and minimizing these problems and their manageability to use innovative technologies. We focus more on even if they cannot be stopped is hidden in export markets that are strategic for our country the concept of sustainability. The concept of and continue to grow by increasing our share in sustainability is a holistic approach encompassing these markets. Our group companies are among ecological, economic and social dimensions. At the leading companies of our country in terms of the core of sustainability is to leave a livable world our support to the economy and the successful to future generations in every respect. In every performance graphics demonstrate this. respect, we mean; a clean natural environment that can renew itself, social conditions based Maintaining this success and ensuring corporate on equality and prosperity, and an economic sustainability are among our top priorities. We make system that guards society and the environment. investments to accelerate digital transformation It is a fact that a development model aimed only without fear of change and innovation, put forward at economic growth will not be long-term, and projects that support career development of our that sustainable development will be possible human resources one of our most important only through efforts covering all segments of the values, and that increase environmental awareness. society as well as environmental benefit, and the We will continue with our sustainability efforts with business world has long been aware of it. In this a holistic approach and to carry them further in context, groups like us, especially those working line with the requirements of the Global Compact in the industry, have important duties to spread a we have signed. We are continuing our efforts responsive sustainability approach for the future. with the awareness that our successes returns as a contribution to our country. Throughout our history of nearly half a century, MESSAGE FROM while contributing to production, economy and I would like to thank our valued customers, business employment, we have always been aware of our partners, stakeholders and all our colleagues who responsibilities. We accept this business culture as support our sustainability efforts, stand by us and THE CHAIRMAN one of our most important values and we carry out all our activities in this direction. Kibar Holding embrace our principles. In the coming years, we will continue to work with the same perseverance and is a group operating in various sectors from food belief in order to create projects that create value to automotive, packaging to aluminum. With for both our economy and society. 22 companies and 7,500 employees, we create Ali Kibar Chairman of the Board 6 7 GRI 102-14 Esteemed Stakeholders, With the impact of climate change on all ecosystems, We INNOVATE for the future by keeping product safety, the rise in global temperature and the problem of quality and customer satisfaction at the highest level climate change has moved from the agenda of beyond all financial concerns, following technology scientists to the agenda of the whole world. Global and developments closely on a global scale, shaping temperature rise, melting of glaciers, rising sea our R&D and innovation strategies in this direction, levels, droughts, extreme rains, storms, reduction of enabling our employees to realize their creative and agricultural land reveal the impacts of climate change innovative ideas, continuing digital transformation and environmental degradation for everyone. efforts and ensuring the high standards of information security brought by digitalization. Ensuring sustainable economic development without damaging the environment and natural resources, We CARE for next generations by working to eliminate stopping or limiting harmful effects and combating or limit the negative effects of our activities on the environmental pollution is not an issue that the business environment from production to distribution at world can ignore. This requires that the concepts of every stage and to raise awareness, by converting economic growth and development be evaluated potential threats posed by environmental problems together with the goal of sustainability, which is a to opportunities with environmentally friendly multi-dimensional concept covering economic, technologies and products, by reducing energy, social and environmental elements together. emissions and water density, by generating electricity from renewable energy sources, by using natural Environmental degradation causes the questioning resources efficiently, by supporting circular economy of traditional ways of doing business all over the through effective waste management and by using world, however, the threats posed by environmental environmentally friendly disposal methods. problems bring new business models and opportunities. We ENCOURAGE our stakeholders by acting with As Kibar Group, we continue our economic growth the responsibility and awareness of uncovering the with an understanding of people-orientation, values potential of our stakeholders in achieving sustainable MESSAGE FROM based on honesty, protecting natural resources and environment by considering the needs of future development goals; evaluating our relationships with stakeholders in the entire value chain from raw material THE CEO generations, realizing investments for social benefit and procurement to production and end customers within social responsibility projects. the framework of sustainability principles; making supply chain management an important part of our With our high production capacity industrial plants, we corporate sustainability practices. continue to create added value for Turkey’s economy and employment, and we GROW with the principles We SHARE for the society by making significant of sustainability. With our export performance in investments in education, health and social life through 2018, we are proud to be 4th on “top 1,000 exporting our efforts that contribute to raising the welfare level companies” list of Turkey Exporters Assembly, as well of the society and carrying out social responsibility as to be the industry leader in the “Ferrous and Nonprojects that create value. Ferrous Metals” category. We would like to thank our colleagues, business We EMPOWER our people by using national and partners, customers, suppliers and all our stakeholders international standards as guidance in order to for their invaluable contributions to our sustainability provide our employees with the working conditions efforts and we are pleased to share our 2018 they deserve, believing in the importance of acting Sustainability Report in accordance with globally together as a family and creating a sharing-oriented accepted Global Reporting Initiative’s “core” reporting working culture, seeing a participatory business life option. and employee satisfaction as the key to success, preparing our employees for the future, applying occupational health and safety procedures at international standards, and embracing our business Haluk Kayabaşı ethics understanding based on honesty. CEO 8 9 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-7, 201-1 GRI 102-2, 102-7, 201-1 ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING 20 + 7000 + 19 65 BILLION USD 100 RANKS 4 EXPORT 7 KiBAR HOLDiNG TO DIFFERENT 5 WAS ESTABLISHED TH 1972 OVER COUNTRIES in SECTORS COMPANIES PRODUCTION TURNOVER in in TURKEY EMPLOYEES FACILITIES CONTINENTS IN EXPORTS *Data covers Kibar Holding A.Ş companies and their subsidiaries. Financial data is obtained from independently audited solo financial statements. 10 11 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 KiBAR INDUSTRY ASSAN ALÜMİNYUM ASSAN HANİL HYUNDAI ASSAN TSI AIRCRAFT SEAT PRODUCTION Assan Alüminyum, one of the world’s leading Assan Hanil, one of Kibar Group’s automotive Another of Kibar Group’s automotive TSI AIRCRAFT SEAT PRODUCTION was established GROUP manufacturer in the flat-rolled aluminum (FRP) industry, has been producing rolled aluminium investments, was established in 1997 in partnership with South Korean Seoyon E-Hwa investments, Hyundai Assan, began production in Turkey in 1997 in partnership with Kibar Holding with the joint venture of Kibar Holding, Turkish Airlines and THY Teknik A.Ş. TSI manufactures Tuzla products since its establishment in 1988. With rolls, and has started production as main component Hyundai. Hyundai Assan Izmit Factory, which has aircraft seats with the authorization of EASA sheets, foils and painted aluminum products, it İzmit 1 supplier in the automotive sector. In addition İzmit an annual production capacity of 245,000 units İstanbul (European Aviation Safety Agency) and FAA offers its products to a variety of sectors such as to driver and passenger seats, Assan Hanil and a production area of 1,000,000 m2, exports (Federal Aviation Administration). The seats packaging, distribution, construction, consumer manufactures door panels, front and rear its i10 and i20 models to more than 45 countries, are used in A320, A330, A350, B737, B777 and Dilovası durables, automotive, heating and cooling. bumpers, instrument panel, console, carpet, produced with more than 2,500 employees. The B787 aircraft series. TSI also produces aircraft Assan Alüminyum, with its annual installed İzmit 2 radiator carrier, inflating parts, torpedo, ceiling, countries Hyundai Assan is most exporting to seat spare parts with the authorization of PMA capacity reached 300,000 tons of flat aluminum interior and exterior plastic parts. It is one of the are Germany, Britain and Italy, and it is among (Parts Manufacturing Authority) and provides industry, is Turkey’s leading organization. It is also few companies in the world capable of designing, the top five most admired automotive brands in maintenance services with Part 145 certificate. Kibar Americas one of the three largest producers in Europe developing and manufacturing air suspension Turkey. As a result of the audits conducted by EASA, with a production capacity of 100,000 tons of Bursa driver seats. Assan Hanil, who supplied parts ADOA (Alternative Procedures to Design aluminum foil. Assan Alüminyum exports to more only for Hyundai Assan in the first years of its İSPAK AMBALAJ Organization Approval) was received in Manavgat than 70 countries on four continents, mainly in establishment, added companies respectively to İspak Ambalaj, founded in 1974, is a fast growing, November 2012 and POA (Production Western Europe and North America. its customer portfolio: Ford Otosan, Isuzu, Honda, long-established packaging company. Organization Approval) in December 2013; Aksaray Agco and Mercedes Benz Turkey. The company With over 40 years of expertise and R&D studies, thus aircraft seats are produced with the ASSAN FOODS manufactures in its facilities spread over a total İzmit it produces integrated packaging from raw authorization of EASA and FAA. TSI SEATS Inc., Assan Foods, founded by Kibar Holding in 1998, area of 89.000 m2 in four different locations with material supply to lacquering, lamination and established by TSI for the American aviation produces over 300 products including high quality high technology based on automation. extrusion, printing and slitting to the delivery of industry, operates in Salt Lake City Utah. tomato and pepper paste, ketchup, mayonnaise special packaging products. The factory, which and various sauces in its facilities in Susurluk and ASSAN PANEL Tuzla was opened in 2017 in Izmit, has increased İstanbul the Aegean Free Zone. Assan Foods’ factory in Assan Panel, the leader company of Insulation its production capacity to 30,000 tons per Susurluk, is one of the plants that has the highest Panel Solutions and Systems sector, started its year with its factory designed with Industry 4.0 capacity of processing tomato in a single location production in 1990 with its first factory in Tuzla with technology. Especially with its expertise in flexible in Turkey. The facility, which is established on an Tuzla a capacity of 4.000.000 m2 per year. Assan Panel packaging production and its ability to offer Susurluk open area of 200.000 m2, has the capacity to invested respectively in İskenderun Facility with a various applications; it manufactures packaging process 4,500 tons of fresh tomatoes per day. capacity of 3.000.000 m2 / year in 2004, Balıkesir materials for chocolate products, confectionery, Assan Foods exports to more than 30 countries on Facility with a capacity of 3.000.000 m2 / year dairy products, beverages, dried food and 4 continents. In addition, it supplies tomato paste, in 2009 and Jordan Facility with a capacity of snacks, medical supplies and pharmaceutical Balıkesir pepper paste and pepper juice as a raw material 4.500.000 m2 / year in 2012. In 2015, the Company packaging, hygiene products and pet foods. The to multinational companies in many countries of completed the second line investment in Tuzla company also designs and supplies packaging the world. İstanbul Facility with a capacity of 3.500.000 m2 / applications for tobacco and industrial products. year and reached a capacity of 18.000.000 m2 / EGE ASSAN İskenderun year. Assan Panel, which is the leader in its sector, POSCO ASSAN TST Ege Assan was established by Assan Foods contributes to the construction of sustainable and Posco Assan was founded in 2011 in partnership in 2010 in the Aegean Free Zone for tomato environmentally friendly buildings with its production with Kibar Holding, Pohang Iron and Steel paste export. Ege Assan facility has an annual of chemical products such as: PIR and rockwool Company (POSCO) and POSCO Daewoo. İzmir packaging capacity of 24,000 tons of tomato Jordan filled cold room, roof and facade sandwich panel İzmit Posco Assan TST, Turkey’s first and only facility paste on an area of 4,500 m2. The company’s products, panels ready for installation of solar which has a stainless steel cold rolling facility, products are exported to North Africa, Middle East systems, project-specific accessories, polycarbonate started production in 2013 with an annual and Arabian Peninsula countries. skylights, fasteners consisting of screw types, sealing production capacity of 300,000 tons. and filling products. The company exports to 69 countries and is among the most powerful global players in the sector. 12 12 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 KİBAR ASSAN GAYRİMENKUL KİBAR ENERJİ ASSAN BİLİŞİM KiBAR SERVICE TRADE Established in 2008 within the body of Kibar Kibar Energy was established within the Kibar Group Assan Bilişim was established in 2006 to meet all their wastes online 24/7 through comprehensive GROUP Holding, Assan Gayrimenkul (Real Estate) provides services in the fields of real estate development, in 2011 to import and wholesale natural gas in Turkey’s Energy Market. Kibar Energy, which took IT needs of Kibar Holding group companies. It is a technology company which is a reliable partner data management solutions, İnteraktif Environment plays a role as the solution partner GROUP Karaköy investment and management. The main over 1 billion m3 of natural gas purchase and sale of all Group companies by providing advanced of its customers on the road to sustainability. Karaköy Tuzla activities of Assan Gayrimenkul (Real Estate) are contract annually within the scope of the Western technology services and solutions. In addition to total waste management and determining the areas where the Group will make Line Contract transfer in 2012, has been importing environmental consultancy, İnteraktif Environment new investments, making purchases, following and wholesaling natural gas since January 1, 2013. ASSAN LOJİSTİK provides services to its customers at international Tuzla the legislation and legal process, developing and It was established in 1996 to provide portstandards through comprehensive training implementing the final project. KİBAR INTERNATIONAL related logistics services. Assan Logistics, which modules and audit services. Kibar International SA, established in Switzerland provides domestic transportation, warehousing, ASSAN YAPI in 2001, has acted with the group companies in storage, non-gauge freight transportation IRB SİGORTA Assan Yapı (Construction), established in 2007 providing the commercial and financial solutions Tuzla and port services throughout Turkey, performs Kibar Sigorta, which has been carrying out within the structure of Kibar Group, operates in all through local and European financial institutions intermodal, highway, maritime, airway and project insurance activities for 25 years within the structure fields within the construction sector. The projects Switzerland as well as the realization of the targets in all transportation operations abroad. of Kibar Holding, started to provide services in completed and put into service by Assan Yapı processes from the supply of raw materials, mainly As of 2017, Assan Logistics started scheduled İstanbul the fields of insurance and risk management as (Construction) include Pendik-Kurtköy Houses, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, to the sale of semipartial transportation services to the Western İstanbul IRB Sigorta ve Reasürans Brokerliği A.Ş. in 2015. Asım Kibar Vocational and Technical Anatolian finished and finished products. Mediterranean and North African countries. IRB’s expert staff helps design, cost optimization High School, Tuzla Municipality Semiha Kibar With its Istanbul-Tuzla and Hatay-Iskenderun and risk transfer of corporate clients’ insurance Social Facilities, Tuzla Semiha Kibar Teacher House, facilities, Mersin Sales Office, self-owned truck fleet programs. It also provides consultancy services Tuzla Municipality Waterfall Park projects. Assan and large supplier pool, it provides services to to minimize the risk factor by supporting the Alüminyum Dilovası Facilities rehabilitation and many large companies in the sector. determination and implementation of proactive expansion investments new factory buildings measures with Risk Engineering Services. The construction, Coil-To-Coil paint line construction ASSAN PORT Company provides Damage Advisory services and Assan Hanil expansion investments new Assan Port, which started to serve as the first to the insured in matters such as compensation plant projects were carried out by Assan Yapı container terminal in İskenderun Bay in 2010, of damages in a correct and rapid manner, and (Construction). In 2016, Assan Yapı (Construction) has become a very important alternative for the monitoring of rights and liabilities. undertook the contracting of İspak Ambalaj region today. As of the end of 2013, it continues İskenderun Factory project on turn-key basis. The factory, its commercial activities in partnership with which is one of the biggest in Europe in its sector, Terminal Investment Limited SA. Assan Port has an has been completed in 2016. annual container handling capacity of 250,000 TEU and serves general cargo, project cargo and KİBAR DIŞ TİCARET dry bulk carriers. Assan Port İskenderun is the Founded in 1985, the company exports many closest container terminal opening to the west of Turkey’s leading companies and meets the for Northern Iraq as well as providing advantages requirements of the raw materials of these for companies in the Eastern Mediterranean Karaköy organizations. The foreign trade volume of the and Southeastern Anatolia and south of Central company reached 1,500,000 tons per year. Kibar Anatolia. Dış Ticaret ranks one of the first among Export Champions which is published annually by the İNTERAKTİF ÇEVRE DANIŞMANLIK​ Turkey Exporters Assembly. İnteraktif Environment started operations in 2016 with the joint venture of Kibar Group and The Heritage Group of USA to provide competitive and innovative solutions in the field of total waste İstanbul management and environmental consultancy. Providing customers with the opportunity to report 14 15 GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-30, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1 Kibar Holding’s governance approach together in all strategic and culture. In 2018, the Risk Management is based on the effective use of operational processes and decisionDepartment, which is responsible resources in order to adapt to rapidly making mechanisms, which form the for the coordination of the risk changing conditions. All resources basis of Kibar Group’s sustainability management activities of the Holding such as natural resources, human approach. and Group companies, conducted resources, capital, information, annual risk assessment studies, equipment and infrastructure are Risk Management prepared detailed risk maps and planned and evaluated in the identified risk action plans to be Kibar Holding Board of Directors acts most effective and efficient manner. followed. in line with the risk management Effective leadership is achieved approach that supports global through an effective and transparent developments and current Internal Audit and Internal language of communication with all governance concepts by keeping the Control stakeholders. Effective and transparent balance of risk, growth and return at At Kibar Holding, auditing activities are communication between shareholders the most appropriate level in strategic followed with a proactive methodology and management team is provided decision making while managing and based on International Internal Audit in all Group companies, strategic and representing the company. Standards and Kibar Holding Code long-term planning and management of Ethics. The audits performed by elements are prioritized. Within the scope of corporate risk the Internal Audit Vice Presidency management, Kibar Holding continues are carried out in a risk and process GOVERNANCE IN This management approach its efforts to identify and effectively oriented manner in order to control accelerates the transformation manage corporate risks for its compliance with the legislation, KiBAR GROUP of all our Group companies into enterprises that prioritize innovation stakeholders, assets and operations corporate policies and principles and in accordance with international the determined strategic targets. in all processes with product safety standards. Risk management activities, and customer satisfaction at its center, which are a part of corporate Internal audits at Kibar Holding include; develop innovative products, adapt to governance, are carried out within process audits, compliance audits, new technologies and systems easily, the framework of corporate risk financial audits and information aiming at high competitiveness and management principles. technologies audits. The findings of the global growth. risks identified within the scope of audit Corporate risk management and activities are transferred to the related Since its establishment, Kibar Group business continuity principles are units and suggestions for improvement has adopted a participatory, structured in accordance with are presented. innovative, reliable, environmentally international standards such as conscious and people-oriented ISO 31000 Risk Management and management approach. With this ISO 22301 Business Continuity approach, economic, social and Management System in line with environmental factors are evaluated company strategies and corporate 17 GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-31, 102-32 GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-31, 102-32 Sustainability Management Sustainability Governance Structure Kibar Holding aims to ensure that sustainability is at the core of all activities and is embraced SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY by employees. In this respect, sustainability management has been COMMITTEE WORKING GROUP established in a participatory structure. The Sustainability Committee and CEO Holding Corporate the Sustainability Working Group are CHAIRMAN Communications the main elements of sustainability Manager management. Assan Alüminyum (Coordination) Strategy and The Sustainability Committee is Marketing Director HOLDING UNITS GROUP COMPANIES chaired by the CEO of the Holding, and the members of the Committee Holding Human are the Holding unit managers Resources Analytics and the general managers of the Chief Financial Corporate Officer, Assan Alüminyum Manager Assan Foods Strategy Group companies. The Sustainability Committee determines the Group’s Communications CFO General Manager and Marketing sustainability approach, sets its Division Manager Manager policies and strategies, prepares (Coordination) an action plan, sets goals and Assan Foods Holding Finance monitors sustainability performance. Executive Vice President General Manager Director of Internal Audit Assan Hanil Business The Sustainability Working Group Development Director achieves the action plan in line with Assan Hanil the approach determined by the General Manager Assan Bilişim Corporate Sustainability Committee. Executive Vice President of Applications and Digital Corporate Development Assan Panel Technologies Director General Manager Assan Panel Human and Strategy Resources and Vice President Strategy Manager of Human Resources İspak Holding Purchasing General Manager Governance and Internal Energy Investments Customer Experience Director Vice President of Manager İspak Sales and Digitalization and İnteraktif Çevre Marketing Director Procurement General Manager Risk Management Director 18 19 GRI 102-15, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47 The foundation of Kibar Holding’s In Kibar Holding, environmental sustainability approach is based on issues are managed in accordance founder and honorary president Asım with national and international Kibar’s principles of honesty and standards. The majority of Kibar reliability that the Group defines as its Group companies have ISO 14001 core values. Kibar Group’s business Environmental Management System culture is based on its deep-rooted Certification. All of the companies corporate governance tradition, have specialized units in the field of innovative approach, business ethics, environmental management and social responsibility culture and the work is carried out to increase the sustainability approach shaped in environmental awareness of the line with the United Nations Global employees. Compact (UNGC). In all of its operations, Kibar Group Adopting the Global Compact, Kibar companies are obliged to comply with Group offers its employees a fair and the principles of the Global Compact, equal work environment, where human which are based on the development rights are protected, occupational of global and sustainable social health and safety is given priority, responsibility awareness in the SUSTAINABILITY IN professional development is supported. business world and the policies and strategies determined by Kibar Holding KİBAR GROUP In Kibar Group, human rights are guaranteed in accordance with the in line with these principles. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Global Compact and the provisions promulgated by national and international legislation. All kinds of discrimination, child labor, forced and compulsory labor practices are prevented. Group companies expect suppliers and business partners to meet similar working norms, follow their practices in this area and contribute to the realization of conditions. 21 GRI 102-15, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47 GRI 102-15, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47 CONTRIBUTION 2 ZERO HUNGER GOAL 2 : 5 GENDER EQUALITY GOAL 5: 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GOAL 8: 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION GOAL 12: Zero Hunger Gender Equality GROWTH Decent Work and AND PRODUCTION Responsible Consumption TO SUSTAINABLE Economic Growth and Production DEVELOPMENT We increase the yield and income In order to increase women’s In order to provide our employees with We adopt a cyclical economy, GOALS from agriculture through Good participation in business life, we the working conditions they deserve, we sustainability and innovation Agricultural Practices, Smart Farming increase the number of female take international standards as guidelines, based production model, use Out of 17, Kibar Group contributes and trainings for farmers. employees and continue awareness and in our procurement procedures, we natural resources efficiently, positively to the 12 Sustainable raising activities through seminars that do not employ child labor and forced increase waste reuse with effective Development Goals of the United promote gender equality. labor, and ensure fair working conditions. waste management and prefer Nations: “Zero Hunger”, “Good Health We increase productivity and economic environmentally friendly disposal and Well-being”, “Quality Education”, growth through investments in R&D and methods. “Gender Equality”, “Clean Water and innovation. Sanitation”, “Affordable and Clean Energy”, “Decent Work and Economic 3 GOOD HEALTH GOAL 3: 6 CLEAN WATER GOAL 6: 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND GOAL 9: 13 CLIMATE GOAL 13: AND WELL-BEING AND SANITATION ACTION Growth”, “Industry Innovation and Good Health and Clean Water and INFRASTRUCTURE Industry, Innovation Climate Action Infrastructure”, “Reduced Inequality”, and Infrastructure Well-being Sanitation “Responsible Consumption and Production”, “Climate Action” and We support access to health services We support innovation and innovative We reduce water density by developing Within the scope of efforts to “Peace and Justice Strong Institutions”. through social benefit investments in products for sustainable development. sustainable water strategies to protect combat climate change, we limit the the field of health, and strive to provide the ecosystem and protect water Since the day we were established negative impacts of our activities on the best possible health conditions resources through our Waste Water with our innovative investments in the environment, increase energy for employees through occupational Recovery Facility investment. metal, automotive, packaging, building efficiency, reduce energy and emission health and safety practices. materials, real estate, logistics, energy, intensity and generate electricity from food and service sectors, we have been renewable energy sources. making significant contributions to the national economy and social welfare. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION GOAL 4: 7 AFFORDABLE CLEAN ENERGY AND GOAL 7: 10 REDUCED GOAL 10: 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG GOAL 16: INEQUALITY Quality Education Affordable and Clean Reduced INSTITUTIONS Peace and Justice Energy Inequality Strong Institutions Through social benefit investments in the As a result of energy efficiency projects We ensure equal opportunity with our We define our group’s approach to field of education, we improve children’s and awareness-raising activities performance-based management combating bribery and corruption with access to education. With the support implemented throughout the Group, system. We sign the Kibar Group written rules. We expect the concept of of Kibar Career School, Lifelong Learning we reduce energy intensities and Framework Agreement before working anti-bribery and anti-corruption from approach, Development Ambassadors generate electricity from renewable with suppliers to ensure that they all relevant stakeholders, including Project, Blue Collar Development energy sources. cannot be treated differently and suppliers and business partners, as well Academy and vocational trainings, we unfairly due to personal characteristics as group employees. provide employees access to vocational and preferences such as language, training and lifelong learning opportunities. religion, race, gender. 22 GRI 102-15, 102-29, 102-31,102-47 GRI 102-15, 102-29, 102-31,102-47 SUSTAINABILITY WE GROW 8 DECENT WORK 9 INDUSTRY, APPROACH AND ECONOMIC INNOVATION AND with sustainability principles GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE We continue to grow consistently, add value to the economy and create employment within The foundation of Kibar Group’s the framework of sustainability principles through innovative investments. sustainability approach, which has (Material Issues: Economic Performance, Purchasing) a human-centered management approach since its establishment, is based on a stable economic growth WE EMPOWER 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG model that considers social and people GROWTH INSTITUTIONS environmental factors, considering We work like a family united and taking power from each other. WE share the future, success and sustainability as a business style and life. (Material Issues: Anti-Corruption, Labor Relations, Occupational Health and Safety, Training, making it a company culture, adopting Diversity and Participation, Product and Service Quality) 10 main principles and 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations Global Compact, developing WE INNOVATE 2 ZERO HUNGER 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND sustainability policies and strategies, for the future GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE sustainability and institutionalization of its We consider product quality and customer satisfaction at the highest level, and we see activities, dissemination of sustainability technological development and innovation as the cornerstone of sustainable growth. to all operations and processes and (Material Issues: Information Security, R&D and Innovation, Digitalization) encouraging stakeholders in the field of WE CARE sustainability. 2 ZERO HUNGER 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE CLEAN ENERGY AND 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION Kibar Holding’s sustainability for next generations AND PRODUCTION priorities have been determined by With the awareness that natural resources are not infinite and unlimited, we act with future evaluating social, economic and generations in mind. (Material Issues: Raw Materials / Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste environmental factors such as global Water and Waste, Environmental Compliance.) developments, sustainability priorities with the contribution of Global Compact member companies to the objectives WE ENCOURAGE 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG of the Global Compact published by our stakeholders GROWTH INSTITUTIONS UNGC, sectoral developments, Kibar We expect our stakeholders to adopt sustainable development goals. Holding policies and strategies, Kibar Holding sustainability approach, Kibar (Material Issues: Child Labor, Forced Labor, Human Rights Assessments, Supplier Assessments) Group’s contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Sustainability Committee and Sustainability Working Group’s views, WE SHARE 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION for the communities stakeholder expectations, risks and opportunities. We continue to serve the society with our social responsibility approach. (Material Issue: Social Welfare) 24 25 WE GROW with sustainability principles WE EMPOWER people WE INNOVATE for the future WE CARE for next generations WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders WE SHARE for the communities GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 with sustainability principles WE GROW We continue to grow steadily, add value to the economy and create employment within the framework of sustainability principles through innovative investments. 29 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 2015 2017 KiBAR GROUP INVESTMENTS Manavgat 2015 İspak Turkey started its operations in Izmit with its new factory having Industry 4.0 technology, and Kibar Group which began its first Hydroelectric Power İnteraktif Çevre was 2013 which is the largest flexible packaging investment production by opening the sheet Plant was incorporated established with Heritage Assan Alüminyum made at once. metal operating unit in Kartal in into the Group. company from USA. Dyeing Plant started its 1972, operates with more than 20 operations. 2011 2011 2011 2011 companies in metals, automotive, packaging, building materials, real Kibar Industry, the largest Kibar Energy was Turkey’s first and only cold rolled TSI Aircraft Seat Manufacturing estate, logistics, energy, food and Co., the first aircraft seat 2010 panel manufacturing established. stainless steel producer Posco Assan service industries and is among facility in the Middle was established in partnership with production facility in Turkey, Launched Assan Port in 2009 East, was established in South Korean Posco. Turkey’s leading business groups. was established with Teknik Iskenderun and started Assan Panel started its Amman, Jordan. A.Ş. which is one of the Turkish operations in maritime The Group has become a major force operations in Balıkesir Airlines companies. and port sectors. facilities. 2008 in contributing to the development 2006 2006 2007 Assan Gayrimenkul of Turkey’s economy thanks to its reputation, brand image, strong 2005 Assan Bilişim Assan Aluminyum Assan Yapı was established. Assan Panel İskenderun 2001 Informatics Dilovası Facilities started was established. partnerships, the knowledge and 1999 WE GROW with sustainability principles WE GROW with sustainability principles experience about the Turkish markets. plant started its Kibar International was was founded. operations. founded in Lausanne, Kibar Education and Kibar Group’s international business operations. partners include world’s leading Switzerland. Social Aid Foundation 1997 1998 brands such as Hyundai, THY, Posco, TIL, was established. 1995 Assan Foods, which has the WE GROW Assan Hanil, which operates in the Seoyon E-Hwa and Heritage. biggest production facilities South Korean Hyundai 1993 automotive industry, was founded with integrated hair, was with sustainability and Hyundai Assan Shares of İspak, 1990 1996 and started production. founded. In the “Turkey’s largest 500 industrial were founded and the operating in the flexible enterprises” list which is published principles foundation of Izmit Assan Panel was Assan Logistics and annually, Kibar Holding is present packaging sector, were established and Assan Fleet Leasing was factory was laid. taken over. separately with many of its companies Kibar Group makes a significant Panel Istanbul factory established. contribution to Turkey’s economy investment was realized. 1989 operating in different sectors. with its high production capacity 1984 South Korean Hyndai industrial plants, its employment Kibar Group Motor Company’s Kibar Group has been continuing creation capacity, exports and social companies gathered 1982 1988 distributorship in Turkey its investments and growing steadily under the umbrella of Kibar Sigorta Assan Alüminyum since the day it was founded and investments. Kibar Holding. was founded. 1980 1985 started its was taken. contributing to the national economy Galvanized Kibar Dış Ticaret operations. and social welfare. However, it acts production Trade was with the awareness of its ecological, facility was established. economic and social responsibilities. established. 1972 Sheet metal processing unit was established in Kartal. 30 31 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 201-1 ECONOMIC VALUE HUMAN RESOURCES In 2018, sales revenues of Kibar Group The number of employees at Kibar Group companies that are within the scope companies that are within the scope of of this reporting increased by 37% reporting has increased by 6.5% in the last compared to 2017 and 83% compared two years. to 2016. Economic Value Generated Human Resources 3.485.000.000 TRY 2016 4.639.000.000 TRY 2017 6.364.000.000 TRY 2018 2016 2017 2018 3.175 3.345 3.382 WE GROW with sustainability principles In 2018, sales revenues of In 2018, the number of Kibar Group companies employees of Kibar Group that are within the scope of companies within the scope reporting increased by 83% of reporting increased by compared to 2016. 6.5% compared to 2016. 83% 6.5% In 2018, sales revenues of Kibar Group companies that are within the scope of reporting increased by 37% compared to 2017. 37% 33 GRI 102-6 EXPORT Kibar Group is one of Turkey’s largest exporter with exports to more than 100 countries. In 2018, exports increased by 8% compared to the previous year and reached $ 2.72 billion. In “Export Champions Awards” ceremony, Kibar Foreign Trade became 4th on “top 1,000 exporting companies” list of Turkey Exporters Assembly, as well as to be the industry leader in the “Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals” category thanks to its export performance in 2018. WE GROW with sustainability principles In addition, at the “Metallic Stars of Exports 2018”, organized by the Istanbul Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals Exporters Association, the Group was deemed worthy of an award in the category of Aluminum Commodities. CHAMPIONS OF EXPORT METALLIC STARS OF EXPORTS 4 TH in TURKEY 1ST IN FERROUS AND 2018ALUMINUM GOODS GROUPS NON-FERROUS METALS INDUSTRY 34 35 WE EMPOWER people We work like a family, united and taking power from each other. WE share the future, success and life. 37 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 DIVERSITY AND Support for Employment of Employee Suggestion System People with Disabilities INCLUSION Assan Hanil has a suggestion system Assan Hanil has been developing where all employees can submit their The Kibar Group is guided by the various projects since 2016 in suggestions. Suggestions evaluated by International Labor Organization order to encourage more disabled the Suggestion Evaluation Committee (ILO) Conventions, the UN Universal employees to take part in business are implemented if deemed Declaration of Human Rights, as well life. Collaboration with İŞKUR is carried appropriate. The suggestions that are as the provisions of the Labor Law in out for the recruitment of disabled implemented are rewarded within order to provide its employees with employees. As a result of these efforts, the scope of the suggestion reward the working conditions they deserve, Assan Hanil has been awarded as system by measuring the usefulness WE EMPOWER and is also developing systems for the protection of these rights. the company that employs more than of the breakdowns such as finance, people Number of female quota in the “No Barriers to My Career” ergonomics and process / method. employees Program which was organized for the In Kibar Group, efforts are underway I NC R E A SE D B Y 8th time in 2018 in partnership with Assan Value Creation We work like a family united and taking 3% to prevent gender inequality and İzmit Municipality and İŞKUR. Improvement Model: STEP power from each other. In 2018, Kibar increase female employment. Group Group began to express its journey companies carry out various activities IN 2018 Information Mill Seminars STEP model is applied in Assan to become WE under the themes of to encourage women’s participation in C O M PA R E D TO Alüminyum. This model is classified as “Future”, “Success” and “Life”. business life. As a result of these studies, In 2018, Support Gender Equality 2016. Small Steps, Big Steps and Accident WE symbolize the future, success and the number of female employees themed Information Mill Seminars is Coming Form (KGF). Small Steps the power to share life. Kibar Group increased by 2.7% compared to 2016. were held in Assan Hanil in are improvement suggestions that believes in the importance of creating cooperation with Ford Otosan and can be realized with individual a working culture focused on sharing Support for Female Employment AÇEV. The number of priority, experience and common by acting together as a family. At Kibar white-collar female sense. The Big Steps are group-based WE EMPOWER people WE EMPOWER people With the ergonomic improvements Kibar Holding sees a participatory Holding and its affiliates, employees are employees in Kibar made in the production lines in business life as the key to both employee improvement proposals that project provided with a business environment Assan Hanil, it is ensured that female Group companies satisfaction and corporate success. groups can make. KGFs are customized based on trust, integrity, diligence, employees also work on the lines that increased by Accordingly, employees’ participation recommendations on Occupational innovation and flexibility, supporting 11% are regarded as “men’s job”. In 2018, in decision-making processes is Health and Safety. unity and working together. ergonomic risk analysis studies were encouraged by considering their In 2018, SAP application area was put completed with Reba method and the in 2 0 1 8 c o m p a red expectations and suggestions. Since into operation within the scope of studies for 2019 were planned. In 2018, to 2 0 1 6 . 2014, employee opinions have been ADIM, and process improvement and Assan Hanil was once again awarded collected through an Employee Opinion studies were carried out with the Supply by İŞKUR and İzmit Municipality with the Survey conducted by an independent Chain Project. “İŞKUR Award for Promoting Women’s According to the survey conducted institution. The results of the survey are Employment” award. in 2018, employee engagement examined and necessary remedial increased by 30% compared to the activities are carried out in line with the last survey conducted in 2016. feedback. 38 39 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-2 GRI 404-2, 404-3 Strengthening the communication the right skills.Throughout the process, various training and development continued their development activities Devolopment Academy for Path. The performance management between companies and employees different tools such as personality activities are carried out in order to and provided trainings in line with their Blue Collar Employees system, whose general principles at Kibar Holding is one of the main inventory, competency-based interviews continuously improve the professional plans. Effective Leadership Workshop are determined by the Holding, is Blue Collar Development Academy objectives of the WE employer brand. and assessment center are used and knowledge and skills and personal within the scope of Leadership structured to meet the needs of the was established in Assan Hanil in order Under this brand, it is aimed to make different career portals and databases competencies of the employees. Within Development Program was organized Group companies. In order to spread to enable blue collar employees to all employees feel the value of are used to increase the diversity. this scope, professional technical and for the follow-up of this development the performance culture throughout become competent, participatory and working together and to increase WE development programs and competency process,“Learning From Each Other Days” the organization and provide effective highly motivated leaders in the field and awareness in the whole Group through K-Team Young Talent Internship Program / leadership development programs were held with the participation of senior and accurate feedback to employees, to find development areas for them. continuous sharing. Employees are has been started with the motto “Real are implemented.The programs, which management. trainings are provided to team 391 participants received 25 thousand informed about the developments career starts with real internship” in order are designed by considering the needs managers during the interim and end608 hours of training in 115 days. within the Group through different to bring young talents to the Group. Since of the employees, also contribute to Development Ambassadors year evaluation periods. Performance In 2017-2018, employees who completed communication platforms. The the start of the program, 154 young talent the increase of the interaction among In the Kibar Group, which cares management system provides the academy were appointed. most important communication have found internship opportunities in the employees and strengthening the about learning from each other, the important data for different processes channels of the Group are the Group companies and 42 participants communication between different Development Ambassador Training such as training and development, annual management meeting, the have been hired. companies and departments. Program was launched with the Performance Management talent management, recognition and internal network Porttakal and Kibarca aim of making the sharing culture rewarding. magazine, both digital and printed. Talent Management Kibar Career School continuous and thus contributing to Believing that success must be the career and personal development sustainable, rather than being content The Kibar Group employs a total Within the scope of talent management, Kibar Career School is the corporate FUTURE TALENTS employees who make a difference with development platform where Kibar of the employees. Within the scope with achieving goals, the Kibar reward system that is integrated with of the program, employees who are Group knows that it is necessary to all Human Resources processes, which Employees are considered as the most their performance and potential are Group’s continuous development and called Development Ambassadors do things that leave a mark on the complies with Group and company important value that will carry Kibar identified throughout the Group and learning culture from each other is and who can share their knowledge future. In this context, the performance strategies, rewards contributions Group to the future. Kibar Group, career development plans are realized combined with development activities and experiences voluntarily management system aims to increase to business results and company which shapes the employer brand in line with the needs and objectives of that will support sustainable growth. provide classroom trainings within the motivation of the employees in performance. The social and other in this direction, aims to prepare the employees and the organization. In this platform, employees are provided WE EMPOWER people the company or between Group signing for works that will leave a mark benefits offered to employees in its employees for the future with Behavioral competencies, professional with the opportunity to discover their companies. The Development on the future with the Kibar Group Blue addition to the base salary, are part of talent acquisition programs, talent and technical knowledge and skills of strengths and their openness to Drop Awards. management and continuous the employees are increased through development. Within this scope, a number Ambassadors Program is planned to the total reward management system. development opportunities and the programs organized under the roof of of technical tools such as development be extended to all Group companies in 2019. Kibar Holding believes that effective performance management. Kibar Career School. With the advantage center practices, internal trainings to development is a journey. For of being a multi-company Group, intersupport their learning, development Talent Acquisition this reason, the performance company rotation and task change of the programs to support competence and management system, in which the employees evaluated in the talent group is technical development, and distance Recruitment is carried out in an objective company objectives of employees supported. learning tools are used. and fair manner, with equal opportunities are transformed into individual and Leadership Development Programs at for all candidates.The candidate team targets and where development Kibar Holding is in favor of the sustainable Kibar Career School were completed selection process is meticulously carried plans are developed accordingly, is development of the acquired skills. in 2018 and new program studies were out to fill the group-wide positions with called the Success and Development Through the lifelong learning approach, initiated. During this period, companies 40 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Remuneration Policy innovative ideas of its employees. With employees as part of this family and Employees are encouraged to play facilities and sports facilities where they the motto “each successful project believes in the importance of sharing sports through the Kibar Group Sports can spend time out of work, the families Remuneration and benefit policies are starts with a drop of idea and spreads moments that add value to life. Festival, which has been ongoing working in Assan Hanil are frequently built on an objective, fair, dynamic and with waves” the Blue Drop Awards since 2016. In this way, the Company brought together with special events. competitive structure, taking into account are aimed at achieving the Group’s contributes to the establishment of Assan Aluminyum operates kickbox, internal balance. Kibar Holding and strategic goals, recognizing and strong communication between the yoga, pilates and folk dance clubs, Group companies are provided with rewarding competency-based success. Employee Support Program Group companies and employees and while Assan Hanil has established a fair and competitive base salary by the formation of the WE culture within the sports, theater, travel-photography, Launched at the end of 2018, Kibar taking into consideration different criteria In 2018, a project team was formed Group. Kibar Sports Festival brings sport, music and food clubs with the voluntary Group’s employee support program, such as job families, roles, responsibilities, with participants from all companies entertainment, togetherness and the participation of employees within the one of Kibar Group’s innovative human knowledge, skills and competence levels to review the Blue Drop Awards pleasure of reaching the goals together. scope of the ASHAREKET project. resources practices, provides Kibar within the scope of the determined process and identify the necessary Group employees and their families salary policy. Fair and competitive compensation is guaranteed by improvements. Following the studies with this team, focus areas were with unlimited, free 24/7 advice. The The Kibar Sports Festivals, which became traditional throughout the Kibar Group, OCCUPATIONAL support provided under the Employee internationally accepted job evaluation identified and improvements were Support Program covers many subjects took place in eight branches in 2018: HEALTH AND SAFETY methodologies and wage benchmarking planned. Aiming to advance the football, volleyball, basketball, tennis, such as psychological, medical As a group operating in the industrial studies. As per the remuneration development culture, the project table tennis, swimming, athletics and counseling, legal, financial information and production sectors, Occupational policy, there cannot be different and reached more employees in the bowling. A total of 650 employees services, healthy nutrition, ergonomics, Health and Safety (OHS) is among the unfair practice due to the personal second year and more teams were participated in the festivals and fought in techno-support, veterinary support, priorities of Kibar Holding. Occupational characteristics and preferences such as awarded. From last year to this year, gentlemanly in 153 competitions. social life and general information Health and Safety processes are language, religion, race and gender. awards have reached 24 projects to The festivities in which love and tolerance services. managed under the responsibility of 39 projects, 112 participants to 212 prevailed ended with an award OHS committees in line with international participants, 9 awards to 14 awards. Kibar Group employees and their ceremony with the participation of Kibar standards. As of 2018, 110 employees and Kibar Holding believes that employees families are supported by experts Group employees and their families. employee representatives are employed WE EMPOWER people WE EMPOWER people are the most reliable and differentiating in their fields. In case of need, up In addition to the Kibar Sports Festivals, in 10 OHS committees operating in Kibar resource in order to adapt quickly to SOCIAL LIFE to six sessions of free, face-to-face Kibar Volunteers Organizations, Kibar Group companies. the changing competitive environment. Kibar Group strives to build a psychological support are also offered Group Festivals, Occupational Health In this respect, importance is given sustainable world in terms of progress under the guidance of the clinical and Safety Week Competitions and In order to increase the consciousness to the creation of environments that and life, not only performancepsychologists at the call center. the April 23 Painting Competition are and awareness of occupational health enable employees to realize their oriented but also life-oriented and The program, which can be accessed organized for the children working on the and safety of employees throughout the creative and innovative ideas. To this sharing-oriented, while making through different channels such National Sovereignty and Children’s Day. Group, trainings are provided. During the end, Kibar Holding carries out the Blue industry moves that shape the as telephone, website and mobile In addition, the companies also conduct reporting period, 41,476 hours of OHS Drop Awards project to reveal, reward future. To this end, a happy and application, strictly complies with the activities aimed at supporting the training was provided. In 2018, 3,454 and disseminate the creative and participatory work environment principle of information privacy. social lives of its employees, regardless contractor company employees received is created where employees can of the activities organized throughout 5,507 hours of OHS training in the Kibar develop belonging. Acting as a the Group. While the employees at Group, which spread OHS culture family, Kibar Group accepts all of its İSPAK facilities are provided with social throughout the entire value chain. 42 43 GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2, 412-2 GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2, Kibar Group respects the beliefs and a conflict of interest, ways of avoiding The Committee evaluates the review and investigation activities. In this WE are Security personal values of all its employees, a conflict of interest, how to deal notifications received from the Ethics context, process audits and investigation stakeholders and business partners. with a conflict of interest and details Hotline, assigns the appropriate units for activities were carried out in Group İspak Ambalaj has implemented Kibar Group is based on internationally of the practice of gift exchange are the conduct of the studies and ensures companies in 2018. the WE are Security Project in the accepted universal declarations and explained in detail. Kibar Group’s that the studies it deems appropriate packaging production field in order acts within the framework of Kibar responsibilities to the laws, customers, are carried out. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption to spread the occupational safety Group values and principles. The Kibar employees, business partners, approach is binding for all relevant culture among employees and raise Group Code of Ethics, which covers the competitors, society and humanity You can reach the Kibar Holding Code stakeholders, including suppliers and awareness. Thanks to the project, aforementioned values and principles, are set forth within the framework of of Ethics at https://www.kibar.com/ business partners, as well as group accident frequency and weight ratio is published on the corporate website. the Code of Ethics. The Code of Ethics en/holding/codes-of-conduct employees. are improved. İspak aims to turn the WE also includes examples of events Code of Ethics are Security into a corporate culture and examples of behavior expected Kibar Group employees are not held Business Ethics Training was given and to continue it in the long term. In Kibar Group, the principles of to be applied in business situations. responsible for any direct or indirect to 548 employees working in Kibar behavior towards work life and the Employee perception is kept up-to-date damages to which the Company may Group companies in 2018, and to All occupational accidents, including fundamental rights and responsibilities with the themed posters of “Do You be exposed due to their compliance 2622 employees in the last 4 years. minor accidents, are examined in of employees are determined within Think This is Ethical?” with ethical principles, and no sanctions detail by occupational safety experts the framework of the Code of Ethics. are imposed on them. During the 2018 Fight Against Corruption and related unit representatives and Employees are informed about ethical Within the Kibar Group, it is the Ethics operating period, there were no reports necessary preventive and corrective rules and have direct access to the Committee’s responsibility to ensure The Kibar Group does not tolerate bribery of ethical values, violations of universal measures are taken. Thanks to Ethics Committee. compliance with the Code of Ethics, and corruption in any way and takes human rights or cases of corruption. this approach, the Group has not to investigate and resolve complaints measures to prevent such behavior. There are no lawsuits filed against our experienced fatal accidents or Kibar Group Code of Ethics consists of and notifications of violations. Group The Group’s approach to combating Group in this period. occupational diseases. 7 main topics: honesty, confidentiality, companies have Ethical Rule Advisors bribery and corruption is also defined in fairness, quality and continuous who are assigned to support all kinds the Kibar Holding Code of Ethics. WE EMPOWER people improvement, conflict of interest, our BUSINESS ETHICS responsibilities and accepting / giving of needs and questions of employees regarding the implementation of the Compliance with this understanding is gifts. Kibar Group is based on the Code of Ethics. the responsibility of all Group managers Kibar Group’s business ethics principle of honesty in all its activities and employees. All employees are approach requires employees to act at and considers honesty, sincerity and Ethics Hotline has been established, obliged to report this when they the highest ethical standards. high business ethics above all. In this which can be used internally or encounter a violation of the code of The understanding of business ethics, respect, the protection of the private externally in case of violation of the conduct or suspicion of bribery and which is based on the values of information of all stakeholders, the Code of Ethics. Calls to the Ethics corruption. The notices forwarded integrity and honesty, constitutes the understanding of justice based on Hotline are answered by authorized are evaluated within the framework basis of doing business beyond legal equality of opportunity, quality and persons. Cases of violations can be of confidentiality. Internal control of requirements in all activities including continuous development objectives communicated by e-mail or letter as corruption risks is evaluated within the financial and operational activities, are discussed in detail in the Code well as the Ethics Hotline and submitted scope of process audits carried out by technological assets and brand values. of Ethics. Situations that may create to the Ethics Committee for review. the Internal Audit Department, as well as 44 WE INNOVATE for the future We consider product quality and customer satisfaction at the highest level, and we see technological development and innovation as the cornerstone of sustainable growth. 47 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 417-1 PRODUCT AND Company Management System and Quality Certificate SERVICE QUALITY ISO 50001: Energy Management System In Kibar Group, product safety, ISO IEC27001: Information Security Management System quality and customer satisfaction is IATF16949: Quality Management System a business priority managed at the ISO 9001: Quality Management System highest global standards beyond all ISO 14001: Environmental Management System TS18001(OHSAS): Occupational Safety Management System financial concerns. In addition to the CE: EU Certificate of Conformity management systems required by their Assan NSF: International Health Organization Certificate of Conformity sectors, all Group companies follow Alüminyum Kosher: Kosher Food Compliance Certificate numerous quality and safety standards ISPM15: Certificate of Conformity for Wooden Packaging Materials according to customer expectations. Authorized Liability Status ISO 31000: The compliance certification of the Enterprise Risk Management System standard is planned to be made in the second WE INNOVATE FM Certificate in Assan Panel half of 2019. for the future Assan Panel, which has pioneered ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management System the firsts in the sector, is a leading Assan Foods BRC: International Food Safety Standard Kibar Group, a well-established manufacturer in the sector. In 2015, IFS: International Food Standard industrial enterprise, owes its corporate it received FM approval in buildings success to the quality of its products without height limit. and services while meeting the needs ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System WE INNOVATE for the future Kibar Group offers differentiated products of its customers, and its ability to IATF 16949: 2016 Quality Management System (International and services to its customers by Automotive Task Force) anticipate future needs. Assan Hanil evaluating the developing technology ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management System and digital opportunities together with OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management System For this purpose, products, systems and ISO / IEC 27001: 2013 Information Security Management System business models. Group companies processes are updated using the most develop customer-oriented business modern technologies. Thanks to the processes based on effective and importance given to innovation and ISO 27001: 2013 Information Security Standard transparent communication. According digitalization, productivity is increased, ISO 9001: Quality Management System to the results of independent customer Assan Panel new markets are reached, and the TS ISO 31000: Risk Management Principles and Guidelines satisfaction surveys conducted every negative impact of products, services ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management System year in all Kibar Group companies, and processes on the environment is necessary studies are carried out and minimized. Kibar Holding works with the the added value provided by products ISO 9001: Quality Management System entire value chain in order to create and services is tried to be increased. ISO 22000: Food Safety Management System the Kibar of the future and reflects the İspak BRC: International Food Safety Standard In addition, action plans are prepared “WE are strong together” approach to ISO 27001: Information Security Management System according to the results of this research. technology studies. 49 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 417-1 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 parts, production date, production line, complaints directly. As a result of root and innovative ideas. To this end, the its own R&D center in 2010 and machine, mold information and process cause analysis, necessary studies Company launched the Blue Drop continues its R&D and innovation In 2018, over 1,200 face-to-face parameters. Periodically updated are determined and revisions and Awards Project to bring out innovative activities to respond rapidly to the customer contacts were made to brochures introducing the company’s improvements are carried out to ideas from employees and to share changing trends of the automotive better understand customer needs. products and services are also shared prevent the problem from occurring their success stories with group sector and the expectations of the with customers. Assan Hanil, in a joint again. companies. manufacturers. While basic research project with Ford Otosan, conducts is carried out mainly with universities, At Assan Alüminyum, customer mitigation works for some of the current R&D AND INNOVATION Innovation is based on increasing applied research and experimental relations are meticulously managed products with alternative materials. efficiency, reducing resource use and development studies are carried Kibar Group continuously reviews and sector-based technical trainings In addition, it continues to develop waste generation, increasing product out within the R&D Center of Assan its operations in line with the aim of are provided to customers every year. composite lightweight parts instead of quality and diversity, reducing costs Hanil. Assan Hanil, working on making growth sustainable, adapts Together with the delivered products, metal with Mercedes. and risks, producing new business innovative projects aimed at weight rapidly to changing global conditions, the package label and test certificates models and technologies that create reduction, cost optimization and closely follows the technology and and product specs prepared according value for stakeholders, and developing quality improvement, has 6 trademark developments in the world with the to customers’ requests are sent. Assan Hanil Technology Day environmental friendly and valueregistrations, 43 patents, 53 registered practices of Industry 4.0, which will Social media sharing and e-bulletins Assan Hanil organized Technology Day added products. Industrial Property Rights and 70 increase productivity to higher levels, are prepared in order to share the Event for its customers, other automotive Intellectual Property Rights. The R&D and shapes R&D and innovation company agenda with customers OEM’s, automotive suppliers and leading Assan Alüminyum carries out its Center, which underwent a new strategies in this direction. transparently. Routine evaluation industry experts. There, Assan Hanil research and development activities restructuring in 2018, established a meetings with local authorized dealers introduced R&D investments, solutions in the R&D Center registered by the department to develop automotive trim Innovation and innovative products and business partners’ meetings developed specifically for customers and Turkish Ministry of Science, Industry components, which have significant play an important role in Kibar WE INNOVATE for the future WE INNOVATE for the future covering all customers are among the latest technology products. Autonomous and Technology. The scope of R&D commercial potential in Turkey, in Group’s strategy to shape the future. customer communication practices. driving simulation cabin from South Korea activities is the development of highaddition to seat product development Within the scope of innovation efforts was specially brought for this event, it has performance, sector-specific and competence. In the projects carried aimed at creating new markets and Assan Foods, which creates full-time achieved a first in Turkey and the guests customer-specific products. Assan out in Computer-aided engineering bringing customers together with teams to respond to customer requests met with the technology of the future. Alüminyum receives consultancy (CAE) and Production Engineering environmentally friendly and valueand complaints, uses customer services under a 4-year contract signed departments; a structure was created added products, joint efforts are being feedback when designing product with Vrije University in 2017. In addition, it to support innovative design, modeling At İspak, the quality certificate, which carried out with many institutions, contents and packaging. receives technical consultancy services and production processes. is sent with the product, includes particularly universities. As a result of all the tests carried out for the research and development activities, from Middle East Technical University Assan Hanil uses a barcode system to within the scope of TÜBİTAK project and İspak Ambalaj, with its new factory product, the standards according to companies that are within the scope of provide traceability in addition to the academic consultancy services from designed with Industry 4.0 concepts, which the tests are performed and reporting received 24 patents. part code and raw material information Koç University. has made the largest investment in the results. For export products, a With a responsible and innovative on the products. With the production flexible packaging in Turkey, made packing list indicating the content perspective, Kibar Holding attaches lot number in the barcode, the data Assan Hanil, with the support of the at one time. In its new facility where of the total shipment is also sent. great importance to creating of the part can be monitored via ERP. Turkish Ministry of Science, Industry automated production systems, Root cause analysis is made on the the conditions that will enable its These data are raw materials and suband Technology, has established simulations, clean room, horizontal problems by examining the customer employees to realize their creative 50 51 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 and vertical software integration, cyber R&D And Innovation Projects aims to improve casting speed and Aircraft Seat Mitigation Project carried security and cloud technologies are efficiency value. In addition, with the out within the scope of mitigation Ford F-Max: Truck of the Year Assan Alüminyum used, Ispak aims to expand its portfolio aim of developing new products, the activities. Assan Hanil has completed the In Assan Alüminyum: in food packaging and industrial Project of Optimization of Material development of air suspension driver • Capacity Increase Project in order With the Project of Using product areas. Surface Properties in Aluminum Alloys seats for trucks and mass production to meet the anticipated demand Environmentally Friendly NFPPF Material of 8xxx Series and the Development started in 2018. Assan Hanil seats were increase without any problem Instead of PUR and Adhesive in the In 2018, Assan Panel accelerated its of Foil with High Forming Capability first used in the mass production of the • Project for the “Development of Headliner Product Used in Vehicles, R&D studies in its laboratory, which has Project are continuing. Ford F-Max, which was selected as High Deep Drawing Aluminum Bottle it is aimed to add value to the the hardware and software to perform the Truck of the Year 2019 in Europe. Cap (pilferproof) Material” for the Assan Foods Headliner product with a much more all kinds of physical and mechanical Considered by the Truck of the Year development of flat aluminum raw environmentally friendly, 100% recycled tests of the sandwich panel in The sauces brand of Assan Foods, jury with high comfort and usefulness material for the production of bottle and lighter material. Headliner fabric, “Euronorm” standards. It has invested Colorado promises 3 new launches comments, significant improvements cap, an innovative product which is which is one of the biggest products in in a new chemical laboratory for the every year. In 2018, 3 Asian sauces have been made in the mass expected to create a new market for automotive industry and used in roof quality assurance of polyurethane. were launched. “Colorado Gourmet” production technologies of the seat. our group and an important export covering of vehicles; is produced of The studies in this field aim to increase products for restaurant tables were Particular competence has been opportunity for our country. polyurethane foam, glass fibers and the number of patented products and relaunched in black packaging after gained in the field of precision welding • “Reduced Finstok Development chemical adhesives that bond them improve the expertise in polyurethane consumer tests increasing the sales and assembly of complex mechanisms. Project for the New Generation of together. In this project, instead of glass material. Assan Panel has increased its substantially. Another launch under Thanks to this project, the mass Heat Exchanger Systems Used in the fibers, natural fibers and instead of product range, especially the Optibase Colorado brand was Ranch sauce. production of a product developed Automotive Sector” in order to obtain a polyurethane, thermoplastic-based product, through the pilot productions with 100% domestic facilities was started finer fin material without sacrificing the materials are used in headliner carried out by applying cost-benefit Assan Hanil in Assan Hanil. product feature, thus reducing the total WE INNOVATE for the future WE INNOVATE for the future optimization in the Optipanel series in • The Original Air Suspension Seat material. The sheets obtained from weight of the vehicle and reducing the The projects planned to be completed the economic panel segment. Design Project, which was initiated by the production of natural flax, hemp, energy consumption and providing in 2020 in Assan Hanil; Assan Hanil in order to develop a high jute and hemp fibers together with a domestic product to the market • The Project of Producing Fender Assan Foods, due to having one of value-added product for the global polypropylene are combined by using dominated by foreign products. Carrier Parts as Composites under the the factories which can process the automotive market and to increase polypropylene based foam instead of • In order to prevent clogging and mitigation target in order to reduce most tomatoes in a single Location in the competencies of the R&D Center, polyurethane. Thus with a much more scrap errors caused by agglomeration the weight of the trucks and reduce Turkey, it focuses on optimization studies created the basis for new business environmentally friendly and lighter of graphite, the use of “Graphite the fuel to be obtained by the use of in production processes. In Assan development opportunities on a material, it adds value to the headliner Alternative Seperating Agent for lightened vehicles and consequently Foods, conducting these activities global scale. Assan Hanil, with this product. In addition, this PP-based Casting Rollers and Optimization of to reduce the carbon emission to the with a global consulting firm, a lean project, was the first local company in solution is 100% recyclable. Process Parameters Project” is planned environment; manufacturing project was initiated Turkish market to design the seat that to be completed in 2019. • Tübitak Composite Backrest in 2018. In this direction, it is aimed to can be sold globally and received its • Solidification, Microstructure and Project ASD Driver Seat Mitigation, increase efficiency with new technology homologation. It is foreseen to provide Productivity Optimization Project in Development of Composite Seat Parts investments. In addition, the installation mitigation with the Magnesium and Twin Roll Casting Technology, which Instead of Steel, which is realized with of robotic automation systems on five is aimed to be completed in 2020, the aim of reducing the number of production lines was completed. parts and processes and developing 52 53 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 hybrid part production technology. purchases was reduced by 97%, the areas of network security, server projects have been completed and all With the Digital Transformation Project use of solvents of the same quality, security, asset management and is planned to be completed in 2020. of the Production Site realized at Assan Assan Panel standard and purity was ensured, thus patch management. In this context; Alüminyum Dilovası Factory, the signals Assan Panel, to meet the expectations preventing the release of solvent into Within the scope of the Digital collected from the machines are made of industrial plants with natural lighting the atmosphere and reducing the • Technologies have been renewed Transformation of the Production Site meaningful and operator feedback is design compatible with polycarbonate negative impact on the environment. on critical issues such as virtualization implemented in Assan Alüminyum, the provided automatically. Thus, feedback roof panels in Turkey, the first and In addition, manual ink pan cleaning platform, active directory, mail system implementation of the Manufacturing is received by the operators with realthe only solution of its kind, began with solvent chemicals was initiated in and backup system, Execution System (MES) was initiated time data without the need for manual commercial sales under the brand 2018 with the “Closed Circuit Washing • 4.5G redundant circuits have been on 19 pilot benches. The project aims data entry. This project aims to reveal name Freelight. and Cleaning Units of Ink Pans Project”. activated in addition to existing lines in to provide instant response to customer more efficient production parameters, The amount of solvent escaping by all campuses, requests, increase in production and increase efficiency and traceability. Assan Panel established the evaporation with the chimney on the • Systems that host critical processes energy efficiency, and automatic Some machine group operating Polyurethane Laboratory in 2018 in system is recovered by solvent recovery of Group companies have started to Overall Equipment Efficiency (OEE) principles that are dependent on the order to strengthen the quality control system. With this project, approximately be backed up to disaster center and measurement with automatic data individual are stored systematically processes of chemical raw materials 80% of the amount of solvent used for cloud center, collection. in the database and institutional and increase customer satisfaction. cleaning has been saved. • Existing ERP applications are memory is created. Machine Learning Laboratory analysis methods have modeled and implemented for the Modeling studies in Microsoft Azure Digitalization Award to Assan Hanil! been optimized in accordance with DIGITALIZATION new needs of renewed operational platform are continuing on Big Data. ISO standards. With this initiative, processes in Group companies, With the SAP Master Data Governance With the Autonomous Maintenance For Kibar Group, which makes Assan Panel has achieved a first in the • The transition of human resources (MDG) Project, which was completed Study Project implemented in Assan innovative investments requiring sandwich panel sector and adopted personnel and payroll programs in 2018, a very effective master data Hanil, maintenance measurement intensive R&D activities and WE INNOVATE for the future WE INNOVATE for the future continuous development within its to Payroll system in SAP has been management module, in which master values entered manually are created continuously develops products structure. completed. data management is defined without in SAP ERP system and automatic according to the needs of customers, İspak being dependent on individuals, was put maintenance notification is sent to accessing healthy data is an It is aimed to increase productivity into service. Examples of this practice the maintenance team. This saves In the production area, solvent is used institutional priority for decision-making with the e-transformation projects is rarely found in the world, it contains paper and ensures efficiency. In 2018, as solver during many processes such processes. Therefore, all Kibar Group initiated. E-invoice, e-ledger, e-export, many pioneering features as the first the data centers between the two as printing, lamination and lacquering. companies are continuing their digital e-validation, e-archive, e-waybill and MDG project done in Turkey at S/4 HANA facilities of Assan Hanil in Izmit were With the Solvent Recovery Plant Project, transformation efforts. In addition, e-transformation process have been platform. strengthened in terms of hardware and the solvent evaporating during the the long-term strategic Digitalization successfully expanding. Business The MDG project provides the software and made redundant endprocess is recovered by selecting and Roadmap Project was launched. processes that are digitized with opportunity to analyze inefficiencies in to-end redundancy. The data centers condensing from the ambient air e-transformation provide both labor processes, help minimize user errors and in Assan Hanil Bursa and Assan Foods without releasing it to the atmosphere. In 2018, in the digitalization projects and time savings by minimizing design flexible workflows, and determine Susurluk have been renewed. Therefore, both environmental of the Group companies within Kibar processing times. Moving corporate role-based authorization and task and economic sustainability are Holding, the Company focused on documents to the digital media responsibility matrices. The MDG project With the ERP and Bank System contributed. technological infrastructure, cyber increases productivity and reduces was awarded by SAP, in the main data Integration Project, the Bank has taken With the project completed in security and system continuity. Work the possibility of errors. Most of these project branch of the year. advantage of the integration services 2018, the annual amount of solvent has been started to develop in the 54 55 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 offered by the banks, enabling the The QDMS-Integrated Management ketchup, mayonnaise and sauces line The increased flow of information and bank records to be automatically System, which provides automation hour / day as well as making more the greater mobility of employees entered into the system and the of the activities required by all than 40 different products that can brings with it the need for more accounting records to be kept in the management system standards be automatically packed, coded and rational management of complex system automatically. This project aims followed in the Kibar Group, has palletized. communication. In this respect, a to reduce the operational burden. The been adopted. The project aimed study has been initiated in order to project started at Kibar Holding, Kibar to automate the management In İspak, a Qliksense Management ensure real-time communication of Dış Ticaret and Assan Alüminyum is system processes, ensure the transfer Dashboard system was established, users by integrating all communication planned to be extended to other group of procedures and instructions to where all Key Performance Indicators ways and communication tools companies. the digital environment, increase for production and sales functions can with the Unified Communications traceability, secure data sharing and be monitored or analyzed instantly or approach. The aim of the study, create corporate memory. SAP HR comparatively with the budget. The where technologies such as Mobile, Smart Agriculture from Payroll Success Factors, which is a system consolidates and reports data Skype, Dect are analyzed, is to Assan Foods system that monitors the processes that from Axapta ERP, SalesForce CRM and provide maximum mobility for all Launched in South Marmara and will cover the whole working life starting Bimser QDMS systems that are currently employees and to establish Integrated covering a land of 12,500 acres, from the recruitment process, has operating independently of each other. Communication System with Smart Agriculture Project aims to been increased in human resources Providing the information needed applications such as audio and video monitor and analyze all parameters processes and the employees have in the management and decisionconferencing, messaging and instant of plant development process from the opportunity to have first-hand making processes in a consolidated status notification. planting to harvest in pilot fields, information. In 2019, it is aimed to and instant manner saves time and Gelecek için YENiLENiYORUZ soil and product management, accelerate access with the mobile labor for the follow-up of the processes. WE INNOVATE for the future more efficient use of resources and application. minimize environmental impacts. Within the scope of High-Bay In 2018, Assan Aluminyum launched Warehouse Project realized in İspak, Launched in 2017 and implemented the Roller Cooling System Automation automatic warehouse integrations for the third time, the data obtained Project for adaptive automatic control were realized and the warehouse was from the air and soil are shared with of the roller cooling system. As a result actively used with ERP. Thus, it is possible farmers; water savings and pesticides of the study, a 23% increase in machine to make the stock follow-up more use are reduced and the disease performance was achieved. healthy, to keep the stock turnover is tackled at the highest level. This rates under control and to consume contributes to regional economy Assan Foods has commissioned the stocks more accurately with the and product quality. It is aimed to the End-of-Line Automation Project material recall algorithms. As a result increase the number of parameters to integrate developing technology of the integration created with all ERP followed in the project in the into production systems, increase functions, the communication between following period. planable production time and reduce the units can be established over the production costs. Automation works system, providing time and efficiency to have increased the capacity of the the users. 56 57 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 INFORMATION and Firewall rules, the vulnerabilities will be cleared and the risk of intrusion SECURITY will be minimized. The prediction of Increasing digitalization brings with malicious transactions will be provided it the necessity of high information by artificial intelligence by constructing security standards. Kibar Group targets the SIEM mechanism required for the highest information security by security incident management. following new technologies. Protection of Personal Data All Kibar Group companies that are Within the scope of compliance with within the scope of reporting have the Law on the Protection of Personal ISO 27001 certification or information Data, a workshop was held in Kibar management systems based on this Holding, IRB and Assan Alüminyum for management system. Corporate data the purpose of classifying, securing and and all stakeholders’ information are anonymizing the data. Data discovery secured. activities were carried out, risk analyzes were conducted, business process With the Asset and Configuration improvement studies and emergency Management project, the existing action plans were prepared. demand, change management Gelecek için YENiLENiYORUZ and project planning processes are WE INNOVATE for the future developed and efforts are underway to establish a structure covering security needs. In Kibar Group, numerous projects aimed at providing data and access security were implemented. With the server security and patch management project completed in 2018, minimum security standards were reviewed and operational security guidelines and patch management processes were prepared in order to prevent user-related security gaps. In a project to be completed in 2019, by updating the network topology 58 59 WE CARE for next generations With the awareness that natural resources are not infinite and unlimited, we act with future generations in mind. 61 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 REDUCING Research shows that the average global temperature rise should be Good Agrıculture In Assan Foods ENVIRONMENTAL limited to at least 2 °C to limit the Assan Foods produces tomatoes, IMPACTS devastating effects of climate change. which are used as raw materials, This requires reducing the greenhouse Kibar Group strives to reduce the within the framework of Good gas concentration in the atmosphere environmental impact of its activities Agricultural Practices (GAP) defined to an equivalent of 450 parts per and to raise awareness at all stages as “Processes that should be million. of production and distribution. applied to make the agricultural Within the scope of R&D activities, production system socially livable, Climate change and declining natural it transforms potential threats economically profitable and resources directly affect natural life caused by environmental problems efficient, protecting human health, and the global economy. Changing into opportunities by developing giving importance to animal climatic conditions create new needs environmentally friendly technologies health, welfare and environment” and diminishing types of raw materials and products. by the United Nations Food and need to be renewed with rational Agriculture Organization (FAO)and COMBATING CLIMATE alternatives. Kibar Group continues its also with smart agriculture. In Good CHANGE activities by taking into consideration the risks and opportunities created by Agricultural Practice, traditional Climate change has become one of farming methods are combined changing climatic conditions. the most important problems of our with the latest technologies. Thus, WE CARE WE CARE for next generations age that concerns the whole world. production efficiency is increased Assan Hanil uses products approved Factors such as population growth, and product quality is kept at the for next generations by IMDS (International Material industrialization, urbanization, land highest level, production that does Data System) as raw materials and The use of energy and natural use, increase in fossil fuel use and not harm the environment, human thus, it tries to minimize the effects resources is increasing in the world decrease in forests lead to an increase and animal health is made, natural of the products on climate change and this brings environmental in greenhouse gas emissions in the resources are protected, quality of throughout their life cycle. problems. Kibar Group, acting with the atmosphere and a change in emission life is improved for producers, local awareness that natural resources are volumes. This situation increases people and society and traceability The maintenance and protection not infinite and unlimited, adopts a global warming and brings about and sustainability is provided in of Asım Kibar Love Forest, which sustainable development approach climate change. In addition to global agriculture. was established by Kibar Holding in that will enable the transfer of temperature rise, climate change is Istanbul in 1995 on an area of 10,000 resources to future generations. This also effective in changing weather m2, is supported by the group. 1,629 understanding is based on a humanevents such as extreme rains, floods, trees have been planted by the Group oriented, economic, environmental severe hurricanes, ozone depletion, companies in the last three years. and socially sustainable system. air pollution, drought, desertification, elevation of ocean and sea levels, and degradation of the ecosystem. 63 Kibar Holding Manavgat Hydroelectirc Power Plant GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Significant energy savings have been Kibar Group’s Aluminum, which is the main raw achieved by redesigning the process energy intensity has Energy efficiency is one of the most flow in Ispak. With the improvement material of Assan Alüminyum, been reduced by important issues in combating climate 27% is a lighter and environmentally of laminator heating system in Assan change. Energy efficiency projects Panel, heating time and energy friendly material compared to its provide benefits to the economy by consumption were reduced. With alternatives. Aluminum protects 2017 2018 reducing the country’s dependence compared food longer and provides logistical the chemical cleaning of the roof on foreign resources. Kibar Group to 2017. advantage. It helps to reduce CO2 lanterns and windows, sunlight has continues its efforts to utilize energy been utilized more and an average emissions thanks to its contribution resources in the highest efficiency in energy saving of 54,000 kWh has been to reducing vehicle weight in the Kibar Group’s all of its fields of activity. In 2018, many achieved annually. automotive industry. It is a preferred energy intensity productivity projects were carried out material in construction and durable has been reduced within the Kibar Group. As a result of energy efficiency projects, consumption sectors due to its high by 42% corrosion resistance, light weight and the energy density of Kibar Group easy formability. Aluminum is a green Assan Alüminyum, which continues companies decreased. The energy 2016 2018 material that is 100% recyclable after its energy efficiency efforts in line density, which represents the amount with ISO 50001 Energy Management compared the end of its service life. In this way, of energy consumed to produce one System and Energy Policy, has to 2016. it can save 95% energy compared to unit of product, decreased by 32.2% in the use of primary aluminum. achieved 6,400,000 kWh energy Assan Alüminyum, 22.9% in Assan Hanil, savings in 2018 with 14 projects. 22% in Assan Foods, 24.6% in Ispak and Kibar Group companies’ WE CARE for next generations In the last 6 years, more than 70 12.7% in Assan Panel compared to energy intensity reduction rates Within the scope of efforts to combat energy efficiency projects have the previous year. In terms of reported compared to 2017 climate change, Kibar Group limits the negative impact of its activities been implemented and total annual companies, Kibar Group’s energy savings have reached 20 million kWh. intensity decreased by 27% in 2018 on the environment, reduces energy consumption, increases compared to the previous year and by % 33 % 22 In 2018, in Assan Alüminyum 41.7% compared to 2016. energy efficiency, reduces energy Dilovası Facilities, heat leakeages density, generates electricity from and natural gas consumption was Energy density (GJ / million TRY) renewable energy sources and reduced by changing the ceiling manages natural resource use with a sustainability approach. insulation in 4 annealing furnaces. % 23 % 13 The number of fans in Tuzla Tensioning And Straightening Line has been decreased. Energy consumption was reduced by applying a variable displacement pump in Tuzla Foil rolling 25 % 2016 2017 2018 mills. 815 650 475 64 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 Energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources in As a result of its energy efficiency In addition, as a result of the energy energy production are the most efforts, Assan Alüminyum has efficiency studies carried out in important components of sustainable managed to reduce its greenhouse Kibar Holding offices, the energy development. In 2018, 132,000,000 gas emission intensity by 4.8%. density, which represents the kWh of electricity was generated from Nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur amount of energy consumed per renewable energy sources thanks to oxide (SOx) emissions were reduced person, decreased by 6.4% in 2018 the Manavgat Hydroelectric Power by 35.3% in 2018 compared to 2017 compared to the previous year and Plant, which is a renewable energy and 48% compared to 2016. by 11.3% compared to 2016. investment made by Kibar Group within the scope of efforts to combat climate change. Operating in an energy intensive sector, Assan Alüminyum’s power plant generates 77% of the Greenhouse gas The energy intensity company’s electricity consumption. emission intensity per employee in decreased by Kibar Holding offices 4.8% decreased by 2017 compared 2018 2017 6.4% compared 2018 to 2017. WE CARE for next generations to 2017. NOx, SOx and The energy intensity other emissions per employee in decreased by Kibar Holding offices 35.3% decreased by 2017 compared 2018 2016 11.3% compared 2018 to 2017. to 2016. 66 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 WATER MANAGEMENT Water intensity (m3 / million TRY) The amount of water recycled and Water is one of the most vital resources Wastewater Recycling Plant, which is reused in Assan Foods increased by integrated to Wastewater Treatment for sustainable development. 8% compared to the previous year Plant established in 2014 in Asım Population growth, industrialization and by 16.4% compared to 2016 and Kibar Industrial Zone in Kocaeli, and agricultural activities increase reached 270,000 m3. This amount where Kibar Holding pioneered and water demand and cause pollution corresponds to 33% of the water participated, is transformed into high with various parameters. Despite the consumed. 2016 2017 2018 increasing demand for water, the quality domestic water by subjecting 372 the wastewater to further treatment limited availability of water resources 262 196 makes it necessary to manage the and line to meet the water needs. existing water resources efficiently. Wastewater Recycling Plant was Wa te r i n te n s i t y Th e a m ou nt of commissioned in May 2018. Since 2017 2018 The main objective in the sustainability h as b e e n wa te r re c ycle d 2018, the amount of recovery water of water resources is to take into re du ce d by an d re u s e d i n used is 298.023 m3. In 2019, the use of A s s an Foods 25.2% account the needs of future recovery water is expected to reach i n cre as e d by 900,000 m3. 8% generations by not changing the functioning of the hydrological cycle. co m pare d to 2 0 1 7 . 2017 2018 Acting with this awareness, Kibar co m pare d Group continues its efforts to improve to 2017. WE CARE for next generations sustainable water use and water management. Wa te r i n te n s i t y Th e a m ou nt of 2016 2018 As a result of efforts to ensure the h as b e e n wa te r re c ycle d sustainability of water resources, re d u ce d by an d re u s e d i n A s s an Foods 47.4% the water intensity of Kibar Group companies within the scope of the i n cre as e d by reporting has decreased. Water density, which represents the amount of water consumed to produce one co m pare d to 2 0 1 6 . 2016 16.4% co m pare d 2018 unit of product, decreased by 25.2% to 2016. in 2018 compared to 2017 and 47.4% compared to 2016. 68 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 WASTE MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF In Kibar Group, which adopts a circular RESOURCES economy, sustainability and innovation Effective waste management is crucial Secondary aluminum use in Optimizing the Chemical based production model, the amount for the conservation and efficient use Assan Alüminyum Composition of 3105 Alloy at Resource efficiency is among the of recycled and reused raw materials of natural resources, which form the Turkey is primary aluminum importer. Assan Alüminyum environmental priorities of the Kibar increased by 29.5% in 2018 compared basis of sustainable development. Group. Within the scope of resource to the previous year and by 53.5% Secondary aluminum (scrapped) and Primary aluminum is the most energyWaste needs to be reduced, recovered management, using the natural compared to 2016. aluminum scrap are increasingly used intensive and costly item of aluminum and disposed in an environmentally resources efficiently, supporting the in production in Assan Alüminyum in semi-finished product production. friendly way. circular economy by increasing the Recycled and order to reduce external dependence The use of secondary aluminum and reused raw materials Th e am ou nt and to provide effective waste scrap aluminum produced by reeffective waste management and The amount of waste recycled in Kibar increased by of re c ycle d melting instead of primary aluminum reuse, and choosing environmental management. Since most of this input is 29.5% packag i ng in production significantly reduces raw Group companies that are within the disposal methods are priority issues. scrap generated during production, a m ate r i al scope of reporting increased by 24.3% significant localization of raw materials material costs and reduces resource i nc re as e d by 1.4% in 2018 compared to the previous year compared is also provided. Since recycled usage and energy requirements. Established in 2015 within the body of and 93% of the waste generated was to 2017 aluminum production requires 95% less The aim of this project, which will be 2017 2018 2017 2018 Kibar Group, İnteraktif Environmental recovered. energy than primary aluminum, this completed in 2019, is to optimize Consultancy provides total waste compared application also provides great benefits the chemical composition of 3105 Recycled waste management and environmental to 2017 in terms of sustainability. alloy for the use of more secondary amount increased consultancy services to Group aluminum and scrap and to ensure by companies with an understanding The amount of Th e am ou nt the design of the sub-production %24.3 that adopts global-scale, circular recycled and WE CARE for next generations reused raw materials of re c ycle d processes in accordance with this economy and attaches importance packag i ng to R&D activities in waste. The increased by new composition. In this way, Assan m ate r i al 53.5% in 2018 Alüminyum’s energy consumption compared İnteraktif Environment contributes to i nc re as e d by will be reduced, secondary resource 2017 2018 7.7% the improvement of performance In 2018, Kibar Group organized 5,798 to 2017 utilization will support the cyclical in the use of resources and waste compared hours of environmental training for minimization throughout the group. 2016 to 2016 2018 2016 2018 2,632 employees; 1,277 hours for 2.731 economy and the carbon footprint will compared be reduced. contractor employees, thus 7.075 to 2016 %93 The Kibar Group supports the principles hours of environmental training was The packaging materials used in all organized for a total of 5,363 people. of Industry 4.0 and the circular economy Kibar Group companies are collected in line with its sustainable industry of the waste in accordance with legal requirements. generated in 2018 objective. Within this scope, Kibar In 2018, over 4,000 tons of packaging was RECYCLED Group companies aim to continuously materials were collected at Kibar review their production processes and Group Companies within the scope ensure that every waste generated is of the reporting. The rate of reclaimed recycled. Thus, resource efficiency and packaging material increased by environmental benefits are aimed. 7.7% compared to 2016 and by 1.4% compared to the previous year. 70 WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders We expect our stakeholders to adopt Sustainable Development Goals. 73 GRI 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Kibar Group’s sustainability approach is based on an approach that encompasses not only its own practices but also the practices of all its stakeholders. In this respect, Kibar Group maintains its relations with all stakeholders including suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers and customers in the entire value chain from raw material procurement to production and distribution to the end customer, based on the economic, human rights, environmental and social activities of its stakeholders. WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders Kibar Holding considers its potential to WE ENCOURAGE paydaşlarımızı TEŞViK EDiYORUZ contribute in the social field, creativity our stakeholders and innovation in the selection of the stakeholder group it will cooperate Since its establishment, Kibar Group with. It expects its stakeholders to act has integrated its activities in in line with sustainable development accordance with universal principles, goals. into its corporate culture. Evaluating economic growth together with the Kibar Group considers providing sustainability objective that covers its stakeholders with accurate and economic, social and environmental timely information as its corporate elements together, Kibar Group acts responsibility. For this reason, with the responsibility and awareness stakeholder communication continues of revealing the potential of its in a number of platforms specially stakeholders in achieving sustainable designed for different stakeholder development goals. The activities groups. carried out within the scope of supply chain management in Kibar Group constitute an important part of corporate sustainability practices. 74 75 GRI 102-12, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2, 412-3 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS SUSTAINABILITY in All suppliers are expected to environment to its employees in order implement the Purchasing Ethics Code, to prevent accidents and injuries. SUPPLY CHAIN Personnel Group Companies Customers Dealers Shareholders and Investors Public Institutions Academic Institutions Kibar Group has a wide supplier which is an integral part of the Kibar Group Code of Ethics. The sustainability * Be able to prove that it complies fully with all environmental regulations in all 76% LOCAL performance of the extensive supply its activities. SUPPLIER Annual Report (annual), Annual Report (annual), UNGC (annual), UNGC (annual), Annual Report (annual), UNGC (annual), UNGC (annual), network due to its size and portfolio network of close to 4500 active UNGC (annual), UNGC (annual), Reputation Research Reputation Research UNGC (annual), Reputation Research Reputation Research of companies operating in different COMMUNICATION TOOLS AND FREQUENCY (annual), (annual), (annual), (annual), suppliers is continuously monitored When managing supply chains, Employee Satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Reputation Research sectors. It shares its business ethics and and improved. Kibar Group companies demand the 24% Research (2 years), Research (2 years), Code of Ethics Code of Ethics (annual), Code of Ethics (continuous), Web (continuous), corporate sustainability understanding Reputation Research Reputation Research (continuous), (continuous) Dealer Code of Ethics Audits (instant / annual), Reviews (instant), standards required by their sectors from Meetings and with its supply chain, and therefore (annual), (annual), Web (continuous), (continuous), The framework agreements used in supply chains within the framework Research (annual), Web (continuous) University Collaboration prefers long-term business agreements. GLOBAL Suggestion Systems Suggestion Systems Focus Group Studies Web (continuous), the Kibar Group include the following of these principles. ISO 14001 SUPPLIER (instant), (instant), (instant), Periodical Publications In the joint purchasing structure of the General Assembly provisions under the title of “Ethical Environmental Management System (continuous), Group, suppliers with high technology, Ethical Rules (continuous), Ethical Rules Product / Brand / Meetings (annual), Web (continuous), Rules and Legal Obligations“. certificate is examined in Assan Hanil Employee Training (continuous), Market Research Information and energy efficient products and services (annual), Dealer Meetings and and İspak during supplier audits. (continuous), Employee Training Material Disclosures are preferred and purchasing activities (continuous), Customer / Research (annual) (instant), Kibar Group supplier; Occupational Health and are carried out through a global Safety Boards (continuous), Occupational Health Consumer Support Roadshow and Investor * Can not use force for employees to Kibar Group adopts local procurement Lines (continuous), supplier network. Periodical Publications and Safety Boards Presentations (instant) work in any way. practices as much as possible in in 2018, there are no suppliers in (continuous), Satisfaction * Can not use child labor. order to increase the contribution of the critical category due to their WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders (continuous), Periodical Publications Measurement Internal Information (annual) * Employees can not be subjected its activities to the national economy. environmental and social impacts. Announcements (instant), (continuous), to physical punishment or physical, In 2018, Kibar Group has 3,336 local No new suppliers have been Web (continuous), Internal Information Announcements Procurement Procedures developed sexual, psychological or verbal abuse. suppliers and the local procurement identified, which should be subject to Intranet (continuous) * No Kibar Group employee may be (instant), in accordance with the United Nations rate is 76%. environmental and social auditing. Web (continuous), Global Compact cover issues such as offered a bribe under any name or Intranet (continuous) prohibition of child labor and forced circumstance. All legal and environmental risks are labor, ensuring fair working conditions * Employees’ wages, including salary included in the supplier risk assessment Non-Governmental Unıversity Career Clubs / and reducing environmental impacts. and overtime, may not be lower process. The supplier is expected to Media Organızatıons And Trade Unions Unıversity Students than the minimum wage specified in be able to prove that it fully complies applicable laws and regulations. with all legal regulations to protect UNGC (annual), UNGC (annual), Surveys (instant), * In any employment decision, the environment, human rights, health Web (continuous), Web (continuous), Joint Projects (instant), Before starting to work with suppliers, including recruitment, promotion, and safety conditions. For this purpose, Memberships (continuous), Press Meetings and Statements (instant) K-Team Young Talent Kibar Group Framework Agreement compensation, benefits, training, certifications of suppliers are requested. Internship Program (annual) dismissal and termination, cannot Joint Projects (instant) is signed to ensure that critical sustainability priorities are adopted by discriminate employees based on As a result of the assessments made suppliers. race, ethnicity, language, religion, sexual preference, gender, political and ideological views. * Provide a healthy and safe work 76 77 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 WE SHARE for the communities We continue to serve the society with our social responsibility approach. 79 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 SOCIAL BENEFIT facilities without the need for referral to Throughout the year, teachers and Between 20162019, Semiha Kibar a different center due to kidney disease. INVESTMENTS students develop projects to meet kindergarten has been awarded Semiha Kibar Organ Transplantation the sheltering and feeding needs of the title of Nutrition Friendly School and Dialysis Hospital, where regular Kibar Education and Social Aid stray animals in the vicinity. Certificate within the scope of follow-up of kidney transplant patients is Foundation was established in Turkey Healthy Eating and Active made, included Hypertension Clinic and 1999 in order to institutionalize the Asım Kibar Vocational and Technical Life Program, “Gaining the habit of Outpatient Treatment Center in 2013 philanthropic activities of Kibar Anatolian High School is the first and adequate and balanced nutrition and and became one of the comprehensive Group. Kibar Holding make significant only school that has a Barista Workshop regular physical activity in the fight hospitals in the field of nephrology in our investments in education, health and in its region. In addition, the students against obesity in schools” section. country. social life areas for our country under the umbrella of Kibar Education and who participated in many gastronomy Social Benefit Investments in Social Aid Foundation, while Group and sports competitions at national and Health companies realize social responsibility international levels achieved significant Semiha Kibar Organ Transplantation Semiha Kibar Organ Transplantation and projects that create value for the degrees. and Dialysis Hospital has provided Dialysis Hospital, which was built by Kibar society. organ transplantation to more than Holding within the campus of Erciyes Semiha Kibar Kindergarten, built by 1,000 patients and dialysis service to University in Kayseri, commenced service Social benefit investments in Kibar Group in Sarıseki İskenderun more than 5,000 patients to date. in 1995. The hospital is established on education district of Hatay in 2014, is the first an area of 920 m2; and consists of 6100 and only kindergarten of the region. m2 closed area spread over 7 floors, 180 Semiha Kibar Organ Transplantation WE SHARE for the communities WE SHARE for the communities More than 800 students have WE SHARE graduated from Asım Kibar Vocational To date, 462 children have received pre-school education at the Semiha m2 patient reception and consultation and Dialysis Hospital, which has TSEand Technical Anatolian High School area, 2 operating rooms, 2 sterile ISO EN 9001 certificate where Waste for the communities Kibar Kindergarten, which was built to with 23 classrooms built in Istanbul by rooms, anesthesia and intensive care Management System is available, is provide quality preschool education In line with the “Through our Kibar Group and started education control room, blood bank, 3 polyclinics, an important medical center which to 36-69 months old children. In 2018, understanding of social responsibility, in 2010. The activities carried out at laboratory, x-ray room, meeting and is exemplary in our country with its various improvements were made in we will continue to present what we the school to provide students with seminar room for 40 people, data academic studies. the physical fields of the school by Kibar have gained from this society to the a sustainability culture are part of processing center and a cafeteria area Holding. Social Benefit Investments in the service of this society” principle of Kibar Group’s sustainability efforts. serving in a 200 m2 outdoor terrace area. Founder and Honorary President Asım In this context, information activities Field of Social Life Kibar, Kibar Holding and its affiliates are carried out in the areas of For 3 years Semiha Kibar Kindergarten There are 41 rooms and 89 patient Asim Kibar Cultural Center, which was built carry out activities that contribute to environmental awareness, climate has been awarded with the White beds under the Inpatient Service, by Kibar Holding in the İskenderun district the welfare of society. change and recycling. Domestic Flag for meeting the criteria set by the Hemodialysis Unit, Peritoneal Dialysis of Hatay in 2013 and covers an area of oil, paper and plastic materials are Turkish Ministry of National Education Unit, General Nephrology Polyclinic and 3000 m², organizes meetings, concerts, collected for recycling and delivered to and the Turkish Ministry of Health in Transplantation Polyclinic departments educational activities and entertainment the related units. terms of hygiene and hygiene rules. in the hospital where 95 healthcare organizations. 456,000 people benefited personnel serve. The hospital has all from 2780 events by the end of 2018. the necessary follow-up and treatment 80 81 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Semiha Kibar Practice Hotel, which was SOCIAL Assan Foods carried out activities to competitiveness of the region and built by Kibar Holding in Istanbul and investigate the living conditions of to contribute to Kocaeli’s vision of started its activities in 2012, is the first RESPONSIBILITY seasonal agricultural workers. With industrial transformation. With the in the region.The hotel is designed to the participation of the employees, trainings given within the scope of provide practice training by experts, for KİBAR Volunteers stationery and clothing were provided the project, it is aimed to make the students in the field of hospitality and for the school-age children of seasonal students more technically equipped. tourism.To date, over 25,000 guests have employees. Furthermore, packages The project, which was launched In 2018, a corporate volunteering been hosted, enabling 2,400 students to of special hygiene and cleaning in 2018, is planned to last for one program was launched under the gain experience. With the Semiha Kibar materials were distributed to seasonal and a half years. During this period, name of Kibar Volunteers in order Practice Hotel, it is aimed to benefit the agricultural workers who came to work 64 students and 16 teachers will to ensure that all Kibar Group tourism sector of our country. during the tomato season. be trained in intelligent production employees voluntarily participate systems. Students who have technical and work in solidarity with the Semiha Kibar Social Life Center, which Assan Foods continues its efforts to background and pass the interviews environment and the public interest. was built by Kibar Holding in Istanbul in expand the planting areas in the will benefit from the internship During the process, a Founding 2011 and transferred to Tuzla Municipality, region where it operates. In this context, opportunity at the end of the process. Executive Committee consisting of stands out with its moon-star-like trainings are organized for farmers. In the last 3 years, one-month Kibar employees was formed, areas architectural structure. In Semiha Kibar The smart agricultural practices are education expenses of 221 students of volunteerism and participation Social Life Center, which has 2 conference explained to the farmers and the have been met on behalf of customers. processes were determined, and halls and a digital library with a capacity farmers are able to keep up with the a questionnaire was organized WE SHARE for the communities of 550 people in an area of 2,200 m2, 240 developing technologies. Assan Alüminyum is working with for the employees to determine conferences have been held so far and vocational high schools in Tuzla the field they want to participate 72.000 visitors have participated in these Assan Hanil organized an event for the and Dilovası to provide interns. In in volunteering activities. The conferences. benefit of children in need during this way, students contribute to the website of kibargonulluleri.com International Women’s Day on the development of career plans, gaining where employees can access 24/7 8th of March. A workshop was work experience and improving their In the Semiha Kibar Social Life in digital environment has been organized to prepare organic toys for social conditions. Center, 360,000 people were prepared. children in need. Toys were delivered served in the restaurant area and to a kindergarten in Izmit under Turkish 36,000 people were provided Ministry of Family, Labor and Social access to the library. Services. In addition, the donation made to TOÇEV in 2018 covered one The wastes generated in the month education expenses of 86 Semiha Kibar Social Life Center are students. separated and recycled through the related units. The Vetro 2.0 Project was initiated by Assan Hanil in order to train qualified human resources to increase the 83 EKLER For detailed information about Kibar Holding Sustainability Report, you can contact Kibar Holding Corporate Communications. Department kurumsaliletisim@kibar.com We thank for their contributions during the reporting process. Consultant : Kıymeti Harbiye Design : Being Çözüm 84 GRI 102-8, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1 GRI 403-1, 403-2 Employee Demographics Employee Development Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Trainings Employees 2016 2017 2018 Trainings 2016 2017 2018 Injury Rate 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees 3.175 3.345 3.382 Employee trainingsnumber of participants Direct employees Total OHS training hour for employees 36.719 40.980 41.476 White collar female Female 4,87 6,52 9,86 197 219 219 Blue collar 2.076 2.185 2.427 employees Male 12,10 14,65 16,13 Total OHS training hour for contractors 4.015 4.481 5.507 White collar male employees 463 495 508 White collar 489 532 581 Contractors Blue collar female employees 204 206 193 Female 9,82 3,80 0,00 Number of employees participated to OHS trainings 8.063 5.482 9.275 Female 350 354 400 Male 16,25 23,26 14,17 Blue collar male employees 2.311 2.425 2.462 Male 2.215 2.363 2.608 Accident severity rate Number of contractors participated to OHS trainings 2.017 1.371 3.454 Total number of female 401 425 412 employeesı Direct employees Employee trainingsTotal hour Total number of male Female 0,21 0,04 0,05 2.774 2.920 2.970 employeesı Blue collar 2.067 1.803 2.857 Occupational Health and Safety Governance Male 0,13 0,14 0,25 Employees by age groups White collar 8.820 8.838 8.003 Contractors 2016 2017 2018 Below 30 909 912 1.004 Female 0,05 0,01 0,00 Blue collar males 43.675 47.336 43.325 Number of OHS Committees 7 8 10 30-50 2.188 2.347 2.318 Male 0,01 0,11 0,16 PERFORMANCE White collar male 17.867 17.406 16.293 Occupational Disease Rate Above 50 78 86 60 Number of OHS Committee members 55 55 110 Direct employees INDICATORS Total 72.429 75.383 70.477 Total number of executives* Female 0 0 0 Number of employee representatives at OHS committees 7 8 18 Suggestion systems Male 0 0 0 Female 27 31 28 Suggestions made 1912 2223 3.305 Contractors Male 130 127 121 Female 0 0 0 Female executive ratio (%) 17 20 19 Suggestions realized 472 615** 1.077 Male 0 0 0 Employees under performance review Parental Leave Fatal accidents The number of employees under performance review Direct employees Number of employees on Blue collar female 61 82 97 14 19 16 maternity leave Female 0 0 0 Number of employees on White collar female 138 175 196 Male 0 0 0 212 227 245 paternity leave Contractors Number of employees Blue collar male 1.156 1.455 1.723 9 15 16 Female 0 0 0 returning from maternity leave White collar male 324 396 469 Male 0 0 0 Number of employees 198 211 241 returning from paternity leave Total 1.679 2.109 2.485 *covers job titles manager and above ** Assan Hanil is excluded 86 86 87 GRI 301-1, 301-2, 301-3, 302-1, 302-3, 303-5, 306-2, 102-48 GRI 102-10, 102-55 Environmental Performance Indicators* Fight against climate change GRI CONTENT INDEX Natural resource use 2016 2017 2018 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 2016 2017 2018 Indicators Descriptions and page numbers Total amount of production (ton)* 402.154 404.471 420.991 Natural gas 2.003.650 2.114.694 2.090.748 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Total amount of natural resources used (ton) 579.487 582.888 600.020 Coal 136.758 125.782 150.936 GRI 102: General Indicators 2016 Recyled/reused input materials 88.727 105.134 136.177 Total direct energy consumption 2.140.408 2.240.476 2.241.684 Corporate Profile Recyled/reused input materials (%) 15% 18% 23% Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 102-1 About the Report, page 5 Reclaimed packaging material (ton) 3.781 4.016 4.071 Electricity 698.988 776.264 779.306 102-2 About Kibar Holding, page 10-11; Kibar Group page 12-15 Total water consumption (m3) 1.295.515 1.213.180 1.245.182 Total indirect energy consumption 698.988 776.264 779.306 102-3 Contact Back cover Recyled/reused water (ton) 232.000 250.000 270.000 Total energy consumption (GJ) 2.839.396 3.016.740 3.020.990 102-4 About Kibar Holding, page 10-11; Kibar Group page 12-15 Water intensity (m3/1.000.000 TRY) 372 262 196 Energy intensity (GJ/1.000.000 TRY) 815 650 475 102-5 https://e-sirket.mkk.com.tr/esir/Dashboard.jsp#/sirketbilgileri/12030 Waste Management Management Approach 102-6 Kibar Group, page 12-15; Exports, page 34 Hazardous waste (ton) 8.723 9.074 12.551 Environmental trainings (total hour) 102-7 About Kibar Holding page 10-11; Economic Value page 33; Human Resources page 33 Energy recovery 76 923 52 Trainings for employees 616 1.375 5.798 102-8 Human Resources page 33; Performance Indicators page 86 Recovery 8.255 7.928 12.244 Trainings for contractors 231 302 1.277 GRI CONTENT 102-9 We Encourage our Stakeholders, page 74; Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 Landfill 383 221 250 Saplings planted 870 164 595 INDEX 102-10 GRI Content Index: There are no signifşcant changes in reporting period. Incineration 5 0 0 102-11 Risk Management, page 17 Other 2,76 2,50 4,41 Economic Performance Indicators 102-12 Stakeholder Relations page 74-76; Non-hazardous waste (ton) 9.595 10.992 8.369 2016 2017 2018 102-13 Memberships and Partnerships page 96-97 Energy recovery 103 1.289 0 Strategy Net sales (TRY) 3.485.291.103 4.638.564.972 6.363.974.211 Recovery 7.616 7.784 7.287 102-14 Message from the Chairman page 7; Message from the CEO page 9 Landfill 1.299 1.570 715 102-15 Risk Management page 17; Sustainability in Kibar Group page 21-25 Incineration 0 0 0 Ethics and Integrity Other 577 348 366 102-16 Business ethics, page 44-45 102-17 Business ethics, page 44-45 *Environmental performance indicators were recalculated in 2018 ** Excludes Assan Hanil where production is monitored units. 1 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented. This service was performed on the Turkish version of this report. 88 88 89 GRI 102-52, 102-56 GRI 102-55 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 200: Economic Standards Indicators Descriptions and page numbers Indicators Descriptions and page numbers Economic Performance GRI 102: General Indicators 2016 103-1 we GROW with the principles of sustainability, page 29-31 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 we GROW with the principles of sustainability, page 29-31 Governance GRI 102: General Indicators 2016 103-3 we GROW with the principles of sustainability, page 29-31 102-18 Sustainability Management, page 18-19 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 About Kibar Holding page 10-11 ; Economic Value page 33 Reporting Practices Procurement 102-19 Sustainability Management, page 18-19 102-45 About the Report, page 5 103-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 102-20 Sustainability Management, page 18-19 102-46 About the Report, page 5 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 102-21 Stakeholder Relations, page 74-76 103-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 102-47 Sustainability in Kibar Group, page 21-25 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 102-29 Sustainability in Kibar Group, page 21-25 102-48 Environmental Performance Indicators, page 88 Anti-Corruption 102-30 Risk Management, page 17 102-49 About the Report, page 5 103-1 Internal Audit and Internal Control, page 17 ; Fight Against Corruption, page 44-45 Sustainability Management page 18-19; 102-31 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Internal Audit and Internal Control, page 17 ; Fight Against Corruption, page 44-45 Sustainability in Kibar Group, page 21-25 102-50 About the Report, page 5 103-3 Internal Audit and Internal Control, page 17 ; Fight Against Corruption, page 44-45 102-32 Sustainability Management, page 18-19 102-51 https://www.kibar.com/tr-tr/surdurulebilirlik/surdurulebilirlik-raporu 205-1 Internal Audit and Internal Control, page 17 ; Fight Against Corruption, page 44-45 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 Stakeholder Engagement 205-2 Fight Against Corruption, page 44-45 102-52 GRI Content İndexi: Reporting is annual 102-40 Stakeholder Groups, page 76 GRI 300: Environmental Standards 102-53 Contact Back cover Materials GRI Content Index: There is no collective bargaining 102-41 agreement in Kibar Holding. 103-1 Efficient use of resources, page 70-71 102-54 Rapor Hakkında, sayfa 5 102-42 Stakeholder Relations, page 74-76 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Efficient use of resources, page 70-71 102-55 About the Report, page 5 103-3 Efficient use of resources, page 70-71 102-43 Stakeholder Relations, page 74-76 102-56 GRI Content Index: there is no external assurance 301-1 Performance Indicators, page 88 102-44 Stakeholder Relations, page 74-76 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Performance Indicators, page 88 301-3 Performance Indicators, page 88 Energy 103-1 Combating Climate Change 63-64 ; Energy Management page 64, 66 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Combating Climate Change 63-64 ; Energy Management page 64, 66 103-3 Combating Climate Change 63-64 ; Energy Management page 64, 66 302-1 Performance Indicators page 88 302-3 Performance Indicators page 88 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Energy Management page 64, 66 302-5 Energy Management page 64, 66 90 90 91 GRI 102-55, 303-2, 306-3, 307-1 GRI 102-55, 402-1, 403-3, 404-3, 405-2, 406-1 GRI 300: Environmental Standards GRI 400: Social Standards Water Labor-Management Relations 103-1 Water Management, page 68 103-1 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Water Management, page 68 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 103-3 Water Management, page 68 103-3 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-2 GRI Content Indexi: There are no water bodies significantly affected by Kibar Holding’s operations. GRI 402: Labor Management Relations 2016 402-1 GRI Content Index: Legal notice periods are employed in significant changes. Emissions Health and Safety 103-1 103-1 Energy Management page 64-66 103-1 Health and Safety, page 43-44 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 103-2 Energy Management page 64-66 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Health and Safety, page 43-44 103-3 103-3 Energy Management page 64-66 103-3 Health and Safety, page 43-44 305-1 Energy Management, page 66 403-1 Performance Indicators, page 87 305-4 Energy Management, page 66 403-2 Performance Indicators, page 87 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 403: Health and Safety, 2016 305-5 Energy Management, page 66 GRI Content Index: There are no high H&S risk employees. Yet there are 1204 field employees in Assan Hanil 403-3 considered having dangerous occupations. 305-7 Energy Management, page 66 Trainings Effluents and Waste 103-1 Talent Management, page 40 103-1 Waste Management page 70 ; Efficient use of Resources page 70-71 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Talent Management, page 40 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Waste Management page 70 ; Efficient use of Resources page 70-71 103-3 Talent Management, page 40 103-3 Waste Management page 70 ; Efficient use of Resources page 70-71 404-1 Performance Indicators, page 86 306-2 Performance Indicators, page 88 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 404: Trainings 2016 404-2 Talent Management, page 41-42 306-3 GRI Content Index: No spill incidents occured during the reporting period. 404-3 Performance Management, page 41; Performance Indicators, page 86 Environmental Compliance Diversity and Inclusion 103-1 We Care for Next Generations, page 63 103-1 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 We Care for Next Generations, page 63 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 103-3 We Care for Next Generations, page 63 103-3 Diversity and Inclusion, page 39 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 GRI Content Index: No significant fines received in reporting period. 405-1 Performance Indicators, page 86 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Oppurtunity 2016 GRI Content Index: Kibar Holding and its affiliates employ equal work-equal pay understanding. There are no 103-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 405-2 gender-based wage differentiation. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 GRI 406: Anti-Discrimination 2016 406-1 GRI Content Index No discrimination incident occured during the reporting period. 103-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 74-77 308-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 92 92 93 GRI 102-55, 410-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3 GRI 102-55, 418-1 GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 400: Social Standards Child Labor Information Security 103-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-1 Information Security, page 58 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Information Security page 58 103-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-3 Information Security, page 58 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 GRI Content Index: There are no incidents of breach in customer data security. Forced Labor Other material issues 103-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 R&D and Inovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-1 R&D and Inovation, page 51-54 103-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 R&D and Inovation, page 51-54 GRI 409: Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-3 R&D and Inovation, page 51-54 Human Rights Assesments Digitalization 103-1 Business Ethics, page 44; Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-1 Digitalization, page 54-56 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Business Ethics, page 44; Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Digitalization, page 54-56 103-3 Business Ethics, page 44; Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-3 Digitalization, page 54-56 412-2 Business Ethics, page 44 Social welfare GRI 412: Human Rights Assesments 2016 412-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-1 We share for the society, page 79-81, 83 Supplier Social Assessments GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 We share for the society, page 79-81, 83 103-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-3 We share for the society, page 79-81, 83 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 103-3 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 414-1 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessments 2016 414-2 Sustainability in Supply Chain, page 77 Product and Service Quality 103-1 Product and Service Quality, page 49-50 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Product and Service Quality, page 49-50 103-3 Product and Service Quality, page 49-50 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. 417-1 Product and Service Quality, page 49-50 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 417-2 GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. 417-3 GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. 94 94 9595 GRI 102-12, 102-13 GRI 102-12, 102-13 MEMBERSHIPS AND COOPERATIONS ESNEK AMBALAJ SANAYİCİLERİ DERNEĞİ Adres : Tunus Caddesi 54/8 Kavaklıdere 06680 ANKARA Tel : 0312 466 60 23 Fax : 0312 466 60 24 easd@ambalaj.org.tr FLEXIBLE PACKAGING MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION Adres : Tunus Caddesi 54/8 Kavaklıdere 06680 ANKARA TURKEY Türkiye İMSAD Tel logo : +90312kullanım 466 60 23 kılavuzu Fax : +90312 466 60 24 easd@ambalaj.org.tr Türkiye İMSAD logo kullanım kılavuzu; Türkiye İMSAD kurumsal kimliği kapsamında, tüm görsel malzemelerde, Türkiye İMSAD logosunun kullanım düzeni ve kurallarını içerir. Türkiye İMSAD kurumsal kimlik kılavuzunun kısaltılmış hali olan bu kitapçık, görsel malzemelerde logo uygulamalarında çıkabilecek temel uygulama sorularına yol göstermek için hazırlanmıştır. Kitapçıkta yer almayan sorularınız için Türkiye İMSAD ile iletişim kurabilirsiniz. Kitapçığın temel amacı; amblem, logotayp ve logo gibi temel unsurların belirli bir kaynaktan alınarak kullanılması ve bu unsurların inisiyatif kullanarak üretilmesinin engellenmesidir. Türkiye İMSAD'ın amblem, logotayp ve logosu izin alınmadan hiçbir şekilde kullanılamaz. 96 96 9797 Kibar Holding A.Ş. UNGC 2018 / Disclaimer: Kibar Holding A.Ş. Sustainability Report (“The report”) was prepared by Kibar Holding A.Ş. and / or Kibar Group Company (“Kibar Group”) within the scope of Global Reporting Initiative’s “core” level. The report is prepared for information purposes only and is not intended to form the basis for any investment decision. The information contained in the Report has not been subject to independent audit and review and includes forward-looking statements, estimates and projections only. As of the reporting period, all information and related documents are believed to be accurate and disclosed in good faith. Any forward-looking statements contained in the Report provide valid information as of the date of preparation, and the Kibar Group does not assume any responsibility to update any forward-looking statements, except for statutory requirements, to reflect the circumstances or events that occurred after the date of the declaration or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. The forecasts and projections reflected in the forward-looking statements in the Report may be proved to be inaccurate and actual results may differ from expectations. Kibar Group does not make any statements, warranties or commitments depending on the information in the report. Kibar Holding A.Ş. or Kibar Group Company, the members of the board of directors, consultants and employees of these companies are not responsible for any loss or damage incurred by a person directly or indirectly based on the information contained in the Report. For commercial or personal purposes, the information contained in the Report may not be used, shared, copied or reproduced in all printed, visual, audio, digital fields, including, but not limited to, the platforms enlightening the public without permission and without reference. Any action in breach of such matters will require civil and criminal liability. * Kibar Group Company: Kibar Holding A.Ş. directly or indirectly; owning the right to vote for the majority of the members who have the majority of the voting rights or forming the majority in the management body in accordance with the contracts of the company, or by itself or by other shareholders or partners based on a contract, alone or together with other shareholders or partners, constituting the majority of voting rights. means the organization, company or any other legal entity that owns the majority or the amount of shares that can make decisions that can manage it. 98 99 GRI 102-3, 102-53 Zorlu Center Levazım Mahallesi Koru Sokak No: 2 Ofisler Bölgesi Kat: T4 Beşiktaş 34340 İstanbul T: 90 (212) 924 73 00 F: 90 (212) 924 73 04 info@kibar.com
