OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should To our Stakeholders: support & respect the protection of Since the beginning of our story in 1958, our strong corporate values have internationally proclaimed human rights. made sustainability part of our business. Our Shareholders and Managers PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should be certain have created a corporate culture based on caring for our employees, and they are not complicit in human rights abuses. conducting business ethically; as well as minimizing our environmental footprint and supporting the communities where we operate. Every day, we PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold thrive to be “good place for all who touch it, where quality of work, the freedom of association, and the effective products, and relationships are a priority”. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. L&L Products signed the UN Global Compact in April 2018 to inspire our PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should Corporate Social Responsibility approach, and improve our communication uphold the elimination of all forms of around it. We fully support the Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas forced and compulsory labour. of Human Rights, Labor, the Environment, and Anti-corruption. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold As we are a family-owned company in its third generation of Shareholders, the effective abolition of child labour. sustainability is an integral part of our day-to-day business and informs both our short and long-term decisions and action plans. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold From developing solutions for electric vehicles to continuously working the elimination of discrimination in respect at reducing our waste, ensuring that we operate safely, and supporting of employment and occupation. our host communities, all L&L Products’ employees actively participate in PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should shaping a better world for tomorrow. support a precautionary approach We are proud to publicly reiterate in this Communication On Progress our to environmental challenges. principles and the actions we are taking to make the world a better place for us and our children. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater We welcome your feedback and support to continuously improve ourselves. This report is based on information environmental responsibility. Sincerely, and indicators for the year 2019. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should It is just the beginning of what we hope is an ongoing conversation. Please share encourage the development and diffusion your feedback and sustainability ideas of environmentally friendly technologies. with us at sustainability@llproducts.com PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should Follow us: work against corruption in all its forms, Christophe Carré including extortion and bribery. Chief Executive Officer 2 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 OUR VALUES “TO BE A GOOD PLACE FOR ALL WHO TOUCH IT WHERE HONESTY & CREATIVITY, CONSISTENCY & SUCCESS DEFINED RESPECT INNOVATION & FAIRNESS IN OUR OWN QUALITY OF WORK, We are honest with all people in our ENTREPRENEURIAL We make every effort to be fair TERMS PRODUCT AND organization and all people we come SPIRIT with people and consistent in Always underlying our business in contact with from outside the By sharing information, seeking input application of our policies. decisions is the understanding RELATIONSHIPS ARE organization. and collaborating together, we create an that growth without corresponding We are reliable to our word. exceptional entrepreneurial environment profit is not healthy. A PRIORITY.” We are respectful of others. where people put ideas to work. We work to build trusting relationships. AUTHORITY, PRIDE IN IMPORTANCE OF GOOD CITIZEN IN RESPONSIBILITY & BELONGING OUR PARTNER OUR COMMUNITIES OBLIGATION We acknowledge the uniqueness of each RELATIONSHIPS We respect our environment and TO LISTEN person and the value that each brings to We recognize the vital importance encourage efforts to make the We align authority with responsibility. our organization. of our outside partner relationships, communities in which we operate Where decision authority ultimately We recognize individual and team efforts which include our customers, suppliers, better places for all who live in them. resides depends on who has made toward answering our challenges advisors, alliance partners, and other responsibility to achieve results. and achieving our objectives. stakeholders. It is in our long-term We expect decisions and actions to We take time to celebrate best interest that our partners are be consistent with our overall strategy our successes. successful, just as it is in their interests and in concert with our values. that our Company remains strong. Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 3 COMPANY OVERVIEW ACTIVITIES PEOPLE GOVERNANCE L&L Products is a family-owned company founded in Our employees are key stakeholders in our company Our Shareholders remain involved in the business and 1958 in Detroit, Michigan, USA. Expansion in other regions and are the beating heart creating L&L Products’ remind us that without a doubt, this company must started in 1996 to support our traditional automotive value. Personal development and the well-being of succeed sustainably. customers globally. Since then, we have opened several our people are essential to our collective success. L&L Products’ Executive Team (LLET) oversees the plants, developed new products, and started addressing We continuously work at developing skills and growth of the business into a variety of industries. new markets. We strive to maintain a strong corporate optimizing working conditions of our people, both The team also evaluates the company’s risks and, culture based on humility, respect for one another, in the factories and the offices. where and when necessary, takes actions to mitigate and a hunger to achieve long-term growth. them. They aim to create value while protecting the Our solutions are generally based on plastic or fibers and interests of the Shareholders and other stakeholders. aim at sealing, reducing noise and vibrations, as well as LLET members have diverse work backgrounds and reinforcing structures. Our core know-how lies in chemical nationalities, and are profoundly open-minded and formulation, manufacturing processes, and design of respectful of one another, helping them to debate engineered parts. Our newest range of adhesive products issues and find balanced decisions. Each Regional has also started to kick-in. President is anchored in their region and fully engaged in their respective operations and businesses. The Team meets with each key department of the company CUSTOMERS to understand their strategies, provide support, and We serve various markets, including automotive, help to focus and prioritize. Moreover, the Executive aerospace, commercial vehicles and other industries. Team meets in a different L&L location each time to Most of our customers are global, and we support help ensuring harmonized application of our corporate them thanks to our global footprint. Our teams are Shareholders values in the various local contexts. genuinely customer-focused, and work with their L&L families international counterparts on an everyday basis to provide best-in-class service. We take pride in serving most of our customers in their local language, with local representatives, increasing the efficiency of our Chief Executive collaboration. Officer VP Global Marketing Regional President, Regional President, Regional President, Global Chief & Corporate AMERICAS EMEA APAC Financial Officer Development 4 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 KEY FIGURES Date of foundation 1958 Employees 1200 Locations 18 Patents +200 R&D Centers 4 Key Office location QUALITY AND CERTIFICATIONS Production location L&L Products operates in compliance with Quality, Environment and Health & Safety Management systems: AMERICAS EMEA APAC we control risks in these areas and commit to continuous Creation: 1958 Creation: 1996 Creation: 1997 improvement. Production: Production: Production: QUALITY: Romeo, MI, USA Altorf, France Qingpu, China All our facilities are IATF 16949 (Automotive sector) and West Columbia, SC, USA Rudna, Czech Republic Pune, India ISO 9001 certified. São Paulo, Brazil Bursa, Turkey Our French factory is AS/EN 9100 (Aviation, Space, and Defense sector) certified. Office: Offices: Offices: Mexico Munich, Germany Seoul, South Korea ENVIRONMENT: Barcelona, Spain Melbourne, Australia 6 out of 8 factories are ISO 14001 certified. Birmingham, UK Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia HEALTH & SAFETY: Milan, Italy Singapore Two facilities are OHSAS 45001 certified. Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are universal and every person towards establishing one Corporate Organizational around the world deserves to be treated with dignity. Honesty & Respect, Consistency & Health & Safety Policy. The targets and objectives described in the policy were already widely shared 10 Fairness are some of the corporate values for and applied within the organization. With one written Number of accidents which we stand. policy, our principles and goals are now also clearly with lost days communicated to third parties. (Global) COMMITMENTS ON HUMAN RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION Protection of human rights. AND OUTCOMES All of these actions have helped to create a safety We aim to contribute to the upholding of human rights Health and Safety Initiatives culture leading to the reduction of the number of severe in our sphere of influence: whether our employees Health and safety of our employees and visitors is of accidents from thirteen in 2018 to ten in 2019. or our suppliers and partners. We aim to improve utmost importance to our company. ourselves and work to identify and mitigate potential In 2018, we initiated a global program called Raising Employees’ Awareness around Safety at risks of incidents related to human rights. TEAM (Think safety – Engage others Work and on the Road: Employee Code of Ethics – Act safely Minimize risks) to help Several manufacturing facilities organized a Safety In 2018, we have developed an Employee Code of focus on safety-related actions. Week in 2019. These events focus on safety in the Ethics applicable to all employees worldwide that Throughout this project, we have workplace. Typically, we acknowledge the commitment includes our expectations regarding ethics. This conducted regional and local actions of employees who are trained in first aid, conduct Code is being handed over to all new employees and such as encouraging employees to safety demonstrations, hold short training sessions reiterated to existing employees whenever the occasion make quick observations focused on and workshops on safety-related topics, and promote arises. safety behaviors. general safety behavior and wellness. Anti-Retaliation Policy All entities communicate around accidents, nearIn two countries, we also held Road Safety events. misses and safety rules during their monthly employee L&L Products has a strong and effective open-door In EMEA, Safety Leaders and employees who drive meetings. In our two largest plants, we publish a policy. We are committed to maintaining trust in the most for business purposes attended a day-long “Safety Flash” each month and we defined company the workplace and encourage employees to share training to better understand risks when driving, and rules such as prohibiting texting while walking and concerns. We do not tolerate retaliation against anyone practice safer driving behavior in emergency situations. prohibiting calling while walking in the manufacturing who reports an issue in good faith. In India, 35 employees distributed roses & chocolate and laboratory areas. Moreover, our operations worked Health & Safety Policy to drivers who were respecting traffic rules such as on “Life-Saving Rules” that are applicable to all our wearing seat belts, helmets, respecting traffic signals Zero accidents in the workplace is our first and manufacturing facilities as well as “Factory Rules” that and speed limits. In this way, both the employees and foremost goal. We continuously work to prevent health are based on each plant’s risk assessment. the surrounding communities’ awareness of road safety & safety risks for our employees. In 2019, we worked is raised. 6 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 Promoting Wellness Whistleblowing Procedure FOCUS At L&L Products, we believe that personal wellness is Since its inception in January 2018, our third-party Safety Leader Program. In EMEA, we trained 33 important. Two of our factories organized a wellness reporting platform Speak-Up Line has not received Managers to be Safety Leaders. Safety Leaders event in 2019. In Romeo, about 250 employees any reports. In January 2019, after one year of make rounds every month within the facility and attended the WELLness Fair that gathered 23 vendors implementation, we analyzed the reasons why. conduct safety-focused audits. We believe that a to promote overall wellbeing focusing on physical, According to our analysis, one of the possible reasons Manager put in a different environment than their financial, social, and mental health. L&L Products India was that people were not fully aware of the possibility usual one brings a new eye to a situation and organized a wellness session for its employees run by to report concerns through the Speak-Up Line. We can identify risks that others no longer detect. a local doctor. Many employees attended a session on took several actions, including a reminder twice per Safety Leaders also have targets such as making “Fitness through weight loss management”. year during employee meetings, and creation of easier a minimum of two monthly observations on access to the Speak-Up Line webpage through a In the more general context of its Safety Week in either a risk of accident they detect, or a positive direct link from our intranet. After these actions, we still September 2019, L&L Products in France devoted one mention to value a colleague’s safe behavior. We received no reports through the Speak-Up Line. We day to workshops on auto-massage to encourage need to perpetuate this culture to confirm the link now believe that the main reason is that our employees employees to stay well. between our actions and accident reduction. feel confident enough to report concerns internally: our open-door policy works well, which is, according to us, the best situation we could hope for. There were 4 cases reported this year: all of them related to sexual harassment or bullying and have been reported through Human Resources Department. They were all investigated and closed within a week. We will continue to promote the Speak-Up Line going forward while continuing to nurture a company culture based on trust. #LIVINGOURVALUES 0 33 Report through the Speak Up Line since 2018 employees trained to become Safety Leaders (Global) in 2019 (EMEA) Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 7 LABOUR The dedication of our employees is a key factor to IMPLEMENTATION Awareness on Sexual Harassment our success. We aim to be an employer of choice to AND OUTCOMES in the Workplace attract, develop and retain the best talents. We value In 2019, following two situations of alleged sexual diverse backgrounds and strive to have the right Distribution of Workforce by Region, Gender harassment in 2018, L&L Products took a global person at the right place in our organization. We work and Age (Global) action to raise all employees’ awareness on sexual every day to nurture our strong corporate culture and harassment and bullying in the workplace. This global 1200 live our moto: “to be a good place for all who touch it, action lead by Human Resources Directors in each where quality of work, products and relationships are region took the form of either a presentation during an a priority,” starting with our employees. employee meeting, an online training, or a role-playing employees game conducted by actors. We firmly prohibit sexual harassment and bullying: Respect for our people is one COMMITMENT ON LABOUR of our Corporate Values. In EMEA, this training started L&L Products takes its social responsibility seriously. in December 2019 and will continue in 2020, meaning We fully support the International Labour we have not reached 100% trained employees. All other 15% APAC inc. India Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental regions have trained 100% of their employees. Principles and Rights at Work that describes 51% Americas internationally recognized labour standards. 34% EMEA 29% 71% Women Men 73% employees trained on Sexual Harassment and 19% <30 years 27% 31-40 years 29% 41-50 years 25% >51 years Bullying in the workplace (Global) 8 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 Cultural Diversity Each year, L&L Products organizes a 3-day event L&L Products is a global group that aims, whenever possible, to serve its customers with native speakers around innovation. It is held in a different L&L location each time and is not only dedicated to work and 9.62% who know perfectly their culture. We have numerous meetings but is also a great opportunity for people to Women in Senior cross-cultural teams working together on an everyday better grasp a different cultural environment. We usually Executive positions organize one or two team-building events typical to basis. Meetings are organized everyday with our foreign (Global) counterparts through the web or face-to-face. the local culture such as, this year, walking on fire for all who wanted to try. This year again, more than 12 100 employees from all L&L countries met in India to present posters and innovations within the group. We also took this opportunity to celebrate the opening of Languages our new plant in Pune, India. Everyone left happy having spoken at met with colleagues, discussed work, and strengthened Employee Retention L&L Products their internal network. Although it slightly increased compared to 2018, our (Global) voluntary termination rate remains very low, suggesting Equal Opportunities we have engaged employees and good leadership. In our industry that is traditionally very masculine, we We believe that our workplace culture is key to keeping are proud to have 29% female employees. We do not staff: we aim to support our employees in their actions, practice affirmative action, as we aim to employ the generate an entrepreneurial environment, create friendly As part of the internal exchange program in place right person at the right position within our organization. workrelationships; and when possible offer flexible within the group for many years, France hosted in a Discrimination is firmly prohibited, whether based on hours & working conditions, as well as provide on-thedelegation of 6 Chinese colleagues in January 2019, race, nationality, age, religion, disability, background, job & personal development training. who worked along with their French colleagues whom gender, sexual orientation or any other reason. Our they had met the previous year. Part of the trip was also 3.49% hiring and promotion practices are based on relevant devoted to tourism, including visits of the historical city and objective criteria. Just like the previous year, of Strasbourg, and tasting of local delicacies. we have 5 women at director’s level or equivalent, In 2019, one of our French R&D technicians started a representing close to 10% of these positions. Voluntary 6-month exchange period in Romeo and will be able to termination rate report on her experience in 2020. (Global) Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 9 LABOUR Training Training New Generations No Forced or Child Labour We pay high attention to the development of our L&L Products has always been a large contributor to We fully comply with applicable regulations prohibiting employees: we ensure that they receive training either the training of new generations. We commonly have forced and child labour. We ensure that employees to improve their current skills or to develop new abilities. apprentices and interns who actively participate to come freely to work and are free to leave. Through the This facilitates internal movement, and participates in the our operations in various departments: R&D, Quality, normal hiring process, we check the age of the new motivation of our employees: being able to change job Logistics, Finance, Human Resources, Product recruits to ensure they are of appropriate working age. is one of the factors that enables us to retain our high Development, Industrialization, Legal. performers. Training topics vary: personal development, Opportunities to Express Views management, foreign languages, safety, and other jobrelated trainings. We do our best to create a work environment that encourages our employees to give their opinion and suggest improvements. Our flat hierarchy and the easy access to each and every Manager up to the 39% 49 CEO of the company helps create an open-minded corporate culture. Social dialogue takes various forms People trained Number of depending on the country: in France, there are regular by a qualified apprentices formal negotiations; in the USA, we organize focus groups gathering both newly hired and more senior external and trainees 12 APAC inc. India employees; and in China, a satisfaction survey is sent to training agency (Global) all employees each year. In smaller entities, it is easier 18 Americas (Global) to witness employee satisfaction. 19 EMEA 10 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION We want to do business ethically and Gift & Invitation Policy Conflict of Interest Training transparently. We prohibit corruption In 2018, we also drafted our Corporate Gift & During our Anticorruption & Antitrust training in 2018, and anti-competitive practices. Invitation Policy describing what we consider several colleagues raised questions concerning the an acceptable gift or invitation. It applies to all definition of conflicts of interest. Therefore, in 2019, employees with various thresholds of authorization we chose to conduct training on Conflicts of Interest. COMMITMENTS ON depending on the country where the gift or invitation We discussed many forms: gift & entertainment ANTI-CORRUPTION is given. Since it was published, we are focused situations, activities outside work, financial & business Employee Code of Ethics on consolidating its application by referring to it interests, and personal relationships. We targeted a Our Employee Code of Ethics was first drafted in when appropriate during training and ensure it large audience and trained 375 employees: sales & 2018 and includes a chapter on anti-corruption and is given to new employees for application. purchasing teams, project managers, R&D engineers, anti-trust behavior. We translated the Code into managers & other decision makers. We took this opportunity to again review our Employee Code of the main languages spoken at L&L Products and IMPLEMENTATION Ethics, Gift & Invitation Policy and the channels to report communicated the code to all employees. Now, we AND OUTCOMES concerns. ensure it is communicated to all new employees to maintain a culture of ethical business practices. Anticorruption & Antitrust Training In 2019, we continued to train our new employees on anti-corruption and antitrust issues. We organized our first training session in 2018, and make sure that new recruits also attend the training if their position requires: key account managers, buyers, 97% managers and employees who make decisions on of targeted employees hiring subcontractors. All Managers are also trained took training on conflict of to create and maintain a culture of transparency and interest (Global) ethical business conduct. Trainings were initially done face-to-face to ensure a good understanding of the background and context of the training. Now, training is given face-to-face or online, enabling us to reach even remote colleagues. Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 11 ENVIRONMENT L&L Products is conscious of the effect of its IMPLEMENTATION Our operations use closed-loop coolant systems when activities on the environment. We aim to reduce our AND OUTCOMES water is needed in the process. The largest remaining environmental footprint at all levels and have an quantities of water we use relates to the kitchen and ambitious ZERO waste target helping everyone in the Working towards Reducing our Energy sanitation. In line with our ISO 14001 certifications, we organization to focus on practical actions. Consumption closely monitor our processes to reduce consumption In 2019, we put efforts in several regions to reduce where possible. our energy consumption. In December 2019, our ENVIRONMENTAL Indian plant installed a high capacity air compressor Prevention of Pollution COMMITMENTS unit to replace a multitude of small portable units that lacked efficiency. The estimated energy saved We are in the early stages of monitoring our GHG We are committed to contributing to a better environment is 396 kWh per year. We also conducted several emissions: our US and Brazilian plants started tracking and consider our responsibility in the entire chain: from the studies to reduce energy consumption. Decisions energy usage through utility invoices. At group level, conception of our products, to the packaging we design, regarding these shall be made in 2020. we also encourage our employees to limit the CO2 to the transportation loops that are needed to convey our In France, 2019 was devoted to measuring the emissions resulting from their daily commute by offering products: we target to optimize the entire chain to reduce impact of the 3-year plan we adopted in 2017 and a shuttle service in China, a car-pooling system in our impact on the environment. confirmed that the actions taken in 2018 resulted India and a new mobile and web-based car-pooling in a monthly average decrease of 37 MWh of gas application in France. Environmental Policy and an increase of 9 MWh of electricity due to To prevent spills and accidental pollution, we have strict In 2019, all our entities reached an agreement on an replacement of a gas heater with a heat-pump for rules and emergency plans. We also monitor the quality Environmental Policy applicable worldwide. We wanted the warehouse. In France, we also continue to install of air in our plants and, where necessary, have dust to ensure that written targets were the same everywhere LEDs when a change of lightbulb is needed. collectors. We continuously optimize the flows of trucks around the world. The content of the policy was already to limit the CO2 emissions. widely shared and executed within the organization, but In the USA, the latest injection molding machines that putting it in writing was a further step to convey our focus ZERO we acquired use 40-60% less energy than conventional areas. We remain committed to continuous improvement, hydraulic machines. We are also evaluating the regulatory compliance, and prevention of pollution opportunity to install energy efficient lighting (such as related to our activity. We concentrate on minimizing our LED). Lastly, we replaced a water chiller system which Environmental environmental impact by working to lower our energy consumption, and using less resources and materials. was accounting for 10% of the entire facility’s energy incidents usage by a more energy-efficient unit. (Global) 12 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 Returnable Packaging We want to create a ZERO waste culture throughout FOCUS Most of the parts we manufacture are directed to the the company including in the office. For example, Green Gardening. A few years ago, our Indian automotive industry and is organized to use returnable we removed individual trash cans in France (since colleagues asked if they could use a bit of unused packaging as much as possible using metal bins and 2016) and Romeo (2019). This forces employees land to grow vegetables for them and their families. long-lasting plastic returnable packaging. We try to to sort their waste and think twice before they Of course, L&L Products accepted and even avoid single-use packaging. generate waste. Several plants have replaced their provided for a larger space devoted to this when single-use plastic glasses with washable solid Most non-reusable cardboard and plastic packaging building the new plant in 2019. Now, our Indian mugs and placed water fountains to encourage are sorted for recycling. We are also in discussions to team also contributes to the ZERO WASTE target drinking from tap rather than from plastic bottles. partner with other companies for repurposing scrap by making manure from food waste and using it for Many mugs and reusable bottles have also been fiber material (in South Carolina), to re-use material the vegetable garden. Workers and their families are distributed to all employees in recent years. internally where possible (Romeo), or recycle when we all happy to grow and eat their own vegetables. have not yet found any other solution. We continuously work towards better management of our waste. Safety Data Sheet For each product we develop, an appropriate Safety ZERO Waste target Data Sheet is sent to our customers, so they are made aware of the chemical and physical properties of our We have set ourselves an ambitious ZERO WASTE products. All products are appropriately labelled. In target and continuously work to achieve this goal. 2019, we hired a new Global Regulatory Affairs person We reuse our material and constantly optimize to manage this process and ensure that we comply with our processes to avoid production of waste. relevant applicable local regulations in all the countries where we operate. 1.8% Waste to landfill down from 2.19% in 2018 (Global) Total weight of waste to landfill over total weight of parts produced #LIVINGOURVALUES Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 13 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Our supply chain is essential to ensuring our IMPLEMENTATION Self-Assessment Questionnaire compliance with sustainability standards. AND OUTCOMES 2019 saw our first efforts in evaluating the Corporate Working with our suppliers on sustainability Social Responsibility (CSR) performance of our is one way to limit our exposure to operational Supplier Code of Conduct targeted suppliers. We explained our approach to and reputational risk. In the automotive and We expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable our suppliers through email; or face-to-face in China aerospace industries, disruption of the supply laws, regulations, international expectations, and & France, where a Supplier Day was organized. We chain is difficult to overcome, and it is in industry standards; and communicate our requirements sent out self-assessment questionnaires and received everyone’s interests to ensure our suppliers have through our Supplier Code of Conduct. answers from most of the suppliers. We did the solid ethical foundations. Their continuing and We issued our Supplier Code of Conduct in late 2018 / evaluation ourselves unless the suppliers were able stable operation translates into solid and fruitful early 2019 to our 114 targeted suppliers. Eighty-seven to provide us evidence that they had a valid thirdpartnerships, trust, and growth for one another. percent of these suppliers acknowledged receiving party evaluation (Ecovadis, NQC or other third party it. We also mention this Code in our General Terms & specialized in CSR evaluation of companies). Conditions of purchase to ensure enforceability. There are 3 rating categories: COMMITMENTS a GREEN rating shows engagement and ON RESPONSIBLE a structured approach to corporate social PROCUREMENT responsibility: these suppliers meet L&L Products’ Considering Sustainability as part of our sustainability requirements; Purchasing Strategy a YELLOW rating shows that there is some level of In 2019, we drafted a Sustainable Purchasing Policy engagement with a sustainability approach in some as the company’s statement on its expectations regarding our suppliers’ corporate social responsibility performance. Sustainability is becoming a selection 83% areas: these suppliers present a medium risk for L&L Products; of targeted a RED rating shows that the supplier was unable criteria when we consider new suppliers for our panel. to provide written evidence of its sustainability suppliers We envision long-term relationships with our partners approach and therefore presents a higher risk to L&L and want to make sure that our suppliers also consider evaluated on their Products. their own sustainability. Sustainability Performance The RED rating is often due to a lack of evidence provided to support the supplier’s answers and (Global) should therefore not be taken as a true reflection of reality: many suppliers comply with a significant part of Corporate Social Responsibility standards 14 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 but lack documentation. L&L Products can only be Limited On-site CSR-related Audits understanding of this, as we were in the same situation We have not started systematic on-site CSR audits. a few years ago where we were essentially operating Currently, we consider sustainability-related on-site properly, but were unable to prove it with documents audits to be part of a wider supplier audit. Therefore and KPIs. only 2% of our suppliers were subject to an on-site We needed to contact most of our suppliers several CSR-related audit in 2019. These audits require more times to receive evidence of their responses. We found time than self-assessment questionnaires and we that smaller companies are not used to being evaluated wanted to first get a clear view of our supply-chain’s on their CSR performance, and we had to take more sustainability performance. time to explain our request. We also saw that suppliers based in EMEA usually have a more advanced Next Steps sensitivity to these topics and use sustainability as a positive marketing tool. As the self-assessment Based on the results of the questionnaires, we define questionnaire evaluates new areas of performance, action plans with suppliers that obtained a red rating. suppliers must be accompanied by their customers & If no effort is being made by these suppliers, L&L industries to be more organized and structured in their Products reserves the right to exclude them from its approach. supplier panel, or to terminate existing relationships. Suppliers rated YELLOW or RED will be reevaluated each year whereas suppliers evaluated as GREEN Supply Chain CSR Performance (Global) will only be evaluated every three years to reflect our belief that a supplier with good Corporate Social Responsibility performance is unlikely to drop its rating. We will pursue our collaborative effort in 2020, and RED GREEN work alongside our suppliers to determine action plans 29% 18% to improve their rating, focusing on RED and YELLOW ratings. ON-GOING YELLOW 16% 37% Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019 15 SOCIAL COMMITMENT We are thankful to our host communities. Being Our Turkish team helped fix a school: they painted and Fund-raising run for NGO Action Against Hunger “good citizens in our communities” is one of fixed various benches and sports areas and even did Since 2017, a group of French employees has run, Images: flaticon.com / freepik.com / shutterstock.com our Corporate Values. Several actions show our some tiling work to repair the stairway. walked, and played football to raise funds for NGO appreciation through monetary donations and the In the USA, our American colleagues organize events Action Against Hunger. In 2019, 25 colleagues from all hard work of our colleagues. While doing a good with Samaritan House throughout the year to raise departments took part in this event, raising 4,860 Euros deed, our employees get to better know colleagues money to purchase Christmas gifts for families. Our donated by L&L Products to the NGO. they would not necessarily otherwise work with. Romeo plant made grants available to local school It is a win-win situation. districts to support STEAM (Science, Technology, the Blood Donation Arts and Mathematics). Blood donations save lives, but remain scarce IMPLEMENTATION In India, 59 employees visited three villages about all around the world. Giving blood is essential AND OUTCOMES 200km away from our plant that were hit by floods for many injured patients or people confronting in August 2019, and donated 119 kits that included Donation and Hard work to Support Needy Young various difficulties including illnesses, blood groceries, cleaning products and sanitary pads People in our Communities disorders, and cancer. In most of our facilities, amounting to $2,381 donated by L&L employees. we have organized at least one event this year to Children are the future, so we focus many actions towards encourage our employees to donate blood. Many younger generations. Helping Make our Communities employees around the world have donated. Our Chinese team was involved in the building of a reading Good Places to Live room in a primary school for left-behind children in Anhui Province. Our colleagues did some painting, and mounted Our employees and visitors all benefit from coming to These are only some of the actions we took L&L Products – Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 tables and chairs. We also donated books, furniture, and find factories in nice surroundings, therefore some of in 2019 to support our communities. stationery to help improve the reading & writing skills of our actions are focused on making our communities students in poor areas, and provide educational resources more attractive. for local teachers. After the work was complete, some of For the second year in a row, 69 American colleagues, 161 the students gifted us paintings as thanks. We hung the including our US Regional President, actively paintings in the canteen area for auction, and the money participated to the beautification of the Detroit area raised is will be donated to other charities or used for by lending a hand to the non-profit organization Life another library project in 2020. Remodeled. Like last year, L&L Products also gave Blood donations In France, we donated clothing items to a children’s home monetary support to this activity. (Global) offering accommodation and educational support for In India, in honor of Mohandas Gandhi’s dream for a minors without homes, and will continue the partnership “clean India”, 40 Indian colleagues helped to clean with this non-profit organization in 2020 by helping repaint the Nighoje – Nanekarwadi Road nearby the plant for their facility. Gandhi Jayanti. 16 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2019
