Sida 1 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2020,docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 2020 Idnet is an IT company that creates efficient logistics for retail stores and warehouses. Our goal is to provide clients with modern and future-proof logistics solutions using improved work practices, with increased profitability and better ergonomics as a result. Idnet deliver WMS solutions and/or integration with existing warehouse / business/ and store data systems that allow the customer to maximize system utilization to significantly increase efficiency and quality. Customers consist largely of the leading Swedish chain stores as well as e-commerce, 3pl and production companies. Idnet currently has 65 employees, with headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden and local offices in Stockholm and Växjö. 2020 is a year dominated by Covid 19. Idnets focus, from a workplace and health perspective, has been to keep employees healthy and to help customers find new and better ways to keep their employees and customers stay healthy as well. This has resulted in several activities during the year; some of the more extensive being:  Improved conditions for working from home  Guidelines, connected to Covid-19, to follow while being in the office.  The leadership program focusing on corporate culture, work environment and collaboration, is expanded to also include leadership of distance working.  Idnet has conducted risk analysis of our processes from a workplace and health perspective connected to Covid-19 and taken actions.  Idnet has delivered customer solutions helping them help their employees and customers keeping distance.  Idnet has taken the first steps for climate compensating customer projects  Idnet has conducted external audits according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Idnet has continued sponsorship of several CSR projects. For the seventh year in a row, Idnet sponsor Team Rynkeby (The Swedish childhood cancer fund). Idnet also sponsor Jontefonden, (a foundation for children and young people who are waiting for, or has performed, an organ transplant) WWF, Red Cross, Hand-in-hand, SOS Barnbyar, Ung Företagsamhet as well as local football and ice hockey teams. This report describes the steps Idnet has taken in 2020 in our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into corporate strategy, corporate culture and business operations. Gothenburg, October 5, 2020 Magnus Alm CEO, Idnet AB Sida 2 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2020,docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: 1. Human rights The Idnet customer project process includes a work shop regarding the customer´s sustainability polices/code of conduct, which provides further ability to reflect on and ensure human rights in daily processes. The Idnet intranet has been expanded with pages covering the 10 principles according to UN GC and sustainability in general. A policy for Children rights has been adopted. Idnet has improved the audit process for it’s supply chain which include how suppliers ensure human rights in their operations. 2. Labor & Work Environment The work environment committee has worked during the year with risk assements and actions connected to Covid-19 and consequences of working from home. A HR Manager has been recruited to support employees in work environment issues. Idnet supports its employees with financial compensation related to physical training. In addition, we have regular joint out door physical activities that promote health, team building and communication. Idnet has also opened up a portal for employer benefits in which training and health related activities can be booked. Idnet has improved the audit process for it’s supply chain which include how suppliers ensure labor rights and healthy work environment in their operations. 3. Environment New environmental objectives have been determined aiming to reduce unnecessary transportation and traveling. During the year, additional company cars were replaced with hybrids. Today 71% of the company cars are environmentally classified passenger cars/hybrids or full electric, last year the number were 67%. As a result, the Co2 emissions decreased 18% from last year. The activities done for eliminating paper invoices were successful and the proportion of e-invoices is now up to 94%. A new process for climate compensating our projects are under development. Our intranet has been expanded with pages and links to sustainable consumer choices. Idnet has improved the audit process for it’s supply chain which include how suppliers ensure the environment perspective in their operations. 4. Anti-Corruption We have conducted background checks on additional suppliers. Idnet has improved the audit process for it’s supply chain which include how suppliers work to prevent corruption in their operations.
