LWI LiveWell Initiative LIVEWELL INITIATIVE LWI UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP REPORT OCT 15, 2020 – OCT 14, 2021 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF LWI LiveWell Initiative EXECUTIVE OFFICER WE SUPPORT: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 6 • Principle 1 The elimination of discrimination in respect Businesses should support and respect the of employment and occupation. protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights ENVIRONMENT • Principle 2 • Principle 7 Make sure that they are not complicit in Businesses should support a precautionary human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 LABOUR Undertake initiatives to promote greater • Principle 3 environmental responsibility; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Principle 9 association and the effective recognition of Encourage the development and diffusion the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 of environmentally-friendly technologies. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 5 • Principle 10 The effective abolition of child labour Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery . . . promoting wellness . . . Preventing ill health LWI LiveWell Initiative To our Stakeholders: HEALTH IS EVERYONE’S BUSINESS...LEAVE NO ONE BEHIND... To ensure that we Leave No One Behind, we are embracing the Universal Health Coverage UHC2020 Theme, “Health for All: Protect Everyone”. I am pleased to confirm that LiveWell Initiative LWI reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It is the policy of the organisation that there should be no discrimination in considering applications for employment including those from the female gender and disabled persons. All employees are given equal opportunities for self-development. As at 14th October, 2020, -We have engaged in COVID-19 RESILIENCE Programmes, assisting Blighted communities and feeding more than 650 families, with foodstuff, and Provided Sanitizers, Face masks and other protective gear against COVID-19 for these communities. In addition, we have designed STUDY PROTOCOLS FOR COVID-19 RESPONSE IN AFRICA. The Protocols have undergne Hypothesis Testing and awaiting approvals for prophylactic clinical trials. We recently commissioned our TELEHEALTH and TELEMEDICINE Services in response to COVID-19, to cater for Non-Covid cases. In the past year, prior to COVID-19, we trained and Certified over 500 low literacy women including widows, old women and ‘never schooled’ women; as Hepatitis Champions, promoting SDGs 1, 3 and 4. We have expanded the services at our Health Post among low income indigenous populations through self effort (looking for partners to scale), and We have employed more than 70% female workforce at LWI and WIHA jointly. Through self effort, the first ever Womens Wellness Center in Hepatitis (WWC-H), promoting SDGs 3 and 5 and its services have been extended to cover Antenatal, Maternal and Child Health Services, Family Planning and Immunization. In its pursuit of the SDGs 1,3,4,5,6, and 17 the organization has collaborated with government, private sector, educational institutions, developmental partners and communities. . . . promoting wellness www.livewellng.org . . . Preventing ill health LWI LiveWell Initiative In line with SDG17, LWI recently joined the Women’s Healthcare Working Group of the Interrnational Finance Corporation IFC with a commitment to ensure that women are placed at the board level as well as high positions of Authority within the heath system. Our subsidiary Women in Hepatitis Africa WIHA, keeps on giving a strong voice to the Women of Africa (SDG5) in the elimination of viral hepatitis by 2030. The organisation has trained in totality, up to 4,000 African Women Champions in Hepatitis women from 18 African countries including trainings in Cairo Egypt and Port Louis Mauritius , in line with SDGs 1,3,4,5, 6 and 17. We are reaching out and giving a voice to Women of Africa and we are expanding our Health Missions to the Poor and Underserved people. In this annual Communication on Progress, we provide an indepth description of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our Multisectoral Stakeholders and Communities, using our primary channels of communication. We marked the World Humanitarian Day 2020 with a huge Programme where Adults and children alike were assisted ...School bags , books, writing materials for children, and Community Leaders were actively trained in Infection Prevention and Control IPC to avert COVID-19 and BULK SANITIZERS were given to Communities. We are Promoting Handwashing ,Water and Sanitation. As part of our SDG6 Programmes on Personal Hygiene and Handwashing. We Stand by our vow, to continue to support the UN Global Compact and All its Principles in entirety. Thank you. Sincerely, 10/15/2020 Bisi Bright . . . promoting wellness 1st Vice Chairman / CEO, LWI www.livewellng.org . . . preventing ill health LWI LiveWell Initiative Thank You 10/15/2020 www.livewellng.org
