Communication of Progress DATA RESPONS ASA 2020 Content 1. CEO Statement……………………................................................................. 2 2. Human rights ………………………….………………………………………………..….5 3. Labour……………………………........................................................................ 5 4. Environment……………............................................................................... 6 5. Anti-corruption.………................................................................................ 6 2 Data Respons AS – GC COP 2020 CEO Statement Its with great pride that Data Respons reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact. We will continue to conduct our business in line with the ten principles related to human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Taking real responsibility to fight the biggest challenge of our time is an important value at Data Respons. As a responsible business, we address some of the challenges the world is facing related to inequality, climate change, health and poor access to quality education. Making false promises on these commitments would be fatal for our trustworthiness and credibility. As we continue to grow internationally, we aim to build a valuable, strong and international brand. Effective environmental communication will report how our business in technology development impacts nature and humans. That it why Data Respons has signed an international initiative against green washing. We believe that we need to build trust within our audiences by keeping our promises. Which is why we want to take a stand and promise that we will do our outmost to not promote something to be greener than it is. We are also on the path to delivering 100+ sustainable customer projects this year that has a direct impact on the UN SDGs. We have helped windmills produce more energy through better software. We have enabled cars haring and smarter car chargers. In addition to that we have reduced the fuel needed in both trains and trucks, and we have developed first aid technology that saves lives on a regular basis. Data Respons will also publish its second ESG report based on the GRI standard to our stakeholders together with the annual report in March 2021. 3 Data Respons AS – GC COP 2020 2. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons is committed to respecting and promoting human rights of all individuals potentially affected by our operations. We respect the fundamental principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related UN documents. (UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights) Data Respons supports and respects internationally recognised labour rights, including the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining within national laws and regulations. Any violation or discrimination due to gender, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation will not be tolerated. We are opposed to all forms of human trafficking and child labour abuse and shall not employ or contract any forced or compulsory labour. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles • United Nations 10 principles (Data Respons companies, employees and partners must comply) • Data Respons Conflict Mineral Policy Actions taken: Data Respons have created a set of Supplier Conduct Principles in order to ensure safe working conditions throughout Data Respons' supply chain, ensuring that workers are treated with respect and dignity, impartially and fairly, that business operations are environmentally sound, and that business is conducted in accordance with internationally recognised principles and relevant international conventions (including UN global Compact, ILO Conventions, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and UN Conventions on Children’s Rights). Goals for 2021: 1. Ensure that the Data Respons Code of Conduct is available and communicated to all employees 2. Conduct sustainability audits at 3 largest suppliers in Taiwan during 2021 (not conducted in 2020 due to Covid19) 3. Zero serious work-related incidents reported within Data Respons companies 4 Data Respons AS – GC COP 2020 3. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles are based upon internationally accepted and advocated principles for ethical and legally compliant business practices. Data Respons expects that its partners and suppliers will comply with the principles and will actively promote such principles with their own partners and suppliers. Data Respons supports and respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining within national laws and regulations. We are opposed to all forms of human trafficking and child labour abuse and shall not employ or contract any forced or compulsory labour. We comply with the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights. Relevant policies: • Universal labour rights are included in the Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Conflict Mineral Policy Goals for 2021: 1. Ensure that the Data Respons Code of Conduct is available and communicated to all employees 2. Conduct sustainability audits at 3 largest suppliers in Taiwan during 2021 (not conducted in 2020 due to Covid19) 3. Zero serious work-related incidents reported within Data Respons companies 5 Data Respons AS – GC COP 2020 4. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals At Data Respons, we firmly believe that the implementation of new technology is a key enabler for a more sustainable world. Consequently, we have set a target of contributing to a minimum of 100 sustainable technology projects during 2020. Nevertheless, we recognise the environmental and social impact of our business development and have started a journey to become CO2 neutral by 2025. On our road to becoming CO2 neutral Data Respons is currently undertaking a Scope 3 mapping process to find our footprint in order to steer our course in the right direction to reach our goals. We will during 2021implement yearly goals for every daughter company and continue to make the necessary changes in the way we do business. Sustainability through technology As a key player in a large a participating member of the UN Global Compact, the 17 Sustainability Goals guide us in our daily sustainability work and we have increased our commitment to the target of 100+ sustainable customer technology projects in 2020 and 2021, a target we are well on the way to achieve. Each project need to contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles • Data Respons ESG report 2019 Goals for 2021: 1. Continue implementing our sustainability strategy across the group 2. Set up concrete actions plans for every daughter company on how to become CO2 neutral by 2025 3. Conduct a minimum of 100 sustainable technology customer projects across the group 4. Ramping up sustainability dialogues with our customers and suppliers 6 5. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons does not tolerate corruption in the private or the public sector. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations enacted to fight corruption and bribery. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Anti-Corruption certification, ISO37001, has started in the organisation • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles Goals for 2020 1. Continue implementation of the anti-bribery management system ISO37001 within Data Respons companies. 2. Reminding employees about the Code of Conduct and our Whistle blower service in our internal channels 3. Continue integrating the Data Respons Code of Conduct in any relevant on-boarding programs 7 Data Respons AS – GC COP 2020
