Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Table of Contents Crown in Context ........................................................................ 3 Foreword ............................................................................................ 5 2019 Highlights ................................................................................ 6 Crown and the UNGC ............................................................. 7 2019 Progress .................................................................................. 8 2020 Commitments .................................................................... 9 Our Business ..................................................................................... 13 Our People ........................................................................................ 20 Our Planet .......................................................................................... 31 Our Communities ......................................................................... 35 The scope of this 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report covers global operations for the Crown Worldwide Group and highlights our progress for the 2019 calendar year. This report also provides supplemental information about our business. Our most recent past report was Crown’s 2018 CSR Report, available here. To find out more about CSR at Crown or to provide feedback on our reporting, please contact us at: CSR@crownww.com. 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Crown in Context The Crown Worldwide Group companies all share a common quality – the experience and insight to accomplish anything, from the complex to the routine. Offering comprehensive mobility services making domestic and international operations more effective. Supporting individuals, families and employees relocating globally. Delivering complete information, storage and access solutions. Helping organizations achieve sustainable and inspiring workplaces. Providing global fine art storage, handling and logistical services. Specializing in outsourcing luxury goods supply chain management. The ultimate wine storage facility and private members’ club in Asia. 3 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Crown Worldwide Group Crown Fast Facts Worldwide Group | Fast Facts Privately held company Established in 1965 Global/APAC HQ 56 53 Hong Kong Americas HQ New York Languages Countries EMEA HQ London Nationalities Facilities Revenue Employees over 69 276 US$ 668 million 4,000 Value of owned properties US$ 736 million Corporate Warehouse clients over space over 15,000 8.5 million ft2 / 790,000 m2 *Correct as at October 2019 4 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Foreword In 2019 we saw The many charitable initiatives Providing a great customer across the group give us all a great experience is fundamental and many changes in the sense of pride and ensure that we we will ensure our employees are marketplace. We had embed our core value of ‘Caring’. equipped and supported to enable With some 3,000 employees them to deliver this. some business losses, organizing and participating in CSR but we also had good activities benefiting 127 charitable To build a strong foundation for organizations, Crown continues to 2020 and beyond we will continue business wins. We have give. to listen to our employees through done some restructuring, our employee engagement survey, On the environmental front, ensuring that Crown continues reshaping and are looking we again decreased our carbon to be a great place to work at a more sustainable and footprint by using technology as and continues to support our profitable organization. we increased use of ePacking and communities. virtual consultations and continued One of the most prominent events to add fuel-efficient vehicles to our As the United Nations Global of the year was the expansion of fleets. Compact celebrates its 20th our Workspace offering, building on anniversary in 2020, we are the acquisitions that we had made In 2020, our major focus is going proud to be one of the 10,000 in this business. to be the customer experience. companies across the world who Our customers are critical to the are signatories and helping to forge We’re excited to see that business growth and sustainable future of a brighter and more sustainable take off and our knowledge and Crown. future. Especially now, as its never synergy will allow us to expand been more important to work globally. together to tackle key issues as part of the global community. Ken Madrid Chief Executive Officer 5 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Highlights 81% Employees believe 27,265 Training courses completed Crown is a great place to work 31,846 of CO2 and Anti-slavery and 1,910 trees saved with human trafficking a 675% increase in policy released virtual consultations Global gender parity pay review 337 undertaken Charitable activities undertaken Miles rowed across the 3,000 Atlantic by Claire Allinson, Crown Client Relationship Manager 1,500 Items of furniture, IT and electrical 36% equipment donated via our Workspace Giving Back Project reduction in workplace accidents 10% more energy efficient in 360 lives saved in Crown’s 14% increase in ISO27001 electricity global blood drive certifications 6 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Crown and the UNGC As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we conduct all our business in accordance with its ten principles. This report constitutes the UNGC’s annual Communication on Progress (COP). Within it we describe how we integrate its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily Crown has been a signatory of the operations. We also commit to sharing United Nations Global Compact this information with stakeholders. since 2005 UNGC Principle Crown Alignment Human Rights We are committed to supporting the human rights of the people that work for and with us, of those communities we live and work in and of society in general. To ensure this commitment is met, we have a robust set of policies and processes which are continually reviewed to ensure human rights abuses do not occur. Labor It is our policy and duty to comply with all applicable labor laws and ensure we operate fairly in the following areas: Equal opportunities, working conditions, hours and wages, child and forced labor, harassment and bullying, diversity and inclusion, health and safety and freedom of association. Environment We are committed to looking at our operations and finding ways to lessen our negative impact on the environment. Our Environmental Manual and Policy formalizes our commitment. Anti-corruption Operating as a responsible business means strict rules around ethics and compliance. Our Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Conflict of Interest Policies are two of the many policies we have in place which help guide our global operations. 7 2019 Progress Commitment: Commitment: Encourage increased Grow our D&I networks involvement in CSR activities Result: Result: The foundations were laid for the 2% increase in the number of creation of our latest D&I network Crown countries that got involved. which we plan to launch in 2020. Commitment: Commitment: Continue to train and develop Work more closely with our all our employees service partners on CSR issues Result: Result: Crown employees took 27,265 Online service partner CSR training courses in 2019, a 119% increase course created to be launched in 2020. compared with 2018. Commitment: Commitment: Create a strategy to encourage Improve our environmental more of our locations to gain performance ISO certifications Result: Result: Vehicle fuel efficiency: We saw a 14% increase in ISO27001 8.31 km/l (average across all vehicles, certifications. excluding motorcycles). 11% less efficient Electricity: 2.31 KWH/M2; 10% more efficient Water: 2,275 litres per employee. 16% less efficient Office paper: 1.06 reams/per employee; 15.6% more efficient 2020 Commitments In 2019 rather than set targets, we set some key commitments to help steer us in the direction we wanted to go. In 2020 we will continue with this approach and commit to: Encourage more employees to use their 2 annual volunteer days to 2020 Put employee health and wellness front and center of our CSR efforts make a difference in their communities Continue to train and Remain committed to develop our employees so reducing our negative they can reach their full environmental impact potential Launch our new D&I network Introducing Workspace Crown was thrilled to announce the We help our clients achieve the best social, environmental and financial outcomes. Moving towards acquisition of Premier Workplace a more circular office approach to the management and Services in 2018, one of the U.K.’s clearance of these assets. leading workplace change service Our comprehensive range of sustainable workplace providers. Now rebranded as Crown solutions are designed around the waste hierarchy. Our services positively contribute to environmental Workspace, our newest brand accreditations such as BREEAM (Building Research specializes in commercial relocations, Establishment Environmental Assessment Method), LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), interiors, storage, specialist IT services, and Ska. and sustainable clearances. Direct reuse internally Audits of existing furniture, PREVENTION better internal management, storage and stock control Direct reuse externally MINIMIZATION Resale of furniture and IT equipment, charity and school donations Preparation for reuse Furniture manufacturing REUSE and refurbishment, furniture cleaning and repair Recycling and re-processing RECYCLING Onsite segregation of valuable recyclables, network of local recycling facilities for mixed Energy creation RECOVERY recyclables Waste to energy for non recyclables 10 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Our award-winning remanufacturing hub, the Renew Centre We provide award-winning innovation with our Renew Centre, which is the U.K.’s leading independent, commercial facility dedicated to remanufacturing, refurbishing and repairing office furniture. In April 2016, Premier Workspace Services won a Queen’s Award for Enterprise, the U.K.’s highest accolade for business success. The award is in recognition of the sustainable office furniture services delivered by us and particularly for our remanufacturing hub, the Renew Centre. 11 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Giving “ The number of young people in London made homeless has doubled Back Project in just two years. That’s why City YMCA are on a mission to support more of London’s most at-risk young The Giving Back Project, which we run people by increasing the number as part of our sustainable clearance of bed spaces available. This onceservice, makes it easy for our clients to loved furniture, reused from clients donate their unwanted furniture, IT and that the team has moved will help electrical equipment to local charities, give hope and a future to homeless schools and social enterprises. On young people. ” completion of projects, we provide our clients with a Certificate of Giving. Chris East Appeal Director, City YMCA London 30 tons of waste 100+ charity partners diverted from landfill benefited since 2011 20,000 items donated 104 tonnes CO2(e) saved since 2011 in 2018/19 12 Crown Business Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Governance, Compliance and Ethics Crown is committed to conducting business in an ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption in all countries where we operate. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy give direction to employees to be able to recognize all corrupt behavior. This policy, along with our Code of Conduct and Binding Corporate Rules, underlie how we do business. Code of Conduct Ethics Training One of Crown’s essential objectives is our conviction In 2018, we made the completion of compliance to uphold ethical standards in all our corporate e-learning courses an annual mandatory process to activities. These standards apply to all of Crown’s ensure our employees remain up to date with all activities in every market that it serves. All employees aspects of our ethics and compliance policies. The four are trained on the Code and are asked annually to courses cover bribery, data privacy, data protection acknowledge this. and information security. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Ethics and Compliance Hotline Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy applies to all We encourage employees to raise concerns about any Crown employees and any other person doing work suspicion of improper actions within the Group. Any for us, or any of our subsidiaries or their employees, incidents or suspicious activity can be anonymously wherever they’re located. Training on this forms part reported on our independently hosted Ethics and of the induction process for all new employees. All Compliance hotline. The hotline has been in operation employees receive regular, relevant training on how to since 2017 and throughout 2018 and 2019 we saw implement and adhere to this policy. an increase in the number of incidents reported. This highlights the effectiveness of our processes, giving employees and customers confidence that our ethics will not be compromised. Dismissals related Misconduct reports Conflict of interest Fraud to misconduct 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 9 20 31 1 1 2 2 13 3 1 0 0 14 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Modern Slavery Modern slavery can occur in various Crown operates to a set of values that reflect how we behave. In 2019, Crown published its Anti-Slavery forms, including servitude, forced or and Human Trafficking Policy. As a company we have compulsory labor and human trafficking a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery. We are committed to opposing modern slavery in all its – all of which deprive a person’s liberty forms and preventing it by whatever means we can. and exploit them for personal or We demand this of all who work for us and expect it of all we have business dealings with. We are also commercial gain. In 2015, the Modern committed to implementing and enforcing effective Slavery Act was enacted in the UK. systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own businesses or those Under the Act, modern slavery is a of our suppliers. criminal offence. It gives law enforcers the tools to fight modern slavery, All employees have an obligation to familiarize themselves with our procedures to help in the enhance support and protection for identification and prevention of modern slavery victims and ensure perpetrators receive and to conduct business in a manner such that the opportunity for and incidence of modern slavery appropriate punishments. is prevented. Adherence to this policy forms part of all employees’ obligations under their contract of employment and within our employee Code of Conduct. Employees are also encouraged to undertake the Company’s Modern-Day Slavery e-learning course, which will be made mandatory in 2020. 15 Commitment on Land and Land Rights Crown is committed to developing its business in a 4. Crown will promote and implement operational way that complies with national laws and respects practices to manage and ensure that land human rights. The following principles govern acquisition is legal and will have no adverse Crown’s land acquisition policy: impact on local communities’ livelihoods. 5. Crown will follow all applicable national laws 1. Crown abides by the United Nations Permanent and respect international human rights standards Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII). relating to the rights to land and natural 2. Crown recognizes and respects the land rights of resources. families and communities equally for women and 6. Crown will always seek free, prior, and informed men. consent regarding the land rights of indigenous 3. Crown is opposed to any form of land peoples. acquisition that is illegal or has an adverse impact 7. Crown ensures zero tolerance for land grabs. on local communities’ livelihoods. 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Information Security Information that we manage must be Information security training appropriately protected against breaches Our Information Security Awareness e-Learning course is mandatory and must be completed by all of confidentiality, failures of integrity, employees annually for continued access to systems interruptions to availability and nonand resources. Our employees are also required to compliance with legal, statutory or familiarise themselves with our Data Classification Policy and Ransomware and Cybercrime courses. regulatory requirements. We’ve established an information security management Data privacy and protection system to support the maintenance of We take the protection of our customers’ and policies, processes and systems to manage employees’ right to privacy seriously. Our Binding Corporate Rules, practices and other policies are there risks to our information assets and ensure to safeguard personal information and reinforce robust acceptable levels of information security. procedures that guide employees. Cyber security As well as ensuring we are GDPR compliant, we also operate email encryption and Azure Information Protection. Crown U.K. and Ireland are Cyber Essentials Plus certified demonstrating our commitment to cyber security. In 2019, to further bolster cyber security, we updated our phishing reporting method, enabling employees to quickly report an attack. E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield Program certified We are E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield Program certified meaning our U.S. and European locations comply with data protection requirements when transferring personal data from the European Union and the United States. ISO27001 Certification ISO27001 is the international standard which provides direction for an organization to manage their information security in line with international best practice. 32 Crown locations are now certified. In 2019, our offices in Mumbai and Chennai were the latest to achieve certification. 17 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Work Environment Crown maintains a safe and healthy working environment in all locations that it operates from: for our staff, our customers, members of the public and any other third party that we interact with. We have robust policies, processes and a reporting tool in place that allow us to train, guide and support our employees. Health and Safety continue to provide our employees with the relevant Reporting and recording workplace incidents are training and ensure they familiarize themselves with critical. It not only allows us to monitor the number our health and safety policy and processes, so they are and extent of all incidents but also allows us to assess better able to safeguard themselves. workplace risks and develop appropriate solutions. All incidents are recorded in our global accident Training reporting tool. Recorded incidents fell by 36% in 2019 Our employees have access, via our iLearn platform, as too did the days lost due to accidents and injury. to a wide range of health and safety courses and Manual handling was again the primary cause with the programs. majority happening in our warehouses. We will 2018 2019 Recorded accidents 47 30 Days lost due to 181 65 accident and injury at work • 82% of events involved males • 90% of events involved males • 34% happened within our warehouses • 10% happened within our warehouses • 47% related to manual handling • 43% related to manual handling 29 certified sites 18 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Service Partners As we reshape our service model, the We expect the same high standards from all our contractors, suppliers and other business partners with role of our service partners across regards to our business commitments to governance, the world increases. The supplier compliance and ethics. This includes tackling modern slavery throughout the supply chain, consistent with management team is focusing on legal obligations. Therefore, our service partners go better compliance with our partners through an extensive due diligence process and are asked to acknowledge and sign our Service Partner and extending the number of quality Code of Conduct. partners to meet our growing needs. In 2019, we created an e-Learning CSR course for our The role they play and the way we service partners. The course provides an overview of manage our partners is a critical part of Crown’s CSR policies and processes. This course will our future growth. be rolled out in 2020. “ We have a set of business values that are founded upon honesty and integrity in all our business dealings. It is important to us that our service partners share our commitment to treat everyone in a manner that creates a favorable and lasting perception of the Crown Worldwide Group. Their conduct is our reputation. Which is why we expect our service partners to conduct business in a legally compliant, ethical and courteous manner. ” Stuart Lawson Global Alliance Manager 19 Crown People 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Supporting our People Our people are our biggest asset. To succeed as a business, we need to ensure that all our employees are heard, supported and developed. Only by working together and leveraging the expertise, diversity and creativeness of our employees will we be able to provide an exceptional experience to our customers and clients. In 2019, we continued our commitment to ensuring Crown is a rewarding, fulfilling workplace where our current employees are supported, and our future employees would want to work. 2019 saw many people-focused initiatives launch and Employee Engagement flourish, including: Crucial to Crown’s development is hearing our employees’ opinions and then using their feedback • Increased HR and talent management resources to drive change. As well as our annual employee • Re-developed our leadership development program engagement survey, we have also been sending • Re-designed our employee onboarding process short “pulse” surveys to gauge opinion on specific issues. One such survey focused on collaboration • Drove promotion of internal career opportunities and communication. We listened to our employees • Enabled our employees to access their employee and have seen regular “town hall” meetings being held records and learn on the go with our mobile app across our offices, where company updates and local news is shared. Learning and Development We are committed to the development of our Employee Recognition employees. In 2019, we increased the number of Launched in 2015, our employee recognition program courses available and launched our e-Learning tool – celebrates individual and team efforts globally. More iLearn – as a mobile app, making learning on the go than 1,500 nominations were received in 2019. Each of easier. our five global winners showed value-driven behavior worthy of recognition across the Group and aligned to one of our company values: Determined, Caring, 34,124 There, Open minded and Sharing. Each will be given the opportunity to travel to a Crown location of their choice. training hours 27,265 e-learning courses completed 21 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Employee Engagement Survey Our annual employee engagement survey provides us with an insight into employee opinion across our organization. In 2019, 79% of our global workforce completed this, a slight increase of 1% from the previous year. Making a Difference Reward and Recognition 77% of our employees are telling us that both they While 55% of our employees believe that extra effort and Crown are making a difference, that their opinions is rewarded, promotion opportunities are available count and that their work directly contributes to for those who are successful, and that Crown offers Crown’s success. competitive benefits, our score in this area could be improved. Investment in Me 72% of our employees believe that Crown is investing Overall, our scores reflect an engaged and happy in them, providing the right tools and training to workforce and we will continue to build on our enable them to do their jobs well, discussing career successes and focus on those areas that need more progression and regularly reviewing their performance work. and helping to develop their skills. Other key 2019 survey highlights 79% 81% 85% response rate believe Crown enjoy a good is a great place and safe working to work environment 86% 85% aware of Crown’s believe prejudice, values and try to build harassment and bullying them into everything are not tolerated at they do Crown 22 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Crown’s Next Generation Each year we enhance our development and training program, ensuring all employees are provided with learning and development opportunities throughout the year. We’re also passionate about giving young adults a chance to learn more about our business and have apprenticeship and intern programs in Hong Kong, Brazil and London. Apprenticeships at Crown London Building on the success of our apprenticeship scheme in 2018, Crown U.K. recruited three more apprentices in 2019 via our Crown Aspire Program. We asked three of them to tell us more about their apprenticeships: Kaan Lucy Emily Why did you It was a wonderful I have noticed Crown vans I found a love for business choose the opportunity to gain nearly all my life as I live at college and believe this apprenticeship experience in many near one of the offices. apprenticeship will give scheme? different fields and I was really intrigued to me the chance to continue expand my knowledge of see how they operate and in a professional working a professional working what they do. environment. environment. Kaan Lucy Emily Where is your For my first placement I’m I’m currently based in Working as part of the placement? working at Crown Fine Ruislip working in the EMEA Marketing team Art in Stockwell. Relocations team. based in Enfield. Kaan Lucy Emily What are you Everything! The people, Working with the people I am currently enjoying enjoying most? the work, the atmosphere, in Relocations. All of the writing my own content it’s all great. individual teams in the which goes onto Crown’s office are so welcoming websites. I like seeing and friendly. something I wrote published and sharing with others! 23 Supporting Trainee Partnerships As well as our Aspire Apprenticeship Program in the U.K., Crown Fine Art U.K. is proud to support the Royal Armories with their Registrars’ Training for the Future programs. The program has many benefits for trainees, who leave with a great experience and knowledge of the organizations involved and their collections. Since launching in 2010, all former apprentices on the program have continued to work in the museum and cultural sector, including at prestigious organizations such as National Galleries Scotland, the V&A, National Gallery and the Tate. We have passion for apprenticeships and have had several trainees join our team through our wider apprenticeship scheme over the past two years. We are looking forward to supporting people with their career progression and helping them gain valuable practical experience and expertise in their field of interest. 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Health and Wellbeing The health and wellbeing of our employees is important to us. Healthy employees mean a healthy company. We have robust policies in place covering all aspects of health, wellbeing and safety at work and all locations deliver and promote individual health and wellbeing initiatives, for example, yoga classes, after-work hikes, fruit bowls, and onsite massages to name a few. In 2019, we held a health and wellness month across all our regions focusing on mental and physical health, work-life balance and eating well. We encouraged employees to think about their health and organize activities. Offices organized yoga sessions, smoothie bars, health MOTs, healthy lunches, massages, mental health talks and breathing classes. 25 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Promoting Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to making Crown a best place to work and do business. Published our D&I Policy; Our workforce has to reflect our 2016 launched our women’s network clients and customers. Workforce diversity allows us to innovate and succeed; inclusivity allows our employees to grow regardless of their differences. That’s why our focus has Launched our LGBTQ been on laying solid D&I foundations. 2017 network, D&I lanyards and pins distributed Although still early on in our journey, we are proud of the progress we’ve made. D&I steering group formed; Gender equality remains one of our key focus areas. While our gender split remains the same as 2018, with females accounting for 40% of our global workforce, 2018 D&I strategy released; U.K. gender pay gap report published we saw a 3% increase in women in management positions. In 2018, as required by UK law, we produced our first gender pay gap report and in 2019, furthering our D&I eLearning courses commitment to equality, we conducted a global pay made mandatory; D&I goals parity review. 2019 incorporated into HR system; created D&I signature; Our employees are our main asset and only by global pay parity review advancing our commitment to D&I will we be able to attract, retain and develop talent. Which is why in 2019, two members of our board became executive sponsors of D&I. By promoting, supporting and being advocates for change, D&I can be truly ingrained into our DNA and across our brands 26 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Region AMER APAC 45% 55% 37% 63% 43% EMEA 57% Type Gender Senior Leadership 24% 76% 40% Women in Management Positions 60% 43% 57% Female Male * Senior Management is defined as Director and above Top 10 Nationalities Tenure British Filipino Indian Singaporean 22% 19% Tenure <1 year Chinese American 1-5 years 6-10 years Hong Kong Chinese Vietnamese 19% >10 40% Malaysian Indonesian Generation Baby Gen Traditionalists Gen X Gen Y Boomers Z 0.2% 25.8% 57.3% 12.2% 4.5% 27 Pay Parity We looked at all of our employees, career level, job function, generation, new hires and average annual base salaries and bonuses. We found: Review Roles Women dominate Human Resources, Customer Services and Finance functions, whilst men Operations, IT and Sales. In 2018, as required under new U.K. legislation, Crown U.K. reported its Geography gender pay gap data to the Gender Pay There are slight differences to what male and female employees are paid dependent upon region with the Gap Service. In 2019, we decided to go pay gap being more obvious in APAC, less so in EMEA beyond legal requirements and carried and the opposite in AMER. out a global pay parity review to assess Generations workplace composition, determine In most generations, women are paid higher than men. However this flips when the operations function, which potential gender inequality and pay gap attracts a lesser salary than office-based functions and conditions and to raise awareness of is male dominated, is excluded. gender equality. Job Bands There are more men at senior leadership level and junior entry level where manual labor positions constituted the majority. Pay The difference in what women and men are paid is minimal across all regions. These findings will guide the development of related policies assuring training and promotion opportunities to men and women equally, and the facilitation of women taking up senior management positions. 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Diversity and Inclusion Research No matter the industry, Diversity 68% said they have a D&I strategy in place. & Inclusion (D&I) is central to the conversation – whether it’s innovation, 47% said attracting and retaining talent was the main reason for having a D&I strategy, organizational agility or the importance whilst 27% said because it’s the right thing to do. of attracting, engaging and retaining talent. D&I has become a differentiator 100% of companies said that gender is their top and a necessity in business. D&I priority. 66% said gender was the most visible D&I priority In 2019, we conducted research to in their organisation, with 26% saying LGBTQ. better understand how D&I was D&I strategies are now the norm for most companies reflected in our clients’ organizations. and are recognized as business critical in every industry. We surveyed 100 global mobility and Companies that are open to employees’ differences are often also open to new ways of working, new ideas and HR professionals across a wide range change. of industries and regions. Crown has undertaken several studies on diversity and inclusion including “Increasing the number of female assignees”, “Unconscious bias towards female assignees”, “Supporting millennials” and “Are you ready for Gen Z”. Geographies Experiences Other Multi-generational workforce Gender Military veterans Religion Culture Disabilities LGBTQ Race Ethnicity 29 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Celebrating Success Crown Brazil Leads the Way in Giving Back We spoke with Rui Ferreira, winner of the Giving Back Award in our Crown Worldwise Employee Recognition Awards about his win: 1. How long have you worked with Crown? I started in 2018 as an Intern and was made permanent in 2019 as a Mobility Advisor. 2. What inspires you to organize and get involved in CSR activities? I believe CSR is essential to making a business sustainable. It’s logical – it’s impossible to work if the environment is damaged and people are disadvantaged, because there will be nothing left in the long run. Everyone should do what they can to make the world a better place, starting in our workplace and community. 3. What has been your favorite CSR activity of 2019 and why? Human Rights Day in December. The Sao Paulo office decided to donate school materials to children in foster care. Seeing the happy faces of children, we realized that everything we do matters. We can make a difference through simple actions. We were there for the kids, caring about their future, sharing our time and love with them and were determined to come back. 4. What does winning this award mean to you? Everyone in the office was rooting for me because they not only recognized my efforts in making CSR happen, but they also saw themselves as part of this great project, which I was representing. So, I can say that the Giving Back Award, in reality, goes to Crown Sao Paulo. 5. And finally, which Crown location will you be visiting as part of your award? I want to go to Hong Kong. I’ve been studying Mandarin and Japanese; and I want to get to know all Crown brands and operations. There’s no better place for that than the global headquarters. I’d also like to meet Jim Thompson, our founder, in person, since he’s my main inspiration to continue doing great work at Crown. 30 Crown Planet Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Global Technology Technology continues to change the way we work, increasing our productivity, enabling efficiencies and decreasing our negative impact on the environment. Virtual Consultations Crown Records Management – moving the In 2016, we launched virtual relocation consultations world towards green invoicing and have been integrating this technology into many The growing pace of technology and an increased of our locations. Since 2016, virtual consultations have passion for environmental issues are now combining increased by 675%, not only removing travel time and to accelerate changes in how companies do business. geographic restrictions but also reducing our negative impact on the environment. Crown introduced electronic invoicing 15 years ago. Currently, 60% of our Records Management clients receive electronic invoices. Of those, 75% also ask for a hard copy. We’re trying to remove that hard 31,846t 1,910 copy altogether and we need to be able to outline of CO2 saved tress saved the reasons and benefits clearly. From an environmental perspective, we are using less (*carbon emission savings calculation is based on 100 virtual energy, are no longer sending physical items around consultations saving 2t of CO2, equating to 12 trees) the world or using toxic inks and, although saving paper does not necessarily equate to saving trees, there are still significant benefits in using less paper. e-Packing From a business perspective, information is cheaper Our e-Packing app, introduced in 2018, uses barcodes and quicker to produce, easier to access, easier to and photos to capture digital inventories of our share and makes the resolution of any queries more customer’s belongings. These give our customers peace efficient. of mind whilst reducing paper usage. Previously printed inventories used 15 sheets of paper per move; Being a global company, we see big differences ePacking has reduced this to 4 sheets, a saving of 11 across the world in how businesses invoice and sheets per move. the level of comfort with new technology. There are still countries where it’s currently not possible to offer only electronic invoicing. However, it’s a diminishing number and we must keep pushing, both 14,679 161,469 for seamless commercial transactions and the immense moves ePacked sheets of paper environmental dividend. saved (*Figures based on 1 tree =16.67 reams of copy paper or 8,333 sheets) 47 certified sites 32 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Local Initiatives France gets new eco-friendly vehicles Crown France introduced ten new and modernized vehicles to their fleet. Improving security and the environmental performance of our fleet was one of the main drivers for acquiring the new vehicles. The new vehicles are aligned with the Euro 6 European emissions standards. Switzerland planting forests in Nicaragua Crown Switzerland supported a reforestation project in Nicaragua, the second poorest country in the Western Hemisphere where families with small farms are reforesting 1,000m2 of unused parts of their land with local tree varieties. The program combines practical nature conservation with the creation of new income sources for local families. U.K. diverting waste from landfill Our Enfield office in London, which houses over 100 employees, works with a waste management company that collects our mixed waste, sorts and recycles this, diverting 90% of it from landfill. The office also set up a recycling point – collecting crisp packets, plastic bottle lids, stamps, pens and dental items to donate to local schools and organizations who recycle and raise money for charity. Philippines taking upcycling to a new level Our office in Manilla has taken upcycling and recycling to a new level. When designing the new office space, a used shipping container was used as a design feature and a refurbished Crown truck was converted and used as a coffee stand. 33 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Crown Taiwan supports World Cleanup Day 2019 Crown Taiwan cleans up Wai’ao Beach Crown Taiwan joined the community action brought by ANZCham Taipei to support “World Clean-up Day” in September. More than 20 million people from 180 countries volunteered to clean up waste from beaches, rivers, forests, and streets. More than 60 people took part in clean-ups on Wai’ao Beach. Members of our Records Management team joined other volunteers to clean up the beach and together they collected over 295kg of rubbish. The feedback was very positive. Not only did volunteers feel a sense of achievement by cleaning the beach, we also encouraged people to take action and protect their favorite beaches in Taiwan. 34 Crown Communities Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Giving Back Our employees are entitled to: 2 paid volunteer days per year Crown has always put giving back at 337 the centre of our operations. Two activities organised of our five core values reflect this Caring and There – highlighting how important goodwill and generosity are to us as an organisation. In 2019, our 40 employees balanced for better on countries international Women’s Day in March, involved saved 360 lives by donating blood in April, celebrated Pride in June and raised money and awareness of breast cancer in October. One 127 employee took her charitable giving to charities helped the next level in 2019 as she (and her team) rowed across the Atlantic in the Talisker Whiskey Challenge raising 3,042 money to support three charities in her local community – Cornwall Blood Bikes, employees got involved Carefree and Hospiscare Exmouth and Lympstone. 36 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Helping Our Communities In 2019 our employees raised money and donated time and items, such as toys, clothes and food to over 120 local charities, making a difference to children and adults in their communities and the environment. Crown Spain Crown Spain prepared boxes with toys, school supplies and toiletries for the Samaritan International Project, before joining other volunteers at a process center where items were sorted ready for shipping and distribution to children in developing countries. Crown South Africa Crown South Africa got together on Mandela Day to serve food to the elderly and children who can queue for hours at the Alexandra River Park Clinic awaiting treatment for chronic conditions. Crown Hong Kong Crown Hong Kong joined the Oxfam Rice Event, selling rice to raise money for the Oxfam Smallholder Farmers Development Fund which supports small holder farmers in poor communities around the world as they face challenges like climate change. Crown Mexico Crown Mexico spent a month collecting cigarette butts as part of the Colilla Challenge. The challenge aims to stop toxic chemicals inside cigarettes from leaking into the environment. All butts were delivered to Eco filter, a local charity, which recycles them into paper. 37 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Saving Lives Every 3 seconds someone needs blood. One out of every 10 people entering a hospital needs blood. Just one pint of donated blood can help save as many as 3 people’s lives. In April, we organized a global blood drive, which saw employees from South Africa to Brazil, the U.K. to Indonesia, and Botswana to the U.S., take time out to donate blood to help save lives. 11 120 360 locations employees lives saved 38 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Annual Charitable Cause Each October Crown marks breast cancer awareness month and our offices around the world dress in pink, hold bake sales, organize talks and raise money and awareness for and about breast cancer. 39 Crown Worldwide Group | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Supporting Women Last year’s International Women’s Day theme was #balanceforbetter and staff from around the Crown world showed their support by striking the #balanceforbetter pose. 40 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Crown Worldwide Group Proud of Pride Crown is a diverse and inclusive organization and in June, we celebrated Pride, with offices around the world raising money and awareness of LGBTQ rights by arranging pop up photo booths, dressing in rainbow colors, organizing talks and celebrating our diverse and valuable employees. 41 Recognition for CSR Contribution Crown Singapore Crown Malaysia Crown Singapore received the 2019 AmCham Crown Malaysia was recognized for the second CARES Award for being a company that has year running by the American Malaysian Chamber demonstrated a strong understanding of the link of Commerce for Excellence in Corporate Social between responsible business operations and Responsibility (CSR) under the MY AMCHAM CARES society, and conducts business in a sustainable way program. Out of 100 companies who voluntarily that creates both long-term economic and social participated, we were one of the 32 companies that value for Singapore. were recognized to have successfully developed and deployed CSR activities and achieved high scores across the category pillars (Strategy, Sustainability, Measurability and Communication). The Talisker Whiskey Atlantic Challenge The Atlantic Challenge is considered the toughest rowing challenge in the world. It involves a 3,000+ mile journey from the Canary Islands to Antigua taking up to 60 days. Crown Records Management is proud to have sponsored one of its Customer Relationship Managers, Claire Allinson, along with her teammates, Bird Watts and Mo O’Brien the Oarsome Foursome in their endeavor to cross the Atlantic. 49 days, 13 hours, 49 minutes Fastest female trio First mother-daughter team to First deaf woman to row the Atlantic row the Atlantic Email us at CSR@crownww.com Connect with us crownworldwide.com © 2020 Crown Worldwide Group. All rights reserved.
