Page 1 of 8 Currie Communication on Progress 13 November 2020 Statement of support by Managing Director I am pleased to reaffirm Currie’s support of the United Nations Global Compact principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We became a participant in 2016 and continue to prioritise the principles in our business strategy and culture as we strive to enhance our impact on and with others. Since completing our previous Communication on Progress, we have completed our second Sustainability Report, and aligned our strategy to address sustainability issues material to our business. As in all businesses, the COVID 19 pandemic has had an impact on Currie which will likely be felt well into 2021. However, we continue to actively participate in the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA), advocate for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with our clients, peers and professional networks, and meet our commitments as a proudly certified B Corporation (B Corp). We will maintain this focus into 2020-2021, and in particular, will prioritise progress on our contribution to reconciliation and support of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. This public statement of support describes the actions we have taken and plan to take to ensure our ongoing focus on using the power of business to do good. Susan McNair Managing Director Currie Communications Pty. Ltd. ABN 82 050 913 909 Level 7, 84 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria, 3000 T 03 9670 6599 E info@curriecommunications.com.au curriecommunications.com.au Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights issues Policy Currie supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as described in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Our commitment to these rights is encapsulated in our Code of Conduct that explicitly promotes human rights in the workplace. We support our team members’ human rights through our Flexible Working Policy and Leave Policy which ensures they can balance their individual circumstances and needs. Our OH&S officer and OH&S policy contribute to a balanced and safe workplace. Implementation Currie’s commitment to human rights has been implemented through the following activities in 2019-20: Supporting not-for-profit organisations • Currie aims to dedicate 5% of consulting time to pro-bono work and volunteering. In 2019-20 we gifted 4.1% of our time to social, environmental and non-profit partners. Our social partners include the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre (ASRC), and Outback Spirit Foundation. • We continued our work from last year in providing pro-bono media and communications support for the Outback Spirit Foundation’s efforts to help Indigenous farmers increase their production of native vegetables, herbs and bush foods. • We partnered with ACIAR, providing communications and engagement training to ACIAR’s communications officers from Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Kenya, Vietnam and the Philippines to assist them promote ACIAR’s research and technologies that advance agricultural development and improve food security in these countries. • This year Currie made a charitable donation of $1,250 to ASRC, a not-for-profit organization that supports and empowers people seeking asylum in Australia. In the wake of the devastating Australian summer bushfires, Currie donated $500 to the Bushfire Habitat Recovery Fund. • In 2019-20 we initiated the development of our Reconciliation Action Plan to drive our contribution to reconciliation and support of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. • We began investigating a potential pro-bono partnership with Wathaurong Aboriginal Co-operative, which supports the social, economic and cultural development of Aboriginal people in the Geelong and Colac region of Victoria, Australia. Advocating for human rights Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 2 of 8 • We have been a certified B-Corporation since 2014. In 2019-20 we completed the recertification process for the second time, reinforcing our commitment to be a business that does no social, environmental or economic harm. Our B-Corp score for the Community category rose 1.4 points, from 32.4 to 33.8, which is markedly higher than the median score of 10.5. • Through 2019-20 Currie supported sustainable development and human rights, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Currie recognises the interconnectedness of all 17 SDGs and aims to contribute to them all. We have prioritised six SDGs that will guide our mission to make a net positive impact on the world. These include #2 Zero hunger and #17 Partnerships for the goals. • We advocated for the SDGs and raised awareness of Australia’s Modern Slavery Act 2018 through blogs on our website, our social media challenges, presentations to members of Family Business Australia & New Zealand (FBANZ) and in blogs for the Public Relations Global Network (PRGN). Future plans In 2021 Currie aims to continue our commitment to human rights through: • Cementing a pro-bono partnership with Wathaurong Aboriginal Co-operative. • Completing and implementing our Reconciliation Action Plan. • Embedding our supplier Code of Conduct, ensuring our suppliers are not complicit in human rights issues. • Continuing our advocacy of the SDGs. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 3 of 8 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policy We aim to provide a safe, fair and rewarding workplace. Our employee Code of Conduct sets out our expectations for a positive work environment. Currie’s Human Resources Manual articulates guidelines and processes for the exercise of labour rights, including leave, flexible working arrangements, performance review, pay adjustment and disputes. Currie supports the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions through strict adherence to Australia’s labour laws. In 2019 we were recognised as a B Corp Best for the World company in the Workers category, for our safe, happy and healthy working environment. Implementation In 2019-20, we undertook the following activities: Providing fair, equal and decent work • Employees were paid above Award rates. • Our people received Christmas bonuses. • 75% of leadership roles were occupied by women. Looking after the safety and wellbeing of our people • Our Code of Conduct and OH&S policies protect the safety and wellbeing of our staff in the workplace. There were no OH&S incidents in this period. • We offer flexible working hours that cater to individual circumstances. • When the COVID-19 pandemic took hold, Currie supported our employees in their transition to working from home full-time. Our work from home safety policy protected the health and safety of our employees in their home office. We compensated employees for any additional office equipment required and provided a stipend to cover additional utility charges. • In 2019-20 we formalised our partnership with Converge International to provide all employees with an Employee Assistance Program to help deal with the challenges, concerns or issues that may be affecting them at work or home. • After a successful trial in 2018-19, this year we introduced quarterly Personal Administration Days for all employees, encouraging a stronger work-life balance. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 4 of 8 Maintaining a healthy working environment • Our people were involved in the planning and delivery of Currie’s 2020 strategic initiatives, allowing all employees to have an impact on our strategic priorities. • Last year we produced our second sustainability report, demonstrating transparency in our labour commitments and performance. • Through the COVID-19 pandemic we have continued to organise regular virtual social events to stay connected to one another. Supporting the professional development of our people • Each financial year, employees are allocated hours for professional development, which may be used for short courses, workshops, conferences, university courses or other. • In 2019-20, Currie employees had bi-monthly one-on-one meetings with our Managing Director to review performance, provide 360° feedback, and discuss and address any concerns. Future plans In the future, we plan to: • Continue to uphold our commitment to a supportive and safe working environment. • Maintain our flexible working policies and support of each individual employee. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 5 of 8 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy Currie’s Environmental Policy Statement directs Currie to minimise its environmental footprint through: • Responsible use of materials and resources, including energy, waste and water and emissions • Responsible purchase of products and resources, including energy supply • Our decision-making processes when reviewing suppliers and accepting clients and pro-bono work • Off-setting emissions from travel. As a professional services consultancy we are in a position to encourage our clients and suppliers to adopt sustainable practices. Implementation Our environmental initiatives in 2019-20 included: Minimising carbon emissions • Our office is supplied by 100% renewable energy sources stemming from hydropower. This commitment to renewable energy significantly reduces our carbon emissions • We offset 100% of our travel emissions both directly through airlines’ offset programs (51% of emissions offset) and via our ongoing relationship with Greenfleet, a not-for-profit organisation that plants trees to offset carbon emissions. • Our office building features full bike storage and shower facilities, and we encourage our employees to walk, cycle or catch public transport to work. Reducing waste • Currie’s commitment to making a positive environmental impact is embedded in our day-to-day operations, like using 100% recycled paper, rechargeable batteries and reusable KeepCups to minimise the use of single-use coffee cups. • Our office has a Bokashi bin for composting our kitchen food waste scraps. • In the absence of a whole-of-building recycling service, we have organised our own recycling service for paper, glass and hard plastics. • We also collect soft plastic waste which we recycle at designated soft plastics recycling centres. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 6 of 8 Promoting sustainable development • We are strong advocates of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), encouraging our clients to align with them in their work, and presenting at industry conferences about the SDGs. • In our 2019-20 Sustainability Report we identified six SDGs that will specifically guide our efforts in our mission to making a net positive impact on the world, which include #12 Responsible consumption and production, #13 Climate action, #14 Life below water and #15 Life on land. • Currie prioritises work with clients and partners who are creating social, economic and environmental change to achieve our goal to help create a better, fairer and safer future for all. Prospective projects pass two levels of scrutiny to assess whether the project and organisational goals of a potential client are aligned with our direction. This approach means we are growing the number of projects which specifically support sustainable development. • In 2019-20 we gifted pro bono work to social, environmental and non-profit partners, including the Banksia Foundation and the Fisheries Research and Development Corporation (FRDC). Future plans Going forward, Currie will: • Embed our supplier Code of Conduct to encourage our suppliers to partake in environmental best practice. • Use the findings from our materiality review as a starting point for a refreshed sustainability strategy. • Continue our advocacy of the SDGs. • Establish a pro-bono partnership to reduce food loss and/or waste. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 7 of 8 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Policy Currie acts against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Our staff act with integrity and this value is embodied in our Code of Conduct which explicitly sets out our anti-corruption policy: • Act and maintain a high standard of integrity and professionalism. • Avoid apparent conflicts of interest. • Business transactions may not be influenced by offering or accepting gifts. • Under no circumstances may employees offer or accept money. Implementation • Our Human Resources Manual details our conflict of interest policies and upholds our anti-corruption commitments. • We have continued to show our commitment through full compliance with Australian anti-corruption law. In 2019-20 we received no formal or informal corruption complaints. • Our B Corp B-Impact score of 8.4 in the Governance category is markedly higher than the median of 2.4. Future plans In 2020-21 we are committed to: • Continue to uphold our anti-corruption stance and ensure existing staff and new starters understand their responsibilities. • Update our governance policies and measurement to address a slight drop in our Governance score in our B-Impact Assessment. • Review our Human Resources Manual to ensure it remains up-to-date and compliant with our commitment to anti-corruption. Currie 2019-20This is the title of the document (Auto text) © Currie Communications Page 8 of 8
