The GE Board of Directors and its committees oversee the execution of GE’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy as part of their oversight of business strategy and risk management. In 2018, the Board reviewed ESG-related topics such as EHS Programs and disclosure of lobbying and trade association spending. We select priority issues where both the need as expressed by critical stakeholders and GE’s unique potential for impact are greatest. For each ESG priority, we employ GE’s deep expertise and advanced technologies to improve outcomes. Based on this process, GE’s ESG Steering Committee selected the following priorities: Integrity & Compliance Human Rights Climate & Energy Our Reports GE is committed to transparency. Find all disclosures in our Reports Hub to learn more about how we’re working on corporate social responsibility. Learn More Committed to EHS Excellence We are committed to EHS excellence to protect our people, our communities and GE. We hold ourselves to the same high expectations and standards everywhere we work, and we assess the EHS impacts of our businesses globally before, during and after operations. Our site, project and service managers are accountable for the EHS performance of the operations, employees, and contractors they supervise, and we monitor this performance through indicators such as injury rates and global greenhouse gas emissions. EHS excellence is fundamental to who we are—it is what our leaders expect and our customers demand. Climate We believe that GE is uniquely positioned to contribute to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As the company that has led the way in innovation for over a century, GE can deliver technology for the world to meet the emissions reduction targets called for by the 2015 Paris Agreement and achieve the long-term goal of sustainable development. Learn More Ethical Supply Chain Program Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As GE’s businesses have globalized, so has our supply chain, including in locations where environment, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be problematic. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require fair treatment of workers, a safe and healthy work environment, and environmental protection. Learn More GE infuses compliance and governance into every aspect of its business. We are committed to maintaining a world class compliance culture in every GE business and everywhere we operate around the world. We recognize that our reputation for integrity and compliance is a competitive advantage, and are proud to have been honored as one of Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies for 12 straight years (2007 – 2018). At the heart of GE’s Integrity & Compliance program is The Spirit & The Letter. GE’s commitment to performing with integrity is instilled in every employee as a nonnegotiable expectation of behavior. This expectation is propelled by our guide to integrity and compliance at GE, The Spirit & The Letter, which is underscored by an extensive system of policies, processes, training, and communications. A summary of the most critical elements is available as a Simple Reference Guide. See More It begins with personal engagement on integrity from GE’s leadership and is supported by robust compliance processes. GE leaders across the businesses personally drive a culture of integrity everywhere GE operates. A hallmark of GE’s compliance program is a steadfast commitment to a vibrant, well-publicized and effective “open reporting environment.” Employees are encouraged to raise integrity concerns and to feel confident that they can do so without fear of retaliation. GE employees remain the Company’s first and best line of defense in the early detection of potential compliance issues. During 2018, more than 4,400 integrity concerns were reported, leading to 1,098 disciplinary actions as of January 2019. Historical Open Reporting trends Elements of Our Program To ensure the Integrity & Compliance program is evolving as new risks emerge, GE relies on a team of experts and digital tools to help us stay ahead of significant compliance risks. With changing workforce demographics and modes of communication, our program requires constant reinvention to stay relevant for a global community. Training & Communications Assessment GE uses a focused training & communications plan to educate Data is increasingly important in how we work. Systems, processes, and employees about the risks and policies they need to be aware of. business risk assessments result in data that can yield ongoing GE reinforces these learnings via leadership communications and insights into our program's health. For example, we use a gifts & embedded messaging within various applications. hospitality monitoring program to track trends and flags regarding spend and type of recipient. Global Reach Culture It’s increasingly important to get the balance right between GE regularly uses its open reporting trends to determine program local and global processes. GE relies on key controls and priorities and identify areas of focus. GE is proud of its input from regional experts to ensure compliance is commitment to publish this data both internally and externally. achieved everywhere GE operates. GE’s policy against improper payments in business transactions is a key element of The Spirit & The Letter and represents a core belief in how we do business. GE’s approach to compliance in this critical area is multifaceted. GE’s policy against improper payments in business transactions is a key element of The Spirit & The Letter and represents a core belief in how we do business. Among its key features are: policies and procedures, controls, investigation and remediation, training, due diligence, and Corporate Audit Staff support. Learn more on Anticorruption GE Foundation, the philanthropic organization of GE, is committed to transforming our communities and shaping the diverse workforce of tomorrow by leveraging the power of GE. We are developing skills by bringing innovative learning in community health globally and STEM education, scaling what works, and building sustainable solutions. We are inspiring others to act by connecting GE people with communities through matching gifts and United Way, leading on emerging issues such as the opiate crisis, and convening community leaders to maximize our impact. The GE Foundation is powered by the generosity and talent of our employees, who have a strong commitment to their communities. Follow the GE Foundation on Twitter at @GE_Foundation. Education & Skills Through its signature education and skills initiatives – Developing Futures™ and Developing Skills the GE Foundation seeks to empower 14to 24-year-old students to become globally productive citizens. Read More Developing Health GE Foundation’s signature programs, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) and Developing Health U.S. (DH), aim to increase access to quality healthcare in underserved communities around the world. Learn More Programs and Contributions Top 25 Corporate Scholarship America U.S. President’s Charitable Honors Volunteer Service Contributors in Award Massachusetts Scholarship America 2018 Junior Achievement 2018 Boston Business Journal Source: Source: 2018 https://scholarshipamerica.o https://www.prnewswire.com/ne rg/dreamstosuccessws-releases/junior-achievementSource: 2018/honors/ honors-57-organizations-with-ushttps://www.bizjournals.co presidents-volunteer-servicem/boston/news/2018/09/06 award-300591797.html /these-are-the-25-mostcharitable-companiesin.html GE approaches public policy through education, engagement, involvement and thought leadership. We inform discussions by promoting thoughtful civil discourse grounded in strong, reasoned analysis. We work in partnership with governments, believing that tackling the world’s biggest problems is possible only if governments and industry work together as partners. Political Contributions Lobbying Disclosure Public Policy GE and GEPAC make contributions GE employees educate local, state and GE evaluates its public policy priorities on a bipartisan basis where legal and federal officials on our Company’s annually considering potential business appropriate under applicable law. operations and more. and reputational risks. Political Contributions Policy Lobbying Disclosure Policy Setting Public Policy Priorities Reports & Disclosures Public Policy Priorities Political Contribution Reports Quarterly Lobbying Disclosure Reports Although deal approvals or other GE reports semi-annually on corporate Advocacy on pending U.S. legislation is included onetime matters can sometimes payments to candidates, committees, 527 in GE’s Lobbying Disclosure Act filings. GE’s become priorities, tax, trade, groups, ballot initiatives, with archived posts links to quarterly lobbying reports from energy, healthcare, reports available from the previous 5 the previous 5 years. infrastrucutre, data governance, years. Information on GEPAC rule of law and intellectual contributions is also included. property protections typically top our list of Public Policy Priorities. View Political Contributions View Lobbying Disclosure reports View Public Policy Priorities Trade Organizations and 501(c)4 Disclosure On a semi-annual basis, GE voluntarily provides a list of 501(c)6 trade organizations to which GE paid $50K or more and the non-deductible amount. Also included are payments to 501(c)4 organizations. View Trade Organizations and 501(c)4 Disclosure Government Business GE does business with federal, state and local governments, as well as with government contractors. GE’s compliance and integrity culture places the Company in an excellent position to pursue and perform work compliantly for governments and government contractors. But we don’t just rely on our culture; we continue to emphasize with our employees and executives, how working with governments is unique. Learn More 6.0 Climate Change Statement Updated April 2019 We believe that GE is uniquely positioned to contribute to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As the company that has led the way in innovation for over a century, GE can deliver technology for the world We have reduced our greento meet the emissions reduction targets called for by the 2015 Paris Agreement and achieve the long-term goal of sustainable development. house gas emissions by 27% and our freshwater use by With a global installed base of almost 70,000 aircraft engines, more than 25% since 2011.* 7,000 gas turbines, more than 40,000 onshore wind turbines and more than 4 million healthcare systems, GE products and services improve lives, protect the environment, and give our customers world class and efficient solutions. GE provides clean, energy efficient, cost effective, We also lead by example—reducing our greenhouse emissions by 27% and water use by 25% since 2011*—as part of our longstanding technology solutions for commitment to environmental stewardship, human rights, and a culture customers. of integrity and compliance. GE Provides Clean, Energy Efficient, Cost Effective, Technology Solutions for Customers Meeting the targets of the Paris Agreement will require investment in new and upgraded technologies. To address this challenge, GE continues to invest in R&D and provides a diverse and evolving range of products that enables sustainable economic development for all communities. www.ge.com/sustainability GE offers zero-emission renewable and nuclear energy options to reduce sustainability@ge.com carbon emissions, while also promoting the integration of the world’s most efficient natural gas technologies. Together, these technologies deliver safe, clean, reliable and cost-effective electricity. We also work closely with our customers to evaluate opportunities to upgrade existing power generation units or replace less efficient energy sources (e.g., diesel, wood, etc.) with efficient, state of the art coal-powered generation where the circumstances warrant. GE technology will enable the ultimate transformation to a carbon-free energy economy. *Reductions through 2017 Climate Change Statement cont’d A few examples include: GE’s EHS Policy, incorporated in GE’s GE also supports sustainable de• Reservoir Energy Storage GE’s Spirit and Letter, requires that we drive velopment goals alongside climate Reservoir is a flexible, compact energy continuous improvement in our envichange policies. As former UN storage platform for the grid. As clean ronmental performance. We are proud Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon but variable power sources like wind that we have reduced our greenhouse explained when speaking of his gas emissions by 27% and our freshwaSustainable Energy for All initiative: and solar start to become a larger part ter use by 25% since 2011.* A summary of the energy matrix, energy storage of GE’s broader environmental program can help keep the grid in balance Without access to modern energy, is available here. and increase power availability. it is not possible to achieve the The fundamental building block for GE assesses environmental, social and Millennium Development Goals, the platform is the 1.2-megawatt, governance (ESG) risks as part of our the eight-point global agenda 4 megawatt-hour Reservoir storage commercial due diligence process. GE adopted by the United Nations in unit, which enables up to 15% longer takes seriously the potential negative 2000—whether reducing poverty, battery lifecycle than previous systems environmental impact, displacement improving women’s and children’s and holds enough energy to provide of people, political disruption, and/or health, or broadening the reach of power to a community of 120 homes human rights concerns that may exist education. Energy facilitates social for an entire day. where we do business, and takes approand economic development, offering priate steps to identify and manage any opportunity for improved lives and • Haliade-X 12-megawatt turbine will risks, which may include a decision not economic progress. be capable of powering 16,000 homes to proceed to contract. and producing 67 gigawatt-hours per year, based on wind conditions of a GE Supports Policies That Reduce typical German North Sea site. That To achieve these goals and improve Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Prolives, GE supports strong energy represents 45% more energy than any mote Sustainable Development infrastructure with a mix of conother offshore wind turbine available GE supports the science and goals exventional and renewable energy. today. pressed in the Paris Agreement and the As discussed above, it is important • GE9x Engine The GE9X jet engine United Nations Framework Convention to: encourage the use of renewable will power Boeing’s long-range 777X on Climate Change. and nuclear energy to reduce carand be the largest aircraft engine ever bon emissions; promote the inteproduced. It is designed to generate To achieve those goals, GE supports gration of natural gas technologies policies that: with renewables, which assures the 10% less CO2 greenhouse gas emissions and 45% less smog-causing required reliable and flexible gener• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions, ation of electricity; and support opemissions than the GE90–115B engine while also ensuring a reliable, safe it replaces. GE is a strong advocate for portunities to replace less efficient energy supply; energy sources with efficient, state the first international greenhouse gas • Encourage early adoption of cleaner of the art coal generation where standards for aircraft. technologies and energy efficiency; the circumstances warrant. • Reward R&D, innovation, and priGE is Committed to Reducing our Envivate risk taking; ronmental Footprint • Encourage the free flow of goods GE walks the talk in our commitment to and ideas consistent with the prinenvironmental stewardship. This includes ciples of the World Trade organizaour actions with respect to our own opertion; ations and decisions affecting investments • Reflect national and local circumand commercial deals. stances; and • Set realistic timelines for reduction efforts with periodic reviews as knowledge of the science evolves and technology improves. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. *Reductions through 2017 GEA19007 4/2019 Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Updated July 2018 Methodology The GE Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory follows the World Resources Institute/World Our Climate Progress Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (the “Protocol”). GE reports under the “control” approach for emissions in Scopes 1 and 2, as defined in the Protocol, from sources over which it has operational control. Selected Scope 3 emissions are reported. Inventory Scope -1.42 M tons CO2 e The GHG Inventory includes data from individual facilities (primarily manufacturing facilities), additional rooftops (primarily offices, warehouses and small service shops), and the vehicle and air fleets that GE operates for its own use. The inventory scope is adjusted annually as a result of divestiture, closure or consolidation with Since 2011, GE has reduced other facilities, acquisitions, newly established facilities or when facilities meet the reporting criteria for the first time. operational greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 1.42 GE’s worldwide GHG emissions are the total of three categories: • Energy use and emissions data from the largest facilities in the Company million metric ton • Emissions estimates for small facilities CO2 -equivalents. • Mobile source emissions from centrally managed vehicle fleets and aircraft Emission Factors and Global Warming Potentials GE uses emission factors primarily from the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule www.ge.com/sustainability (40 CFR part 98) to calculate CO2 emissions for combustion of fuel. The 100-year global warming potential (GWP) for CH4, N2O, HFCs, SF6 and PFCs are also taken from sustainability@ge.com the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule (40 CFR part 98). Emissions of CH4 and N2O from the combustion of fuels are calculated using emissions factors obtained from EPA Climate Leaders program documents. Other direct emission factors are obtained from WRI and IPCC documents when U.S. EPA factors are not available. GE uses U.S. EPA eGRID sub-regional average emission factors to calculate indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity in the United States. Indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity outside of the U.S. are calculated using countrywide average factors obtained from the International Energy Agency (IEA). Electricity emissions for the 2011 baseline year were calculated using EPA eGRID factors for 2010 and IEA factors for 2011. Electricity emissions for the current reporting year are calculated using the most recent grid emissions factors available from the EPA and IEA as of the month of January following the reporting year. Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Whenever readily available, GE uses from third-party cogeneration plants in comparison to the relative significance the market-based emission factor for or district heating plants. Each of these of the emissions in GE’s overall inventory. Scope 2 calculations. These emission sites determined the quantity and type The sites that fall into this category factors are typically for specific, traceable of fuel needed by the third-party plant are primarily small office facilities, but purchases of renewable energy from to generate the steam or hot water include all locations that do not meet the our operations. purchased by the site. This quantity of criteria defined above for “large sites.” fuel is then multiplied by the appropriate Large Sites emission factor to determine the indirect Emissions for these small facilities are GE maintains a GHG Inventory emissions from steam or hot water calculated based on the “COMMERCIAL database in a cloud-based purchases. A default thermal efficiency BUILDINGS ENERGY CONSUMPTION environmental management system to of 80% is used to calculate the quantity SURVEY (CBECS)”, published by the U.S collect the necessary detailed inventory of fuel needed to generate the steam or Energy Information Administration. data from the following types of hot water that was purchased based on Using this tool, GE determines the facilities: guidance provided in the WRI/WBCSD expected electricity and natural gas • All manufacturing, power generation Emission Calculation Tool. Most of the usage for a facility based on the type, and engine/turbine test facilities plants use the default thermal efficiency. location and square footage of the • All service and distribution facilities facility. GHG emissions are calculated with greater than 50 employees Emissions of other GHGs (direct-process using this estimate of energy usage • All major business headquarters emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and the appropriate emission factor as • All major stand-alone data centers SF6 and PFCs) are entered directly as described above for Large Sites. The GHG Inventory database allows each kilograms or metric tons and converted site to enter the quantity of electricity to metric tons of CO2 equivalents using Mobile Sources and fuel used by fuel type and the unit the EPA’s published 100-year GWP GE calculates emissions from motor of measure based on its own electricity coefficients. Generally, emissions are vehicles centrally managed by third and fuel purchase and/or combustion based on purchase records and the party contractors in the U.S., Canada, records as well as data on emissions assumption that all used material was Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand of other GHGs. The software system emitted. For certain processes, however, and Mexico; motor vehicles leased or calculates the emissions, in metric tons site-specific knowledge of the process rented from Penske Truck Leasing and of CO2 equivalents, for each emission and/or emissions factors are used to Ryder Logistics in the U.S.; and motor category as well as a total for all determine actual emissions. vehicles owned by GE businesses in emission categories. the U.S. In addition, GE calculates GE quantifies biomass-related emissions emissions from GE-owned corporate The software system calculates directas allowed by the WRI Protocol. GE aircraft including the flying test bed (a combustion emissions by multiplying subtracts a certain amount of metric large airliner used for flight-testing jet a given quantity of fuel by an emission tons of CO2 from its GHG inventory as engines). Mobile source emissions are factor and calculates indirect emissions those emissions are attributed to the use calculated by obtaining fuel use and/ for electricity that was purchased by of biomass as allowed by the Protocol. or vehicle-miles-traveled records and multiplying a given quantity of electricity applying appropriate emission factors by an emission factor. Direct emissions Because a subset of “large sites” are obtained from the U.S. EPA Climate resulting from the generation of responsible for about 80% of the Leaders guidance documents. Methane electricity for export off-site are included emissions in this category, GE collects and nitrous oxide emissions for mobile within direct emissions. The Protocol all data from that group of facilities sources are also calculated using recommends this approach and instructs annually. Data for the smaller sites is emission factors obtained from the U.S. companies to report emissions from collected less frequently and prorated in i EPA Climate Leaders program guidance interim years based on historical data. n exported electricity, heat or steam documents. In addition, GE includes under supporting information and not emissions from GE-controlled motor to deduct those emissions from Small Sites vehicles that are refueled on-site at GE company emissions. GE does not collect detailed emissions Large Sites. The emissions from these data from worldwide “small” locations vehicles are included in the combustionThe Inventory includes sites in Europe due to the difficulty and expense that of-fuels calculations for Large Sites and Asia that import steam or hot water would be associated with such an effort discussed above. Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Scope 3 Sources: Power commitments. Baseline-year GHGnecessary. Generation Investments emissions data are adjusted to reflect the changes in GE structure and determine As described in this document, most GE invests in thermal and renewable the real change in emissions and energy of the emissions total is based on energy projects through equity, lease and use of the current portfolio of operations actual fuel usage and energy purchase debt. GE reports GHG emissions from during a given period. Prior interim years, data (about 70%) or extrapolated in investments in which GE holds an equity such as 2014, are not adjusted. time based on prior usage data (about interest based upon the business unit’s 15%). The remaining 15% of the total percentage of equity ownership. All “large sites” as defined above are is estimated using other attributes baseline adjusted per the GHG Protocol, (such as the size and location of rented Sources Not Included with acquired sites added and divested small office space, or distance driven GHG emission sources not included in sites removed. Individual small sites, of by some vehicle categories). Due to this the Inventory because GE does not have which the largest is less than 0.1% of the combination of actual and estimated operational control over them include total company GHG emissions, are not data, the overall uncertainty of the Scope the following: baseline adjusted. However, when an 1 and Scope 2 totals is estimated to be • Minority-owned joint ventures entire GE business is divested or acquired, less than 5%. • Energy-generation facilities where GE the small sites from that business are has a service relationship, but where baseline adjusted. Mobile sources are not Independent Verification GE does not have operational control baseline adjusted. of the 2004 and 2008 GE • Aircraft, motor vehicles, railroad locomotives, etc., owned by GE, but For the 2015 inventory, significant GHG Inventories leased to and controlled by others adjustments were made to account for GE periodically may retain an • Most WRI/WBCSD Scope 3 sources. the acquisition of Alstom. Other smaller independent consultant to review the Equity investments in power adjustments were made to account for Inventory and process. Cameron-Cole, generation facilities are included as LLC, was retained in 2005 and again in the divestiture and acquisition of various indicated above 2009 for independent verification of the GE subsidiaries. GHG methodology. Cameron-Cole issued The following operational emission Quality Assurance verification statements in March 2006 sources are not included in GE’s and December 2009, respectively, stating GE is continuing to work toward GHG Inventory due to very small that it found nothing to indicate any increasing the accuracy of its GHG contributions: material errors or omissions or anything Inventory. It has modified its GHG • Motor vehicles controlled by GE that would indicate that GE’s Inventory Inventory collection database to simplify but not centrally managed through was not complete. Cameron-Cole also it and to eliminate issues that have Element, Arval, Penske Truck found that GE’s Inventory generally tended to introduce errors in the past. Leasing, or Ryder Logistics conformed to the accounting principles In addition, GE has developed numerous • Motor vehicles owned by GE in the Protocol. In addition, Cameronguidance documents and an internal businesses outside the United States Cole stated that it believed that GE had guidance website, and has provided and Canada that are not refueled at met its 2008 GHG-intensity-reduction extensive training on the Inventory GE properties commitment. and on the use of the management • Leakage of hydrofluorocarbons system. As an added measure, GE from GE-owned and -operated periodically performs data-quality Analysis of Cumulative air conditioning, refrigeration and reviews on the GHG Inventories, GHG and Energy chilling systems including side-by-side comparisons Efficiency Projects • Remedial activities operationally of GHG emissions across years, to GE is focused on generating value controlled by GE identify and understand the reasons and outcomes for our customers, the for significant differences (changes Company, people and the planet. One way Baseline Adjustment in production, fuel, manufacturing to measure that value is to track energy GE has established 2011 as a baseline processes, etc.). When data-quality efficiency and GHG reduction projects. year for measuring progress toward issues are identified, research is initiated GE does this in a cloud-based achieving its GHG-emissions-reduction to analyze and correct gaps where management system. Each project Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process logged includes descriptive information, interventions. This process is repeated 2011. GE also may report progress projected costs, and estimated GHG and for subsequent years and compounded against a baseline year of 2004. Since it cost savings. Two cumulative measures annually. Prior years are not adjusted is not practical to adjust baselines over of those projects are tracked over time: for business transformations, changes in such long periods where sufficient data total GHG emissions reduced and total grid factors or other changes. may not be available, a hybrid approach cost savings. is used. The 2004 baseline was adjusted To estimate total GHG emissions reduced GE has not purchased project-based for the 2011 reporting year data. Current and costs saved, GE analyzes all projects carbon credits to offset GHG emissions progress from the 2004 baseline is in the database covering the given from our operations. calculated by taking the performance from 2004 to 2011 as a fixed value period logged as being completed. The sum of estimated GHG reduction for all Calculation of (29% absolute reduction) and further matching projects is captured as Long-term Progress reducing that result by the additional reduction between 2011 and the estimated annual GHG and cost As described above in “Baseline current reporting year. reduction due to Adjustment,” current progress toward the 2020 GHG goal was baselined in © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33631 7/2018 Water Inventory Methodology Updated September 2019 GE’s water-use inventory process follows the principles articulated by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/ WBCSD) in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised addition. For the operational inventory, GE follows the “control” approach and includes freshwater use from “criteria sites” over which the company has operational control. Inventory Scope GE collects water-usage data from the top water-consuming sites, called “criteria sites”. Criteria sites are those that have used 15 million gallons or more of water per year between the baseline and current year. This approach captures approximately 90% of GE’s total freshwater consumption. Since 2011, GE has reduced Water usage captured includes potable, process, and sanitary water, as well freshwater use by about 1.40 as oncethrough cooling water from freshwater sources. Sites that withdraw billion gallons of freshwater salt/brackish water for once-through cooling purposes are not included in the per year. water-reduction goal. Instead, GE focuses on freshwater sources, based on the rationale that those sources pose a greater environmental impact than salt/ brackish water use. GE collects water-usage The inventory scope is adjusted annually as a result of divestiture, closure or data from our top waterconsolidation with other facilities, acquisitions, newly established facilities or consuming sites on an annual when facilities meet the reporting criteria for the first time. basis. Management To collect the necessary water-use-inventory data, GE maintains a greenhouse gas (GHG) and water inventory database. The database is integrated with GE’s greenhouse gas and energy inventory processes. GE facilities use the database to enter quantities of water withdrawn from each of the following source www.ge.com/sustainability categories: sustainability@ge.com • Public/commercial • On-site groundwater well • Fresh surface water • Brackish surface water or seawater • Rainwater Water Inventory Methodology (cont’d) Water withdrawn for the purpose of adjust baselines over long periods where internal guidance website, and extensive once-through cooling is entered into a sufficient data may not be available, training related to the water inventory and separate category in the database so a hybrid approach is used. The 2006 the use of the tool. Finally, GE performs that these cooling water sources may be baseline was adjusted for the 2011 redata-quality reviews on the water-use tracked. The system also splits water use porting year data. Current progress from inventory, including side-byside compardata from the database into source a 2006 baseline is calculated by taking isons of water-use data to identify and category, business unit, site, country, the performance from 2006 to 2011 as understand the reasons for significant and region. a fixed value (35% absolute reduction) differences (such as changes in production, and further reducing that result by the changes in processes, water-use-reduction Baseline Adjustment additional reduction between 2011 and projects, or other factors). Data anomaCurrent progress toward the 2020 the current reporting year. lies are identified, analyzed and corrected water goal was baselined in 2011, with where necessary through this process. If the baseline data adjusted to reflect Quality Assurance significant deviation in water use emerges changes to GE’s portfolio as outlined in To further increase the accuracy of in a given year, a third-party environmental the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. GE also the water-use inventory, GE has engineering consulting firm may be engaged reports progress since the start of the simplified the database to reduce to validate restated wateruse values. water program, with a baseline year the opportunity for error. In addition, of 2006. Because it is not practical to GE provides guidance documents, an © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33640 9/2019 Voluntary Waste Inventory Methodology Updated September 2018 Methodology Each year, GE collects waste generation data from larger industrial facilities for the purpose of voluntarily reporting total hazardous and nonhazardous waste volumes. GE conducts an accounting As part of GE’s environmental inventory, the waste inventory process follows the of global hazardous and principles articulated by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol: non-hazardous waste A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition. For the operational generated by its facilities. inventory, GE follows the “operational” approach and includes total volumes data from the most relevant sites over which we have operational control. Inventory Scope www.ge.com/sustainability Sites in scope for voluntary waste reporting are those that have generated or will sustainability@ge.com continue to exceed 500 metric tons per year of total nonhazardous or 100 metric tons of hazardous waste per year. However, GE collects primary data only from sites exceeding 3000 metric tons per year of total nonhazardous or 200 metric tons of hazardous waste per year. Waste generated by sites in scope, but not meeting primary data requirements, is collected less frequently and prorated in interim years based on historical data. Data from “small” locations (such as offices) and non-fixed facilities (such as on-site customer projects and investments in energy projects) is not collected. Thresholds are based on a historical analysis of GE’s waste generation data for a significant coverage of the full GE operational waste footprint. Reported hazardous waste volumes cover all industrial waste with hazardous characteristics and/or toxic constituents that is regulated at country level. Nonhazardous waste includes all industrial waste that does not meet the definition of hazardous waste and that needs to be segregated. Reported nonhazardous waste streams are limited to wastes and recyclable materials generated from industrial activities such as production, assembly, manufacturing, field sales and service, maintenance, laboratories, cleaning, demolition, renovation, remediation, packaging, and equipment taken out of service. Nonhazardous waste does not include food waste, office waste, wastewater and one-time, rarely generated waste. 1 For the 2017 inventory, two major GE acquisitions (Baker Hughes, a GE company, and LM Wind Power) continued to separately conduct independent waste inventory processes and are not covered by the general GE approach. Data provided by these entities is directly used for estimating and reporting on total GE volumes. Voluntary Waste Inventory Methodology Inventory Management inventory data from sites. GE facilities training for the waste inventory process enter waste quantities mainly from two and use of the online tool. Finally, The inventory scope is adjusted annually data sources: GE performs data quality reviews, as a result of divestiture, closure or • A waste generation database including site-level comparisons of consolidation with other facilities, integrated into the GE’s EHS data reported volumes over the last years to acquisitions, newly established facilities management system identify and understand the reasons for or when facilities meet the reporting • Waste generation data provided by significant changes (such as changes criteria for the first time. Also, disclosed third party waste vendors in production, changes in reporting 2016 data is adjusted accordingly. The Reported site-level data is aggregated scope or other factors such as one-time correction factors used to estimate total and analyzed by business unit, country, effects). Data anomalies are identified, volumes (of large and very-large sites) and region. analyzed with reporting site managers out of reported data are reestablished and corrected when necessary. The based on the most recent data from veryQuality Assurance inventory process as well as the large sites and total volume data from gathered data and estimated total previous years. The list of sites required to report primary data is reviewed and validated volumes are internally reviewed. Areas by a team of regional corporate EHS for further improvement are identified GE uses a cloud-based and discussed with involved parties at managers to ensure key business environmental management system corporate and business levels. changes are captured. Each year, GE to collect the necessary detailed updates guidance documents and © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33911 7/2018 LRQA Assurance Statement 2017 ISO 14001 Attestation Statement for GE Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (“LRQA”) was engaged by GE to review GE’s enterprisewide environmental management system (“the EMS”) against the requirements of the 1 international standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001:2015. The objectives of the review were: • To confirm that the design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001 and had incorporated all of the individual management system elements; • To confirm that the EMS, established at the GE Corporate Level, was the primary mechanism used to manage the environmental aspects of operations at all levels and operating locations in the GE organizational hierarchy 2; and • To confirm that implementation of the EMS had contributed to reported improvements in environmental performance. Management Responsibility GE’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the EMS. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the EMS in accordance with our contract with GE. Ultimately, the EMS and its implementation remain the sole responsibility of GE. LRQA’s Approach The review of GE’s EMS was undertaken between March 2017 and July 2017 using a team of LRQA’s certified ISO 14001 lead assessors. In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was carried out as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: • A review of the high level environmental system documentation to confirm that all requirements of ISO 14001 had been addressed; • Interviews with leaders at the corporate level , responsible for key environmental functional areas within GE’s OneEHS organizational structure. These areas included the EHS Leadership Team including the VP EHS, Business EHS leadership, Enterprise Standards, EHS Regional Operations, Resource Strategies including the Product Lifecycle Center of Excellence, and EHS Legal; • A review of environmental records maintained on the GE enterprise-wide data management system supporting implementation of internal audit, corrective action, training, performance improvement and other programs; and • Site visits to review local EMS implementation at three operating sites, selected to provide a representative sample based on size and complexity, geography, GE businessarea and ISO 14001 certification status. 1 GE’s proprietary EMS, consisting of Framework 2.0 and supporting management system programs, is established at the GE corporate level for deployment throughout GE’s global operations. Implementation across the GE enterprise is intended to follow a risk-based approach whereby application of the Framework at the various organizational levels dictates the specific programs within the EMS that are required at each individual operational unit. 2 Alstom, recently acquired by GE, was excluded from the scope of the engagement. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that: • The design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001:2015. No elements of the standard were identified which had not been addressed as documented requirements of the EMS; • At the sites sampled, environmental management systems had been established based on requirements of the EMS; • Based on a review of records maintained on the enterprise-wide data management system, no evidence was identified to indicate sites were implementing environmental management systems other than those established through implementation of the EMS; and • Programs and initiatives linked to implementation of the EMS were contributing to reported improvements in environmental performance. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance. Consistent with this level of assurance, and the approach described above, the assurance is not intended to replace or otherwise be considered equivalent to ISO 14001 certification, as provided under established accreditation programs. LRQA’s Recommendations Observations, including areas for potential improvement, were provided in a report to GE’s management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed in this assurance statement. Signed: Dated: October 2017 Michael Wardell Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077, USA LRQA Reference Number UQA4002133 Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. LRQA Assurance Statement 2018 ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 Attestation Statement for GE Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (“LRQA”) was engaged by GE to review GE’s enterprise-wide 1 EHS management system (“the EHS System”) against the requirements of the international standards for environmental management systems, ISO 14001:2015, and health and safety management systems, OHSAS 18001:2007 The objectives of the review were:  To confirm that the design of the EHS System was aligned with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and had incorporated all of the individual management system elements;  To confirm that the EHS System established at the GE Corporate Level, was the primary mechanism used to manage occupational health and safety and the environmental aspects of operations at all levels and operating locations in the GE organizational hierarchy; and  To confirm that implementation of the EHS System had contributed to reported improvements in health, safety and environmental performance. Management Responsibility GE’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the EHS System. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the EHS System in accordance with our contract with GE. Ultimately, the EHS System and its implementation remain the sole responsibility of GE. LRQA’s Approach The review of GE’s EHS System was undertaken between April 2018 and August 2018 using a team of LRQA’s certified ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 lead assessors. In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was carried out as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities:  A review of the high level EHS System documentation to confirm that all requirements of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 had been addressed;  Interviews with leaders at the corporate level responsible for key EHS functional areas within GE’s OneEHS organizational structure. These areas included the EHS Leadership Team, including the General Manager EHS, Business EHS leadership, Enterprise Standards, EHS Regional Operations, Sustainability & ESG Operations and EHS Legal; 1 GE’s proprietary EHS System, consisting of Framework 2.0 and supporting management system programs, is established at the GE corporate level for deployment throughout GE’s global operations. Implementation across the GE enterprise is intended to follow a risk-based approach whereby application of the Framework at the various organizational levels dictates the specific programs within the EHS System that are required at each individual operational unit. Only GE organizations adhering to the central EHS management system are included in this attestation.  A review of environmental, health and safety records maintained on the GE enterprise-wide data management system supporting implementation of internal audit, corrective action, training, performance improvement and other programs; and  Site visits to review local EHS System implementation at eleven operating sites, selected to provide a representative sample based on size and complexity, geography, GE business-area and ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001certification status. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that:  The design of the EHS System was aligned with ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007. No elements of the standards were identified which had not been addressed as documented requirements of the EHS System;  At the sites sampled, an EHS Management System had been established based on requirements of the GE EHS System;  Based on a review of records maintained on the enterprise-wide data management system, no evidence was identified to indicate sites were implementing EHS management systems other than those established through implementation of the GE EHS System; and  Programs and initiatives linked to implementation of the EHS System were contributing to reported improvements in environmental, health and safety performance. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance. Consistent with this level of assurance, and the approach described above, the assurance is not intended to replace or otherwise be considered equivalent to ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 certification, as provided under established accreditation programs. LRQA’s Recommendations Observations, including areas for potential improvement, were provided in a report to GE’s management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed in this assurance statement. Signed: Dated: August 2018 Michael Wardell Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077, USA LRQA Reference Number UQA4002133 Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 2018 Environmental, Social, and Governance Results Indicator Baseline 2016 2017 2018 Discussion Workforce (a) U.S. and Canada ---103 Workforce changes reflect the transformation of our business EMEA ---96 portfolio to focus on our core businesses. Asia ---61 Latin America ---23 Total (thousands) -295 313 283 Philanthropy (o) GE Company Contributions via GE Businesses GE Foundation, the philanthropic organization of GE, is and to the Foundation ($M) -committed to transforming our communities and shaping the 119.4 93.6 90.7 Employee and Retiree Contributions matched by diverse workforce of tomorrow. GE Foundation ($M) -52.1 47.3 38.8 Total Contributions as a Percentage of GE Revenue is a new Total GE Family Giving ($M) -171.5 140.9 129.5 metric in 2018 to align with Chief Executives for Corporate Total Contributions as a Percentage of GE Purpose Giving in Numbers annual survey. Revenue ($M) (b) -0.10% 0.08% 0.07% Governance (c) Ombudsperson Concerns by Area (reports In today’s environment, GE employees remain the Company’s per policy): first and best line of defense in the early detection of Fair Employment Practices -957 1,028 1,094 potential compliance issues. GE has hundreds of Conflicts of Interest -451 417 465 ombudspersons around the globe to encourage the reporting International Trade Compliance -of concerns without fear of retaliation. 132 146 125 Securing GE Operations Globally -166 181 146 Regulatory Excellence -175 204 251 Business Records (T&L, Time & Attendance) -295 377 279 Environment, Health & Safety Routines, Documentation, Internal -264 232 284 Measurements -335 296 273 Supplier Relationships -436 415 347 Improper Payments -130 104 68 Cybersecurity/Privacy -265 241 266 Controllership (Accounting, Financial Reporting, Billing) -219 224 180 Intellectual Property -252 217 333 Theft -76 90 84 Working with Governments -47 46 23 Competition Law -84 86 51 Violation of Law -43 22 25 Other Integrity Concerns (d) -144 115 117 Total Concerns Reported (e) -4,481 4,441 4,411 Disciplinary Actions (f) -1,376 1,423 1,098 Investigations Conducted, U.S. and Canada (% Total) -33% 33% 35% Investigations Conducted, EMEA (% Total) -33% 31% 21% Investigations Conducted, Latin Asia (% Total) (% America -18% 20% 23% Total) -17% 17% 14% EHS Programs (g) Injury & Illness Total Recordable Rate (h) -0.77 0.63 0.55 We are committed to EHS excellence to protect our people, our communities and the GE brand. Our site, project and Days Away From Work Incident Rate (i) -0.32 0.27 0.24 service managers are accountable for the EHS performance of Fatalities Employees (o) -5 2 2 the operations, employees, and contractors they supervise, Fatalities Contractor Workers (j), (o) ---6 and we monitor this performance through indicators such as injury rates and global greenhouse gas emissions. We Environmental Excellence Certifications (k) -68 63 29 continue to have decreasing injuries, and days away from ISO 14001 sites (k) -326 332 185 work each year, since 2016. Global Penalties Paid (in $ thousands) (k) -2,317 120 65 Spills & Releases (Count) -56 45 41 Air Exceedances, (Count) -9 0 1 Wastewater Exceedances, (Count) -22 18 25 Hazardous Waste (metric tons) (l) -52,063 66,058 -Nonhazardous Waste (metric tons) (kl) -311,646 1,262,351 -© 2019 General Electric Company — All rights reserved | September 2019 2018 Environmental, Social, and Governance Results Indicator Baseline 2016 2017 2018 Discussion Energy and Climate (m), (o) GE Operational GHG Emissions (million metric Through 2018, GE has reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) tons of CO2 equivalent) (market based) 3.64 3.83 3.78 2.80 emissions from our operations by 23% from our adjusted Scope 1 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 2011 baseline. With these results, GE has surpassed our 20% equivalent) -1.62 1.67 1.29 by 2020 GHG goal. GE's GHG emissions have decreased, in part, due to better control of key gases, such as hydrofluorocarbons in: manufacturing; energy efficiency Scope 2 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 projects; business changes such as acquisitions and equivalent) (market based) -2.21 2.11 1.51 divestitures; and changes in overall grid emission factors. Scope 3 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent) (n) -7.96 2.79 2.34 GE’s Scope 3 GHG emissions are from investment in nine thermal power projects in which GE held an equity interest GE Operational Energy Use (million MMBtu) 37.6 40.5 41.0 30.1 during 2018, where emissions reductions were primarily Direct SF6 Emissions (thousand metric tons CO2 driven by projects exiting the portfolio and lower power equivalent) -178 163 179 production. During 2018, such investments also yielded approximately 12.6 million metric tons of avoided emissions Total Electricity (MWh) -4,920,000 4,620,000 3,690,000 in offsets from renewable energy projects. Renewable Energy Used (MWh) -30,400 58,600 44,541 Water (m) Total Fresh Water Use (Billions of Gallons) 7.94 6.73 6.66 6.54 Through 2018, our overall freshwater use was reduced 18% from our adjusted 2011 baseline. Once-Through Cooling Water (Billions of Gallons) -3.57 2.52 2.27 Supply Chain Number of Global Audits -2,880 2,564 2,509 Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As a global Total Findings -18,292 23,537 18,989 company, our supply chain includes locations where Average Category Findings Per Global Audit: environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights, and other Health & Safety -2.38 2.68 2.15 practices can be challenging. We expect our suppliers to Environment -2.11 2.94 2.34 comply with standards that require fair treatment of workers, a safe and healthy work environment and environmental Emergency Preparedness -1.57 1.92 1.60 Labor -0.97 1.52 1.23 protection. Our Supplier Integrity Guide governs all facets of our relationships with suppliers and includes specific Dormitory -0.06 0.02 0.01 prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor and Conflict Minerals -0.15 0.27 0.23 subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion, or Average Findings Per Regional Audit: human trafficking. Global audits focus on areas where there China -7.86 8.73 8.52 is heightened risk of these acts occurring. Suppliers in certain Latin America -5.76 8.38 5.56 regions, such as North America, are included in audits, but India -9.49 11.8 8.90 have insufficient audit numbers for relevant average Europe, Middle East & Africa -5.19 7.57 6.13 calculation. At GE, we drive better outcomes through our Rest of Asia -5.97 7.24 5.23 collaboration and partnership with suppliers and other North America -69.0 19.3 17.1 stakeholders. Uncategorized Countries (p) -5.96 7.00 4.46 Notes (a) Regional employee numbers provided for context. (b) New metric reported in 2018 (c) 2018 data as of January 2019 (d) Other Integrity Concerns includes Anti Money Laundering (AML) (2016=4, 2017=4, 2018=12) (e) 2016 Total Concerns Reported updated based on cases closed as of March 3, 2018 (f) 2018 Disciplinary Actions in response to closed matters through Januay 2019; actions correspond to year in which concern was reported, not necessarily year action was taken. (g) Due to the changing nature of GE's enterprise business structure figures are periodically updated to reflect changes in scope. For instance, acquired businesses may not have aligned data for the same time periods. (h) Number of OSHA recordable injury and illness cases per risk population YTD, based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. Baker Hughes, a GE company included in 2017. (i) Days Away From Work Incident Rate uses the OSHA calculation for days-away-from-work cases (transfer or restricted cases are excluded), based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. Baker Hughes, a GE company included in 2017. (j) 2016 & 2017 data not available. (k) Excellence Certifications, ISO14001, Global Penalties Paid data does not include Baker Hughes, a GE company, in 2018. (l) 2016 and 2017 waste values are reported as estimated company-wide totals based on a subset of reporting sites. We will not have 2018 reported values as we re-evaluate this program. 2017 Waste results reflect GE acquisitions of Baker Hughes and LM Wind businesses; without these acquisitions and adjusting for other business changes, hazardous waste increased 5% and non-hazardous waste decreased 24% compared to 2016. 2016 waste data is updated to include information from the Alstom acquisition. (m) For GHG, energy-related and water metrics, each year GE adjusts its 2011 baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions. Interim years are not adjusted. 2018 data is not included for Baker Hughes, a GE Company. (n) GE reports Scope 3 emissions from the U.S. and international thermal power and offsets from U.S. renewable energy projects in which GE has an equity interest. (o) Philanthropy, Fatalities, and Energy and Climate data does not include Baker Hughes, a GE company, in 2018. (p) Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands etc. Baker Hughes, a GE company 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report available here. © 2019 General Electric Company — All rights reserved | September 2019 Anticorruption Updated January 2019 GE has long taken a leading role in pushing for transparency and integrity in the global marketplace. Our policy against improper payments in business transactions is As part of the compliance a key element of our code of conduct—The Spirit & The Letter— and represents a core belief in how we do business. program at GE, operating with a strong anticorruption GE’s approach to compliance in this critical area is multifaceted. Among its key features are: program is a critical component in how we do • Corporate policies and procedures that reflect the Company’s approach by prohibiting improper payments in every transaction, whether with a government business. or with a private party • Extensive controls, including thorough due diligence, careful screening and training on GE policies for third-party intermediaries such as distributors, service providers, and commercial agents and representatvies • Heightened attention to key risk areas such as gifts and entertainment, travel and living expenses, donations, and facilitating payments www.ge.com/sustainability • Prompt investigation and remediation of any concerns • Extensive training of GE employees on improper payments sustainability@ge.com • Robust internal controls and accounting processes designed to detect and prevent violations of Company policy relating to improper payment risks and to ensure accurate books and records relating to transactions • Increased emphasis and enhanced due diligence concerning improper risk associated with mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures • Strategic use of Corporate Audit Staff to identify and assess potential improper payment The Importance of Strong Anticorruption Compliance Greater attention is being paid to the effectiveness of corporate compliance programs in preventing improper payments. The Justice Department and the SEC have issued a resource guide on the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) that endorses a strong compliance program. The UK Bribery Act and the US Sentencing Guidelines similarly highlight the need for a strong program. As part of the compliance program at GE, operating with a strong anti-corruption program is a critical component in how we do business. Anticorruption (Cont’d) Never before have the risks been greater. Aggressive enforcement of the FCPA by the SEC and the US Department of Justice remains the norm. Enforcement is not limited to companies; individuals increasingly face prosecution and lengthy terms of imprisonment for breaking the law. Prosecutors continue to broaden their reach across the commercial sector, focusing on healthcare, energy, oil and gas, software, financial services and telecommunications, and across developing and emerging markets such as those in China, India, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, the Middle East, and Africa, where GE has a notable presence. These trends are not limited to the United States. Global enforcement of anticorruption laws is increasing, enforcement actions are increasingly coordinated and interconnected, and sometimes a single transaction can expose a company to prosecution in multiple jurisdictions. GE closely monitors these developments to ensure that our global compliance program and internal controls address these evolving risks and enforcement trends. The Company is firmly committed to ethical behavior in all of our business practices. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33641 1/2019 GE GROUP of COMPANIES AUSTRALIA Whistleblowing Policy Version 1 September 2019 *IMPORTANT: This Policy applies to the GE Australia Group of Companies set out in Appendix 4 of this Policy and to Eligible Persons as defined herein. Section 1: Our Purpose 1.1 Our Goals 1.2 Our Commitment 1.3 What Conduct Should Be Reported 1.4 Who Falls Under This Policy 1.5 Interpretation Section 2: Process For Making A Report 2.1 What Options Do Employees Have For Making A Report 2.2 You Can Remain Anonymous 2.3 Can I report my concern externally? 2.4 What Is The Investigative Process? 2.5 How We Use 3rd Parties 2.5 Who Is Alerted To A Report 2.6 What Is The Process Of Updating The Informant 2.7 At The End Of The Investigation Section 3: How Informants Are Protected 3.1 Anonymity After Submitting A Report 3.2 Potential Victimisation 3.3 Considered Risk of Victimisation 3.4 Already Victimized Against 3.5 Victimisation Not Adequately Resolved 3.6 How GEHC Deals With Victimisation 3.7 Other protections available to informants at law 3.8 Separation Of Issues 3.9 Protection & Immunity For Others 3. 10 Legislative/Regulation Protection & Assistance Section 4: Our Roles & Responsibilities 4.1 Roles 4.2 Responsibilities Section 5: Governance 5.1 Changes to the Whistleblowing Policy 5.2 Training Page 2 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Appendix 1: Channels For Reporting Appendix 2: Change Log Appendix 3: All Relevant Local Legislation/Regulation Appendix 4: GE Australia Group of Companies Page 3 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Section 1: Our Purpose 1.1 Our Goals & Commitment At the General Electric Group of Companies, our vision is to create an environment built on trust and integrity. This applies equally to the General Electric businesses and operations in Australia (“GE Australia”) as well as around the world. To achieve this vision, it is crucial that all our employees and partners understand, follow, and adhere to our corporate values, found in The Spirit & The Letter https://integrity.ge.com/. Our guidelines and policies have been put in place to support employees to live by these values throughout their day-to-day work. Integral to our values, we want our people feel empowered to provide feedback and speak up when they see activity or behaviour that they feel is wrong, or which does not match our values. The goal of this policy is to provide clear guidelines on how GE Australia will approach and manage this feedback. With our whistleblowing policy issued in accordance with the requirements of section 1317AI of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) we aim to ensure: ● Every employee should have the chance to speak up anonymously when they feel we are not adhering to The Spirit & The Letter. Our people should have a place to report misconduct confidentially, to feel their report will be heard and acted on and know that we will make improvements based on findings. ● We believe everyone should be able to make such reports anonymously. We commit to protecting informant's identities where they choose to remain anonymous and to ensuring fair and equitable treatment of persons named in whistleblower disclosures. ● We commit to investigating every report of misconduct. At the end of an investigation we will provide feedback, when it is appropriate to do so. 1.2 Our Commitment At GE Australia, we want our employees to know they can provide information on any concerns they have, understand where they can report their concerns, know what happens after they make a report, and ensure they feel safe in providing a report. We also want employees to know about their right to be anonymous as well as how we, as an organisation, will ensure they are not subject to any victimisation or detrimental action as a result of making a report. 1.3 What Conduct Should Be Reported The following sets out what behaviour we want to be reported under this policy. We want to hear from you if you have reasonable grounds to suspect the existence of any behaviour that is: ● Fraudulent; ● Corrupt; Page 4 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential ● Dishonest; ● Unethical; ● Detrimental to GE Australia and could cause financial or non-financial loss for any one or more of the businesses under GE Australia; ● Misconduct or an improper state of affairs or circumstances, in relation to the tax affairs of GE Australia, or an associate1 of GE Australia and you consider this information may assist the recipient to perform their functions or duties in relation to those tax affairs; An attempt to conceal or delay disclosure of any of the above conduct. This policy should not be used for complaints relating to personal work-related grievances, such as an interpersonal conflict between the informant and another person, concerns regarding discrimination, sexual harassment, harassment, breaches of policy, the creation or existence of an unsafe work environment, a decision relating to engagement, transfer or promotion of the informant, a decision relating to the terms and conditions of engagement of the informant, or a decision relating to suspension, termination or discipline of the informant. Concerns of that nature should be raised either under the GE Grievance Policy and Procedure, or via the Open Reporting system. 1.4 Who Falls Under This Policy An “eligible person” under this policy means current or former: ● Employees (including directors, managers, interns, and secondees); ● Contractors, consultants, service providers, suppliers, business partners (and their employees); ● Individual associates2 of GE Australia; and ● Volunteers. An “eligible person” also includes relatives or dependents of any of the persons referred to above. A relative includes a spouse (including de facto), parent, child or dependant. . This policy applies to GE Australia and its related bodies corporate in Australia set out in Appendix 4 of this policy. Section 2: Process For Making A Report 2.1 What Options Do Eligible Persons Have For Making A Report If an employee or eligible person would like to make a report, they have different channels available where they can do this. Detailed instructions for how to use and approach each of these 1 Associate in this context refers to an associate of a company as defined in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, and includes a partner, a trustee of a trust where the company or their associate benefits from the trust, a controlling entity, and a controlled company. 2 Associate in this context means an individual who is an associate of the company within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). This includes directors and company secretaries of the company, and may also include a range of individuals with whom the company acts in concert or is otherwise associated in a formal or informal way. Page 5 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential channels is included in Appendix 1. In summary, a report can be made to ● Contact the Board of Directors; ● Anonymous email; ● In writing, via post; ● Speak with an Ombuds person; ● Speak with the owner of this whistleblowing program GE Australia CEO ● Speak with a senior manager3 at your local GE Australia office; ● Speak with your HR Leader. In Australia, a report could also be made to any of the following channels: ● an auditor or a member of an audit team conducting an audit of GE Australia; ● an actuary of GE Australia; or ● if the disclosure relates to improper conduct in relation GE Australia’s tax affairs, internal disclosures may also be made to: an officer or senior manager of GE Australia; any employee with tax affairs duties; an auditor or member of an audit team of GE Australia; or a registered BAS agent BAS agent providing tax agent or BAS services to GE Australia. Please see Appendix 1 for additional information. 2.2 You Can Remain Anonymous GE Australia respects and protects your identity if you choose to make an anonymous report. You can choose to remain anonymous while making a report, interacting with case managers during an investigation of your report, as well as after your case is closed. At any given time, you can identify yourself, but this is your choice and at no point do you need to do this, or will you be asked to provide your identity. Your identity (or information likely to lead your identity being identified as an informant) will be kept confidential, except in the following circumstances: • you consent in writing to this information being disclosed; • the information is given to a legal practitioner for the purposes of obtaining legal advice or representation; or • disclosure is permitted by law, or is necessary to prevent a serious and imminent threat to life, health or property. If you decide to disclose your identity, GE Australia will work to protect your identity and will outline and document who in the organisation will know you submitted your report. GE Australia will also take such steps as necessary to ensure you do not suffer any victimisation or detriment as a result of your report. 3 “Senior Manager” means a person who is not a director or secretary of the company but who is involved in making decisions that affect the whole or a significant part of the business or who has the capacity to significantly affect the company’s financial standing. Page 6 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Please note that while GE Australia will make every endeavour possible to investigate your report, in some cases, there are limitations as to what can be achieved where the informant decides to remain anonymous. 2.3 Can I report my concern externally? We encourage you to report internally using the channels referred to in 2.2 above. However, disclosures can be reported directly to an external regulatory body including ASIC or APRA, or the Commissioner of Taxation (for a protected disclosure under the Taxation Administration Act). Under the Corporations Act you can make a public interest disclosure or an emergency disclosure about a protected matter to a journalist or a member of parliament in certain limited circumstances. 2.4 What Is The Investigative Process? Below, we set out the different steps a case manager or member of our Ombudsperson / whistleblowing team is likely to go through from receipt of a report to case closure. ● Report (anonymous or otherwise) is received. ● A case manager / investigator is assigned to the report to assess it and confirm its receipt. ● The case manager / investigator will do an initial assessment to confirm it is a valid report and request permission to investigate. ● The case manager / investigator will begin their investigation. This can include corresponding with the informant if there is a channel to do this. ● The case manager / investigator will investigate and update management and the informant per policy guidelines. ● Once the case manager / investigator has finalised their investigation and report, management (to the extent practicable given the issues) and the informant may be updated. ● At this point, the investigation team will make an assessment on next steps, which may include engaging with other staff (including management) for a determination on any subsequent action to take place. 2.5 How We Use Third Parties At any time, we may deem it necessary to utilise third parties in our whistleblowing program and strategy. If we do so, we will maintain the confidentiality of the whistleblower’s identity and only reveal it in the circumstances permitted by law. Examples of how we might do this include: ● Whistleblowing Platform: we may use a third party whistleblowing platform, to ensure we protect informant’s identities and leverage technologies to ensure no one in our organisation can identify them. This platform also allows for 2-way, anonymous communication as well as case management and data protection features. ● Accounting Firms: we may use third party accounting firms to do forensic investigating of specific reports that come through our whistleblowing program. Page 7 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential ● Investigative Firms: we may use specialist investigative firms to investigate specific cases where we do not have the skills needed in-house. They may also be used for investigations that we would prefer a third party to execute, due to the nature or sensitivity of the report. ● Human Resources Consultants: on occasion, we may utilise human resources consultants across our business and they might be involved in specific whistleblowing cases, ensuring we use human resource best practices as we assess, investigate, and take action. 2.6 Who Is Alerted To A Report One a report is submitted (anonymous or not), this report goes to an objective investigation team, made up of a person(s) with the right expertise to handle the nature of the report. This person will then assess the report and assign it to a case manager, who will manage the investigation. Certain senior managers might be alerted to the report as part of the reporting process or if they are involved in the investigation in some manner. Any information that could potentially identify an anonymous informant will be held in the strictest confidence and will not be shared, unless GE Australia is compelled to do so by law or is permitted to disclose it under the exceptions referred to in 2.2 above. 2.7 What Is The Process Of Updating The Informant Throughout the investigation – unless it is of short duration and unless you are anonymous – either the investigator or the ombudsperson will keep the informant generally informed. He or she will not tell the informant what each witness says or predict the outcome of the case, but will let the informant know generally how things are progressing and when to expect the investigation to conclude. These updates can include the following: ● GE Australia confirming the receipt of a report from the informant. ● GE Australia has begun the investigative process. ● The investigation is currently ongoing. ● The investigation has been closed. GE Australia’s commitment is that the informant will be updated as regularly as practicable while the investigation is ongoing. They will then be updated once the investigation has been closed. The informant may also approach GE Australia at any point to request an update. 2.8 At The End Of The Investigation You will hear back at the end of the investigation from the investigator or ombudsperson, if you didn’t elect to remain anonymous. (Even if you did report your concern anonymously, arrangements can be made so you can contact the ombudsperson to receive feedback). Just as the investigator and the ombudsperson will respect your confidentiality, they will also show respect to others, such as witnesses or a person accused of wrong-doing. So if a corrective action involves discipline, for Page 8 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential example, you will likely not be told who is being disciplined or in what way, since that is a private matter between the employee and management. But you will hear as much at the end of the case as is appropriate to share with you. Section 3: How Informants and Employees Mentioned in Disclosures Are Protected 3.1 Anonymity After Submitting A Report Section 2.2 discussed how an eligible person can remain anonymous during the process of submitting a report. After submitting a report, the following policies around anonymity are in place to protect an informant’s identity. ● The informant has the right to remain anonymous and does not need to identify themselves at any time during the investigation process. ● GE Australia uses tools and platforms that help protect an informant’s identity during and after submitting a report. ● At no time will GE Australia force the informant to reveal their identity. ● The informant can refuse to answer questions they feel could identify themselves. If the informant reveals themselves at any time, we will document who will have access to their identity. This can include the case manager, whistleblowing program owner, etc. ● GE Australia will not be responsible for protecting the identity or anonymity of an informant who has chosen to reveal themselves without first discussing such action with GE Australia. 3.2 Potential Victimisation An informant might be concerned that staff, management, or the organisation might victimise them. If the investigator needs to interview anyone who may resent the investigation and may need to be told or may speculate about who raised the concern, the investigator will strongly caution that person against victimisation. The investigator will explain that any form of victimisation for raising a whistleblower concern, formal or informal, is a breach of this policy, and also of The Spirit & The Letter, regardless of the merits of the original concern. The investigator will describe the types of conduct that may constitute or be perceived as victimisation. And the investigator will caution the person that if he or she victimises a person in any way for having raised a whistleblower concern, at any time, he or she may be disciplined and possibly terminated. If at any time you believe that someone is victimising you because you raised a whistleblower concern, you should let your ombudsperson, investigator or business counsel know right away. In this case, GE Australia will protect the informant from victimisation by way of: ● Being terminated or having their employment ceased; ● Performance management, warnings or disciplinary actions ● Alteration of an employee’s position or duties to his or her disadvantage; Page 9 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential ● Harassment/intimidation on the job or workplace bullying; ● Harm or injury to a person, including psychological harm; ● Damage to an informant’s property or reputation; ● Damage to an informant’s business or financial position; ● Discrimination; ● Any other action that can be perceived as victimisation for making a report. A person who is guilty of victimizing a whistlebower may also be subject to substantial civil and criminal liabilities under Australian law. 3.3 Considered Risk of Victimisation In the case of “considered risk of victimisation”, the informant believes victimisation is near or imminent, and they are targeted for victimisation. In cases of considered victimisation, the informant should contact the person(s) listed in Appendix 1, who will take the action they feel is appropriate as well as come up with recommendations for how the situation can be resolved. Potential steps to protect the informant from a considered risk of victimisation can include: ● The informant taking leave. ● The informant being reassigned to other duties. ● The informant being reassigned to another location. 3.4 Already Victimised Against If the informant feels that they have already been victimised , they should make a report under this policy and escalate this immediately to the owner of your whistleblowing program, who will take the action they feel is appropriate as well as come up with recommendations for how the situation can be resolved. Potential steps to protect the informant after victimisation has occurred can include: ● The informant taking leave. ● The informant being reassigned to other duties. ● The informant being reassigned to another location. 3.5 Victimisation Not Adequately Resolved If the informant feels their report of victimisation was not resolved adequately, the informant can escalate their case in writing. The report will need to go to the persons listed in Appendix 1 and they will investigate the matter and process for how the victimisation was dealt with. 3.6 How GE Australia Deals With Victimisation GE Australia does not tolerate any attempts to victimise an informant who has made a report. Any employee or associated person who is found to have victimised, or otherwise taken detrimental or action against, an informant will face disciplinary action, including potential termination of their Page 10 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential employment. 3.7 Separation Of Issues GE Australia will continue to have the right to raise any issues related to work or performance related issues of an informant. While GE Australia will protect the informant from any victimisation, it is also important that he or she continues to be effective in their job. GE Australia can raise any performance or contract issues with the informant as long as these are kept separate and not influenced by any reports the informant may have made. 3.8 Protection & Immunity For Others & Fair Treatment of Employees Mentioned in a Disclosure Parties required to bear witness or have involvement in the investigation (including employees who are mentioned in whistleblower disclosures) will be treated fairly and protected from victimisation in the same manner as the informant. Employees who are mentioned in a disclosure will have an opportunity to respond (where appropriate and subject to our requirements to maintain confidentiality). 3. 9 Legislative/Regulation Protection & Assistance If in any jurisdictions or locales where GE Australia operates has whistleblowing protection laws that provide a higher level of protection than what is included in this policy, the applicable local legislation will take precedence. Section 4: Our Roles & Responsibilities 4.1 Roles The roles within GE Australia’s whistleblowing program include the following: Program owner; Ombuds person and Ombuds programme; Day-to-day manager of GE Australia’s whistleblowing program; Case managers/ investigators that investigate individual reports; Human resources who are involved in cases and made aware of specific investigations. 4.2 Responsibilities The following are the responsibilities of each role in GE Australia’s whistleblowing program. Program owner/whistleblowing protection officer: This individual owns the entire program and is measured on its overall success. This includes employees knowing and understanding the program, an easy process of making a report, investigating reports, as well as being a point of escalation for any concerns or victimisation that has taken place. Page 11 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential GE Corporate Ombudsperson's Office: As the Board receives a significant number of these communications, they are initially processed by the GE Corporate Ombudsperson's Office, which acknowledges receipt to the person submitting the communication. The Corporate Ombudsperson's Office also regularly provides copies or summaries of other communications directly to directors depending on the nature of the issues or concerns raised. With respect to all other communications, the Corporate Ombudsperson's Office provides regular reports to the Audit Committee and GE's lead director at least four times a year. These reports summarize the communications by subject matter and frequency, and break out significant concerns. The reports also include a summary of the status of significant matters that are under review or investigation in response to a concern. This approach ensures that concerns are raised to the directors in an effective manner that accurately informs them of the nature and frequency of the concerns. Day-to-day manager: The day-to-day manager views incoming anonymous reports, assigns these reports to case managers, and manages them as they conduct investigations. This person is the first line of escalation and works collaboratively with case managers to ensure anonymous reports are heard and acted upon. Case managers: Case managers are assigned anonymous reports and their role is to investigate these reports. This includes interacting and asking questions of informants, as well as using the information provided to investigate the report submitted. Their investigation can be internal or external to the organisation depending on what was documented in the report. Their goal is to gather the facts and put forth a final report to management on what happened and what action they feel needs to take place. Human resources: Colleagues from human resources may be called upon to provide advice and guidance during any investigation. The whistleblowing program leverages their expertise and acumen to ensure GE Healthcare is using HR best practices during investigations and we are treating all employees fairly. Section 5: Governance 5.1 Changes to GE Australia’s Whistleblowing Policy From time to time, GE Australia’s whistleblowing policy will need to change to keep up with our values, best practices, improvements, as well as legislation and regulations. Any changes to our whistleblowing policy will be communicated with all employees and any relevant stakeholders. This policy and any changes made do form any contract of employment. Any changes to GE Australia’s whistleblowing policy must be approved by the: Head of Compliance; and Owner of GE Australia’s whistleblowing program Changes may occasionally be reviewed by the Board of Directors and the Board can comment and provide feedback as necessary. All changes will be documented in GE Australia’s Page 12 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Whistleblowing Policy and will be made available to all employees. 5.2 Where is this policy located? This policy is located on GE Australia’s intranet and on integrity.ge.com. 5.3 Training From time to time, GE Australia will carry out employee training about this policy. The training will be targeted at ‘eligible recipients’ including senior managers, officers, and anyone else authorised by the company to receive disclosures from whistleblowers, such as: Compliance officers; GE Corporate Ombudsperson's Office; Day-to-day manager; Case managers; Human resources; and Others, as required. This training will cover the process set out in GE Australia’s whistleblower policy to respond to disclosures. Special attention will be paid to the importance of protecting the whistleblower’s right to anonymity during the investigation, unless they consent to their identity being disclosed. GE Australia’s company’s auditors, actuaries, tax agents and BAS agents are also ‘eligible recipients’ under the legislation. These parties will be informed of their new obligations under the law, as far as reasonably practicable. Secondary training/ informational packs will also be available for all staff setting out how the whistleblower regime works under the legislation, and how this policy provides a process for disclosing and investigating reported matters. Where applicable, GE Australia will record training content and attendance through its compliance tracker system in order to give proper effect to this policy and ensure due diligence requirements are met with. Page 13 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Appendix 1: Channels For Reporting GE provides multiple channels for employees to raise compliance concerns. Below is a description of the company’s primary reporting channels: i. Via post – Att: GE Australia Pty Ltd, Building 8, Level 2, 572 Swan St, Burnley, VIC 3121; ii. Speak with the owner of this whistleblowing program GE Australia CEO; iii. Speak with a senior manager at your local GE Australia office; iv. Speak with your HR Leader. v. GE Corporate Ombudsperson’s Office e-mail, phone and regular mail. GE Corporate Ombudsperson’s Office provides a phone number, e-mail Ombudsperson@ge.com), and physical address as a mechanism for raising concerns. All concerns raised via the GE Corporate Ombudsperson Office are sent or scanned directly into the e-mail (Ombudsperson@ge.com ), including voicemails left on the phone line. Any such concern is reviewed by the GE Corporate, Global Ombuds Leader and/or the GE Corporate, Deputy Ombuds Leader for an understanding of the concern as well as the business unit to which it applies. Once this information is obtained, the GE Corporate, Global Ombuds Leader and/or the GE Corporate, Deputy Ombuds Leader sends a standard acknowledgement to the concern raiser and forwards the concern to the appropriate GE Business Ombuds Leader/Mailbox for handling. vi. Business Ombuds E-mail. Each GE Tier 1 business is expected to maintain an additional mailbox for receiving concerns. The applicable Business Ombuds Leader, or their designee, is responsible for ensuring that the mailbox is reviewed, and the concern raisers receive a prompt response, generally within two business days vii. Anonymous Reporting Tool. GE understands your right to remain anonymous when you come forward with a concerns, and as such, offers an anonymous reporting channel. The Anonymous Reporting channel is a link to the “Anonymous E-mail” tool available on the GE Integrity website under “Raise a Concern”. This tool allows the employee to raise their concern without providing their identification. Concerns raised via the Anonymous Reporting tool are routed to the appropriate business based on the concern raiser’s selection of the relevant business. Efforts must not be taken to identify an anonymous concern raised without the prior approval of the GE Company General Counsel or the Tier 1 General Counsel. viii. Open Reporting Referral. Policy concerns raised to any of the following channels GE managers, HR, Legal, Compliance, and Audit should also be logged into the Spirit system via spirit.ge.com (Open Reporting Tool). Ideally the channels complete a one-page form with the details of the concern via the Open Reporting Tool. The channels may also contact the GE Corporate, Global Ombuds Leader, Deputy Ombuds Leader or Business Ombuds Leader, or their designee directly. The applicable Ombuds Leader, or their designee, is responsible for ensuring that the Open Reporting Tool is reviewed, cases are opened, and concern raisers receive prompt responses, generally within two business days. ix. eExit Forms. The eExit form refers to the Electronic Exit form utilised by many GE businesses. Within the eExit form is a question asking if the employee has raised or would like to raise any integrity concerns. If the employee responds yes, a workflow is triggered to the HRM of the exiting employee, with copy to the Business Ombuds Leader, or their designee. Upon receipt of an eExit notification, the Business Ombuds Leader, or their designee, should review the concern and follow-up with the designated HRM to better understand the concern. Due to the nature of the eExit channel, it is expected that the Business Ombuds Leader, or their designee, Page 14 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential will follow-up promptly (ideally within 1-2 business days) after notification. Contact information should be collected to ensure a means for communicating with the concern raiser. x. Reporting to GE Board. The audit committee and the independent directors have established the following procedures to enable anyone who has a concern about GE’s conduct, or any employee who has a concern about the Company’s accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters or national securities laws matters, to communicate that concern directly to the lead director or to the audit committee. Such communications may be confidential or anonymous, and may be e-mailed (Directors@ge.com), submitted in writing or reported by phone to special addresses and a toll-free phone number that are published on the Company’s website. a. Comments, complaints and concerns are initially processed by the GE Corporate Ombudsperson’s Office, which acknowledges receipt to the person submitting the communication. b. The audit committee has established the following procedures for: (1) the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters or federal securities laws matters; and (2) the confidential, anonymous submission by GE employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: i. GE has established and published on its website special mail and e-mail addresses and a toll-free telephone number for receiving complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters. ii. All such complaints that could materially affect financial reporting or controls or that relate to national securities law matters will be sent directly to the chair of the audit committee. iii. All such complaints will be tracked on a separate board of directors' ombuds docket, but handled by the Company's ombuds, finance and legal staff in the normal manner, except as the audit committee may request. iv. The status of such complaints will be reported to the chair of the audit committee and if he or she so directs, to the committee or the full board. v. The audit committee chair may request special treatment, including the retention of outside counsel or other advisors, for any complaint addressed to him or her. c. Depending on the nature of the issues or concerns raised, the Corporate Ombudsperson’s Office also regularly provides copies or summaries of other comments, complaints and concerns directly to directors. d. With respect to all other communications, the Corporate Ombudsperson’s Office provides regular reports to the audit committee and GE’s lead director. These reports summarise the communications by subject matter and frequency and break out significant concerns. The reports also include a summary of the status of significant Page 15 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential matters that are under review or investigation in response to a concern. This approach ensures that concerns are raised to the directors in an effective manner that accurately informs them of the nature and frequency of the concerns. The lead director or the audit committee chair may direct that certain matters be presented to the audit committee or the full board and may direct special treatment, including the retention of outside advisors or counsel, for any concern addressed to them. The Company’s integrity Manual prohibits any employee from retaliating or taking any adverse action against anyone for raising or helping to resolve an integrity concern. Regardless of the Open Reporting channel mentioned in above, all whistleblower allegations of potential violations of law, regulation, or GE policy are generally reported through the OR/OMB and tracked through Spirit. The whistleblower has an option to raise an integrity concern to channels outside of the OR/OMB through security.ge.com. Concerns submitted to an Ombudsperson that do not raise potential violations of law, regulation, or GE policy are also recorded and managed via Spirit. This responsibility does not apply to non-policy concerns raised to other Open Reporting channels. All concerns must be logged even if the channel believes the concern is unfounded or can be easily addressed. Page 16 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Appendix 2: Change Log {Document all changes that have occurred in your whistleblowing policy}. Page 17 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Appendix 3: All Relevant Local Legislation/Regulation Treasury Laws Amendment (Enhancing Whistleblower Protections) Act 2019 (Cth) Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (as amended) Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) (as amended). Page 18 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Appendix 4: GE Australia Group of Companies ENTITY ACN GE Australia Pty Ltd 050 289 104 General Electric International, Inc 002 420 751 GE Power Australia Pty Ltd 000 038 237 General Electric Global Services GMBH 607 765 597 GE Grid Australia Pty Ltd 106 900 707 GE Grid Solutions (Australia) Pty Ltd 604 195 208 GE Aviation Systems Australia Pty Ltd 000 152 090 GE Healthcare Australia Pty Limited 001 408 402 Global Life Sciences Solutions Australia Pty Ltd 634 241 731 Page 19 of 19 General Electric Group Australia – December 2019 – v-03 Strictly Company Confidential Ethical Supply Chain Program Updated August 2019 Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As GE’s businesses have globalized, so has our supply chain, including in locations where environmental, Suppliers are critical partners health, safety, labor, human rights, and other practices can be problematic. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require fair treatment of workers, a in GE’s value chain. safe and healthy work environment, and environmental protection. Our Supplier Integrity Guide (SIG) governs all facets of our relationships with suppliers, and At GE, we drive better includes specific prohibitions against forced, prison, or indentured labor, and outcomes through our prohibitions against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion, or human trafficking. At GE, we drive better outcomes through our collaboration collaboration and partnership and partnership with suppliers and other stakeholders. Working together with with suppliers and other governments, business partners and effective academic and non-governmental organizations, we can achieve more than any of us can alone. stakeholders. Program Overview GE’s supply chain efforts Our supply chain efforts are most effective when we prioritize based on risk are most effective when we and where our involvement can have the most impact. Suppliers are prioritized for detailed, on-site assessments depending upon the country in which they prioritize based on risk and are located, their past performance and whether they are producing parts or where our involvement can components that will be incorporated into GE products. We also prioritize labor suppliers in situations where GE is working on behalf of a customer, either alone have the most impact. or as a consortium partner, in construction and commissioning work in parts of the world where acceptable labor standards may not align with GE’s SIG. The onsite assessments cover environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights, and security issues using a global protocol that reflects GE’s Supplier Expectations. The assessments take place prior to placing initial orders with new suppliers, www.ge.com/sustainability and periodically thereafter, on a oneto five -year time frame, depending on our experience with the supplier. sustainability@ge.com In addition to evaluating ethical performance through our supplier assessments, these assessments include focus on environmental, health and safety compliance and conditions. GE promotes resource conservation and EHS management initiatives within our supplier community. GE also engages with a broad group of stakeholders to drive EHS performance and improvement with suppliers, including governments, business partners, academic, and nongovernmental organizations. Given the size and complexity of GE’s supply chain, these programs help us prioritize our actions and enable meaningful partnerships that drive better results. Ethical Supply Chain Program (Cont’d) Supplier Assessments we recently participated in a worker voice pilot Almost all of our on-site assessments are conducted whereby a specialized vendor conducted worker in developing countries, and use more than 1,000 rights surveys via smartphone technology in several local, trained GE employees or trained and qualified communities from which GE and other suppliers partners that can both inspect conditions and coach recruit labor. for improvement. All GE personnel who interact with supplier facilities, regardless of their role or expertise, We learned a lot from this pilot and continue to are expected to participate in awareness training on evaluate how worker voice technology may improve GE’s supplier expectations, human rights issues and our program. We also joined a collaboration called on-site due diligence requirements. Sourcing personnel the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment who visit supplier locations are required to take a through which we team with other large multihazard-recognition class, to have their “eyes always national companies from across industries in an open”, and to report any potentially problematic activity effort to learn more about, and help drive, ethical to our team of assessment professionals. GE records recruitment around the globe. Finally, we are all assessment findings from on-site inspections in an evaluating new methods to assess risk in our supply automated assessment tracking tool. Each finding is chain so as to better target the use of our audit monitored until the supplier provides evidence that resources to the highest risk locations and suppliers. the defect is corrected, and then it is closed. We also supplement onsite efforts with information from regional databases such as that of the Institute of Public EHS Supplier Initiatives and Environmental Affairs’ (IPE) China pollution maps, GE partnerships promote environmental, health plus periodic spot checks and anonymous desk-side and safety (EHS) standards and drive resource reviews of GE audit records by inspectors from other initiatives within our supplier community. Working business units or from our EHS experts. Typically, with suppliers and other stakeholders enables findings must be closed within 60 days. Purchase orders us to identify projects with both operational and are suspended if findings remain open beyond this time environmental benefits while building stronger frame, unless GE agrees that a closure requires more relationships and reducing our supply chain costs. time, interim progress has been demonstrated and/or the delay has been approved by the compliance team. Certain especially serious findings, such as the presence of child labor, ordinarily result in immediate cessation of business relationships. GE puts a great deal of emphasis on confirming closure of findings, which we track in a Gensuite® software system. Closure requirements for findings are linked either to compliance with local laws or, for some issues, to higher GE expectations. Continued Improvement We are always looking for ways to improve our supply chain management program and more effectively use our resources to identify and correct supplier activities that do not comply with our standards. For instance, © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33731 8/2019 Conflict Minerals Updated June 2019 Virtually all of GE’s products contain one or more of the minerals tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG). The mining and trade of these materials from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and surrounding countries have gained GE strives to ensure that our international attention for the role that they can play as “conflict minerals,” financing supply chains are ethical and deadly armed groups in the region. Because of this potential for association with conflict and human rights abuses, GE strives to ensure that our supply chains are sustainable, and that we are ethical and sustainable, and that we are fulfilling our commitment to respect human fulfilling our commitment to rights through responsible sourcing practices. respect human rights through As part of these efforts, GE has instituted Principles on Conflict Minerals, and we responsible sourcing practices. submit a report annually to the Securities and Exchange Commission on our due diligence program. We support industry-wide due diligence mechanisms that enable conflict-free sourcing in general, such as the Responsible Minerals Initiative. We recognize that conflict is just one of the risks related to mineral sourcing in the DRC, and that critical issues such as poverty, environmental degradation, child labor and gender inequality must be addressed as well. Done ethically, production of 3TG in the DRC presents a unique opportunity to contribute to peace and stabilization as well as to local economic development and poverty alleviation. Faced with this reality, we support local development in the DRC mining communities through engagement and philanthropy, including GE Foundation sponsorship of an influential www.ge.com/sustainability study released in 2013 by the NGO Pact entitled “Breaking the Chain: Child Mining in sustainability@ge.com the Democratic Republic of Congo.” GE’s Conflict Minerals Report can be found here. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18007 06/2019 Principles on Conflict Minerals Updated November 2018 GE condemns the ongoing conflict and resulting humanitarian harm in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), which is fueled, in part, by financing from GE condemns the ongoing trade in the ores from which tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are derived. These four minerals are now known as “conflict minerals” — when they originate in mines conflict and resulting operated or taxed by the warring factions, they can be referred to as “conflict humanitarian harm in the minerals from conflict mines.” Democratic Republic of the Tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are common constituents of many of GE’s products, Congo (DRC), which is fueled, ranging from light bulbs to aircraft engines. Because the minerals in these products in part, by financing from trade typically enter supply chains many layers removed from manufacturers like GE, it is difficult to determine where the minerals originated and whether their extraction in the ores from which tin, supports armed conflict. At the same time, millions of Congolese workers rely on tantalum, tungsten and gold are mining of the minerals for their livelihood. Avoiding purchase of all conflict minerals from the DRC region would cause severe hardship for the workers and their derived. dependents. GE is committed to work to As part of our commitment to our Human Rights Statement of Principles , GE is committed to work to eliminate from our products all conflict minerals that support eliminate from our products all armed groups in the DRC or in the surrounding countries, while at the same time conflict minerals that support minimizing unintended consequences for legitimate miners and their dependents. armed groups in the DRC or in GE will: the surrounding countries. • Continue to work toward the elimination, over time, of all conflict minerals from conflict mines in our products, and endeavor to improve, year-over-year, our ability to track conflict minerals in our supply chain, report on their origin, and eliminate those that originate in conflict mines. • Comply with the requirements of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which requires companies to inquire www.ge.com/sustainability into the origin of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in their supply chains, and report on the reasonable inquiry or due diligence the companies conduct to determine sustainability@ge.com whether purchases of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold supported armed groups in the DRC. • Support industry-wide due diligence mechanisms, such as the Responsible Minerals Initiative, that identify conformant smelters and refiners. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18008 11/2018 General Electric Company 2018 Conflict Minerals Report Introduction General Electric Company (“GE” or the “Company”) has prepared this Conflict Minerals Report (“Report”) for the year ended December 31, 2018, as provided for in Rule 13p-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Form SD (collectively, the “Conflict Minerals Rule”). GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold (“3TG”) but GE does not purchase ore or unrefined 3TG from mines and generally is many steps removed in the supply chain from the mining of these minerals. We purchase materials from a wide network of suppliers and rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry regarding the 3TG that are necessary to the functionality or production of products we manufacture. After performing our reasonable country of origin inquiry and due diligence for 2018, we have reason to believe that a portion of the 3TG used in our products may have originated in the Covered Countries (as defined below) and may not be solely from recycled or scrap sources and we are therefore submitting this Report, which describes the due diligence we have performed pursuant to the Conflict Minerals Rule and our related processes and procedures. This Report describes: • the due diligence we performed for 2018, including the steps we took to mitigate the risk that 3TG in our products benefit armed groups; • the products that we have reason to believe might contain 3TG originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the “Covered Countries”); and • information about the processing facilities and countries of origin of 3TG used in those products. Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry and Due Diligence Process 1. Design of GE’s due diligence measures GE has adopted Conflict Minerals Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) that lay out the design of our 3TG due diligence process, based on our broader ethical supply chain program. The Guidelines describe procedures that each GE business is expected to use to perform due diligence on the source and origin of 3TG contained in products we manufacture. GE management designed our due diligence measures to conform in material respects to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas including, the Supplement on Tin, Tantalum, and Tungsten and the Supplement on Gold (Third Edition) (the “OECD Guidance”). This description of due diligence measures refers to measures performed at the GE corporate level and by the following GE businesses: Power, Renewable Energy, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Lighting. Our Oil & Gas business merged with Baker Hughes Incorporated (“BHI”) in July 2017. For due diligence measures information regarding our legacy Oil & Gas business, please refer to the Form SD filing by Baker Hughes, a GE company (“BHGE”). This description is presented pursuant to the organizational structure of the Five-Step Framework for RiskBased Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain contained in the OECD Guidance. Step 1: Establish strong company management systems A. Adopt and commit to a supply chain policy for minerals originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas The Guidelines contain the operative provisions of GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, which can be found on GE’s website, as well as the process for ensuring that risks are adequately managed. GE Corporate created and disseminated the Guidelines to each GE business for execution of GE’s 3TG due diligence process. Additional GE policies that relate to the due diligence measures contained in the OECD Guidance are incorporated into GE’s policy document The Spirit & The Letter, which can be found on GE’s website (for each of these materials, see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). B. Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence GE Corporate. GE’s Global Law & Policy organization has oversight responsibility for GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, including the establishment of processes and procedures to carry out this statement. GE businesses. Each GE business has: • established a system to support due diligence of its supply chain; • documented that system in a written business program; and • assigned responsibility for the execution of the business program to specific personnel. Internal reporting. For 2018, GE Corporate used the following 3TG due diligence reporting mechanisms: • Reporting within GE businesses: Each GE business conducted one or more reviews of its 3TG due diligence program with senior management covering measurements relating to efforts to achieve supply chain transparency; • Communicating across GE businesses: Representatives of GE businesses and others responsible for executing 3TG due diligence held regularly scheduled meetings to discuss design and modification of the due diligence process, share best practices among the businesses, and monitor progress of the 3TG due diligence process; and • Reporting to GE sourcing leaders: Sourcing leaders at each GE business periodically receive reports and review the 3TG due diligence program. C. Establish a system of controls and transparency over the 3TG supply chain Identifying suppliers. Each GE business identified: • Relevant Suppliers: suppliers that provide inputs to GE products that are known or are likely to contain 3TG through a process that is based on an examination of internal records such as bills of material or other product specifications, a qualitative review of sourcing records, or information provided by the supplier; and 2 • Significant Suppliers: those suppliers within the universe of Relevant Suppliers that are most significant to GE’s 3TG due diligence program, using criteria developed by each business, such as the amount of sourcing spend with the supplier. Identifying smelters and refiners in the supply chain. Each GE business identified all smelters and refiners (“SORs”) of 3TG that are first-tier suppliers to GE and used its best efforts to identify additional SORs by surveying Significant Suppliers, either directly or indirectly through an independent third-party supply chain expert, using the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s (“RMI”) Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (“CMRT”). The survey tools are designed to collect, manage and archive (for at least five years) supplier information relevant for 3TG due diligence including, among other things, the identity of SORs of 3TG in each supplier’s supply chain. Each GE business reviews supplier responses for completeness, accuracy and credibility, and follows up with Significant Suppliers whose survey responses are identified as having potentially incomplete or inaccurate information, in order to seek more complete information. Conducting a reasonable country of origin inquiry (“RCOI”). GE relies on the information made available through the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (“RMAP”) administered by RMI, as well as information from an independent third-party supply chain expert for upstream due diligence to identify countries of origin and other relevant information about the conflict status of metals produced by the SORs identified as potentially in GE’s supply chain. GE relied on this information from vendors to identify (1) the status of SORs potentially in GE’s supply chain; and (2) the countries of origin of ores that are potentially in the supply chains of these SORs. Where the data showed that ores utilized by one or more of these smelters or refiners were sourced from a Covered Country, GE concluded that there is reason to believe that 3TG from the Covered Countries may be present in the products of the business for which such smelters or refiners were reported as potentially in the supply chain. Due to business confidentiality and other competitive concerns, as recognized by the OECD Guidance, the RMI does not publish detailed information on specific mine and location of origin of ores that supply the SORs subject to verification reviews. Consequently, no such information is provided in this Report. RMI’s efforts to determine such information is described on the RMI website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). In addition, certain Significant Suppliers provided CMRTs with additional mine or location of origin information, and that information was also included in our RCOI. D. Strengthen company engagement with suppliers Regular communications. GE regularly communicates its expectations on responsible supply chains of 3TG by transmitting surveys and other communications from the sourcing organizations of the GE businesses to Significant Suppliers and other Relevant Suppliers. In addition, the sourcing organizations of GE’s businesses make training available to their suppliers on GE’s 3TG due diligence program. Contractual obligations. Each GE business contractually obligates Relevant Suppliers to (1) adopt policies and establish systems to procure 3TG from sources that have been verified as conflict free; and (2) provide supporting data on their 3TG supply chains to GE when requested, on a platform to be designated by GE. These obligations are reflected in GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants (“Integrity Guide”), which can be found on GE’s website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). Purchase order and contract terms and conditions in use by GE businesses require suppliers to conform their behavior to the Integrity Guide, and generally provide GE with audit rights and the right to terminate the contract in the event of material non-compliance. E. Establish a company-level grievance mechanism Integrity Guide. The Integrity Guide provides multiple methods for suppliers and supplier personnel to raise concerns about matters that are subject to the Integrity Guide, including GE’s expectations of suppliers regarding 3TG due diligence. Open reporting system. Each GE business also has an open reporting system through which employees and third parties may report concerns about policy violations, including concerns related to our 3TG policies. Concerns can be reported anonymously or for attribution through several channels, including any compliance 3 resource (e.g. GE legal counsel or auditor), by calling the GE integrity helpline at (800) 227-5003, or by emailing the GE Ombudsman at ombudsperson@corporate.ge.com. No retaliation. Both the Integrity Guide and the open reporting system forbid retaliation against any person reporting an integrity concern. Step 2: Identify and assess risks in the supply chain A. Use best efforts to identify the smelters and refiners in the supply chain During 2018, using the processes described above under “Establish a system of controls and transparency over the 3TG supply chain,” GE businesses identified 8,453 Relevant Suppliers (down from 18,208 in 2017), including 4,615 Significant Suppliers (down from 5,931 in 2017). These year-over-year changes are primarily the result of business unit sales, the exclusion of BHGE from our analysis (which is reported separately by BHGE) and improvements in our due diligence efforts. The businesses followed up with the Significant Suppliers that did not respond to the request within the specified time frame. The information was requested from each Significant Supplier multiple times by email and phone, to the extent the supplier continued to be non-responsive. Our Significant Suppliers, mostly reporting at a company level, identified 322 SORs that were potentially in their supply chains (versus 316 in 2017). See Table A below for a list of these SORs and a summary of their validation status under the RMAP. B. Identify the scope of the risk assessment of the 3TG supply chain Engaging with suppliers. GE’s 3TG supplier survey asks suppliers to identify SORs of 3TG in their supply chains. For Significant Suppliers that are identified as either not having a responsible 3TG sourcing policy or not implementing due diligence measures for conflict-free sourcing, we encourage those suppliers to implement such measures. We seek to engage all Significant Suppliers to encourage the SORs in their supply chains to become validated as conformant by the RMAP or a similar program. The GE Businesses seek to continuously improve 3TG due diligence efforts to reduce 3TG supply chain risk by encouraging suppliers to source from conformant SORs. For 2018, these efforts increased the number of SORs in our supply chain that have been verified as conformant by 2% to 256. As a result, 80% of the SORs identified by our Significant Suppliers have been verified as conformant (up from 35% in 2013, when we started our 3TG due diligence program). In addition, the sourcing organizations of GE’s businesses provided specialized training to suppliers on GE’s 3TG due diligence program. Engaging with smelters and refiners. In addition to engaging with SORs through the RMAP, GE’s businesses that buy tungsten products directly from a tungsten smelter (the “first-tier tungsten smelter”) periodically review its audit status and encourage the first-tier tungsten smelter to maintain its RMI Conformant status. See “Devise and adopt a risk management plan” below for additional information on our engagement efforts. C. Assess whether the smelters/refiners have carried out all elements of due diligence for responsible supply chains of 3TG from conflict-affected and high-risk areas We review the smelter and refiner information provided by the Significant Suppliers against the Smelter Look-up tab list of the RMI’s CMRT and to the extent that a smelter or refiner identified by a Significant Supplier is not on that list, we take additional steps to verify whether the listed entity is a smelter or refiner. Identified SORs were reviewed against the RMI’s list of “Conformant” or “Active” SORs published in connection with the RMAP. If a smelter or refiner identified by a Significant Supplier is not listed as Conformant, or equivalent by another RMI cross-recognized, independent third-party audit program, we consult publicly available information or through industry associations, we attempt to contact the smelter or refiner to attempt to determine whether that smelter or refiner has a responsible 3TG sourcing process. 4 D. Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs) First-tier suppliers. Each GE business is responsible for confirming that each of its first-tier suppliers that are SORs (if any): • has a policy and procedures to eliminate sourcing of conflict-supporting 3TG; • has been subject to an audit of the origin of their 3TG supplies conducted in accordance with OECD Guidance or has made a firm commitment to undergo such an audit as soon as it can be scheduled; and • passes the audit as being conflict-free or, having failed the audit, has established and put into place a plan to correct process deficiencies. Lower-tier (upstream) suppliers. In accordance with OECD Guidance, including its audit recommendations for downstream companies, GE implements upstream audits by participating in and cooperating with industry organizations. GE is a member of RMI (member code GECO) and has, periodically, supported RMI and RMAP through membership on various committees and working groups. As such, GE relies on the RMAP to conduct risk assessment at the upstream level. For each smelter identified in its supply chain at the first or lower tiers, each GE business assesses the information available from the RMAP and an independent third-party supply chain expert to determine whether there are any high-risk (as defined below) smelters or refiners and, if needed, develops a corrective action plan. We encourage removing any high-risk smelters from our supply chain. Step 3: Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified risks A. Report findings to designated senior management See “Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence” above for a description of GE’s 3TG due diligence internal reporting processes. B. Devise and adopt a risk management plan Across GE. Each GE business periodically compiles a report of 3TG risks identified in its supply chain for review by the GE business executive-level program owner to determine appropriate steps to take in mitigating any risks identified during the 3TG due diligence process. In 2018, these steps focused on reducing risk by encouraging Significant Suppliers who identified high-risk SORs to remove them from their supply chains. A high-risk smelter or refiner is one for which there are credible reports that such smelter or refiner sources materials in a manner that directly or indirectly finances armed conflict. For Significant Suppliers who identified high-risk SORs, the relevant GE business sent such supplier a letter requesting: (1) that that supplier confirm whether these SORs are in fact in their supply chain, and if so, whether such materials are used in GE products, (2) that the supplier encourage these SORs to participate in the RMAP and (3) that if a smelter or refiner refuses to participate in the RMAP, such supplier should develop a plan to remove the smelter or refiner from its supply chain. In addition, in 2018, the Aerospace Industries Association, of which GE is a member, sent a letter to a number of SORs in the aerospace industry supply chain urging them to participate in the RMAP, as it has in prior years. Step 4: Carry out independent 3rd-party audit of smelter/refiner’s due diligence practices See “Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs)” above for a discussion of how GE conducted risk assessment at the upstream level. Step 5: Report annually on supply chain due diligence We file this Report annually, and a copy of it is available at https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub. 5 RCOI and Due Diligence Results GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain 3TG. For a description of the products manufactured by GE in 2018, see the products description for each of our industrial businesses – Power, Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Lighting – on pages 14-33 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are incorporated into this Report by reference and which you can find at https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/annual-report. GE purchases materials from a wide network of suppliers so we necessarily rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry. After performing an RCOI and due diligence for 2018, we have reason to believe that tungsten sourced from the first-tier tungsten smelter may be sourced from a Covered Country, however, that smelter is verified as conformant by the RMI. Based on information RMI makes available to its members, we have reason to believe that some of the necessary 3TG in our products were sourced from Covered Countries. We are unaware and have no knowledge that any of the necessary 3TG contained in our in-scope products directly or indirectly financed or benefitted armed groups in a Covered Country, but make no assertion that any of our products are “DRC conflict free.” Smelters and Refiners Used to Process 3TG in GE Products GE obtained information about the SORs used to process 3TG in our products through the due diligence measures described in this Report. Table A provides a list of the first-tier tungsten smelter as well as the SORs that GE’s Significant Suppliers identified as being present in their supply chains and that may have processed 3TG contained in in-scope GE products. Countries of Origin of 3TG in GE Products GE relies on information RMI makes available to its members to obtain information about the country of origin and mine or location of origin of 3TG in GE products. Table B below contains a list of known countries of origin of 3TG used by SORs that GE suppliers identified as potentially being present in their supply chains. In addition, certain Significant Suppliers provided CMRTs with additional mine or location of origin information, and that information is marked with an asterisk in Table B, because it has not been verified by the RMI or an equivalent third-party. For 2018, most Significant Suppliers provided company level responses, which may include country of origin information for parts not sold to GE. Therefore, we are unable to determine whether any 3TG in GE products actually sourced from the countries listed in Table B. For 2018, we were not able to determine the country of origin for the 3TG processed by any of the smelters or refiners listed as “Active” or “On Smelter Lookup Tab List Only.” Future Risk Mitigation Efforts 2019 actions to improve due diligence and supplier engagement. GE intends to take the following steps in 2019 to improve 3TG due diligence and thereby mitigate the risk that 3TG contained in in-scope GE products may benefit armed groups: • continue communication with suppliers and spread best practices learned during execution of the 3TG due diligence process in 2018 across the GE businesses to continue to work to improve the percentage of Significant Suppliers responding to GE’s supply chain surveys and the quality of their responses, including requesting that suppliers provide information at a product level; • continue the identification of and communication with SORs in GE’s supply chain, both directly and indirectly through GE’s Significant Suppliers, in order to continue to increase the number of SORs that participate in the RMAP; 6 • continue to participate in industry initiatives encouraging responsible supply chains, including initiatives to add cobalt and other minerals to the scope; and • as new Significant Suppliers are added, work with these suppliers to help ensure that they understand our compliance requirements, the requirements of the Conflict Minerals Rule and the OECD Guidance. 7 Table A (as of April 23, 2019) Summary of Smelters and Refiners # of Smelters and Refiners Reported in Our Supply Chain On Smelter Look-up Conformant Active Tab List Only Total 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Tantalum 40 40 0 0 0 0 40 40 Tin 72 75 2 2 9 9 83 86 Tungsten 40 40 1 1 4 2 45 43 Gold 99 101 8 4 41 48 148 153 Total 251 256 11 7 54 59 316 322 We note the following in connection with the information contained in the foregoing table: (1) The SORs reflected in the table were the first-tier tungsten smelter or were identified by our Significant Suppliers as potentially being part of our 2018 supply chain. However, not all of the included SORs may have processed the necessary 3TG contained in the in-scope products that we manufactured, since many Significant Suppliers reported to us at a “company level” the 3TG contained in all of their products, not just those in the products that they sold to us. Some Significant Suppliers also may have reported to us SORs that were not in our supply chain due to over-inclusiveness in the information received from their suppliers or for other reasons. In addition, the SORs reflected above may not be all of the SORs in our supply chain, since many Significant Suppliers were unable to identify all of the SORs used to process the necessary 3TG content contained in the in-scope products that we manufactured and not all of the Significant Suppliers responded to our inquiries. (2) “Conformant” means that a smelter or refiner was audited by the RMI and has been found to be conformant with the RMAP. (3) “Active” means participants in the RMAP that have committed to undergo an assessment and have scheduled the assessment date, or are participating in one of the cross-recognized certification programs. (4) A smelter or refiner is listed as “On Smelter Look-up Tab List Only” if it was not Conformant or Active but appears on the Smelter Look-up tab of the CMRT. (5) The table excludes three smelters that ceased operation in 2018. (6) The compliance status information reflected in the table is based solely on information made available by the RMI to its members, without independent verification by us. Status of Identified Smelters and Refiners for 2018 Metal Smelter/Refiner Name Smelter/Refiner Location Status Gold 8853 S.p.A. ITALY Conformant Gold Advanced Chemical Company UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Aida Chemical Industries Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Al Etihad Gold Refinery DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Conformant Gold Allgemeine Gold-und Silberscheideanstalt A.G. GERMANY Conformant Gold Almalyk Mining and Metallurgical Complex (AMMC) UZBEKISTAN Conformant Gold AngloGold Ashanti Corrego do Sitio Mineracao BRAZIL Conformant Gold Argor-Heraeus S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Asahi Pretec Corp. JAPAN Conformant Gold Asahi Refining Canada Ltd. CANADA Conformant Gold Asahi Refining USA Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Asaka Riken Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold AU Traders and Refiners SOUTH AFRICA Conformant Gold Aurubis AG GERMANY Conformant A-1 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Gold PHILIPPINES Conformant Philippines) Gold Boliden AB SWEDEN Conformant Gold C. Hafner GmbH + Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Gold CCR Refinery Glencore Canada Corporation CANADA Conformant Gold Cendres + Metaux S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Chimet S.p.A. ITALY Conformant Gold Daejin Indus Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold DODUCO Contacts and Refining GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Dowa JAPAN Conformant Gold DS PRETECH Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold DSC (Do Sung Corporation) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Emirates Gold DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Conformant Gold Geib Refining Corporation UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Gold Refinery of Zijin Mining Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold HeeSung Metal Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Heimerle + Meule GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Heraeus Metals Hong Kong Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Heraeus Precious Metals GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Inner Mongolia Qiankun Gold and Silver Refinery Share Gold CHINA Conformant Co., Ltd. Gold Ishifuku Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Istanbul Gold Refinery TURKEY Conformant Gold Italpreziosi ITALY Conformant Gold Japan Mint JAPAN Conformant Gold Jiangxi Copper Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold JSC Uralelectromed RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold JX Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Kazzinc KAZAKHSTAN Conformant Gold Kennecott Utah Copper LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Kojima Chemicals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Kyrgyzaltyn JSC KYRGYZSTAN Conformant Gold L'Orfebre S.A. ANDORRA Conformant Gold LS-NIKKO Copper Inc. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Marsam Metals BRAZIL Conformant Gold Materion UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Matsuda Sangyo Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Hong Kong) Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. SINGAPORE Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Suzhou) Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Metalor USA Refining Corporation UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Metalurgica Met-Mex Penoles S.A. De C.V. MEXICO Conformant Gold Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Conformant A-2 Gold Mitsui Mining and Smelting Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold MMTC-PAMP India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Conformant Gold Moscow Special Alloys Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold Nadir Metal Rafineri San. Ve Tic. A.S. TURKEY Conformant Gold Nihon Material Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Ogussa Osterreichische Goldund Silber-Scheideanstalt Gold AUSTRIA Conformant GmbH Gold Ohura Precious Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant OJSC The Gulidov Krasnoyarsk Non-Ferrous Metals Gold RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Plant (OJSC Krastsvetmet) Gold OJSC Novosibirsk Refinery RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold PAMP S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Planta Recuperadora de Metales SpA CHILE Conformant Gold Prioksky Plant of Non-Ferrous Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold PT Aneka Tambang (Persero) Tbk INDONESIA Conformant Gold PX Precinox S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Rand Refinery (Pty) Ltd. SOUTH AFRICA Conformant Gold REMONDIS PMR B.V. NETHERLANDS Conformant Gold Royal Canadian Mint CANADA Conformant Gold SAAMP FRANCE Conformant Gold Safimet S.p.A ITALY Conformant Gold SAXONIA Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold SEMPSA Joyeria Plateria S.A. SPAIN Conformant Gold Shandong Zhaojin Gold & Silver Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Sichuan Tianze Precious Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Singway Technology Co., Ltd. TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Gold SOE Shyolkovsky Factory of Secondary Precious Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold Solar Applied Materials Technology Corp. TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Gold Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold SungEel HiMetal Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold T.C.A S.p.A ITALY Conformant Gold Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K. JAPAN Conformant Gold The Refinery of Shandong Gold Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Tokuriki Honten Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Torecom KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Umicore Brasil Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Gold Umicore Precious Metals Thailand THAILAND Conformant Gold Umicore S.A. Business Unit Precious Metals Refining BELGIUM Conformant Gold United Precious Metal Refining, Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Valcambi S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Western Australian Mint (T/a The Perth Mint) AUSTRALIA Conformant Gold WIELAND Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Yamakin Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Yokohama Metal Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Zhongyuan Gold Smelter of Zhongjin Gold Corporation CHINA Conformant Gold Bangalore Refinery INDIA Active A-3 Gold Chugai Mining JAPAN Active Gold KGHM Polska Miedz Spolka Akcyjna POLAND Active Gold NH Recytech Company KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Active On Smelter Look-up Gold Abington Reldan Metals, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold African Gold Refinery UGANDA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Atasay Kuyumculuk Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S. TURKEY Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Caridad MEXICO Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Daye Non-Ferrous Metals Mining Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Degussa Sonne / Mond Goldhandel GmbH GERMANY Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Dijllah Gold Refinery FZC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Fidelity Printers and Refiners Ltd. ZIMBABWE Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Fujairah Gold FZC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold GCC Gujrat Gold Centre Pvt. Ltd. INDIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Great Wall Precious Metals Co., Ltd. of CBPM CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Guangdong Jinding Gold Limited CHINA Tab List Only Guoda Safina High-Tech Environmental Refinery Co., On Smelter Look-up Gold CHINA Tab List Only Ltd. On Smelter Look-up Gold Hangzhou Fuchunjiang Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Hunan Chenzhou Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Hunan Guiyang yinxing Nonferrous Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold HwaSeong CJ CO., LTD. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold International Precious Metal Refiners UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold JSC Ekaterinburg Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Kaloti Precious Metals UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Kazakhmys Smelting LLC KAZAKHSTAN Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Kyshtym Copper-Electrolytic Plant ZAO RUSSIAN FEDERATION Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold L'azurde Company For Jewelry SAUDI ARABIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Lingbao Gold Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Lingbao Jinyuan Tonghui Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Luoyang Zijin Yinhui Gold Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only A-4 On Smelter Look-up Gold Modeltech Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Morris and Watson NEW ZEALAND Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Morris and Watson Gold Coast AUSTRALIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combinat UZBEKISTAN Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Pease & Curren UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Penglai Penggang Gold Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold QG Refining, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Refinery of Seemine Gold Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Sabin Metal Corp. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold SAFINA A.S. CZECH REPUBLIC Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Sai Refinery INDIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Samduck Precious Metals KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Samwon Metals Corp. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Shandong Humon Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Shandong Tiancheng Biological Gold Industrial Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only State Research Institute Center for Physical Sciences and On Smelter Look-up Gold LITHUANIA Tab List Only Technology On Smelter Look-up Gold Sudan Gold Refinery SUDAN Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Tony Goetz NV BELGIUM Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold TOO Tau-Ken-Altyn KAZAKHSTAN Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Universal Precious Metals Refining Zambia ZAMBIA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Gold Yunnan Copper Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only Tantalum Asaka Riken Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Changsha South Tantalum Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum D Block Metals, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Exotech Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum F&X Electro-Materials Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum FIR Metals & Resource Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Aizu JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Boyertown UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Guangdong Rising Rare Metals-EO Materials Ltd. CHINA Conformant A-5 Tantalum Guangdong Zhiyuan New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Co., Ltd. THAILAND Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Hermsdorf GmbH GERMANY Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Tantalum and Niobium GmbH GERMANY Conformant Tantalum Hengyang King Xing Lifeng New Materials Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiangxi Dinghai Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiangxi Tuohong New Raw Material CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Janny New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum JiuJiang JinXin Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Tanbre Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Zhongao Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum KEMET Blue Metals MEXICO Conformant Tantalum KEMET Blue Powder UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum LSM Brasil S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tantalum Metallurgical Products India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Conformant Tantalum Mineracao Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tantalum Mitsui Mining and Smelting Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Ningxia Orient Tantalum Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum NPM Silmet AS ESTONIA Conformant NORTH MACEDONIA, Tantalum Power Resources Ltd. Conformant REPUBLIC OF Tantalum QuantumClean UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Resind Industria e Comercio Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tantalum Solikamsk Magnesium Works OAO RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tantalum Taki Chemical Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Telex Metals UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Ulba Metallurgical Plant JSC KAZAKHSTAN Conformant Tantalum XinXing HaoRong Electronic Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Yanling Jincheng Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Alpha UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tin Chenzhou Yunxiang Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Chifeng Dajingzi Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin China Tin Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin CV Ayi Jaya INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Dua Sekawan INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Gita Pesona INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV United Smelting INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Venus Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin Dowa JAPAN Conformant Tin EM Vinto BOLIVIA Conformant Tin Fenix Metals POLAND Conformant Tin Gejiu Fengming Metallurgy Chemical Plant CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Jinye Mineral Company CHINA Conformant A-6 Tin Gejiu Kai Meng Industry and Trade LLC CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Yunxin Nonferrous Electrolysis Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Zili Mining And Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Guangdong Hanhe Non-Ferrous Metal Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Guanyang Guida Nonferrous Metal Smelting Plant CHINA Conformant Tin Huichang Jinshunda Tin Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Jiangxi New Nanshan Technology Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Magnu's Minerais Metais e Ligas Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Malaysia Smelting Corporation (MSC) MALAYSIA Conformant Tin Melt Metais e Ligas S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Metallic Resources, Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tin Metallo Belgium N.V. BELGIUM Conformant Tin Metallo Spain S.L.U. SPAIN Conformant Tin Mineracao Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Minsur PERU Conformant Tin Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Conformant Tin Modeltech Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Conformant Tin O.M. Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. THAILAND Conformant Tin O.M. Manufacturing Philippines, Inc. PHILIPPINES Conformant Tin Operaciones Metalurgicas S.A. BOLIVIA Conformant Tin PT Aries Kencana Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Artha Cipta Langgeng INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT ATD Makmur Mandiri Jaya INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Babel Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Babel Surya Alam Lestari INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Prima Tin INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Serumpun INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Tin Industry INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Belitung Industri Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bukit Timah INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT DS Jaya Abadi INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Inti Stania Prima INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Karimun Mining INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Kijang Jaya Mandiri INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Lautan Harmonis Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Menara Cipta Mulia INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Mitra Stania Prima INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Panca Mega Persada INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Premium Tin Indonesia INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Prima Timah Utama INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Rajehan Ariq INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Refined Bangka Tin INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Sariwiguna Binasentosa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Stanindo Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Sukses Inti Makmur INDONESIA Conformant A-7 Tin PT Sumber Jaya Indah INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Timah Tbk Kundur INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Timah Tbk Mentok INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Tinindo Inter Nusa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Tirus Putra Mandiri INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Tommy Utama INDONESIA Conformant Tin Resind Industria e Comercio Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Rui Da Hung TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Tin Soft Metais Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Thai Nguyen Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tin Thaisarco THAILAND Conformant Tin Tin Technology & Refining UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tin White Solder Metalurgia e Mineracao Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Yunnan Chengfeng Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Yunnan Tin Company Limited CHINA Conformant Tin Dongguan CiEXPO Environmental Engineering Co., Ltd. CHINA Active Tin PT Rajawali Rimba Perkasa INDONESIA Active On Smelter Look-up Tin An Vinh Joint Stock Mineral Processing Company VIET NAM Tab List Only Electro-Mechanical Facility of the Cao Bang Minerals & On Smelter Look-up Tin VIET NAM Tab List Only Metallurgy Joint Stock Company On Smelter Look-up Tin Estanho de Rondonia S.A. BRAZIL Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin Gejiu City Fuxiang Industry and Trade Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin HuiChang Hill Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin Nghe Tinh Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin Pongpipat Company Limited MYANMAR Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin Super Ligas BRAZIL Tab List Only On Smelter Look-up Tin Tuyen Quang Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Tab List Only Tungsten A.L.M.T. Corp. JAPAN Conformant Tungsten ACL Metais Eireli BRAZIL Conformant Tungsten Asia Tungsten Products Vietnam Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Chenzhou Diamond Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Chongyi Zhangyuan Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Fujian Jinxin Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Haichuang Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Huaxing Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Jiangwu Ferrotungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Seadragon W & Mo Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Global Tungsten & Powders Corp. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Guangdong Xianglu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Tungsten H.C. Starck Tungsten GmbH GERMANY Conformant A-8 Tungsten Hunan Chenzhou Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hunan Chuangda Vanadium Tungsten Co., Ltd. Wuji CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hunan Chunchang Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hydrometallurg, JSC RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Japan New Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tungsten Jiangwu H.C. Starck Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Jiangxi Gan Bei Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Jiangxi Tonggu Non-ferrous Metallurgical & Chemical Tungsten CHINA Conformant Co., Ltd. Tungsten Jiangxi Xinsheng Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Jiangxi Yaosheng Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Kennametal Fallon UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Kennametal Huntsville UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Malipo Haiyu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Masan Tungsten Chemical LLC (MTC) VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Moliren Ltd. RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Niagara Refining LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Philippine Chuangxin Industrial Co., Inc. PHILIPPINES Conformant South-East Nonferrous Metal Company Limited of Tungsten CHINA Conformant Hengyang City Tungsten Tejing (Vietnam) Tungsten Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Unecha Refractory metals plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Wolfram Bergbau und Hutten AG AUSTRIA Conformant Tungsten Woltech Korea Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Tungsten Xiamen Tungsten (H.C.) Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant A-9 Table B (as of April 23, 2019) Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten Argentina Australia Australia Australia Armenia Austria Bolivia Austria* Australia Bolivia Brazil Bolivia Azerbaijan Brazil Burundi Brazil Benin Burundi China Burundi Bolivia China Colombia Canada* Botswana Colombia Democratic Republic of the China Brazil Democratic Republic of the Congo Colombia Bulgaria* Congo Guinea Democratic Republic of the Burkina Faso Ethiopia India* Congo Burundi* Guinea Indonesia Guinea Canada India Laos Indonesia Central African Republic* Madagascar Malaysia Kyrgyzstan* Chile Malaysia Mongolia Laos China Mozambique Myanmar Malaysia Colombia Nigeria Niger* Mexico* Congo* Russian Federation Nigeria Mongolia Cyprus Rwanda Peru Myanmar Democratic Republic of Sierra Leone Portugal Nigeria the Congo Thailand Russian Federation Peru Dominican Republic Uganda* Rwanda Portugal* Ecuador recycled Taiwan Russian Federation Egypt Tanzania* Rwanda Eritrea Thailand Spain* Ethiopia Uganda Taiwan Finland United Kingdom of Great Thailand Georgia Britain and Northern Ireland Uganda* Ghana Venezuela United Kingdom of Great Guatemala Viet Nam* Britain and Northern Ireland Guinea recycled United States of America Guyana Uzbekistan* Honduras Viet Nam* India* recycled Indonesia Iran Ivory Coast Japan* Kazakhstan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Liberia* A-10 Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten Malaysia Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Mongolia Morocco Mozambique* Namibia New Zealand* Nicaragua Niger Papua New Guinea Peru Philippines Poland* Puerto Rico Russian Federation Rwanda* Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone* Slovakia Solomon Islands South Africa South Sudan* Spain Suriname Swaziland Sweden Tajikistan* Tanzania Thailand Togo Turkey Uganda* United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Viet Nam* Zambia Zimbabwe recycled A-11 Helpful Resources Acronyms Used in This Report 3TG Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten or Gold CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development RMAP Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (formerly the Conflict-Free Smelter Program) RMI Responsible Minerals Initiative (formerly the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SORs Smelters and Refiners Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements – that is, statements related to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For details on the uncertainties that may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements, see http://www.ge.com/investor-relations/disclaimer-caution-concerning-forward-looking-statements as well as our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake to update our forwardlooking statements. Where You Can Find Additional Information* GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub GE’s Statement on Ethical Supply Chain https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants www.gesupplier.com/html/SuppliersIntegrityGuide.htm GE’s Code of Conduct: The Spirit & The Letter https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub Responsible Minerals Initiative http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and HighRisk Areas www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/OECD-Due-Diligence-Guidance-Minerals-Edition3.pdf GE’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/annual-report *These web links are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites does not constitute a part of this Report. GE and the GE logo are trademarks and service marks of General Electric Company. Other marks used throughout are trademarks and service marks of their respective owners. 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC 6,498,896 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally FHI 360 300,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation 1,898,274 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally President and Fellows of Harvard College 2,713,029 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Boston Medical Center 184,433 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Harvard Medical School 205,192 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Health Resources in Action, Inc. 750,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL 25,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Massachusetts League of Community Health Centers, Inc. 725,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. NATIONAL MEDICAL FELLOWSHIPS INC 131,400 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Shatterproof 100,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. TSNE MissionWorks 250,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. University of New Mexico Contract & Grants HSC 2,250,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS 500,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL 250,000 GE Foundation Diversity Jobs for America's Graduates, Inc. 250,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Assemble INC 50,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Boston Educational Development Foundation, Inc 2,450,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Center for Strategic Research and Communication 733,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills College For Every Student Inc. 1,000,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Council of Chief State School Officers 150,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library Foundation 118,050 GE Foundation Education/Skills Milwaukee Public Schools 2,109,997 GE Foundation Education/Skills Project Lead The Way 75,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills The Fab Foundation 125,285 GE Foundation GE STAR AWARDS Institute of International Education, Inc. 1,030,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts A CHILDS HOPE INTERNATIONAL INC 15,680 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACADEMY OF OUR LADY OF MERCY, LAURALTON HALL 46,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACCELERATE BRAIN CANCER CURE INC 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADAMS COUNTY COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC 20,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adirondack Mountain Club, Inc. 16,456 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADLER PLANETARIUM & ASTRONOMY MUSEUM 25,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALAMO COLLEGES FOUNDATION INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Albany Symphony Orchestra, Inc. (The) 11,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Al-Furqan Academy 30,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALGONQUIN ARTS A NEW JERSEY NONPROFIT CORPORATION 10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALICE PAUL INSTITUTE INC 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALL INDIA MOVEMENT (AIM) FOR SEVA INC 19,106 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALLIANCE FOR KIDS INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALS THERAPY DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE 14,041 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALUMNI FUND ASSOCIATION OF YALE UNIVERSITY 11,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION GREATER CINCINNATI CHAPTER 18,935 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALZHEIMERS DISEASE AND RELATED DISORDERS ASSOCIATION 15,257 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN ASSOCIATES OF THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE INC 30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN BAPTIST HOMES FOUNDATION OF THE WEST INC 22,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Cancer Society 56,519 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY INC 50,959 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION INC NATIONAL SERVICE CENTER 32,720 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR SUICIDE PREVENTION 11,677 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of Magen David Adom 25,216 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of the London Business School 147,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION 83,613 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC 11,542 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION/UPSTATE SC & WESTERN NC 21,636 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS 428,152 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 16,869 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN THEATRE WORKS INC 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 12,402 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Americares Foundation, Inc. 57,083 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMITY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANGELWOOD INC 27,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANIMAL PROTECTIVE FOUNDATION OF SCHENECTADY INC 27,571 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANNUR ISLAMIC SCHOOL 24,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts APEX FOR YOUTH INC 40,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Appalachia Service Project, Inc. 25,188 GE Foundation Matching Gifts APPLE RIDGE FARM INCORPORATED 11,895 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arkansas State University Foundation Inc 12,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTS CENTER AND THEATER OF SCHENECTADY INC dba PROCTOR'S 79,060 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ASBURY FOUNDATION 11,205 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ashland University 10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association of Graduates of the United States Military Academy 38,801 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ATLANTA UNION MISSION CORPORATION 16,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Atlas Ministry Inc 20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ATMIYA CARE CHARITIES INC 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUBURN UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 27,890 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUTISM SPEAKS INC 28,431 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AVENUES NAVIGATING THE SPECTRUM OF RELATIONSHIPS RIGHTS & RESPONSIBILITY 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AYN RAND INSTITUTE THE CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF OBJECTIVISM 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Azusa Pacific University 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BACK 2 BACK MINISTRIES INC COMMUNITY SERVICE 17,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BAPS CHARITIES INC 85,845 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barrier Island Group for the Arts, Inc 50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BARRINGTON STAGE CO INC 18,123 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bay Path University 13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bellarmine University 17,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Berkshire Theatre Festival, Inc. 25,490 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bernardine Franciscan Sisters 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BEST BUDDIES INTERNATIONAL INC 10,716 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Best Friends Animal Society 13,215 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BETH-EL CENTER INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BETHESDA HOUSE OF SCHENECTADY INC 15,479 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bethesda Lutheran Communities Community Services 10,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BHARATHI THEERTHA 14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BIGELOW LABORATORY FOR OCEAN SCIENCES 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BLUE RIDGE AREA FOOD BANK INC 10,452 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bluefield College 19,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bnai Brith Youth Organization, Inc 19,665 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON COLLEGE 37,415 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA INC 11,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON UNIVERSITY 25,078 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOWLING GREEN STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC. 51,675 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 31,578 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF ERIE INC 29,178 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF SCHENECTADY 25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys and Girls Clubs of Fort Wayne, Inc. 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BREASTCANCER ORG 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRIDGEPORT RESCUE MISSION INC 12,168 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROOKSBY VILLAGE INC 17,270 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROWN UNIVERSITY 24,670 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bryant University 26,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bryn Mawr College 14,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bucknell University 35,675 GE Foundation Matching Gifts buildOn 408,781 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CALEB COMPANY 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California Institute of Technology 51,892 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California Institute of the Arts 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, FRESNO FOUNDATION 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Calvin College 17,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMP HUNT INC 12,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cape Fear Community College Foundation, Inc. 17,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAPITAL CITY RESCUE MISSION INC 23,827 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CARDINAL HAYES HIGH SCHOOL 22,652 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 29,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CARROLL UNIVERSITY INC 11,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities Corporation 13,084 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF DIOCESE OF ALBANY 39,705 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY INC 48,305 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF LOUISVILLE 32,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF SOUTHWESTERN OHIO 25,218 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES USA 14,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Community Foundation for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati 241,847 Inc GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES 72,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTER IN THE SQUAREWestern Virginia Foundation for the Arts 25,790 and Sciences GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTRA HEALTH FOUNDATION 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTURION MINISTRIES 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHAPEL HAVEN ENDOWMENT INC 25,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHARLESTON URBAN SQUASH INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut, Inc. 32,140 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILD WELLNESS FAIR INC 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ChildFund International 13,927 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDREN'S CIRCLE MISSION 11,659 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HEALTHCARE OF ATLANTA FOUNDATION 20,494 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOPE INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL CORPORATION 24,425 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION 16,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER 15,745 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN APPALACHIAN PROJECT INC 11,235 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Christian Center of Pittsfield, Inc. 10,595 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN LEARNING CENTER 13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHURCH COMMUNITY SERVICES INC 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI CENTER FOR AUTISM 12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Institute of Fine Arts 137,469 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Public Radio, Inc. 17,389 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 22,586 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI ZOO FOUNDATION INC 27,879 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY CENTER TRANSITIONAL LIVING INC 10,979 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Gospel Mission/City Cure/City Ministries 81,962 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY MISSION OF SCHENECTADY 290,726 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Claremont McKenna College 77,855 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clarkson University 53,630 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLEARBROOK 10,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clemson University Foundation 66,156 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLEVELAND CLINIC FOUNDATION 29,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cleveland State University Foundation 17,596 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COASTAL MAINE BOTANICAL GARDENS INC 12,580 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Colgate University 26,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of Our Lady of the Elms 11,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COLLEGE OF SAINT ROSE 12,137 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COLLEGE OF THE HOLY CROSS 20,127 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION 20,528 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMEMORATIVE AIR FORCE 10,224 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation for Greater New Haven 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation for the Greater Capital Region Inc 60,394 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF GREATER GREENVILLE INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF HENDERSON COUNTY INC 19,451 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY PREGNANCY CLINICS INC 25,720 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMPASSION INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED 39,073 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Connecticut Food Bank 16,234 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CONNECTING FOR KIDS OF WESTLAKE OHIO 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Connors State College 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COOPERATIVE FOR ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF EVERYWHERE INC CARE 30,736 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cornell University 86,959 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Covenant House 22,785 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COVENANT HOUSE TEXAS 13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) Foundation, Inc. 11,658 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CRIMSON TIDE FOUNDATION 12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America 11,352 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Culver-Stockton College 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CURATORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI 24,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CURE CHILDHOOD CANCER, INC 10,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION 21,882 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION (CFF) 23,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE 84,701 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dare To Care Food Bank Inc 16,440 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College 56,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Davis and Elkins College 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Denison University 10,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Denver Rescue Mission 18,927 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DEXTER SOUTHFIELD INC 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DIRECT RELIEF INTERNATIONAL 12,409 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS CHARITABLE SERVICE TRUST 14,827 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DISCOVERY PLACE INC 33,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Domus Kids, Inc. 11,405 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DONORSCHOOSE ORG 13,158 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DUKE UNIVERSITY 77,106 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EKAL VIDYALAY FOUNDATION OF USA 24,767 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELCA International Disaster Response 22,020 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELLIS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC 113,807 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Emmaus Ministries, Inc. Community Services 36,420 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND 11,890 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ENVISION CHILDREN 11,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie City Mission 40,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ERIE DAY SCHOOL INC 12,805 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ESTES PARK MEDICAL CENTER FOUNDATION 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Evans Scholars Foundation 41,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT ASSOCIATION INC 21,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL 17,637 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COMMUNITY FOUNDATION 17,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fairfield Countyâ€™s Community Foundation, Inc. 14,433 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD UNIVERSITY 74,919 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAMILY PROMISE METROWEST INC 16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FATHER FLANAGANS BOYS HOME 32,821 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FATHER MALONEYS BOYS HAVEN INC 17,295 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FEED MY STARVING CHILDREN 16,549 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FEED THE CHILDREN INC 10,298 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FEEDING AMERICA 13,705 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feeding America Southwest Virginia 10,996 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FINLANDIA UNIVERSITY 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FIREBORN INSTITUTE INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FIRELANDS CATHOLIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT OFFICE INC 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOLDS OF HONOR FOUNDATION 11,447 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD BANK FOR LARIMER COUNTY 14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE POOR INC COMMUNITY SERVICES 101,019 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FORDHAM UNIVERSITY 14,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOUNDATION OF COMPASSIONATE AMERICAN SAMARITANS FOCAS 13,333 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Francis House, Inc. 12,438 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRANCISCAN LIFE CENTER NETWORK INCORPORATED 14,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRANKLIN & MARSHALL COLLEGE 11,465 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FREESTORE FOODBANK INC 49,027 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRIENDS OF PUBLIC RADIO INC 11,560 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRIENDS OF THE MUSIC HALL 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FUND FOR SUSTAINABLE EMPOWERED DEVELOPMENT 15,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Furman University 29,260 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GALWAY PUBLIC LIBRARY 28,848 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GANNON UNIVERSITY 25,765 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 30,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEORGIA GOAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM INC 12,099 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Institute of Technology 29,355 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia State University Foundation, Inc. 15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEORGIA TECH ALUMNI ASSOCIATION INC 10,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. 35,415 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GIRLS INCORPORATED OF GREATER SANTA BARBARA 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GLOW NC GIrls Leadership Academy of Wilmington 17,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GONZAGA COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL 10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GOOD COUNSEL, INC 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENS FARMS ACADEMY 22,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GRIFFIN THEATRE COMPANY 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Grove City College 22,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND INC 10,220 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GUJARATI SAMAJ OF HOUSTON INC 14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GULF COAST COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF VENICE INC 17,476 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL 37,287 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL INC 19,052 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF LEE COUNTY INC 23,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat for Humanity of Schenectady County, Inc. 20,126 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat for Humanity, Middlesex, Inc 12,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITYOF EVANSVILLE INC 17,366 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HADASSAH MEDICAL RELIEF ASSOCIATION 41,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hampshire College 10,198 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HARMONY YOUTH CENTER INC 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEAVENLY C MINISTRIES FOR THE WORLD 15,609 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEIFER PROJECT INTERNATIONAL INC 33,642 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HELPING HAND FOR RELIEF & DEVELOPMENT INC 35,794 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hillsdale College 18,303 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HISPANIC PROFESSIONALS OF GREATER MILWAUKEE INC 12,145 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hispanic Scholarship Fund 11,965 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HOLY NAME CATHOLIC SCHOOL 25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HOLY TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL 13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HOMELESS ANIMAL RESCUE TEAM OF CINCINNATI 16,093 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HOPE 4 (RUGBY) LTD 13,274 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hope College 11,326 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hospital For Special Surgery Fund, Inc. 23,208 GE Foundation Matching Gifts House of Charity (The) 14,792 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Houston Symphony Society 14,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hudson Valley Community College Foundation 13,114 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES 21,915 GE Foundation Matching Gifts I LOVE MUSIC TOUR INC 14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 13,290 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IN OUR LIFETIME 17,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INDIA LITERACY PROJECT 12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INDIAN RIVER HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC 13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INDIANA UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 13,336 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Indiana University Purdue University Fort Wayne 12,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Inspirica Inc 14,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INSTITUTE FOR SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES 17,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INTERNATIONAL ACCELERATED MISSIONS INC 18,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INTERNATIONAL FELLOWSHIP OF EVANGELICAL STUDENTS USA INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts International Rescue Committee, Inc 41,705 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Iowa State University Foundation 37,661 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IPTAY 56,968 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISLAMIC RELIEF USA 80,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IT CAN BE DONE 28,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JEWISH FAMILY AND CHILDRENS SERVICE 11,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOBS FOR KENTUCKYS GRADUATES INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 14,652 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF GEORGIA INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF NORTHEASTERN NEW YORK 12,387 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA INC 10,393 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUPITER MEDICAL CENTER FOUNDATION INC 21,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Canada 10,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas State University Foundation 21,431 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KANSAS UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT ASSOCIATION 26,270 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kenyon College 27,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Knox College 18,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KOOTAGA INDIAN DANCERS 10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LaGrange College 32,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAHEY CLINIC FOUNDATION INC 11,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAKE COUNTY YMCA METROPOLITAN OFFICE 15,173 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lake George Opera Festival Association, Inc. 16,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAKE SUNAPEE PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION 23,018 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Laurens Academy 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEHIGH UNIVERSITY 19,680 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEPRECHAUN FOUNDATION INC 24,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEUKEMIA and LYMPHOMA SOCIETY 135,616 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEUKEMIA and LYMPHOMA SOCIETY UPSTATE NEW YORK/VERMONT 12,830 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LIBERTY BIBLE ACADEMY ASSOCIATION INC 13,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LIFEROOTS INC 11,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Light the World, Inc. 10,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Linfield College 21,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LITTLE BROTHERS-FRIENDS OF THE ELDERLY 25,705 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LIVERMORE VALLEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LONGWOOD UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC. 10,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LOOMIS INSTITUTE 13,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Los Angeles Opera Company 12,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LOVELAND INTER FAITH EFFORT 15,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Loyola Marymount University 30,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LSU Foundation 25,285 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LUCY OUTREACH A NEW JERSEY NONPROFIT CORPORATION 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY ASSOCIATION 10,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran World Relief, Inc. 16,321 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LYNCHBURG HUMANE SOCIETY INC 15,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MAINE MEDIA COLLEGE 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Manhattan College 13,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARBRIDGE FOUNDATION INC 14,518 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marc Lustgarten Pancreatic Cancer Foundation 12,226 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes 32,474 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES MIAMI VALLEY DIVISION 11,697 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS NATIONAL FOUNDATION 74,126 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES FOUNDATION 25,353 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARGRET AND H.A. REY CENTER INC 12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marian University 36,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARINE TOYS FOR TOTS FOUNDATION 11,001 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marquette University 37,930 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARTIN MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INC 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARY MARTHA OUTREACH INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL 15,973 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Institute of Technology 44,839 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MATTHEW 25 MINISTRIES INC COMMUNITY SERVICES 47,414 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MATTOON AREA PADS COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION 13,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MCGIVNEY COMMUNITY CENTER INC 12,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER 74,054 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MERCER STREET FRIENDS CENTER 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mercy Learning Center 11,882 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MERCY SHIPS INTERNATIONAL 11,586 GE Foundation Matching Gifts METROPOLITAN LUTHERAN MINISTRY 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION INC 25,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD INC 10,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC 44,015 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MICHAEL J FOX FOUNDATION FOR PARKINSONS RESEARCH 12,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Michigan Tech Fund 71,505 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE 14,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILL MOUNTAIN ZOO INC 30,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILWAUKEE RESCUE MISSION 29,761 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILWAUKEE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING 28,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra Inc. 35,074 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ministry In Mission 12,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Miracle Hill Ministries 10,564 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Missouri State University Foundation 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOBILE SYMPHONY INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Monterey County Symphony Association 19,070 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOTHER TERESA CATHOLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 13,292 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MT PARAN CHRISTIAN SCHOOL INC 14,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MT ST MARY SEMINARY OF THE WEST ATHENAEUM OF OHIO NOR33,786 WOOD GE Foundation Matching Gifts Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation 13,707 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MUSEUM OF WISCONSINART INC 15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muslim Community Center 19,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MUSLIM COMMUNITY SUPPORT SERVICES INCORPORATED (MCSS) 10,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY 88,406 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY-LONE STAR CHAPTER 10,265 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL WOMEN'S LAW CENTER 11,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIVITY 10,055 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Natural History Museum of the Adirondacks 14,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL INC 46,678 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEW CANAAN COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC 17,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEW HAMPSHIRE CATHOLIC CHARITIES, INC. 13,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEW HOPE CENTRE INC 18,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 44,952 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTH COUNTRY HOSPITAL & HEALTH CENTER,INC 10,042 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTH HELPLINE 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTH SHORE COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOUNDATION INC 13,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Shore Medical Center 17,599 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northdale Lutheran School 13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northeastern University 48,335 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTHERN SKY THEATER INC 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTHFIELD MOUNT HERMON SCHOOL 18,120 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University 50,508 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORWICH UNIVERSITY 20,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORWOOD SCHOOL 27,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Notre Dame High School 10,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OHIO HOUND RESCUE INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 139,862 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ohio Wesleyan University 10,459 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OKLAHOMA CITY BOATHOUSE FOUNDATION 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Olivet Nazarene University 50,750 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts On Course Foundation USA 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OSAGE ARTS COMMUNITY INC 53,017 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Our Lady of Grace Day Care Center and School 100,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OUTREACH INTERNATIONAL 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OUTSIDE THE BOWL 11,990 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OXFAM AMERICA INC 17,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PACE ACADEMY 54,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PALM BEACH OPERA INC 25,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PAN MASSACHUSETTS CHALLENGE TRUST 61,927 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PANCREATIC CANCER ACTION NETWORK INC 12,030 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PAUL SMITHS COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES 18,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PEACE GOSPEL MINISTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC 17,740 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Penn State Beaver 13,572 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 92,596 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Peterson Institute for International Economics 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PETFIX NORTHEAST OHIO INC 12,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PHILADELPHIA COLLEGE OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE FOUNDATION 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York 10,152 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PINE STREET INN INC 16,895 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Plan International USA Inc 10,724 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD ARIZONA INC 10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA INC 32,216 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD MOHAWK HUDSON INC 38,005 GE Foundation Matching Gifts POLK STATE COLLEGE FOUNDATION INC 12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Practice Space Inc 16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PREGNANCYCARE OF CINCINNATI INC 15,972 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PRESERVATION TRUST OF VERMONT INC 10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts President and Fellows of Harvard College 59,887 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PROCTOR ACADEMY 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College 15,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PROVIDENCE SAINT JOSEPH FOUNDATION 23,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PUBLIC BROADCASTING OF NORTHWEST PENNSYLVANIA INC 13,308 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. 126,835 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue University 105,127 GE Foundation Matching Gifts QUEENS UNIVERSITY OF CHARLOTTE 10,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts RAVENSCROFT SCHOOL INC 30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REALITY MINISTRIES INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REBUILDING TOGETHER-SARATOGA COUNTY 23,021 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Reformed Presbyterian Woman's Association 21,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 17,010 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGIONAL ANIMAL SHELTER AND RESOURCE CENTER 13,810 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF N E NY INC 38,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Regis University 10,336 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rehabilitation Support Services, Inc./Compeer of the Capital District 14,775 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 74,506 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rescue Mission Alliance of Syracuse, NY 16,965 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RESPITE CARE OF CHARLESTON 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rice University 11,562 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rider University 16,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ROCKY RIVER EDUCATION FOUNDATION INC 13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RONALD MCDONALD HOUSE CHARITIES OF GREATER CINCINNATI 22,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology 73,745 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ROTARY CLUB OF MILWAUKEE COMMUNITY TRUST 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SACRED HEART ACADEMY 14,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SACRED HEART CATHOLIC SCHOOL 56,180 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sacred Heart University 16,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAFE HAVEN FARMS INC 20,209 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAI GLOBAL MISSION 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Helena Hospital Foundation 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salvation Army 17,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY Community Services 71,486 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY SOUTHWEST OHIO & NORTHEAST KENTUCKY Community Services 14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAMARITANS PURSE 133,617 GE Foundation Matching Gifts San Francisco State University 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SANKARA EYE FOUNDATION USA 12,690 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saratoga Springs Performing Arts Center, Inc. 21,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAVANNAH JEWISH COUNCIL INC 11,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAVE THE CHILDREN FEDERATION INC 19,787 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SCHENECTADY COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOUNDATION INC 35,145 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SCHENECTADY FOUNDATION 20,497 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts SCHENECTADY INNER CITY MINISTRY 49,594 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schenectady Museum Association 13,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seagle Music Colony, Inc. 18,074 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SEATTLE OPERA ASSOCIATION 10,496 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SECOND HARVEST FOOD BANK OF NORTHWEST PENNSYLVANIA 27,876 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SECOND HARVEST GLEANERS FOOD BANK dba Feeding America West 15,800 Michigan GE Foundation Matching Gifts SECOR 17,830 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SEMINOLE BOOSTERS INC 25,981 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SEWA INTERNATIONAL INC 14,504 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SHATTERPROOF A NONPROFIT CORP 11,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SHENANDOAH UNIVERSITY 17,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SHEPHERD UNIVERSITY 10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN 34,770 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Siena College 55,952 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SILVER BAY ASSOCIATION FOR CHRISTIAN CONFERENCE AND TRAINING 14,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SIM USA 13,877 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Skidmore College 21,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SMILE TRAIN INC 23,783 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 33,193 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Saint Vincent DePaul District Council of Cincinnati 44,409 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of St. Vincent de Paul Community Services 16,955 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SOCIETY OF THE SISTERS OF ST JOSEPH Community Services 10,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Women Engineers (SWE) 51,190 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Baptist Theological Seminary 25,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER INC 26,864 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Virginia University 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SPECIAL OLYMPICS MASSACHUSETTS INC 11,584 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST BERNARD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 29,369 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST BONAVENTURE UNIVERSITY 17,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST CATHERINE OF SIENA SCHOOL 11,021 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST CHARLES ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 55,835 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST EDWARD'S UNIVERSITY 25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST GABRIEL SCHOOL 16,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOHN CENTER INC 13,450 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 75,727 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPHS PREPARATORY SCHOOL 16,035 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JUDE CHILDRENS RESEARCH HOSPITAL INC 75,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY 135,874 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LOUIS UNIVERSITY HIGH SCHOOL 50,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LUKES SCHOOL 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MARGARET OF YORK ELEM SCH 13,558 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MARYS HIGH SCHOOL, INC. 16,360 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MATTHEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 13,960 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MICHAELS COLLEGE 16,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST XAVIER HIGH SCHOOL 27,290 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Baldrick's Foundation 15,976 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital Inc. 205,262 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Olaf College 22,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. RITA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF 25,890 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. SIMONS LAND TRUST 22,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STAGES INC 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STANFORD UNIVERSITY 32,142 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Stevens Institute of Technology 37,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STOCKBRIDGE AREA EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION 10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM INC 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SUNNYVIEW HOSPITAL AND REHABILITATION CENTER FOUNDATION 33,955 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SUNY Maritime College 19,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Susan G. Komen 3-Day 17,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syracuse University 20,036 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Take Stock in Children of Nassau 10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TAMASSEE DAR SCHOOL 16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TEEN CHALLENGE INTERNATIONAL INC 14,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY 12TH MAN FOUNDATION 21,640 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 14,580 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE AMERICAN SCHOOL IN LONDON FOUNDATION (UK) LIMITED 44,987 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE CARTER CENTER INC 11,615 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE CENTER FOR FAMILY JUSTICE INC 12,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF WEST CHESTER LIBERTY 16,953 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE DAYTON ART INSTITUTE 15,200 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE DERRYFIELD SCHOOL 11,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Erie Community Foundation 47,897 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE FELLS 27,268 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE FESSENDEN SCHOOL 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Healing Center 37,155 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION 30,005 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE HILL SCHOOL 25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Houston Food Bank 29,062 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Lutheran High School of Kansas City 33,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MEDICAL UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA FOUNDATION 21,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy 59,457 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE PRESIDENT & FELLOWS OF MURRAY EDWARDS COLLEGE FOUND10,000 ED AS NEW HALL IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES OF BATES COLLEGE 25,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Regents of the University of Michigan 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE ROTARY FOUNDATION OF ROTARY INTERNATIONAL 20,717 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army 43,985 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE SALVATION ARMY Community Services 23,622 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE SALVATION ARMY IVY RESIDENCE INC 19,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army, A Georgia Corporation 10,856 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The SASB Foundation 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Suzanne Wright Foundation 10,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Thomas Merton Center 11,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of Eureka College 15,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE U C DAVIS FOUNDATION, University of California, Davis 24,999 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UCLA FOUNDATION 16,345 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL 32,602 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Tennessee 18,390 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Vermont & State Agricultural College 27,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Thiel College 22,754 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THIRD CHAIR 12,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRINITY COLLEGE 12,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND 11,770 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK 38,555 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Hamilton College 42,451 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF PHILLIPS ACADEMY 11,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 90,972 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF THE BERKSHIRE MUSEUM 19,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania 43,681 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Tufts College 29,734 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF UNION COLLEGE 72,188 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UMASS MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INC 25,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNBOUND 66,794 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED JEWISH FEDERATION OF NORTHEASTERN NY INC 48,678 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED METHODIST COMMITTEE ON RELIEF 29,093 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS INC 12,481 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES ASSOCIATION FOR UNHCR 11,210 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY ALUMNI FOUNDATION INC 22,697 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United Way of Bengaluru 29,329 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY AT ALBANY FOUNDATION 20,095 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Arkansas Foundation, Inc. 34,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY FOUNDATION 23,045 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 68,294 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI FOUNDATION 57,651 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOUNDATION INC. 17,740 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Dayton 33,322 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE 11,678 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF DENVER 11,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA FOUNDATON, INC. 16,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA FOUNDATION 32,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Idaho Foundation, Inc. 10,390 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Illinois Foundation Central Administration 30,060 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Kentucky 44,810 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION INC 11,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. 50,895 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MAINE FOUNDATION 14,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS AMHERST FOUNDATION INC 28,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 28,290 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FOUNDATION 59,775 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Missouri 17,255 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Nebraska Foundation 10,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of New Hampshire Foundation Incorporated 13,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of North Carolina at Wilmington 15,425 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC 166,371 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Oregon Foundation 15,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Rhode Island 59,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 36,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of South Carolina Educational Foundation 21,748 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 28,270 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 19,108 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS FOUNDATION 29,345 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Utah 16,160 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Darden School Foundation 12,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FUND 30,767 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAW SCHOOL FOUNDATION 10,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Washington Foundation 11,538 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOUNDATION 60,976 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ursinus College 12,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ursuline Academy of Cincinnati 15,530 GE Foundation Matching Gifts US Fund for UNICEF 73,748 GE Foundation Matching Gifts USPIRITUS INC 11,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UTICA COLLEGE 24,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UWM FOUNDATION INC 10,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VAIL VALLEY FOUNDATION INC 17,783 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY 19,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vassar College 12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VENICE LITTLE THEATRE INC 17,335 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vermont Law School 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Villanova University 47,435 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF BUSINESS FOUNDA15,100 TION GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation Inc. 154,429 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VISION FORWARD ASSOCIATION INCORPORATED 25,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VOLUNTEERS IN MEDICINE CLINIC 25,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wagner College 21,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wake Forest University 10,844 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WAMC 36,699 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Washington and Lee University 19,134 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 34,761 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WEST VIRGINIA UNIV FOUNDATION INC 20,291 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTERN CAROLINA UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 25,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 15,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westport Library Association 14,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WGBH EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION 38,744 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wheaton College 26,672 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WHYY INC 14,110 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wildlife Conservation Society 10,578 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WILDWOOD PROGRAMS INC 11,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WILL'S WAY FOUNDATION 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wilton YMCA, Inc. 10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WMHT EDUCATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC/RISE PROGRAM 39,442 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOOLLY MAMMOTH THEATRE CO 13,870 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 39,420 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 10,560 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORK ORIENTED REHABILITATION CENTER INC 16,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD HELP 19,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD RENEW 22,647 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International 90,204 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD WILDLIFE FUND INC 25,120 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT INC 42,562 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WYCLIFFE ASSOCIATES INC LITERACY PROGRAM 19,492 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WYCLIFFE BIBLE TRANSLATORS INC COMMUNITY SERVICES 18,710 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Xavier University 91,938 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University 58,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YEAR UP INC 14,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YOUNG LIFE Community Services 35,490 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Young Men's Christian Association of New Canaan Community 25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Youth Dynamics 10,100 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. 105,000 GE Foundation United Way Foothills United Way 12,219 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation United Way Heart of West Michigan United Way 30,162 GE Foundation United Way METRO UNITED WAY INC 26,201 GE Foundation United Way THE UNITED WAY OF THE GREATER DAYTON AREA 21,760 GE Foundation United Way United Way for Southeastern Michigan 21,026 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Angelina County 14,344 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central and Northeastern Connecticut 14,760 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Indiana 10,159 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Oklahoma, Inc. 13,015 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Coastal Fairfield County 118,215 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Dane County Inc. 10,721 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Eastern Maine 19,439 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Erie County 185,441 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Florence County, Inc. 11,501 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Atlanta 144,145 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREATER CINCINNATI 1,607,185 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREATER CLEVELAND 66,766 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Houston 65,890 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Kansas City 26,874 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Milwaukee & Waukesha County 333,467 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Richmond & Petersburg 15,941 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greenville County, Inc. 284,982 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREENWICH INC 12,500 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Henderson County, Inc. 30,960 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF KING COUNTY 19,260 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Massachusetts Bay and Merrimack Valley 126,283 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Chicago 41,646 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Dallas, Inc. 12,522 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF NORTHEAST FLORIDA INC 21,637 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF NORTHERN NEVADA AND THE SIERRA 13,050 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Northwest Vermont Inc 15,821 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Peel Region 83,111 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF ROANOKE VALLEY INC 12,178 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Rutland County Inc. 52,849 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF SALT LAKE 23,125 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF SOUTH TEXAS 15,565 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF THE BAY AREA 17,344 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Cape Fear Area 114,019 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Coalfield, Inc. 13,099 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF THE GREATER CAPITAL REGION INC 235,034 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the National Capital Area 18,651 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Tri County, Inc. 25,981 GE Foundation United Way United Way of West Central Connecticut 14,131 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Western Connecticut 24,403 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution ACCELERATE GREAT SCHOOLS 1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ace Hardware Foundation 125,000 General Electric Company Contribution ACTIVITIES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ACTUA 31,660 General Electric Company Contribution AFRICAN LEADERSHIP ACADEMY 75,991 General Electric Company Contribution Ain Shams University Hospitals/Baheya Hospital for early detection 11,113 General Electric Company Contribution Alliance To Save Energy 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN ACTION FORUM 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Cancer Society 12,100 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS FOUNDATION 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN COLLEGE OF RADIOLOGY 80,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Heart Association 81,204 General Electric Company Contribution American Institute Of Ultrasound In Medicine 175,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Medical Society For Sports Medicine Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution ANCHAL CHARITABLE TRUST 151,971 General Electric Company Contribution Angel Flight 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ANSWER ALS 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution Asia Society 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ASSIST INTERNATIONAL 1,089,704 General Electric Company Contribution ATLANTA POLICE FOUNDATION INC 10,600 General Electric Company Contribution AURORA HEALTH FOUNDATION INC. 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Best Buy Foundation 12,525 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Milwaukee 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BIPARTISAN POLICY CENTER INC 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOSTON ARTS ACADEMY FOUNDATION 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOTTOM LINE INC 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys & Girls Club of Chicago 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF DORCHESTER INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF BOSTON 29,172 General Electric Company Contribution Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland 18,967 General Electric Company Contribution British Soldiers Fund Inc 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BuildOn Inc. 207,500 General Electric Company Contribution C D HOWE INSTITUTE 39,632 General Electric Company Contribution Calhoun Community College 281,991 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution CAMP HARBORVIEW FOUNDATION INC 28,500 General Electric Company Contribution Canada2020 18,816 General Electric Company Contribution Carver Foundation Of Norwalk Inc 67,223 General Electric Company Contribution CATALYST INC 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution CATHOLIC SCHOOLS FOUNDATION INC 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution CENTER FOR A NEW AMERICAN SECURITY 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CENTER FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut 118,500 General Electric Company Contribution CHILDREN S HOME CHAMBLISS SHELTER 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Children's Museum of Science & Technology 40,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI CENTER CITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI INSTITUTE OF FINE ARTS 80,000 General Electric Company Contribution City Colleges of Chicago Foundation 166,667 General Electric Company Contribution Cleveland State University 26,000 General Electric Company Contribution Coburg University of Applied Sciences and Arts 281,991 General Electric Company Contribution CodeVA 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution COLUMBIA BUSINESS SCHOOL 48,800 General Electric Company Contribution Comic Relief USA 13,056 General Electric Company Contribution Community of Hope, Inc. 250,000 General Electric Company Contribution DISCOVERY WORLD LTD 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Domus Kids Inc 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution DR GERTRUDE A BARBER FOUNDATION INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Drexel University 17,000 General Electric Company Contribution Empower African Females by Developers Vogue 11,500 General Electric Company Contribution END ALLERGIES TOGETHER INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Erie City Mission 42,500 General Electric Company Contribution Erie Community Foundation 51,000 General Electric Company Contribution EXECUTIVE COUNCIL ON DIPLOMACY 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution FETAL HEART SOCIETY INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fondation ParisTech 24,838 General Electric Company Contribution Foundation Fighting Blindness 39,150 General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION FOR SMFM 50,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Franklin & Marshall College 500,000 General Electric Company Contribution French Institute Alliance Francaise 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fundación Gil Gayarre 19,222 General Electric Company Contribution Fundación Santa Fe 14,729 General Electric Company Contribution FURKIDS INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution GARY SINISE Charitable Foundation 34,106 General Electric Company Contribution Gecas Community development 92,754 General Electric Company Contribution General Electric Employees Community Service Fund 85,000 General Electric Company Contribution Georgetown University 1,002,000 General Electric Company Contribution GEORGIA TECH RESEARCH CORPORATION 20,011 General Electric Company Contribution Girls Inc 75,900 General Electric Company Contribution GIRLS WHO CODE INC 200,000 General Electric Company Contribution GLAD 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution GLOBAL BUSINESS INITIATIVE 35,616 General Electric Company Contribution Global Cancer Institute 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Global Manufacturing Organisation Limited 275,000 General Electric Company Contribution Grameen America 120,000 General Electric Company Contribution Greater Baltimore Medical Center 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HISPANIC SCHOLARSHIP FUND 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution HOMES WITH HOPE, INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution IK SIRIUS UNGDOMSFOTBOLL 12,470 General Electric Company Contribution INDIA CULTURAL CENTER OF GREENWICH INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INDIAN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE BANGALORE 15,388 General Electric Company Contribution INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION FOUNDATION 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution INSPIRICA INC 40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Intellectual Property Owners Education Foundation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF TRANSPORT 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution JACKIE ROBINSON FOUNDATION INC 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Jackson Health Foundation Inc 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution JOBS FOR AMERICA'S GRADUATES 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Johns Hopkins University 200,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution JUNGLESCAPES CHARITABLE TRUST 53,208 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OKI PARTNERS INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF WESTERN PA 11,500 General Electric Company Contribution KAPPA ALPHA PSI FOUNDATION 10,600 General Electric Company Contribution Kaweah Delta Health Care Inc 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kennedy Center 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF CINCINNATI 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution LIFEBOX FOUNDATION INC 24,710 General Electric Company Contribution LOWES CHARITABLE AND EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION 23,333 General Electric Company Contribution MARCH OF DIMES 66,000 General Electric Company Contribution MASSACHUSETTS APPLESEED CENTER FOR LAW AND JUSTICE 22,900 General Electric Company Contribution Massachusetts Conference For Women 22,900 General Electric Company Contribution Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Minority Corporate Counsel Association Inc 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MUSEUM OF SCIENCE 33,500 General Electric Company Contribution MUSIC HAVEN CONCERT SERIES 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL ACADEMY OF ENGINEERING FUND 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Park Foundation 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Women's Law Center 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEHI, INC. 125,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORTHEAST CLEAN ENERGY COUNCIL 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORTHWEST ISD EDUCATION FOUNDATION, INC. 16,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOUNDATION 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Norwalk Grassroots Tennis Inc 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ohio State University Research Foundation 44,645 General Electric Company Contribution OREGON HEALTH AND SCIENCE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION 45,000 General Electric Company Contribution ORGANIZACOES AB 11,730 General Electric Company Contribution Our Family Foundation Inc. 40,000 General Electric Company Contribution PERSON TO PERSON 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution PETER G PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution Pham Ngoc Thach University 68,590 General Electric Company Contribution PHOENIX CHARTER ACADEMY FOUNDATION 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PowerMyLearning 15,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution PRATHAM EDUCATION FOUNDATION 134,549 General Electric Company Contribution Pro Bono Institute 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PRO BONO PARTNERSHIP OF ATLANTA 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PRO BONO PARTNERSHIP OF OHIO 16,000 General Electric Company Contribution PROCTORS 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Project Hope 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution PROTEC PROGRAMME FOR TECHNOLOGICL CAREERS 23,012 General Electric Company Contribution RALLY FOUNDATION INC 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Rand Corporation 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Randstad Foundation 54,413 General Electric Company Contribution REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF NENY 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 14,586 General Electric Company Contribution RIGHT TO DREAM 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution RONALD REAGAN PRESIDENTIAL FOUNDATION 4,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Schenectady County Chamber Foundation, Inc 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution SCHENECTADY MUSEUM ASSOCIATION 26,666 General Electric Company Contribution SCHOLAR ATHLETES INC 23,300 General Electric Company Contribution SECOND HARVEST FOODBANK OF SOUTHERN WISCONSIN 22,500 General Electric Company Contribution SGBS UNNATI FOUNDATION 39,044 General Electric Company Contribution SHEPHERDS INC 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Sizanani Mentorship Programme 25,938 General Electric Company Contribution Smith College 1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTE 2,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution SOCIETY OF CARDIOVASCULAR COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution SOLAR DECATHLON MIDDLE EAST 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution South African Society of Cardivascular Intervention 48,794 General Electric Company Contribution South African Wind Energy Association 27,366 General Electric Company Contribution SPECIAL OLYMPICS CONNECTICUT, INC 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stop Hunger Now 14,532 General Electric Company Contribution TEACH FOR AMERICA 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Team NEO Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE AKSHAYA PATRA FOUNDATION 107,632 General Electric Company Contribution THE BOSTON FOUNDATION 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Cleveland Foundation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust 1,000,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 2018 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 (cont’d) Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution The Queen Elizabeth II September 11th Garden, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Red Sox Foundation Inc 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution TOWN OF NEWTOWN CONNECTICUT 3,275,000 General Electric Company Contribution True Value Foundation 40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Trustees of Princeton University 830,000 General Electric Company Contribution UJA FEDERATION OF NEW YORK INC 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution United for Kids Foundation 25,030 General Electric Company Contribution United Way 70,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF BENGALURU 222,091 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Erie County 65,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF GREATER CINCINNATI 425,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF HYDERABAD 65,929 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF NORTHWEST VERMONT, INC 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way Of Peterborough And District 37,633 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Southwest Alabama 11,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Westerrn CT 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Universidade Eduardo Mondlane 42,666 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS HEALTH SYSTEMS 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Chicago 1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 281,991 General Electric Company Contribution University of Limerick 281,991 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FOUNDATION. 12,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Pittsburgh 24,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Toronto 12,409 General Electric Company Contribution UPMC PRESBYTERIAN SHADYSIDE 36,000 General Electric Company Contribution UPPSALA STADSMISSION 12,184 General Electric Company Contribution US CHAMBER OF COMMERCE FOUNDATION 182,500 General Electric Company Contribution US Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of Science & Technology 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION OF BOSTON, INC. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Washington Humane Society 250,000 General Electric Company Contribution WEST MICHIGAN AVIATION ACADEMY 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution West Virginia University 281,991 General Electric Company Contribution Wheel of Hope initiative 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution WIPRO CARES 543,446 General Electric Company Contribution Woodruff Arts Center 25,000 © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 3/2019 Matching Gifts Updated June 2019 In 1954, the GE Foundation created the concept of a corporate matching gift program to support employees in their personal philanthropy and charitable giving by providing a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match. Since then, many companies have started similar programs. Today, the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program continues to serve as an 2018 important element of the Foundation’s portfolio, with gifts matched in 2018 totaling $30M more than $30 million. $1 45 40 5,0 59,9 , Visit the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts website—managed by CyberGrants, Inc.—to learn more. GE Participants Non-Profit Participants (total Employee and GE Foundation matching gifts since inception) GE employees and US retirees: Charitable recipients: Log in to verify gifts Log in with your SSO ID and password and update your contact information. Customer Support to register gifts, view your activity, and For Matching Gifts customer support, search for eligible organizations. Non-profit participants click here to log in. call or email: UK charities click here to log in. T (800) 305-0669 E gesupport@cybergrants.com Click here to log in. Global charities click here to log in. For More Information For more information on the Attention GE Retirees (US) Matching Gifts program, please If you need to create an online SSO ID and password, go to the GE Benefits website. visit the FAQ’s or download the On the Benefits login page, you will see a link for first-time users to set up an full Guidelines. account. Once you have established your account, you can log in as described in the “GE Participants” section above. The GE Foundation uses CyberGrants, Inc., to process matching gifts. Limited www.gefoundation.com information is provided to CyberGrants to enable verification of your eligibility to gefoundation@ge.com participate in the program. For active employees: GE-provided SSO ID, name, GE business, work email and work location (city/state/country). For US retirees: GE-provided SSO ID, name, and location (city/state/country). © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33663 6/2019 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines Updated June 2019 Overview In 1954, the GE Foundation created the concept of a corporate matching gift program Matching Gifts to support employees in their personal philanthropy and charitable giving by providing Through the Matching Gifts Program, a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match. Since then, many companies have started similar the GE Foundation provides one-toprograms. Today, the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program continues to serve as an one matching for personal, charitable important element of the Foundation’s portfolio. donations made by GE employees. GE Participant Eligibility Eligible participants are limited to: • Eligible GE participants can 1. Employees of GE or a majority-owned affiliate on the date(s) the gift was made and match up to USD$5,000 each registered. A valid GE-issued SSO ID is required to register a gift for matching. Please calendar year. note as of 1/1/2019, Employees of Baker Hughes, a GE company, will participate under a single and separate matching gift program from the GE Foundation. • After making the donation 2. Retirees (U.S.) who retired directly from GE on or before December 31, 2017. GE directly, GE donors then may retiree status must be current on the date(s) the gift was made and registered. A register the gift at: www. valid GE-issued SSO ID is required to register a gift. gefoundation.com/matchinggifts. Note: A surviving spouse of an eligible GE retiree may participate if he or she attained such on or before December 31, 2014. A valid GE-issued SSO ID is www.gefoundation.com required to register a gift. gefoundation@ge.com 3. Current directors of GE and directors emeriti who retired on or before December 31, 2017. Charitable Organization Eligibility Eligible charitable organizations must be one of the following (excluding noted “Ineligible Recipient Organizations”): 1. U.S. Charitable Organizations that are: (a) Recognized by and registered with the United States I.R.S. as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization; or (b) Accredited Public PreK-12 Schools or School Districts in the U.S. to which contributions are tax deductible under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States; or (c) Accredited Public or Non-Profit Colleges and Universities in the U.S. to which contributions are tax deductible under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States. 2. Charitable organizations in countries outside the U.S. that are: (a) Recognized by and registered with the United Kingdom Charity Commission as a charitable organization; or (b) Recognized by Charities Aid Foundation-America as a charitable organization GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines Note: All organizations must be or expression, age, disability, veteran Ineligible Gifts approved by the GE Foundation status or other characteristic(s) The GE Foundation will not match the and must confirm compliance protected by law). following: with program criteria in order to 6. Organizations that do not comply 1. Charitable contributions made as participate. with the USA Patriot Act (or other part of a United Way Giving Campaign applicable anti-terrorism rules/laws). and/or made via payroll deduction Ineligible recipient organizations (annual Giving Campaigns are include, but are not limited to, the Gift Eligibility supported separately). following (please note that this list is 2. Charitable contributions for religious representative of frequent questions and Annual Maximum Each eligible GE participant has an purposes or supporting religious may be expanded or amended by the GE activities, commitments, and/or Foundation): annual matching maximum of USD$5,000 (or equivalent) in each calendar year. programs (such as “Bishop’s Appeal” 1. United Ways (such as United Way or equivalent), service attendance/ of Metropolitan Atlanta, United Way collection basket, and so on. of King County, and so on) or GE Eligible Gifts Gifts eligible to be matched by the GE 3. Contributions, or portions thereof, that employee-led charities (e.g. Good are required and/or are not considered Neighbor Fund, Employee Community Foundation must meet the following requirements: charitable or tax-deductible (such as Fund, Community Service Fund, and event registration, ticket purchases, so on). These are supported through a 1. Gifts must be a tax-deductible, charitable contribution of USD$25 admission fees/“pay to play,” auction separate program. item value, and so on). Note that any 2. Political organizations (partisan (or equivalent) or more (if a different currency is used, a variance of up non-deductible portion should be organizations or those supporting declared by the GE donor and/or the specific candidates or legislation). to 5% may be allowed for currency fluctuation). recipient charity during the registration 3. Religious organizations (churches, and confirmation processes. synagogues, mosques and other 2. Gifts must be current contributions made directly by the GE donor to 4. Contributions that directly or indirectly houses of worship), or other benefit the donor, his/her family, or organizations primarily promoting the eligible organization from the GE donor’s own assets. Donors may not other person designated by the donor religious purposes. Other faith-based such as: community service organizations or register funds collected from others. 3. Gifts must be made/donated, not (a) Tuition or other student expenses schools may be considered eligible if (including books, services, fees, T&L their programs: merely pledged. A matching gift cannot be used to satisfy a personal pledge for volunteer trips, and so on). (a) are open to all individuals in the (b) Individual, family or group community regardless of religious (for instance, a pledge of $2,000 cannot be satisfied by $1,000 from membership fees/dues, including belief; alumni dues and subscription fees. (b) serve a secular purpose, such as the donor and $1,000 from the GE Foundation match). (c) D onations to a university/college food pantry, homeless shelter, or athletic association that allows education; 4. Gifts may be made via cash, check, debit/credit card or stock. Gifts may the donor to purchase tickets to a (c) do not require participation in sporting event. prayer, worship, or other religious also be made by current payment from an entity such as a personal foundation 5. “Group gifts.” Each GE donor must activities as a condition of receiving register his/her own contribution for service(s) offered; and or donor advised fund if that entity has been funded solely by the eligible GE matching (for example, donors cannot (d) do not use the individual donation register donations from others and or resulting match for religious participant (note that gifts made to such an entity cannot be matched). claim them as their own). purposes. 6. Charitable contributions supporting 4. Donor-advised funds, private 5. Gifts made within the calendar year must be registered by the donor by political purposes, influencing foundations, personal trusts. legislation, or electing candidates. 5. Organizations that do not comply the following April 15. The recipient organization must confirm receipt of 7. Bequests, insurance premiums, or with GE’s non-discrimination policy contributions made through entities (for example, organizations that a gift within 12 months of the donor registering the gift. such as charitable remainder or lead discriminate on the basis of a person’s trusts or charitable gift annuities. race, color, religion, national or ethnic 8. Real estate, in-kind, or non-monetary origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines contributions (such as services, match is used, you may follow payment to a charity is less than $250, materials, supplies, and so on). up directly with the charitable the payment will be held until that organization. amount is reached). The GE Foundation reserves the right to Gift Confirmation examine and exclude organizations, gifts, The GE Foundation’s gift confirmation Administrative Conditions and participants as it deems appropriate. process is as follows: The GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts 1. The recipient organization must log in Program is not part of the GE employee/ Gift Matching Process and confirm receipt of a gift within 12 retiree benefits program, but rather is Note that the GE donor first should make months of the donor registering the offered as a public service by the GE the donation directly to charity. The gift (the organization may take this Foundation, the charitable foundation Matching Gifts system is for registration and step as soon as the gift is registered). established by GE. This program is not to be reporting only, not for making donations. Confirmation takes places within the construed as creating a balance due from, Matching Gifts website. Note that or legal obligation by, the GE Foundation. If Gift Registration the recipient organization also must any matching activity is found at any time to Register your gift with the GE foundation confirm compliance with eligibility have been generated by or for an ineligible as follows: criteria and program guidelines. person, donation, or organization, the GE 1. After first making your donation directly 2. Once confirmed by the organization Foundation reserves the right to request to the charity, go to the GE Foundation’s and subsequently approved by the GE return of the funds. The GE Foundation Matching Gifts website (www. Foundation, a gift will be recorded as determines all aspects of the program gefoundation.com/matchinggifts) eligible and matched. including participant, gift and recipient (a) Each GE Donor may only register eligibility, and may amend or terminate the his or her personal donations (for Matching Payment Distribution program at any time. instance, no “group registrations”). The GE Foundation makes matching gift Registering donations made by or payments as follows: Questions may be directed to the collected from others is prohibited. 1. Gift checks are sent directly to the Matching Gifts Customer Support Center (b) Gifts made within the calendar recipient organization. at 1-800-305-0669 or by email to year must be registered by the 2. Payments are made on a quarterly gesupport@cybergrants.com. donor by the following April 15. basis unless otherwise noted (the 2. Click “GE Participants” to log in using schedule is available on the Matching your GE-issued SSO I.D. and password. Gifts website). For charities outside You will need to select the appropriate the US.: the match will be paid to recipient organization and enter details the recipient charity through our such as the amount, type, and date of administrative partner, Charities Aid your gift. Foundation (CAF) and therefore may Note: If your donation was made take slightly longer. Also, because for a specific purpose (such there is an additional cost, there is a as a particular program, minimum threshold: payments will department, project, and so on) be made once a charity has reached you may indicate that when a cumulative total of $250 from all you register for matching. employee activity (if the cumulative Please note, however, that the GE Foundation’s matching payments are unrestricted. To inquire or ensure how the © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33651 6/2019 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs Updated June 2019 What is the Matching Gift Program? The GE Foundation provides a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match for personal, charitable donations made by GE employees. For example, if an employee donates 1 1 $50 to a charity and it is approved for matching, the GE Foundation then provides that charity with an additional $50. The GE Foundation created the concept in -to1954, and since then many companies have begun similar programs. In 2015 the Matching Gifts program expanded to include approved charitable organizations in approximately 75 countries, in addition to the United States and United Kingdom. • The GE Foundation has been How Does the Program Work? matching employee charitable Step 1. Donation: gifts since 1954. GE employees first should make their donation directly to the charity. The Matching Gifts website is for matching registration only. It is not where the donation is made. • Through the Matching Gifts program, the GE Foundation may Step 2. Registration: provide one-to-one matches Once the donation is made, log into the Matching Gifts site at www.gefoundation. for eligible charitable donations com/matchinggifts (in the “GE Participants” section, click to log in using your GEmade by GE employees. assigned SSO ID and password). Once on the website, the charity search will default to the work country that is on record for you ; however, if you gave to a charity in • All GE employees are eligible. another country you can search for that as well. Once you find the charity, select it Donations can be registered and enter your donation details (such as the date you donated, the amount donated, at: www.gefoundation.com/ and so on). Then review and submit! You may only register donations that you matchinggifts. personally made using your own funds. • Charitable organizations outside Step 3. Confirmation: the US are eligible to participate. Once you have registered for a match, the charity must confirm receipt of your donation before it will be eligible for matching (charities complete this step from the same Matching Gifts website). The GE Foundation periodically will contact charities www.gefoundation.com with gifts to confirm as a courtesy, but employees also are encouraged to let the charity know about this requirement. It is better to over-communicate to ensure gefoundation@ge.com the best chance of success! Once charities are set up to log in, they can do so at any time and do not need to wait to hear from the GE Foundation. Step 4. Review and Payment: Once confirmed by the charity, the GE Foundation will review the gift and the charity for eligibility. If approved, the match should be included in the subsequent quarterly payment batch (payment dates are available on the Matching Gifts website for both donors and charities). GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs Employee Guidelines CAN I COLLECT MONEY FROM OTHERS Registration Guidelines AND REGISTER IT FOR MATCHING? WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE? No, you may only register donations you HOW DO I REGISTER A DONATION FOR All GE employees are eligible. In addition, personally made using your own funds. MATCHING? the following are eligible: You may not collect money from others After making your donation directly 1. Retirees (US) who retired directly from and register it as your own. Other GE to a charity, log in to the Matching GE on or before December 31, 2017. employees are welcome to register their Gifts website (www.gefoundation.com/ GE retiree status must be current on own donations for matching as well. For matchinggifts). In the “GE Participants” the date(s) the gift was made and example, if you run in a race for a charity section, click to log in using your GEregistered. and have collected donations, you may only issued SSO ID and password. Once on a. A  surviving spouse of an eligible register your own donation for matching, the Matching Gifts site, search for your GE retiree may participate if he or not those collected from others. charity and then register the details. she has attained such status as of Remember you can only register what December 31, 2014. IS MY AUCTION PAYMENT, you personally gave (you may not 2. Current directors of GE and directors ATTENDANCE FEE, OR OTHER include donations from others). emeriti who retired on or before SIMILAR FEE ELIGIBLE? December 31, 2017. If your donation was required in order to IS THERE A DEADLINE TO REGISTER participate or enter then it is not eligible. FOR MATCHING? Note: A valid GE-issued ID is required to log Also, if you made a donation and received Yes, donations made in a particular in and register a gift for matching. something in return, the value of that calendar year must be registered by April item is not eligible. You will have the 15 of the following year. CAN MY FRIENDS AND FAMILY opportunity to declare the value when you PARTICIPATE? register for matching. The charity will have Charity Guidelines The Matching Gifts Program is for GE donors the opportunity to do the same when it and Eligibility only. You may register donations you made confirms receipt of your donation. Here are WHICH CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS personally using your own funds, but not some examples: ARE ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE? funds collected from others. You may want – Auction: If you paid $500 for an item There are many choices, including health to suggest that friends and family check worth $300, only the difference ($200) and human service, civic and community, with their own employer(s) to see if there is is considered charitable and eligible for education, and more. You may review a similar program available to them. Other matching. the guidelines at www.gefoundation. GE employees are welcome to register their – College Athletics: If you donated $1,000 to com/matchinggifts. In order to search own donations for matching as well. your college or university for athletics and the Matching Gifts system, you first must receive benefits (such as tickets) you must log in (click the “GE Participants” button). I AM A GE EMPLOYEE LOCATED declare the value of the benefit or item Once logged in, the search will default OUTSIDE THE US; CAN I STILL when registering for matching, because to the work country that is on record for PARTICIPATE? that portion is not eligible. you; however, if you gave to a charity in Yes, all GE employees can participate Usually the tax receipt provided by the another country you can search for that regardless of location. A valid GE-issued charitable organization will outline as well. SSO ID is required to log in/register for the difference for you. If you have any matching. questions, please contact the charity or ARE CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS your tax advisor. OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES ELIGIBLE Donation Guidelines TO PARTICIPATE? IS THERE A MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM ARE ALL CURRENCIES ELIGIBLE Yes. You can search for options once DONATION AMOUNT? FOR MATCHING? you are logged into the Matching Gifts Yes, a donation must be a minimum of Donations should be made directly to website (www.gefoundation.com/ USD$25 (or equivalent). In addition, each the charity using any currency accepted matchinggifts.com). The search will eligible GE participant has an annual by the charity. When registering for default to the work country that is on matching maximum of USD$5,000 (or a match to a non-US charity on the record for you; however, if you gave to equivalent) in each calendar year. Matching Gifts website, you can indicate a charity in another country you can what currency was used, and the sytem search for that as well. will convert the amount to US dollars for matching purposes. 2 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs CAN I DONATE TO MY CHURCH, a particular charity, you may be entering to find a charity, it may not have been SCHOOL, ETC.? too much information into the search reviewed yet (it first must be reviewed by Houses of worship are not eligible, but engine or that the search is too specific the GE Foundation’s administrative partner, some schools may be. Please refer to (for example, if you are using an acronym, Charities Aid Foundation). If it is not yet the guidelines for eligibility criteria (www. try searching using the full name). You are listed, you may suggest that the charity gefoundation.com/matchinggifts). basically searching the full IRS database, contact CAF to start this process (see the so the most accurate way to search for a following section for details). HOW DO I KNOW IF MY particular organization is to enter the US CHARITY QUALIFIES? Tax ID. If you do not know the ID, contact Adding/Suggesting First, search for the charity in the Matching the charity to get it or try searching the IRS A New Charity Gifts system; if there is a “select” link next to website (http://www.irs.gov/Charities-&US Charities it, go ahead and register your donation for Non-Profits/Exempt-Organizations-SelectFirst search for the charity on the Matching matching. Charities can be selected as long Check). If the organization still does not Gifts site. When you log in you will see a as they meet some basic tax status criteria. appear in our system, it may not be listed search box on your home page (the site Please note, however, that all organizations on the IRS electronic database. You may call defaults to your work country on record, and gifts are reviewed on an ongoing basis the IRS Call Center at (877) 829-5500 and but if you donated to a charity in another to determine compliance with guidelines request that it be added to and included in country you can easily do that as well). and eligibility for matching. In other words, the next update of the electronic database. Look for your charity in the search results. inclusion in the system is not necessarily If you see a “select” link next to it, click a guarantee of eligibility. All organizations UK Charities that to begin registering your donation must confirm compliance with program You must enter at least a partial for matching. If you see “nominate” next criteria to access the Matching Gifts system organization name to perform a search to it, that means it meets basic IRS tax and participate in the program. (you also have the ability to perform an qualifications but has never participated in Advanced Search if you would like to use our program. Click the “nominate” link to fill I HAVE HAD PREVIOUS DONATIONS the Charity Commission Number). If you out some brief information; once we add it MATCHED, BUT NOW THE are unable to find a particular charity, you to the program, you will be notified that it’s ORGANIZATION ISN’T ELIGIBLE. HOW may be entering too much information ready for you to register your donation. This IS THAT POSSIBLE? into the search engine or that the search process usually takes just a few days, but Occasionally, an organization may lose its is too specific (for example, if you are using we do ask the charity first to acknowledge tax status eligibility due to a penalty, an an acronym, try searching using the full it wishes to participate. Until it accepts, we oversight, or an error on the IRS electronic name). You are basically searching the full cannot move ahead, so you may want to let database (US) or Charity Commission UK Charity Commission database, so the it know to respond quickly to our email. database (UK). The nonprofit should contact most accurate way to search for a particular the appropriate resource to inquire and organization is to enter the UK Charity UK Charities resolve the situation. Please note that Commission ID. If you do not know the ID, First search for the charity on the Matching the GE Foundation also reviews each gift contact the charity to get it or try searching Gifts site. After you log in you will see a and charity prior to making a matching the UK Charity Commission website search box on your home page (the site payment, so it’s possible the charity is (http://www.charity-commission.gov.uk/). defaults to your work country on record, no longer compliant with the program If the organization still does not appear but if you donated to a charity in another guidelines. in our system, it may not be listed. You country you can easily do that as well). may contact the Charity Commission and Look for your charity in the search results. Charities – How To Search request that it be added to and included in If you see “select” next to it, go ahead and For A Charity In The System the next update of the electronic database. register your donation for matching. If US Charities the organization does not appear in our ALL OTHER COUNTRIES – Charities system, it may not be listed with the You must enter at least a partial outside the US or UK organization name, as well as the state in Charity Commission (http://www.charityYou must enter at least a partial commission.gov.uk/). You may contact the which it is located (you also have the ability organization name to perform a search to perform an Advanced Search using Tax commission and request that it be added (the search engine defaults to your work to and included in the next update of the ID/EIN, and so on). If you are unable to find country on record, but if you donated to a electronic database. charity in another country you can easily search for that as well). If you are unable 3 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs ALL OTHER COUNTRIES – Charities HOW ARE MATCHING PAYMENTS MADE I AM HAVING TROUBLE WITH MY outside the US or UK TO CHARITIES OUTSIDE THE US? SSO ACCOUNT. CAN THE MATCHING First search for the charity on the Matching The GE Foundation’s match will be paid GIFTS TEAM HELP ME? Gifts site. After you log in you will see a directly to the recipient charity through GE’s SSO accounts are managed by the search box on your home page (the site our administrative partner, Charities Aid Company, so unfortunately the answer is defaults to your work country on record, Foundation (CAF). Payments are made on a no. The GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts but if you donated to a charity in another quarterly basis (please note: because there program simply uses SSO credentials for country you can easily do that as well). is an additional cost to make payments log-in just like any other GE site. For SSO Charities outside the US are managed by outside the United States, there is a account issues, employees should contact our administrative partner, Charities Aid minimum threshold; payments will be made their local help desk or HR manager. US Foundation (CAF); if you don’t see yours once a charity has reached a cumulative retirees may contact Pension Services. listed, you may suggest that the charity total of $250 from all employee activity). Once the account issue is resolved, you contact CAF directly to be reviewed. Simply should have no trouble logging into the refer it to the CAF site for details (www. GE Single Sign-On Matching Gifts site. cafamerica.org/services/foreign-charitable(SSO) Questions organizations/). Please note that the charity WHAT IS SSO? Customer Support may need to pay a fee to be reviewed. Once GE issues Single Sign-On (SSO) IDs as part For Matching Gifts customer support, CAF reviews and approves the charity, it of a companywide security and navigation email gesupport@cybergrants.com or call will soon after be available for selection on feature designed to allow users to securely (800) 305-0669. our Matching Gifts site. In addition, it will sign on and move between GE websites. be eligible to receive donations from other Every GE employee is given an SSO ID. This US donors (individuals or corporations) applies to US retirees as well. who would like to make a tax-deductible Note to US retirees: The easiest way to donation to that charity through CAF. register for an SSO account is to do so from Please keep in mind that these charities will the GE Benefits website. Once you have still need to comply with GE Foundation’s established your SSO ID and password, guidelines, so inclusion in the list is not a please go to the Matching Gifts page to log guarantee of eligibility for our program. in using your newly established SSO ID and password. Matching Payments WHEN WILL THE CHARITY RECEIVE I HAVE AN SSO ID. THE MATCHING PAYMENT? WHY CAN’T I PARTICIPATE? The charity first must confirm receipt of a Not everyone who has an SSO ID is eligible donation on the GE Foundation’s Matching for the program. Please see the participant Gifts system before it can be matched. eligibility criteria for further details. If you Payments are made quarterly, so once are a new employee, it may be that your the charity has confirmed the donation, information has not yet been added to the the match should be included in the next eligible population (the update runs at least quarterly payment batch (please note that twice a month). all gifts and charities will be reviewed for compliance and eligibility prior to payment). The quarterly schedule is posted on the Matching Gifts website. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33661 6/2019 Developing Health Updated January 2019 Developing Health: 2018 Highlights The GE Foundation’s signature programs, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) In 2016, the GE Foundation and Developing Health U.S. (DH), aim to increase access to quality healthcare in underserved communities around the world. These programs are funded and announced a $15 million, managed by the GE Foundation in collaboration with national ministries of health, multi-year commitment public and private health facilities, non-governmental organization, and academia. addressing the opioid crisis Substance Use Disorder and the Opioid Crisis in Boston and greater In 2016, the GE Foundation announced a $15 million commitment to community Massachusetts health in Boston and greater Massachusetts, to expand care in behavioral health and addiction medicine with a focus on the opioid crisis. The Developing Health initiatives in Massachusetts focus on expanding access to evidence-based treatment through $14 million multi-year primary care provider capacity building and reskilling, and on driving awareness and advocacy to combat the stigma associated with the disease of substance use commitment to support the disorder. Learn more here. broad replication and scale of Project ECHO Project ECHO announced in Access to specialty health care in rural and medically underserved areas around the 2015. world is limited. Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) is an innovative model that builds the capacity of and reskills primary care providers to treat more patients with chronic, complex conditions, exponentially expanding $25 million commitment access to care. Through a $14 million, multi-year commitment, the GE Foundation over three years for the as the largest funder of Project ECHO, is supporting global replication and scale of this innovation. By leveraging technology, primary care providers are linked with Safe Surgery 2020 initiative multi-disciplinary teams of specialists who share their expertise. As the primary globally care providers expand their knowledge and skills, they can begin to treat more patients. With GE Foundation’s support, Project ECHO is operating in 45 US states, 34 countries, with 253 replicating partners training in 66 focus areas. Safe Surgery 2020 www.gefoundation.com The GE Foundation is leading a multi-sector effort to improve surgical capacity and gefoundation@ge.com training with its Safe Surgery 2020 initiative. Access to safe, affordable surgical and anesthetic care is a pressing issue in global health. There are currently five billion people across the world who lack access to the safe surgical care they need, 90% of whom are in lowand middle-income countries. Developing Health (Cont’d) The initiative is a $25 million commitment over three years that focuses on transforming the accessibility, quality and safety of surgical care in lowand middleincome countries, leading to reductions in maternal and trauma-related mortality and to stronger health systems. Through this initiative, we are also scaling skills training and social entrepreneurship programs such as surgical leadership training, biomedical training and oxygen delivery under the Safe Surgery 2020 umbrella. Beginning in 2016, Safe Surgery 2020 launched in Ethiopia and Tanzania in partnership with their Ministries of Health, global organizations as well as local partners from the Surgical Society, local teaching institutions and district hospitals. In 2018, the initiative expanded to South East Asia, with programs starting in Cambodia and Lao People’s Democratic Republic. Our focus has been to help transform the health system to ensure that every individual – including mothers and children – is able to access the surgical care they need quickly, safely, and affordably. You can learn more about the initiative and its impact at www.safesurgery2020.org. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33683 1/2019 GE Foundation Substance Use Disorder and the Opioid Crisis Updated January 2019 As part of the $15M commitment to community health, GE Foundation has already invested in several initiatives, such as: GE Foundation committed • Mass General Hospital and CAMTech: hosted an opioid hack-a-thon with more than 220 people to listen, learn and brainstorm new ideas. Three ideas have been $15M to community health accelerated We Are Allies, GEMs Box, Mobile MAT (learn more). in Boston and greater • Partners Healthcare, Boston Medical Center and the MA League of Community Massachusetts. Health Centers: launched the SUSTAIN initiative focused ($2.4M over two years) on expanding care in behavioral health and addiction medicine at community health centers to treat more patients, more effectively (learn more). GE Foundation initiatives focus • Mass General: supporting an addiction medicine fellowship that will expand capacity and support additional training and mentorship at community health centers. on treatment and awareness. • National Medical Fellowships and the Kraft Center: focused on the next generation of primary care providers, supporting more women and diversity in the field of primary care (learn more). • RIZE Massachusetts: private-sector effort to battle opioid addiction in the Commonwealth, to support innovative care designed across the care continuum from www.gefoundation.com prevention to recovery (learn more). • MA Attorney General, Maura Healy: providing substance use prevention education gefoundation@ge.com ($1.5M over two years) in Massachusetts middle schools to prevent tomorrow’s adults from falling into the vicious cycle of the opioid crisis (learn more). • Kraft Center, Mass General Hospital, Boston Health Care for the Homeless: launch of CareZONE, a hack-a-thon idea, to use a mobile health van to better engage individuals struggling with addiction and complex conditions with on-demand services (learn more). • Shatterproof, Massachusetts Medical Society and RIZE Massachusetts: focused on addressing and reducing the stigma associated with opioid use disorder (OUD) to enable more health care professionals to screen and treat patients with OUD, (learn more). • MA League of Community Health Centers: focused on leveraging data to improve care by creating patient registries specific to substance and opioid use disorders improving health center’s ability to retain patients in care, identify gaps in care delivery and compare actual care delivered to national standards. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33708 1/2019 Disaster and Humanitarian Relief Updated January 2019 GE’s Disaster and Humanitarian Relief program responds to major global disasters and humanitarian crises, drawing on GE’s people, technology and other resources to reduce suffering and hasten recovery. In 2018, financial contributions in this area GE’s contributions supported totaled $750,000. Additionally, the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts program enabled response, relief and recovery employees to contribute to crisis relief efforts in their local communities, doubling their impact by matching their donations 1-to-1. efforts for Hurricane Florence the Indonesian Sulawesi Some examples of our work in 2018 include: tsunami and the California • To help support Hurricane Florence relief efforts in North Carolina, GE donated wildfires. $250,000 to the American Red Cross. The funds supported disaster responders as they distributed food and relief supplies, operated shelters, provided technical GE works with other and logistic support, and long-term community rehabilitation support. private sector partners and • In the aftermath of the Sulawesi earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia, GE international governments supported Habitat for Humanity in its works to deploy clean water facilities and provide households with toilets and water filters. to address pandemic preparedness. • GE Foundation also supported the American Red Cross with a $250,000 gift to provide relief to people who were displaced by the devastating wild fires in Northern California in October. GE continues to collaborate with private-sector partners, government agencies and relevant NGOs to help prepare for future disasters and to work on the initiatives www.gefoundation.com within the Global Health Security Agenda. gefoundation@ge.com GE remains committed to preparing for and responding to future natural disasters and humanitarian crises, diligently maximizing the impact of our financial, technological and human resources. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33650 1/2019 Education & Skills Updated March 2019 For more than 100 years, the GE Foundation has actively supported efforts to create a high-quality education pipeline for all students. Through its signature education and Through its signature skills initiatives – Developing Futures™ and Developing Skills the GE Foundation seeks to empower 14to 24-year-old students to become globally productive education and skills initiatives citizens. We help provide access to learning experiences that support the workforce – Developing Futures™ and of tomorrow and address the anticipated global shortfall of 45 million workers in Developing Skills – the GE 20201. Foundation seeks to empower In April 2016, the GE Foundation brought Developing Skills to Boston to create a 14to 24-year-old students. Model of Excellence, by providing opportunities for students to become critical thinkers, innovators, creators, problem solvers and leaders. Through a $25 million commitment, the GE Foundation is investing in STEM (science, technology, In April 2016, the GE engineering and mathematics) education in Boston Public Schools through a series of in-school initiatives to help today’s students explore career opportunities and Foundation brought prepare for the jobs of the future. Learn more here. Developing Skills to Boston. Developing Skills is working to bridge the gap between education and industry, classroom and career, and the economy of the future and the skills of today. Through this effort, the GE Foundation partnered with MIT’s Fab Foundation to develop the GE Brilliant Career Lab (BCL) – an interactive experience and mobile lab that combines experiential learning with career-readiness planning in high-demand STEM fields. The mobile BCL brings together students and real-world careers. In the 20172018 school year, the BCL has engaged 15 Boston public high schools, reaching more than 1,900 students and 69 educators, with a schedule to engage additional schools each academic year. www.gefoundation.com The GE Foundation continues to team up with the National Basketball Association’s gefoundation@ge.com Boston Celtics to offer a mobile STEM lab for middle school students. The new, stateof-the-art Brilliant Career Play brings age-appropriate, hands-on STEM experiences to Boston and Massachusetts public middle school students. This collaborative community initiative focuses on enhancing access to STEM training to encourage young people to become more familiar with the field. In the 2017-2018 school year, Brilliant Career Play visited six middle schools, engaging over 1,000 students in digital fabrication. 1 McKinsey Global Institute, 2016 report Education & Skills (Cont’d) Realizing the success of the mobile STEM labs, the GE Foundation joined forces with GE Power in Schenectady, New York, to launch a GE Brilliant Career Lab for the city’s public-school district. Through the mobile lab, students are becoming familiar with new technologies, such as 3-D printers, laser cutters, milling machines, and programming tools. The education and skills initiatives include partnerships with pilot schools and non-profits in Boston to create exemplary models at the middle, high school and community college level, and offer workplace learning experiences such as summer internships and job shadow days to Boston high school students. The comprehensive initiatives also aim to equip educators with the resources they need to successfully and sustainably teach STEM, while bringing innovative training programs to middle school and high school students. The GE Foundation is committed to unlocking endless possibilities for individuals and key industry sectors to make our world a better place. The Brilliant Career Play, a mobile STEM “A lot of students of color don’t go into “Last year, we piloted an introduction to lab for middle school students, was STEM because they either don’t know computer science using coding for firstlaunched by the GE Foundation and Boston what STEM is, or they just think that it’s year students. Academically, they were Celtics in 2017. too hard, or they can’t do it – when in so excited to learn about coding. It’s reality anyone can do it, you just have to going to be really neat to see what they Photo credit: Boston Celtics learn.” – Boston Public School student do over the next three years.” – Boston Public School teacher © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33759 3/2019 GE Volunteers Updated January 2018 GE Volunteers is a global network that includes GE employees, retirees, Affinity Groups, friends and family—“good people doing great things”—all supported by GE businesses. The mission of GE Volunteers is to facilitate and support volunteering activities that GE’s focus on volunteerism improve life and meet critical needs in the communities where GE people live and work around the world. These activities are carried out through a wide range of projects in dates back to 1981. the areas of health, education, the environment and community-building. The GE family partners with external organizations to help solve some of today’s biggest www.ge.com/sustainability challenges in health, education, the environment and community-building. GE is also proud to encourage and support employee and retiree volunteerism throughout its sustainability@ge.com global population. GE’s focus on volunteerism dates back to 1981, and further evolved in 2005 when GE Volunteers was more strategically positioned to encourage broader participation and to support a more significant contribution to our communities. GE Volunteer Councils are a driving force that keeps the spirit of volunteerism alive around the globe. We mobilize large groups of employees for the greater good for initiatives like Global Community Days—days when all employees in one region or area volunteer in their communities—and through Global Month of Service projects. Each of these projects has had a significant impact on the environment, education, community-building or health. For ten consecutive years, GE has been recognized by Junior Achievement with the U.S. President’s Volunteer Service Award. 2016 GE Volunteer Project Highlights Nature in the City Green spaces in major cities not only add beauty to a busy metropolis, they also provide a place for relaxation and even learning. Nature in the City is San Francisco’s first organization dedicated to eco-literacy, restoration and stewardship of the city’s wild places. On November 10, 2016, GE volunteers worked at one of Nature in the City’s most important sites, the Adah’s Stairwell. Volunteers completed a variety of restoration and environmental tasks such as removing invasive plants, planting, moving cobblestones and helping to make this a beautiful space for the community to enjoy. GE Volunteers Singapore – Bright Vision Hospital deeply, I never had the honor of serving Catholic Charities of Boston Bright Vision Hospital is a 317-bed America through military service. As As one of the largest providers of social community hospital with inpatient a token of my appreciation for those services in Massachusetts, Catholic services for subacute, rehabilitative, men and women who have served, I do Charities of Boston offers nearly 90 palliative and long-term care patients. what I can to show them my respect programs and services in 27 locations The hospital is a sanctuary for and appreciation for their service to our around Eastern Massachusetts. From individuals, including low-income great nation. I enjoy Freedom and Liberty housing and food services to education individuals, in need of healthcare because of our Troops and Veterans. and refugee programs, Catholic services. Many elderly patients call the Sending care packages is the least I can Charities’ programs support over hospital their home for long periods do for them in return.” 200,000 people annually. In three shifts of time but receive few visitors. On on November 16, 2016,GE volunteers November 4, 2016, 30 GE volunteers packaged and distributed Thanksgiving visited with these elderly patients in a meal baskets to 250 families in the one-on-one capacity. Conversations community. The baskets were filled were shared and fun games were played with everything needed to prepare the leaving all those involved feeling uplifted. perfect Thanksgiving side dishes and even included gift cards for turkeys, so the families’ Thanksgiving meals would be complete. Nigeria – Waste Management Crisis Meets the Full Power of Employee Volunteerism On December 22, 2016, we shared the story of GE volunteers in Nigeria who helped combat the growing waste crisis Veterans Network Care Packages in their country by teaching students The GE Veterans Network not only strives in local secondary schools the value of to support those that have previously recycling through a game called Recycle served in the military, but also support and Win. Working with an organization those that are still actively serving. For called Recycle Points, volunteers GE works on things that matter, and our the 2016 Global Month of Service, six GE designed a recycling incentive program. volunteer work outlined here would not Veterans Network locations, led by Chris The children earned points based on be possible without the commitment of Tubesing, once again answered the call the number and type of recyclables they our 295,000 global employees who come to support deployed servicemen and collected; the points could be redeemed to work each day with a shared belief women. When deployed, soldiers are for prizes ranging from basic school that things can be made better—it’s a not only far from friends and family, they supplies to laptop computers. Read the way of thinking about the work we do are also without many of the comforts full story. and the technology we make for our of home including basic necessities. customers and partners, and for the The Veterans Network assembled and communities in which we all work and shipped over 720 care packages that live. included a wide variety of items including toiletries, socks, snacks and notes of Together, we are working to make the appreciation. One volunteer from Peebles, world work better. Ohio shared, “Although I love my country © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33677 1/2018 Education & Skills Driving STEM Education in Boston Public Schools Updated January 2019 As part of the $25M multi-year commitment to drive STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education in Boston Public Schools, GE Foundation GE Foundation committed has invested in several initiatives: $25M to drive STEM education Brilliant Career Labs in Boston Public Schools GE Foundation has funded two mobile fab labs – GE’s Brilliant Career Lab for Boston Public Schools’ high school students and, in partnership with the Boston Celtics, Brilliant Career Play, for Massachusetts middle school students to provide access and exposure to digital fabrication with hands-on experiences in STEM. Read more here about GE’s work over the past two years Linked Learning • The GE Foundation is partnering with the Young People’s Project at Excel High School to support STEM entrepreneurship, launching coding bootcamps engaging both high school and middle school students in Computer Science (learn more). • The GE Foundation is partnering with the Boston Private Industry Council at Dearborn STEM Academy, combining Engineering, Computer Programming and Graphic Design courses with STEM internship programs for high school www.gefoundation.com students at area businesses (learn more). • With support from GE Foundation, Boston Public Schools (BPS) launched gefoundation@ge.com “BPS STEM Factor,” a program dedicated to engaging BPS students in STEM experiences that will prepare them to compete in an increasingly technological workforce (learn more). • As part of the Dearborn STEM Academy opening, GE supported the set-up and professional development of the school’s Fab Labs, which are modeled after GE’s Brilliant Career Lab that GE introduced to BPS in 2016. GE’s investment is also supporting the development of integrated STEM lessons for grade 6 to 12 (learn more). • The GE Foundation is partnering with Project Lead the Way (PLTW) at the Middle School level at New Mission School with the goal of bringing Computer Science to all students (learn more). • The GE Foundations is partnering with Year Up and Roxbury Community College (RCC) to offer skills development, mentoring, and workplace learning experiences for graduating students (learn more). Education & Skills (Cont’d) JFK – GE Foundation STEM Scholarship In partnership with the JFK Presidential Library, the GE Foundation has launched a $500,000, five-year commitment to provide scholarships for Boston high school students pursuing STEM careers. In its first year, 35 Boston high school students received the JFK – GE Foundation STEM Scholarship (learn more). © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA19002 1/2019 Human Rights Statement of Principles Updated February 2018 GE promotes respect for fundamental human rights and views them as a key component of responsible corporate citizenship. In addition to supporting the fundamental principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we GE promotes respect have joined with other companies to find practical ways to apply its principles in the business community. for fundamental human rights and support the Our Commitment principles contained in the GE, as a business enterprise, promotes respect for fundamental human rights. We support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, mindful Universal Declaration of that the Declaration is addressed primarily to nations. GE has joined with other Human Rights. companies to find practical ways of applying within the business community the broad principles established in the Declaration. Our Actions GE endeavors to advance GE endeavors to advance respect for fundamental human rights within the communities respect for fundamental in which our businesses operate. We do this in important part by leading by example — influencing our employees and business partners through actions consistent with human rights by leading policies contained in The Spirit & The Letter. by example in our business capacity, with our direct In Our Management Capacity • RESPECTING the human rights of our employees as established in the International business partners, and in Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights the communities where at Work, including nondiscrimination, prohibitions against child and forced labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining we operate. • PROVIDING security consistent with the intent of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as the laws of the countries in which we operate, retaining security services for preventive or defensive purposes with instructions to use force www.ge.com/sustainability only when necessary and to an extent proportional to the threat sustainability@ge.com In Our Business Capacity • DEVELOPING and offering products, including those that meet human needs for power, water and medical care, with due regard for fundamental human rights and a sustainable environment Human Rights Statement (cont’d) With Our Direct Business Partners In the Community • INCORPORATING appropriate • SERVING as a positive influence in principles for The Spirit & The Letter communities in which we operate, into contracts with suppliers, business demonstrating by our actions our partners and distributors belief that human rights violations are • MONITORING adherence by key unacceptable suppliers in emerging markets to • ASSESSING, as appropriate, the impact environmental, health and safety on affected local communities of major standards; prohibitions against forced infrastructure-project financing and child labor, human trafficking and local wage and hour laws • EVALUATING human rights issues involving our direct business partners — particularly in emerging markets — and considering practical responses within the relevant context • ADVANCING application of the ILO Declaration through engagement and collaboration © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33648 02/2018 2019 GE UK Modern Slavery Act Statement Updated June 2019 This Statement is made by General Electric Company (“GE” or the “Company”) and pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”) on behalf of its affiliates conducting business in the UK and covered by the Act. Introduction GE’s enduring success is built on innovation, quality, and integrity. Sustainability and compliance are integral to our business strategy. This is our third Modern Slavery Act Statement. It builds on our prior statements to demonstrate our continued commitment to address modern slavery and other human rights risks throughout our global operations and value chain. We understand the enormity of this scourge and remain vigilant in contributing to the global efforts to eradicate it. As we detail below, in 2018 we Since 2005, GE has conducted continued to conduct due diligence on high-risk supply chain partners, train our auditors more than 31,000 supplier and other employees in how vulnerable populations end up in forced labor, and engage in assessments spanning 100 countries. joint efforts to drive change in challenging regions and sectors, particularly recruiting. GE is committed to taking steps to prevent acts of modern slavery and human trafficking in its business operations GE AVIATION GE HEALTHCARE GE POWER GE RENEWABLE ENERGY and supply chains. Business & Supply Chain www.ge.com/sustainability GE is a diversified global company with approximately 283,000 employees, over half of sustainability@ge.com whom work outside the US. In the last few years, the Company has sharpened its focus to four key industries: aviation, healthcare, power, and renewable energy. A more detailed description of GE’s business operations and ambitions can be found in our annual report. GE’s supply chain is expansive and global, spanning more than 190 countries. We source more than $63B annually in raw materials and components that are incorporated into the products and services that GE sells. The largest categories of direct material purchases are castings, forgings, electronics, plastics and machined parts. GE also buys products and services to support our business operations, which are used to develop or create, but are not incorporated into, GE’s products or services. These indirect purchases amount to more than $18B annually. 2 0 1 9 U K M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T GE SUPPLY CHAIN FOOTPRINT (2018) 2% United States Poland 21% India Italy 2% France Sweden 3% GE Germany Spain 4% SUPPLIERS Brazil Austria BY 4% China Mexico COUNTRY 9% 5% United Kingdom Japan Canada Australia 5% 7% 6% 6% Switzerland Hungary Policies & Programs GE has embedded respect for human rights throughout our recruitment fees, the withholding of immigration documents, and global organization. Our Global Counsel for Labor & Human the use of misleading recruitment tactics. Violations of this policy Rights is responsible for GE’s human rights strategy, including our can result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. modern slavery program. He works closely with a cross-functional GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee, extends the reach of our code of conduct with “unyielding comprising senior personnel from across the company, to establish integrity and high standards of business conduct” expected of ESG priorities and coordinate GE’s array of global initiatives. suppliers and their subcontractors, including labor providers. GE’s Human Rights Statement of Principles is the cornerstone of Beyond compliance with all applicable local laws and our global program, emphasizing the importance of “respect for regulations, the Integrity Guide mandates third-party adherence fundamental human rights”. The Statement is embedded in GE’s to GE standards in areas including fair employment practices, expectations of all personnel through our code of conduct, The environment, health and safety, and human rights. Spirit and The Letter (“S&L”), which applies to all GE directors, In the area of forced labor, the Integrity Guide expressly prohibits any officers and employees, including subsidiaries and affiliates. The form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking; lists prohibited S&L and its accompanying policies address the full spectrum of activities associated with trafficking, such as withholding passports, integrity and compliance issues across GE’s global value chain. charging recruitment fees, and misleading recruitment; and imposes GE commits in the S&L to “respect human rights everywhere we affirmative obligations on suppliers in certain circumstances such as work and do business with others” and again explicitly prohibits forced and child labor. The Fair Employment Practices policy in the S&L details the types of actions associated with the most common forms of modern slavery, including the charging of THE Human Rights Statement SPIRIT of Principles THE COMPLY WORKS GE promotes respect for fundamental human rights and views them as a key Updated February 2018 LETTER component of responsible corporate citizenship. In addition to supporting the SUBCONTRACTOR PROGRAM fundamental principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we GE promotes respect have joined with other companies to find practical ways to apply its principles in the business community. for fundamental human rights and support the Our Commitment principles contained in the GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, GE, as a business enterprise, promotes respect for fundamental human rights. We Universal Declaration of Contractors and Consultants Effective contractor management is a critical component in managing support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, mindful that the Declaration is addressed primarily to nations. GE has joined with other Human Rights. This guide also applies to Consortium Partners companies to find practical ways of applying within the business community the broad principles established in the Declaration. global supply chain risk and achieving EHS and operational excellence. GE’s Our Actions GE endeavors to advance respect for fundamental human rights within the communities in which our businesses operate. We do this in important part by leading by example GE endeavors to advance respect for fundamental A Message from GE human rights by leading The General Electric Company (“GE”) is committed to unyielding integrity and high standards of business conduct in everything Contractor Management System consists of a standardized risk-based — influencing our employees and business partners through actions consistent with we do, especially in our dealings with GE suppliers, contractors, consortium partners and consultants (collectively “Suppliers”). policies contained in The Spirit & The Letter. by example in our business GE bases its Supplier relationships on lawful, efficient and fair practices, and Suppliers must adhere to applicable legal and capacity, with our direct regulatory requirements in their business relationships as set out in this GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and In Our Management Capacity Consultants (the “Guide”) in connection with their activities for GE. business partners, and in qualification and approval process combined with procedures, training and • RESPECTING the human rights of our employees as established in the International Suppliers are responsible to ensure that they and their employees, workers, representatives, suppliers and subcontractors Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights the communities where comply with the standards of conduct set out in this Guide and in other contractual obligations to GE. Please contact the at Work, including nondiscrimination, prohibitions against child and forced labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining we operate. GE manager you work with or any GE Compliance Resource if you have any questions about this Guide or the standards of business conduct that all GE Suppliers must meet. audits to evaluate field performance and return on experience. • PROVIDING security consistent with the intent of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as the laws of the countries in which we operate, retaining security services for preventive or defensive purposes with instructions to use force www.ge.com/sustainability Responsibilities of GE Suppliers You, as a Supplier to GE, agree: only when necessary and to an extent proportional to the threat sustainability@ge.com Fair Employment Practices: To (i) observe applicable laws and regulations governing wages and hours, recruitment and employment contracts; (ii) allow workers to choose freely whether to organize or join associations of their own choosing GE has teamed with ComplyWorks, a 3rd party management solution, In Our Business Capacity for the purpose of collective bargaining as provided by local law or regulation; (iii) prohibit discrimination, harassment and • DEVELOPING and offering products, including those that meet human needs for retaliation; (iv) upon end of employment, reimburse return transportation costs for workers recruited from outside the country; power, water and medical care, with due regard for fundamental human rights and a (v) not charge workers recruitment fees or utilize firms charging workers such fees; (vi) not utilize fraudulent or misleading sustainable environment recruitment practices; (vii) not hold or destroy a worker’s identity or immigration documents; and (viii) provide workers with terms and conditions of employment in a language the worker understands. to implement its contractor risk assessment process based on the Environment, Health & Safety: (i) To comply with applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) laws and regulations and GE’s contractor EHS requirements; (ii) to provide workers a safe and healthy workplace; and (iii) not to adversely affect the local community. If housing is provided or arranged, it must meet host country safety standards. Company’s Life Saving Principles and Human Rights compliance Human Rights (i) To respect human rights of your employees and others in your business operations and your activities for GE; (ii) not to employ workers younger than sixteen (16) years of age or below the applicable minimum age, whichever is higher; (iii) not to use forced, prison or indentured labor, or workers subject to any form of physical, sexual or psychological compulsion, exploitation or coercion, or to engage in or abet trafficking in persons; (iv) to adopt policies and establish systems to procure tantalum, tin, requirements. This process consists of a standardized risk-based tungsten, and gold from sources that have been verified as conflict free; and (v) to provide supporting data on your supply chain for tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold to GE when requested, on a platform to be designated by GE. Working with Governments, Improper Payments and Dealings with GE Employees and Representatives: (i) To maintain and enforce a policy requiring adherence to lawful business practices, including a prohibition against bribery of government qualification and approval process combined with procedures, training officials, (ii) not to offer or provide, directly or indirectly, anything of value, including cash, bribes, gifts, entertainment or kickbacks, including offers of employment, or participation in a contest, game or promotion, to any GE employee, representative or GE customer or to any government official in connection with any GE procurement, transaction or business dealing, and (iii) to provide supporting data to GE when requested. and audits to evaluate field performance and return on experience. Competition Law: Not to share or exchange any price, cost or other competitive information or engage in any collusive conduct with any third party with respect to any proposed, pending or current GE procurement. Supplier Integrity Guide: Revised March 1, 2016 1 2 2 0 1 9 U K M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T reimbursement of return transportation costs and providing workers information on worker safety and human rights policies and programs with written contracts in a language they understand. The Guide also as part of a mandatory pre-qualification assessment. The human encourages reports of violations of the policy through telephone, rights portion of this new process focuses significantly on forced labor email and in-person channels by employees and third parties. indicators, such as wage practices, recruitment efforts, and passport handling. The new process will provide GE with a way to both assess Due Diligence potential suppliers on their human rights programs and educate them as to the nature of forced labor and what is needed to prevent it. GE strives to ensure compliance with these policies through a rigorous due diligence program reaching throughout our value chain. The GE Ombuds program, comprised of hundreds of trained SUPPLIER AUDITS BY REGION (2018) employees, is a chief vehicle for us to hear from employees regarding any contraventions of our integrity standards. The program enables any employee to raise concerns, including those relating to respect for human rights, confidentially and without fear of retaliation. In 2018, Ombuds received over 4,400 policy concerns (more than 58% outside the US) leading to over 6,600 corrective actions. The S&L expressly provides that GE employees have an obligation to promptly raise concerns when they “see a situation in which our integrity principles or policies are not being followed.” Consistent with our Human Rights Statement and in the spirit China: 965 Mexico: 127 of “Eyes Always Open,” employees are expected to report unfair Europe, Middle East & Africa: 255 North America: 8 employment practices and human rights concerns they observe India: 606 Rest of Asia: 191 when at GE sites or working with direct business partners. Latin America: 344 Other: 13 We also have a multifaceted ethical supply chain program. Under this program, suppliers are prioritized for detailed pre-engagement, and periodic follow-up, onsite assessments according to country risks (including human trafficking risk), Training & Awareness Raising supplier past performance and other factors, such as media GE’s human rights program depends on the practical understanding reports or supplier employee complaints. The program includes of our people and business partners. We provide access to “fast procedures for risk-based on-site audits, during which trained GE training” learning modules on human rights and forced labor for personnel visit a supplier’s facilities and review its compliance with all GE global employees, providing employees an easy, brief way GE’s policies on health, safety, labor, security, and human rights. to understand the core principles of human rights; the Company’s We track and monitor results with a proprietary reporting tool, policies and programs; the causes and global footprint of forced which is supplemented with information from regional databases. labor; and, most importantly, how they can serve a role in identifying GE personnel trained on our integrity expectations conduct and reporting possible signs of modern slavery when they are at GE periodic spot-checks and audits on these records. Suppliers must operations, supplier facilities, or customer sites. generally address audit findings within 60 days. If not, GE reserves We ensure that this awareness raising is ongoing. GE maintains an the right to suspend all purchase orders under the contract. While internal human rights “Yammer” page through which employees can our goal is to work with suppliers to bring them into compliance, receive updates and participate in conversations concerning human serious labor-related findings can result in immediate cessation rights and forced labor. We have also distributed an internal training of business relationships. GE suppliers are subject to an on-site video discussing a real wage-withholding scenario the Company reassessment on a oneto five-year schedule depending on confronted with its vendors and using that example to once again their performance in prior assessments. In 2018, GE assessed educate its workforce on issues that can lead to forced labor. This ~2,500 new or existing suppliers, generating more than 18,000 video, and an accompanying training package, was part of a “Human findings. About 55% of our total assessments in 2018 were reRights Month” that was overseen by the Company’s Compliance assessments. Since 2005, GE has conducted more than 31,000 training team and highlighted various ways that employees could supplier assessments spanning 100 countries. GE publishes an learn more about human rights and the risk of forced labor. annual overview of its supply chain audit results on its website. In 2018, we also completed and began posting at our sites around In 2018, we continued improving our forced labor program. In the globe a human trafficking education and hotline notice to particular, we rolled out our new prequalification program for all alert employees and contract workers of GE’s prohibition on GE labor service providers—requiring them to provide upfront forced labor and how to report any suspicion of any such actions. 3 2 0 1 9 U K M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T G E ’ S PA RT N E R SH IP WITH TH E G LO BAL B U S I N E S S I N ITI ATIVE As a founding member of Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), GE is committed, along with other GE also recently joined the Leadership Group for Responsible member multinational corporations, to embed respect for Recruitment, a collaboration between leading companies and human rights into our business operations. Peer learning expert organizations to drive positive change in the way that and benchmarking enables GE to determine the right migrant workers are recruited, with a focus on eliminating fees strategy and process to address human rights risk in our being charged to workers to secure employment. The aims of business area. By connecting with industry leaders and this initiative are to: engaging with this business led group, GE gains insights into 1. Create demand for responsible recruitment by raising awareness emerging trends and issues and examines challenges and about the benefits of ethical practices and developing tools to potential solutions that other members have experienced. help companies implement the Employer Pays Principle. 2. Increase the supply of ethically sourced labor by creating an enabling environment and supporting the development The notice makes clear that complaints of such behavior can be and implementation of systems to identify and use ethical reported to GE by contract workers as well as GE employees. recruitment agencies. For our suppliers, GE has rolled out a new supplier compliance video 3. Advocate for improved protection for migrant workers by that included a module explaining GE’s position on human rights, brokering dialogue to promote the effective regulation and with a more in-depth focus on forced labor—what it is, how extensive enforcement of the recruitment industry. the problem is globally, and what suppliers must do or avoid doing to comply with GE’s forced labor policy. Suppliers view this video as part of their commitment to abide by our lntegrity Guide. Conclusion GE applauds the impact that the UK Modern Slavery Act and Engagement similar legal and voluntary initiatives have had on raising global awareness of, and initiating dialogue around, the epidemic of Beyond our own workers and suppliers, GE engages with external modern slavery. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human stakeholders to identify human rights risks throughout our value chain Rights provide a constructive roadmap for the roles of states and to collaborate with peers, experts, and civil society groups to and business in working to protect and respect human rights, seek practical solutions. The GE Foundation, for instance, has funded and modern slavery is among the most salient issues for the all the Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) Responsible companies and states to address. GE is proud of the steps we Recruitment Initiative, focused on addressing modern slavery. GE is have taken to date in this area, but we know that we must remain also a founding member of the Global Business Initiative on Human vigilant to play our part in helping bring an end to this scourge. Rights, a cross-industry peer learning platform; and a Participant in the UN Global Compact (including the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum). This statement was approved by the Board of General Electric Company. Date: July 22, 2019 H. Larry Culp, Jr. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer General Electric Company © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA34297 07/2019 4 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Updated February 2018 GE requires its suppliers to adhere to the GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors, Consortium Partners and Consultants (the Guide), which governs all + facets of the Company’s relationships with suppliers. The Guide requires suppliers to adhere to the same level of responsible business conduct in the areas of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), Labor, and Human Rights that it requires of its own operations. In the specific area of forced labor, the Guide prohibits any form of forced, prison or indentured labor as well as the subjection of workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. GE’s Supplier Expectations apply to all GE-consolidated GE affiliates. Implementation for new acquisitions is phased in within three years. GE has trained more than 900 GE team members GE’s supply chain is large and diverse. GE buys raw materials and components that to execute the audits that support are incorporated into the products and services that GE sells (direct materials). The GE’s Supplier Responsibility initiative. largest categories of direct materials purchased are castings, forgings, electronics, plastics and machined parts. GE also buys products and services to support its business operations, which are used to develop or create, but are not incorporated into, GE’s products or services. These indirect purchases range from logistical All suppliers must agree support, tools and supplies to IT, telecom and professional services. GE sources to comply with the from approximately 150 countries. GE Integrity Guide for Below we respond to the five areas listed under the California Transparency in Suppliers, Contractors, Supply Chains Act. Consortium Partners Verification and Consultants, which GE’s Supply Chain monitoring program is multifaceted and risk-based. Suppliers are incorporates GE’s Supplier prioritized for detailed pre-engagement and subsequent periodic on-site assessments based on country risks, the supplier’s past performance and other factors, such as Expectations, as part of whether GE has become aware of any reason to believe that the supplier is not living our contracting process. up to our expectations. Almost all on-site assessments are conducted in developing countries, as part of our overall supplier-management strategy, but we maintain an “eyes always open” policy to be alert to potential violations of our standards in interactions with our suppliers. www.ge.com/sustainability sustainability@ge.com Audits When on-site audits are required by the GE Supplier Responsibility program, they are conducted by GE personnel using a global questionnaire and risk-weighted metrics. GE uses a combination of specially trained internal auditors, sourcing personnel, and a limited number of third-party firms specially instructed in GE standards to perform California Transparency in Supply Chains Act verification and auditing procedures. Audits are repeated on a oneto threeAccountability year basis, depending on factors that GE records all assessment findings from include results of past audits. Audits are on-site inspections in an automated supplemented by periodic spot checks assessment tracking tool and monitors and anonymous desk-side reviews of GE each until the assessment finding is closed, audit records by inspectors from other once a supplier provides evidence that business units or from our corporate EHS the defect has been corrected. Typically, team. While audits are not unannounced, findings must be closed within 60 days.1 they are supplemented by “eyes always Purchase orders are suspended if findings open” reviews when suppliers’ facilities are remain open beyond this time frame, visited by GE sourcing personnel. unless GE agrees that a closure requires more time, that interim progress has been Certification demonstrated, and/or that the delay has Virtually all suppliers (including labor been approved by the compliance team. providers) must agree to comply with Serious labor-related findings, such as the GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, evidence of child labor or forced labor, can Contractors, Consortium Partners result in immediate cessation of business and Consultants (the Guide) ,which relationships. incorporates GE’s Supplier Expectations, as part of our contracting process. The Guide Training has specific prohibitions against forced, GE has specially trained more than 900 prison or indentured labor as well as GE team members to execute the audits against subjecting workers to any form of that support GE’s Supplier Responsibility compulsion, coercion or human trafficking, initiative. More than 3,600 GE employees and requires our suppliers to hold their who interact with suppliers have undergone own suppliers to equivalent standards. GE’s training in Supplier Expectations, human rights issues and on-site dueIn 2016, the Guide was amended diligence requirements. to be much more specific about the prohibitions that are indicators of human trafficking and it specifically prohibits activities associated with trafficking, such as withholding passports, charging recruitment fees and misleading recruitment; and imposes certain affirmative obligations on suppliers such as reimbursement of return transportation costs and providing workers with written contracts in a language they understand. The Guide encourages reports of violations of the policy through telephone, email and in-person channels. 1 For example, as of February 20, 2017, 95% of the 2016 findings from approved suppliers were closed. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33646 02/2018 Human Rights I Updated June 2019 As a diversified, global company with growth in emerging markets, and as a provider of infrastructure around the world, GE regularly confronts complex human rights challenges. Our approach to those challenges starts with the Company’s Statement GE promotes respect for of Principles on Human Rights, which outlines our commitment to respecting human rights wherever we operate. To embed this commitment within our business fundamental human rights. operations, we have developed human rights “implementing procedures” that help our businesses incorporate human rights considerations in all aspects of their operations. With the adoption by the UN Human Rights Commission of the UN Guiding Principles We demand the same respect on Human Rights and Business in 2012, there was for the first time a broad for human rights from our agreement on a human rights framework: the states’ duty to protect, businesses’ business partners. duty to respect, and the mutual duty to address human rights deprivations. Despite this agreed-upon framework, pressure continues for increased “hard law” in this space, from legislation mandating specific due-diligence measures and regulations requiring transparency and reporting to broad national action plans and even suggestions of a global treaty on human rights. We believe the Guiding Principles provide the fairest and most realistic framework for protecting human rights globally, www.ge.com/sustainability but we recognize that for the Principles to succeed, business entities like GE need to “know and show” that they have robust programs for fulfilling their responsibility to sustainability@ge.com respect human rights. GE’s human rights efforts include working to prevent forced labor through its Ethical Supply Chain program; collaborating with organizations and governments to improve human rights where it operates (see more here on Partnerships & Initiatives); and using its training, and employment opportunities to provide opportunities to those in challenging environments, for example see Women in the Middle East here. States must be expected and required to uphold their duty to protect the human rights of those who live and work within their borders. While companies cannot be expected to assume the countries’ duty to protect, we can continue to take steps to respect human rights across the globe both as a means to improve local communities and to be an example for others. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18001 6/2019 Modern Slavery Updated August 2019 Modern slavery, and the associated trafficking of its victims, is currently one of the most challenging human rights issues both in the U.S. and abroad. Forced labor GE has strong policies occurs when individuals work involuntarily as a result of one or more coercive measures such as debt bondage, restriction of movement, threat of harm, fraudulent prohibiting forced or child recruitment, and financial inability to return home. On any given day, it is estimated labor in its operations and in that over 20 million individuals globally, the majority female, are victims of this epidemic. those of its suppliers. There are numerous NGO, UN, and state responses to this problem, many of which GE conducts thousands call on companies to conduct appropriate due diligence in their supply chains to prevent the use of forced or child labor. One of the most recent regulatory of human rights audits of directives—the U.K. Modern Slavery Act (MSA)—requires companies operating in its suppliers in high risk the U.K. to publish a statement outlining their efforts to prevent forced labor in their operations and supply chains. GE published its first MSA statement in May countries annually. 2017, providing a detailed description of our approach to this important challenge. Please see our recent 2019 MSA statement here. Similarly, you can see our current California Transparency in Supply Chain Act disclosure here. Additionally, In 2017 GE joined the GE maintains policies and procedures as required by the Federal Acquisition Leadership Group for Regulation (FAR) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons, and flows down those requirements to suppliers and subcontractors as required. Responsible Recruitment to help end the charging of GE’s efforts to combat forced labor start with strong policies prohibiting activities associated with this scourge, including the charging of recruitment fees, the recruitment fees. withholding of passports, and failing to pay wages earned as a means to prevent job movement. These policies apply to GE’s own operations as well as those of its business partners. With respect to its vast global supply chain, GE conducts thousands of on-site, in-person audits a year of suppliers in high risk countries to www.ge.com/sustainability verify that their operations comply with our human rights policies. These suppliers are subject to further on-site reassessments every one to three years depending on sustainability@ge.com their prior audit performance and other risk factors. Any findings from these audits are required to be remedied and closed expeditiously, typically within 60 days, see Ethical Supply Chain here. GE believes that in most cases it is better to work with a supplier to correct a human rights issue and improve their workplace going forward than to simply walk away from a supplier if any finding is uncovered. Ultimately, companies need to help build a more compliant global supply chain that is well educated in, and compliant with, basic human rights. Modern Slavery (Cont’d) GE continuously looks to improve on its due diligence in this space. Recently, the Company developed a new pre-qualification program for its contract labor providers – requiring them to provide upfront information on worker safety and human rights before being approved to do work for GE. Also, the Company recently participated in a worker voice pilot in India where workers in communities that provide labor to local GE suppliers were provided opportunities to answer a survey regarding their recruitment and treatment via their smartphones. The responses allow GE to better pinpoint potential forced labor risk and educate its suppliers on issues being raised in their labor markets. Finally, GE published new worker accommodation standards for its contractors when they provide on-site housing for workers on GE projects. These and other examples of due diligence continuous improvement are discussed further in GE’s UK MSA Statement here. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18003 8/2019 Partnerships & Initiatives I Updated February 2018 Collaborating with expert stakeholders locally and globally is integral to our human rights program. For instance, the GE Foundation has funded work by the Institute for GE Foundation collaborates Human Rights and Business on the global problem of human trafficking—specifically, funding the IHRB’s Responsible Recruitment initiative—and the UN Global Compact’s with Institute for Human Rights Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum. and Business and the UN Global GE is a founding member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, whose Compact. mission is to advance human rights in a business context through cross-industry peer learning, outreach and capacity building, and informing policy. GE is also a member of the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment, a collaboration between leading GE is a founding member of companies and expert organizations to drive positive change in the way that migrant the Global Business Initiative workers are recruited, with a focus on eliminating fees being charged to workers to secure employment. The three-fold aim of this initiative is to: (1) create demand for on Human Rights. responsible recruitment by raising awareness about the positive benefits of ethical practices and developing tools to help companies implement the Employer Pays Principle; (2) increase the supply of ethically sourced labor by creating an enabling In 2017 GE joined the environment and supporting the development and implementation of systems Leadership Group for to identify and use ethical recruitment agencies; and (3) advocate for improved protection for migrant workers by brokering dialogue to promote the effective Responsible Recruitment. regulation and enforcement of the recruitment industry. In 2017, GE collaborated with Good World Solutions, now part of Elevate, to participate in a smartphone-enabled worker voice pilot in India sponsored in part by Humanity United. The purpose of the pilot was to survey residents in towns where www.ge.com/sustainability GE suppliers recruit workers to gauge whether they were experiencing any forced labor conditions in their recruitment or employment. GE is looking at this and other sustainability@ge.com ways to enhance worker voice in our supply chain to provide the Company with another way beyond audits to identify and correct worker welfare issues. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 10/2018 U.N. Global Compact Principles Index Updated September 2019 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. As a multi-stakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align business operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and G  E has been a UNGC anti-corruption, and to catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals. signatory since 2008. GE became a signatory to the UNGC in 2008. Business signatories to the UNGC are required to annually submit a Communication On Progress (COP) for the UNGC website and to share the COP widely with their stakeholders. GE’s COP can be viewed here. Also, referenced below are links to relevant portions of GE’s Sustainability website that support the corresponding UNGC principles. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed www.ge.com/sustainability human rights. sustainability@ge.com • Human Rights & Supply Chain Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Human Rights & Supply Chain LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Labor Relations Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Human Rights & Supply Chain Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. • Human Rights Statement of Principles • UK Modern Slavery Act United Nations Global Compact Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of emplyment and occupation. • Diversity & Inclusion ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Environment, Health & Safety Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Environment, Health & Safety Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Sustainability • GE Renewable Energy ANTI-CORRUPTION Prinicple 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Integrity • Sustainability For more information about the UNGC strategic policy initiative, visit the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 9/2019 Public Policy Priorities Updated January 2019 ✓ Tax reform and competitive economic policy Regulatory reform associated with energy, infrastructure, healthcare and ✓ digital policy ✓ Effective and modernized defense procurement GE’s 2018 Public Policy Priorities ✓ Effective laws and regulations governing the transfer and protection of data ✓ Trade policy ✓ Global energy and environmental policies www.ge.com/sustainability ✓ Government procurement sustainability@ge.com ✓ Intellectual property protection ✓ Promotion of exports and the free flow of goods ✓ Rule of law, globally ✓ Policies that facilitate the movement of people consistent with business needs ✓ Policies to promote effective economic development in less-developed countries © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33665 1/2019 Setting Public Policy Priorities Updated January 2019 As one of the world’s largest companies, and one active in many sectors of the global economy, GE engages in public policy discussions that impact our Company, GE engages in public policy our workers, and our communities. We approach public policy through education, engagement, involvement, and thought leadership. We seek to inform discussions discussions that impact our by promoting thoughtful civil discourse grounded in strong, fact-based and reasoned Company, our workers, and analysis. We work in partnership with governments, because we know that tackling the world’s biggest problems is only possible if governments and industry work our communities in areas together as partners. Each year, GE evaluates public policy priorities for the upcoming such as energy, healthcare, year. Our team reviews a number of factors, including the potential reputational effects and risks associated with pursuing or not pursuing a particular priority. international trade and investment, tax, data Working Globally, Nationally, and Locally governance, rule of law, and GE works to promote public policy issues in areas such as energy, healthcare, transportation, international trade and investment, tax, data governance, rule of law, government procurement. and government procurement. We are committed to engaging with governments— globally, nationally, and locally—through constructive dialogue, promotion of innovative public policy ideas, formation of novel public-private partnerships, and investments in solutions that help address the fundamental challenges that confront societies. Globally, we support public policies that promote open markets, technology, and innovation. www.ge.com/sustainability Societies with predictable and transparent legal institutions and processes sustainability@ge.com engender confidence, investment, and growth. GE works actively to support stronger rule of law around the world. Key focus areas include anticorruption; legal and administrative transparency and predictability; independent judiciaries; transparency and competitiveness in public procurement; and fair and effective dispute resolution. GE, our employees, and the GE Foundation have supported numerous programs to achieve these goals. Assessing Policy Priorities, Defining Objectives GE’s Board of Directors believes that it is in the best interest of GE’s stakeholders to promote sound public policies at the international, national, and local levels. To that end, our Government Affairs & Policy team works with the Company’s business teams to develop a semiannual assessment of their legislative and regulatory priorities. Similarly, we conduct surveys of issues and priorities across GE’s regions worldwide. Each business provides a description of its public policy priorities, ties these to a GE objective, and provides input on the significance of the respective issue(s) to the Company. Setting Public Policy Priorities (Cont’d) The businesses also provide input on the appropriate advocacy plan or strategy for achieving a successful outcome—including whether or not GE should advocate for a priority directly or through one of its trade associations or industry coalitions. In the latter case, GE can help facilitate coordination with other companies with similar priorities. Once each business has assessed and submitted its priorities, our Government Affairs & Policy team can better determine GE’s overall public policy priorities and allocate resources to them accordingly. In evaluating public policy priorities for an upcoming year, Government Affairs & Policy works with GE’s senior management to review the potential reputational consequences and risks of pursuing or not pursuing a priority. We set commercial priorities to increase shareowner value, mindful that our commercial success depends on progress on broader public policy imperatives. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33642 1/2019 Lobbying Disclosure Policy Updated January 2019 GE employees engage with public officials at all levels of government-local, state and federal. Employees educate officials on our Company’s operations, emerging technologies and markets, as well as on our views on public policy issues. All advocacy done by our employees on pending U.S. legislation is included in our Lobbying Disclosure Act (LDA) filings. GE conducts lobbying activities in compliance with applicable GE conducts lobbying activities in compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing such activities. In the United States, certain laws and regulations governing communications with federal, state and/or local government officials or such activities. government employees may be reportable as lobbying communications included in GE’s LDA reports and/or state or local lobbying disclosure reports. Certain countries outside the United States may also require disclosure of lobbying activities. Before engaging in lobbying activities, employees are asked to contact the President, Government Affairs & Policy or his or her designee. GE regularly www.ge.com/sustainability trains employees on what types of activities and communications constitute reportable lobbying activities. Prior approval from GE’s President, Government sustainability@ge.com Affairs & Policy is required before GE may retain an outside entity to engage in lobbying activities. Reviewing and Reporting Lobbying Expenses As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee (GPAC) of the Board of Directors receives and semiannually reviews reports on the Company’s lobbying expenses. GE uses the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) method to detail its lobbying expenses in its federal Form LD-2 lobbying report filed each calendar quarter. Under this method, expenses related to state and/or local legislative lobbying in all 50 states are included in GE’s total lobbying expense reported each quarter and reviewed semiannually by GPAC. In limited circumstances, when an issue is of particular strategic importance, the Company may use advertisements or other public communications to urge support for specific legislation or public policy. Grassroots lobbying expenses also are included in our LDA filings. GE’s Federal Lobbying Disclosure Reports are available here. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33662 1/2019 Government Business Updated March 2019 GE does business with a wide spectrum of federal, state, and local governments, as well as with government contractors. While also supporting our private-sector customers, we recognize the importance of our managers and employees also having a thorough understanding of the special requirements of our government customers. GE’s compliance and integrity culture places us Government customers who acquire our products and services serve to fulfill in an excellent position to public policy objectives, and therefore may request unique contract requirements such as domestic preference restrictions, socioeconomic provisions, and especially pursue and perform work stringent business ethics and compliance obligations. GE employees recognize that compliantly for governments government customers have a variety of means to enforce these unique requirements (both contractual and non-contractual, including civil and criminal sanctions, and and government-funded administrative judgments) that go well beyond remedies available to our commercial contractors. customers. Societies with predictable and transparent legal institutions and processes engender confidence, investment, and growth. GE works actively to support stronger rule of law around the world. Key focus areas include anticorruption; legal and administrative transparency and predictability; independent judiciaries; transparency and competitiveness in public procurement; and fair and effective dispute resolution. GE, www.ge.com/sustainability our employees, and the GE Foundation support numerous programs to achieve these goals. sustainability@ge.com GE’s Government Business Center of Excellence GE’s compliance and integrity culture places us in an excellent position to pursue and perform work compliantly for governments and government contractors. But we don’t just rely on our culture; we continue to emphasize with our employees and executives how working with governments is unique. For example, our company-wide Government Business Center of Excellence (GBCOE) features a well-established Government Business Practice group, whose members represent each GE business. This group communicates regularly and serves as a conduit for government business–related communications across the company. This engagement helps inform those businesses and employees as they work with government customers. In addition, the GBCOE conducts training on contemporary government-business topics and provides customized virtual or in-person training for specific GE businesses upon request. The GBCOE intranet site hosts a wealth of information on government policies and processes, as well as training materials to support GE businesses that work with government customers. Government Business (Cont’d) Meeting Government Business Needs • Conducts government-business • Where appropriate, develops GE-wide GE is well preprared to meet the unique training sessions at recently implementation policies, and helps demands of our government customers acquired businesses, introducing businesses implement businessand flourish in this highly regulated newly acquired personnel to the specific policies for many complex environment. GBCOE, GE’s Government Business new procurement regulations to help Standards, and best practices ensure compliance. To help ensure our readiness, GE: tailored to the needs of those • Closely monitors both final and • Periodically solicits and compiles businesses. proposed changes to government detailed information from our • Supports the integration of procurement–related legislation, businesses that work with US federal, acquired entities into GE. policies, and regulations to assist state or local government agencies, businesses in understanding new based on GE’s eight Government • Partners with GE’s government compliance counsel to reinforce requirements and establishing Business Standards. These selfappropriate compliance processes in assessments highlight the nature “pay to play” restrictions in key US states where GE does business. a timely manner. and type of government work that GE businesses are performing (including • Dedicates specific attention • Maintains—together with a risk profile); identify best practices and resources to state and local Corporate Litigation and other and potential areas for improvement contracting issues. functions including the Compliance relative to the Standards; and organization—a process for quickly enable GE to better target future identifying responsibility matters that government-business training may be reportable to US federal, state curricula. or local government customers. • Conducts numerous training sessions on key government-business topics each year—reaching employees in every GE business. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33644 3/2019 Political Contributions Policy Updated August 2019 GE primarily supports candidates through contributions from the General Electric Political Action Committee (GEPAC) and occasionally through Company contributions, GE primarily supports where legal and appropriate under state and local law. GE and GEPAC make contributions on a bipartisan basis to political candidates and initiatives that support candidates through strong public policy, promote sustainable growth and robust markets, and promote contributions from the GE innovation and the interests of the industries in which GE operates. Political Action Committee In making contributions, we naturally evaluate a candidate’s position on issues (GEPAC). of concern to the Company. Our contributions are not based on the personal preferences of individual Company leaders. We base our contribution decisions on the best interests of the Company, on what we believe is sound public policy and, in the United States, on what we believe to be the best interests of the United States. Among the factors that we consider in determining which candidates and initiatives to support, GE and GEPAC representatives balance the views promoted by a candidate, the quality and effectiveness of the candidate or organization to which the contribution is made, and the appropriateness of the level of involvement of www.ge.com/sustainability GE in an election. The following factors are among those considered: sustainability@ge.com • Whether the candidate represents a state or district within which a GE business operates or is located; • Whether the candidate sits on a committee that addresses legislation affecting GE businesses or the global economy; • The candidate’s elected political leadership position, committee standing, and voting record on business and policy issues germane to the company; and • The personal characteristics of the candidate (including the candidate’s integrity and effectiveness). Oversight As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors annually reviews the Company’s policies and practices related to political contributions, contributions to campaigns, and contributions to trade associations and other tax-exempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. The committee also receives and reviews, semiannually, reports on the Company’s political spending, including political contributions and contributions to trade associations and other tax-exempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. Each year, the committee approves a contributions budget in advance and issues a report on the Company’s political spending. Political Contributions Policy (cont’d) State and Local & Policy, review and approve all corporate Internal Revenue Code (and, where Contributions political contributions. Contributions of more than $5,000 may not be made all amounts contributed are eligible for the deduction, an indication US law prohibits companies from without the approval of the Corporate that $0 constituted non-deductible contributing to candidates for federal Oversight Board. contributions). office, but many states allow corporate The recipients of our donations are contributions to state and local candidates, committees, political organizations, and detailed in our bi-annual political contributions report. In 2018, the 501(c)4 Organizations ballot-issue campaigns. As described in GE’s Each year, GE will disclose contributions Company made no contributions using code of conduct—The Spirit & The Letter— made by GE or one of its majority-owned corporate funds. any contribution of Company funds or other subsidiaries to an entity organized under assets for political purposes in the United Section 50l(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue States must be approved in advance by GE’s Associations Code, identifying the organization and President, Government Affairs & Policy. Our the amount contributed, to the extent As one of the largest and most diverse compliance counsel works to ensure that any entity is identified as organized under companies in the world, GE belongs contributions comply with the spirit and Section 501(c)(4) to GE. to many associations and coalitions in letter of applicable laws and regulations. which we work with our industry partners Political contributions made with Company funds outside the United States also must and represent our Company’s interests. In some cases, these associations and Independent be approved by GE’s President, Government coalitions engage in advocacy at the state Expenditures Affairs & Policy. GE’s foreign political and federal levels. While we generally GE has a long-standing practice against contributions are currently limited to agree with the positions the associations using corporate resources for the direct Canada. take on public policy issues, membership funding of independent expenditures GE believes it is important for our employees in a particular trade association does expressly advocating for or against to be informed about public policy issues not indicate agreement with all of the candidates in elections for public office. and, consistent with applicable law, will not association’s views. Occasionally, these For each association from which GE take any adverse employment action against associations take positions that differ receives a notice stating that the an employee based on his or her personal from ours. In those cases, we engage with association has spent or will spend political affiliation or lawful political activity. the associations to express our views. $25,000 or more of GE’s payments in a Our Corporate Oversight Board comprises Each year, GE will inquire and make a fiscal year on nondeductible lobbying designated senior executives within the reasonable effort to obtain information and/or political expenditures under Company, including GE’s Senior Vice about what portion of the company’s Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), President & General Counsel, and GE’s dues or payments were used for lobbying we ask the trade association to identify Senior Vice President & Chief Financial expenditures or political contributions the portion of those payments used to Officer. The board meets as needed to review from those associations where our fund independent expenditures expressly Company expenditures and ensure that dues and other expenditures total advocating for or against candidates in controls are in place for compliance with $50,000 or more. Each year, GE will elections for public office. Any responses our political spending policies, and that the disclose a list of U.S. trade associations we receive to such requests are included expenditures and activities advance GE’s receiving more than $50,000 in annual in our political contributions report. objectives. Our political contributions are contributions from GE or one of its overseen by a multi-functional team made majority-owned subsidiaries. For each of up of senior executives and representatives the aforementioned trade associations, GEPAC from Government Affairs & Policy, Legal, GE will disclose the dollar amount GEPAC is an independent, nonpartisan, Finance, and other related functions. The reported to GE or its majority-owned voluntary fund supported by GE state government affairs manager, corporate subsidiaries that is ineligible for deduction employees who choose to participate finance manager, government compliance as an “ordinary and necessary” business in the political process by pooling their counsel, and President, Government Affairs expense under Section 162(e) of the resources to support candidates who Political Contributions Policy (cont’d) share the values and goals of the Company The GEPAC Board sets overall budget targets, and our employees. GEPAC raises voluntary and day-to-day decisions are delegated to a contributions from eligible GE employees subcommittee of the GEPAC Board. GEPAC and supports candidates for the US Senate retains counsel to ensure compliance with and House of Representatives, and selected the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and candidates in state elections. In addition, regulations. contributions to certain national party Each year, GE will publish GEPAC and GEPAC organizations are made when appropriate. Federal contributions to candidate and other GEPAC reporting includes contributions to committees or organizations made during GEPAC Federal, a separate PAC supported the calendar year. exclusively by GE employees who are subject to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and/or other rules that affect political contributions by certain financial professionals. In August 2018, GEPAC Federal was terminated. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates the activities of GEPAC and GEPAC Federal. Reports detailing these activities are available on the FEC website at http://www. fec.gov. GEPAC also makes contributions to certain state-office candidates, so long as federal PAC contributions to state-office candidates are permitted in accordance with state laws. These states include Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas. A committee made up of employees nominated from GE businesses and corporate components directs contributions. The GEPAC Board sets overall budget targets, and day-to-day decisions are delegated to a subcommittee of the GEPAC Board. GEPAC retains counsel to ensure compliance with the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and regulations. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33643 8/2019 Political Contributions Updated July 2019 January 1 – June 30, 2019 GE Corporate Global Contributions No GE Corporate contributions were made to U.S., Canadian, or foreign party The Federal Election committees, candidates, or incumbents during the first half of 2019. Commission (FEC) regulates GEPAC Contributions the activities of GEPAC. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates the activities of the General Electric Political Action Committee (GEPAC). Reports detailing these activities are available on the FEC website, http://www.fec.gov. A list of contributions by GEPAC made during the first half of the 2019 calendar year is included in General Electric’s LD-203 Lobbying Contributions Reports as follows: • 2019 Mid-Year Report: http://disclosures.house.gov/lc/lcxmlrelease/2019/ MM/700895339.xml In 2018, GEPAC raised $1.1 million from more than 2,700 employees. This amount includes $5,800 contributed by 12 employees directly to GEPAC Federal, a separate PAC supported exclusively by GE employees who are subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and/or other rules that affect political contributions by certain financial professionals. GEPAC and GEPAC Federal contributed $938,000 to www.ge.com/sustainability candidates and committees in federal elections. GEPAC contributed $135,000 to candidates and committees in state elections in the United States. In August sustainability@ge.com 2018, GEPAC Federal was terminated. Ballot Initiatives GE did not contribute to state or local ballot initiatives during the first half of 2019. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA19004 7/2019 Trade Organization and 501(c)4 Disclosure Updated July 2019 501(c)6 Organizations: Membership of $50K+ (1st Half 2019) Non-deductible amount Advanced Medical Technology Association (ADVAMED) $50,959 Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) $108,223 American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) $12,212 American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) $5,955 American Petroleum Institute (API) $91,000 American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) $18,750 Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) $45,000 Business Roundtable (BRT) $120,000 Carbon Utilization Research Council (CURC) $30,000 General Aviation Manufacturers Alliance (GAMA) $9,126 Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) $1,364 Internet Security Alliance $3,500 National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) $320,000 National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) $196,210 Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) $13,629 501(c)4 Organizations Amount Paid Alliance for Regenerative Medicine $20,000 Corporate Friends of the CDC $25,000 www.ge.com/sustainability © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA19003 7/2019 sustainability@ge.com 2018 Trade Organization and 501(c)4 Disclosure Updated January 2019 501(c)6 Organizations: 2018 membership of $50K+ Non-deductible amount Advanced Medical Technology Association (ADVAMED) $25,875 Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) $87,642 American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) $29,090 American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) $8,760 American Petroleum Institute (API) $78,000 American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) $92,000 Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) $45,000 Business Roundtable $255,000 Carbon Utilization Research Council (CURC) $30,000 General Aviation Manufacturers Alliance (GAMA) $5,683 Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) $1,364 Internet Security Alliance $3,500 National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) $104,000 National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) $183,679 Nuclear Energy Institute $13,394 The Wind Coalition $26,250 U.S. Chamber of Commerce $448,000 501(c)4 Organizations Amount Paid Alliance for Regenerative Medicine $80,000 Congressional Institute $27,500 Consumer Energy Alliance $30,000 Corporate Friends of the CDC $25,000 Go Rail $50,000 No Labels $25,000 US Global Leadership Campaign $30,000 www.ge.com/sustainability © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33665 1/2019 sustainability@ge.com Stem Cell Research and Technologies for Cell Therapies Credit CCRM Updated January 2018 GE develops and provides technology that enables pharmaceutical companies, clinicians and academic researchers to develop new therapies. This research includes the study, manipulation and storage of stem cells as a resource for drug discovery and • GE develops and manufacturing of cell-based therapies. GE uses pluripotent stem cells derived from both embryonic and adult sources for the development of predictive drug-screening provides technology applications and for technologies supporting the development and manufacture of that enables cell therapies. GE Healthcare’s cell therapy division also offers technology for efficient and reproducible processing of umbilical cord blood in adult stem cell processing. GE pharmaceutical recognizes the sensitivities associated with the use of some types of stem cells. companies, clinicians and academic Cell therapies and immunotherapies are changing the face of medicine, enabling doctors to address not just the symptoms of a disease, but also its underlying causes, researchers to develop essentially teaching the body to heal itself. The pace of current developments in new therapies. cell therapy and immunotherapy is promising, with some researchers reporting unprecedented clinical outcomes. However, the field still has many issues to • We conduct our overcome, and GE’s tools and technologies are helping customers make these new research in an ethically therapies affordable and part of mainstream clinical practice. and scientifically GE has ongoing and planned research that uses both adult-derived stem cells and responsible manner. established ES (embryonic stem) cell lines to develop drug research technologies and cell-based therapy applications. GE conducts research in accordance with U.S. federal guidelines, as well as with www.ge.com/sustainability the U.K.’s, and any other applicable country’s, legislation and recommendations regarding stem cell research. Our ES cell research programs employ established ES sustainability@ge.com cell lines approved by the National Institutes of Health or other cell lines established in accordance with good ethical practice. GE will not be associated with the primary harvest of human embryo–derived cells or tissues for its research. In a rapidly evolving scientific field, our intention is for GE’s position to accurately reflect the most recent government and public opinions, therefore, from time to time, we will update this statement to reflect such changes. This statement was last revised in January 2017. We acknowledge the considerable debate over, and take very seriously the ethical and societal issues associated with, research using stem cells derived from embryonic or fetal tissue. We conduct our research in an ethically and scientifically responsible manner. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33678 1/2018 Military Products Updated March 2019 Most of GE’s sales of military products and services is through GE’s Aviation business, although some of GE’s other businesses also sell limited military products and services. GE’s military products consist of components or subsystems, including: The military aircraft and vessels supported by GE • Engines and propellers for propulsion of military aircraft and engines for military vessels perform important national • Flight actuation, flight control, and mission and flight management systems for security, search-and-rescue, military aircraft • Power generation, distribution, and conversion for military aircraft and vessels and humanitarian missions. • Aero structures for military aircraft • Gears and other transmission components for military aircraft and vessels • Non-explosive components and parts for weapons systems Military aircraft and vessels supported by GE perform important national security, search-and-rescue, and humanitarian missions. We do not manufacture, assemble, GE Global Research conducts sell or service cluster bombs, land mines or nuclear weapons, or component parts of cluster bombs, land mines or nuclear weapons. research and development associated with various GE Global Research Center conducts research and development associated with military applications. various military applications. GE’s military products and services are sold either directly to the US Department of Defense or to a foreign government’s military agency, or indirectly to the US Department of Defense and foreign militaries as a subcontractor for another commercial entity. GE complies with all US export control laws that govern the sale of military products and services, including the Arms Control Export Act, as well as with all www.ge.com/sustainability US departments of state and commerce regulations governing these sales. GE also complies with the applicable export control laws in other countries from which sustainability@ge.com it exports military equipment, and may only deliver to customers when sales are consistent with those laws. Each GE business reviews its sales of military products and services, including sales to any foreign military customer, to ensure that any sale comports with these requirements. © 2019 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33634 3/2019 Animal Testing Updated February 2018 GE works with a limited number of animals, primarily rodents, in the discovery and development of novel diagnostic and healthcare products used in the identification and detection of disease. GE is committed to using the fewest number of animals • GE subscribes to the that will provide scientifically sound data to help ensure the safety and efficacy of its products. GE is also committed to providing exemplary care in accordance with Three Rs principle industry best practices for the care and welfare of laboratory animals. GE adheres • GE uses animals in to the “Three Rs” principle, through which the use of animals is reduced, refined and replaced. This principle forms part of the strict regime regarding the use of animals in research and product medical research. development only when absolutely necessary GE recognizes that the use of animals in medical research to advance scientific understanding of biological systems and to develop new medical technologies may • GE is committed to be unsettling to some. However, others believe that the challenges and burdens using alternative resulting from diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, heart failure and stroke support the carefully considered use of animals for research when non-animal studies other appropriate scientific methods are not available. Recent developments in wherever possible the fields of genetics, molecular biology and advanced computing are providing unprecedented opportunities for advancements in the area of medical diagnostics while simultaneously reducing the need for the use of animals in research. While we expect that today’s research will result in future medical diagnostic solutions that will benefit both healthcare delivery and patient outcomes, these future discoveries will www.ge.com/sustainability be dependent, in part, on continued research involving the limited use of animals. sustainability@ge.com Healthcare GE Healthcare’s goal is to enable healthcare providers to better diagnose, treat and manage their patients. A key technology in this effort is the visualization of biological processes at all levels within the human body—from the sub-cellular molecules and biochemicals that make up our genetic structure to cells, tissues and whole organ systems. To advance this technology, GE Healthcare performs medical research that requires the use of a limited number of animals to determine the safety of products and to satisfy the regulatory requirements of health authorities around the world. GE Healthcare’s Life Sciences unit develops diagnostic products used to understand and enable the treatment of major diseases in conjunction with X-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound, and functional imaging systems. Contrast and radiopharmaceutical imaging agents are, in general, injected into the bloodstream to enhance images taken of the structure or function of internal body organs and tissues. GE Healthcare Life Sciences also develops and provides technologies for disease research and drug discovery, development and manufacture. These technology platforms allow researchers to better understand Animal Testing the functions of genes and proteins remains essential in bridging the • All animal studies are scrutinized that may be responsible for disease; to gap between the discovery of safe and approved prior to initiation to screen possible drug candidates and and effective healthcare products ensure that they are both necessary develop them for clinical trials; and to and the conquering of disease. and designed to minimize the number manufacture biopharmaceuticals, such as Where possible, we use and develop of animals used. Furthermore, all insulin. alternatives to animal studies. studies are designed to avoid or • Health authorities across the world minimize pain, discomfort and levels GE’s limited use of animals set stringent regulatory guidelines for of stress for the animals. Finally, once involves the following: the evaluation of new pharmaceutical underway, studies are periodically • Developing products and compounds. These require that all monitored by ethical oversight technologies that help reduce the prescription medicines intended for boards to ensure compliance with all need for research involving animals use in humans must be shown to relevant policies and procedures. • Research toward development of be safe, effective and of the highest • As part of its business, GE has novel diagnostics quality before being made available developed a number of products and • Safety testing of products to meet to treat patients. technologies that can help reduce the regulatory requirements • At present, it is not possible to number of animals used in research, • Use of animal-derived materials in GE determine the safety of products or including gene chip microarrays Healthcare Life Sciences’ biological meet the regulatory requirements of developed for toxicology studies and products supply chain global health authorities without any the IN Cell Analyzer for studying the • Marketing of third-party biological animal studies. impact of new drugs on living cells in products with animal origins • All animal studies must comply real time. with local regulations, including The Use of Animals in Our appropriate licensing requirements. Animals Used, by Species Medical Research Studies must also be scientifically and GE subscribes to the Three Rs principle, ethically justified prior to initiation. which advocates for study designs in • GE uses animals in research and • GE is committed to using alternative product development only when medical research that will reduce, refine and non-animal studies wherever possible. replace the use of animals. In the area of absolutely necessary. The safety and Animals are used only when no efficacy of our products for use in research involving animals, GE is considered suitable alternative is available. Our low-volume in its use of animals. humans is of paramount importance. researchers subscribe to the Three • Non-animal methods are important Rs, which advocate for study designs tools that are used to refine and Below is a summary by species of animals in medical research that will reduce, used by GE in the years 2009–2017. support studies that require the use refine and replace the use of animals. of animals. The use of animals still 6,000 Species 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mice 5,000 and 5,394 4,712 4,179 2,020 1,952 1,339 833 582 648 Rats 4,000 Rabbits 139 153 60 4 48 0 10 0 0 3,000 Other 127 24 47 8 19 32 0 40 10 Total 5,660 4,889 4,286 2,032 2019 1,371 843 622 658 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mice and Rats Rabbits Other Total © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33679 2/2018 Employees Giving Back Updated October 2018 Waste Workouts Initiative The Waste Workouts Initiative has been achieving significant cost savings and improvements with waste management and disposal in GE sites in Brazil. This initiative is a collaborative way to identify opportunities to improve waste generation performance. The workouts are conducted during Skype sessions in By changing waste packaging, which the team analyzes and discusses waste management performance the GE Aviation Celma site indicators and opportunities to improve waste storage, packaging, logistics and estimates that it will achieve waste vendors. more than $23,000 in annual By changing waste packaging, the GE Aviation Celma site estimates that it will savings. achieve more than $23,000 in annual savings. Other sites will soon benefit from this initiative, as best practices will be shared to increase the impact across GE. STEM Mentoring through First Robotics GE Healthcare Mexico’s In partnership with For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology partnership with battery (FIRST) a nonprofit that inspires young people to be leaders in science and technology GE and BHGE employees’ coach and mentor student-led K-12 manufacturer Enysis robotics teams. FIRST takes an innovative approach to learning and development, has reduced GE’s overall presenting students with real world challenges involving Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) skills. Themed around the Grand Challenges environmental impact. identified by the National Academy of Engineering, each year a different challenge is chosen to foster understanding and cooperation among the students. Students develop skills in design, engineering, programming, wiring, and fabrication while simultaneously adopting core values in safety, time management, teamwork, and inclusion. They learn how to analyze a problem, develop a strategy for solving it www.ge.com/sustainability and build devices that can range from LEGO models to complex robots. sustainability@ge.com Employees Giving Back Battery Recycling in GE Healthcare Mexico GE Healthcare installed mobile digital X-ray machines throughout Mexico enabling a new way to take fast, reliable and high-quality images. The X-ray machines contain four acid-lead batteries that must be replaced every six months for optimum performance, which must be managed as hazardous waste at a cost of more than $65,000 per year. To responsibly manage and dispose these batteries, GE Healthcare developed a partnership with Enersys, the battery manufacturer. In 2018 Enersys began collecting the lead-acid batteries from GE warehouses or customer sites, and transports, stores and recycles them. This partnership enables GE Healthcare in Mexico to better serve their customers in a way that is safe for the environment and communities where they operate, while reducing the costs incurred during the battery disposition process. It also reduces GE’s overall environmental impact since, according to academic studies, regenerated/recycled lead accounts for 5.52% of the environmental burdens of primary lead (Chen S. et al, 2017). 1 1 Chen S. et al, (2017), The Environmental Burdens od Lead-Acid Batteries in China: Insights from an integrated Material Flow Analysis and Life Cycle Assessment of Lead, extracted from:https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org Christina River Watershed Cleanup In April 2018, GE Aviation employees volunteered to help clean one of the most important natural resources in the Newark, Delaware area: The Christina River Basin Watershed. The watershed is composed of the Brandywine, White Clay, Red Clay Creeks, and Christina River, before continuing into the Delaware River. It provides more than 75% of the water supply for residents and businesses in New Castle County. The Christina River Watershed Cleanup’s mission is the removal of man-made debris from the watershed, while raising public awareness for pollution prevention. Since the Cleanup began in 1992, more than 360 tons of tires, appliances, household items, and other trash have been cleared. 2 2 “Annual Christina River Watershed Cleanup” http://stewartsonline.net/crwc/ (Accessed July 25, 2018) © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18009 10/2018 Labor Relations Updated February 2018 In the U.S., GE is party to a four-year national agreement with each of its two largest unions, the IUE-CWA and the UE (which together currently represent 9,450 employees). The larger of the two unions, the IUE-CWA, represents approximately 4,900 GE employees at 22 Company • In the U.S. the IUE-CWA locations, while the UE represents approximately 1,500 employees at four locations1. and the UE together Certain terms of these two contracts were also extended to, and approved by, nine currently represent other U.S. unions representing smaller groups of GE employees. These other unions are members of the AFL-CIO Coordinated Bargaining Committee (CBC), which has 9,450 employees local contracts with GE, and represent an additional 2,900 employees. The IUE and UE • Formal trade union national agreements, and a majority of the other local CBC contracts, expire on June representation exists 23, 2019. Other GE affiliates are parties to non-CBC labor contracts with various labor unions, covering approximately 1,500 employees2, that have varying expiration dates. at many GE locations in the EU GE’s relationship with employee-representative organizations outside the U.S. takes many forms, especially in the EU. Information exchange and consultation occur through works councils, trade unions and employee-representative bodies at various levels of the business organizations. Formal trade union representation exists at many GE locations www.ge.com/sustainability in the EU, while in others, notwithstanding the union membership of some employees, alternative employee-representative structures have been established. These include sustainability@ge.com formal representative bodies, at the business, national, sector or site level, with which GE is legally obliged to engage in a range of circumstances, as well as health & safety committees in some countries. We estimate that our employees are represented by approximately 250 representative bodies throughout the EU. For pan-European issues, we currently have four European Works Councils (EWCs), each aligned with specific business divisions. Together, the EWCs cover approximately 35% of our European workforce. In addition, we have temporarily put in place a similar voluntary arrangement to represent employees of the recently acquired Alstom energy business. We are roughly two years into a maximum threeyear negotiation process related to the creation of a new single EWC structure that will provide European-level representation to all GE employees outside of the Capital business and will ultimately supersede the existing arrangements at that level. In China, 39 GE legal entities (including 13 legacy Alstom entities) have unions representing nearly 20,000 employees (Alstom, 4,695 employees), all affiliated with the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, including GE China’s headquarters in Shanghai. Collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated at each of these locations. 1 U.S. data as of December 2016. 2 As of Q1 2017. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33680 2/2018
