Communication on Progress UN Global Compact 2019/2020 Creating Joint Futures? 2019 was the year we turned 140 years, The Foundations is an integrated part of our created our new vision “Creating Joint Fucompany’s DNA. tures”, arranged the first round of our internal innovation competition; Innovation ChalIn November 2019 GC Rieber Property won lenge, and had one of the best results in the Bergen Chambers Sustainability award. In the company’s history. 2020 has so far turned jury’s verdict it’s stated that the company over everything upside down, making the future the last ten years has “developed several arlook both dark and uncertain. Not knowing eas in Bergen in a sustainable way, with good how GC Rieber, or the world for that matter, solutions for buildings, urban spaces and diswill look afterwards. How can we keep saying tricts…”. The award is a great inspiration also Creating Joint Futures when we don’t know for the rest of the GC Rieber Group. It confirms what future to create for? that long term, determined efforts both work and are noticed. This is something we bring Even though it’s hard and it doesn’t realalong on our way towards a social, economic ly feel like the time to be creative, staying and environmental future; all rooted in our around for 140 years has taught us that this vision Creating Joint Futures. is probably the time when it’s more important than ever to come up with new ideas Sincerely yours, and visions for the future. Being a member of UN Global Compact and committing to the Paul-Chr. Rieber 17 sustainability goals is a natural and imporCEO tant part of this. The goals have an impact GC Rieber Group on everything we do, from making big investment decisions, through building a factory or a new hotel and to how our canteen handles food waste. During the past year sustainability has become more relevant than ever, also for GC Rieber. CSR and sustainability are important focus areas for both management groups and boards in the GC Rieber Group. But caring for people and for our surroundings has been an important value and an integrated part of our strategy ever since 1879. Our ten maxims have followed us since the start, and they work as inspirational and important guidelines for us. Also, the GC Rieber Foundations, founded in 1929, plays an important role as one of the major shareholders of our group. Every fifth Norwegian krone the group earns, goes to the GC Rieber Foundations and the projects they support within social photo: Camilla Waage photo: Mostphotos welfare, research, culture and outdoor life. Front page photo: Marineholmen beach, photo by AG+ From the finals of our Innovation Challenge. Photo: Tove-Lise Mossestad The GC Rieber Group is a Our vision is Creating Joint Futures The GC Rieber Group operates primarily privately owned company and we aim to achieve this both comin the B2B market and has an annual exercising proactive and long-term ercially and for the greater good. Since turnover of around NOK 2 billion and a ownership of entrerprises within the foundation of the company in 1879, total balance of around NOK 7 billion. About us Shipping, Property, salt distribucorporate social sustainability (CSR) has been an integrated part of our business. We are around 600 employees and tion (Salt) and asset management have about 200 shareholders. (Fortuna) as well as production of We have operational offices in Norway, Omega-3 concentrates (Oils) and Denmark, Sweden, Iceland, Faroe Isspecialized nutritional products lands, Australia, Canada, Russia, India, (Compact). South-Africa and Tunisia. The GC Rieber Group Creating Joint Futures with a balance between financial strength, a solid internal culture and respect towards our environments. photo: Øystein Klakegg INTERNAL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES In order to make our position on CSR To further strengthen our supplier conRieber Companies are reporting to their Based on our strong business principles and sustainability clear to our business trol and follow-up, we have conducted Company board respectively. and core values, GC Rieber has develpartners, we have created a Code of a status evaluation of our established oped internal policies and guidelines Conduct (CoC) that we ask them to sign. routines for supplier handling and Code Each group company has their own CSR for ethics, anti-corruption and CSR that GC Rieber will, when selecting suppliers of Conduct and is adapting our routines Coordinator to support the implemenwe expect all GC Rieber employees to and prior to making investment deciand documentation accordingly. tation of Group policies and guidelines, adhere to. The policies and guidelines sions, consider compliance with this CoC coordinate the company CSR strategy contain general principles for best pracas part of our general assessment. The CSR STRATEGY, ACTION PLANS AND and action plan. In addition, the CSR tice and professional conduct and repCoC provides a framework for what we REPORTING coordinator acts as an advisor for comresent the fundament of our core beliefs consider to be the minimum standard Our CSR policy is an integrated part of pany leaders and employees. and our corporate culture. for professional conduct. our organization and reflects our business goals. At GC Rieber, we involve and The CSR coordinator role contributes SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN In addition, business units conduct reguengage all parts of the organization in to better integration of sustainability As a group with a diverse product range lar audits of their suppliers and partners the work related to CSR. considerations into the strategies of and international presence, GC Rieber either directly or through recognized the business units and ensures alignhas a vast range of suppliers from all agencies. We also use a third-party asCorporate Social Responsibility activities ment between Group and company CSR over the world. Good supplier-control sessment form to evaluate sustainability in each business unit are supported and goals. and confidence is of outmost imporrisks related to potential business partmonitored by a central Group CSR Mantance. ners in cases where a signed CoC may ager reporting to the Group CEO and be difficult to obtain in due time. Board of Directors. In addition, all GC 1. Design Thinking Wirkshop for Leaders in GC Rieber. Theme: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. Photo: Hanna Torsdotter Husabø 2. Locally picked flowers from the hills around Bergen for our 140 year anniversary. Photo: Tove-Lise Mossestad, 3. Gunnar Hernborg in GC Rieber Property on top of the green roof of the builing Skipet. Photo: Bodil Valland Steinhaug SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ANTI-CORRUPTION ruption activities, GC Rieber has develSUSTAINABLE CHOICES IN 2019-2020 During fall 2018 and Spring 2019 all Since 2016 Anti-Corruption has been a oped “we say no to corruption” cards During the past year, the Group has GC Rieber business units took part in main focus area in GC Rieber. We beand posters. These are animated illusmade several sustainable choises. This an internal program for identifying the lieve that the best method for preventtrations that can easily be understood helps us to have a sustainable mindset Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ing corruption is to foster a company independent of language and readin our everyday work life. most relevant for their area of operaculture where our employees are able to ing-ability. tion and integrating these goals in their identify situations where corruption may • We celebrated our 140 years in June company strategy. The goals are preoccur, in addition to having the skillset Introduced in 2016, the cards and post2019 with a sustainable anniversary; sented on each of the company pages to act correctly if they are to encounter ers are still popular among the employvegetarian menu based on local food in this report. such a situation. ees and are hanging on board all GC and drinks, locally picked flowers and Rieber Shipping’s vessels. donating money instead of buying Each group management team has Through the development of our online gifts. participated in the exercise of analyzing course in 2016, we have informed all TRAINING • The canteen in our head office in their company operations and supply employees about what can be defined Dilemma training and information Bergen has introduced vegetarian chain and linking them to the SDGs at as corruption, the content of our GC Riemeetings are important elements in wednesdays, focuses on reducing target level. Throughout this exercise ber Anti-Corruption policy, Norwegian building knowledge and awareness food waste and has stopped using the teams have focused on both posiand international corruption legislation, around important CSR topics in our orsingle-use plastic and paper cups, tive and negative impacts, and potenand practical examples. ganization. In 2016 we achieved our aim plates and cutlery. tial opportunities and risks. The results for all employees of the GC Rieber Group • The theme for this years internal of the analysis will be described in a In Q2 2019 all new employees since Q2 to complete an e-learning course on anleader summit was Reduce, Reuse, detailed report for each business unit 2018 conducted the online course. In ti-corruption which we had developed Recycle focusing on circular econocontaining specific examples of current addition, all GC Rieber Compact office ourselves. Every year since, the course my. We’ve also hosted several Design practices, future goals and a GAP-analstaff have received the course in 2019. has been sent out and conducted by all Thinking workshops throughout the ysis. As a tool to support us in our anti-cornew employees. year with sustainability as a theme. Shipping Owner, manager and project developer of specialized vessels within subsea, renewables, marine seismic and ice/support. Photo: Geir-S. Rasmussen RENEWABLE ENERGY ber Shipping has several measures in place system that injects a liquid-reductant agent Goal 13 Climate action: As part of GC Rieber Shipping’s strategy, to reduce GHG emissions, referred to as through a special catalyst (urea) into the • Integrate climate change measures into the company has in recent years increased Green Operations. Green Operations include exhaust stream of a diesel engine. By using policies, strategies and planning its activities towards offshore renewable various fuel efficiency measures which are urea as a reductant, NOx emissions are re• Improve education, awareness-raising energy. In 2019, almost half of the Group’s defined in the Ship Energy Efficiency Manduced. The SCR can reduce NOx emissions and human and institutional capacity on operating income was from the renewable agement Plans (SEEMP). up to 90%. climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy industry. impact reduction and early warning Anti-fouling paint on the hulls reduces GC Rieber Shipping also has other internal GC Rieber Shipping continues to hold ingrowth of barnacles and subsequently lower activities such as preparedness for acute Goal 14 Life below water: vestments and responsibly serve clients fuel consumption due to less friction. Other pollution from vessels, using environmentally • By 2025, prevent and significantly rewithin the oil and gas sector markets. means to reduce the energy consumption friendly products and environmental manduce marine pollution of all kinds, in However, the company’s ambition is to onboard the vessels have been taken with agement plans. Measures are implemented particular from land-based activities, gradually shift its exposure towards renewmeans such as shore power capabilities and to manage logistics in the most efficient including marine debris and nutrient able industries. use of LED. and environmentally friendly way. For expollution ample, planning ahead and send larger • By 2020, sustainably manage and proREDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION GC Rieber Shipping aim to further reduce shipments by containers when sending tect marine and coastal ecosystems to The Company aims to reduce the general GHG emissions through improved fuel monparts and goods to the vessels, rather than avoid significant adverse impacts, inenergy consumptions in own operations. itoring, training of key personnel and implesmaller and more frequent shipments by cluding by strengthening their resilience, The vessels seek to use shore power in port mentation of measurable targets. Efficient airfreight. and take action for their restoration in whenever possible, eliminating the fuel fuel operations include speed/thruster optiorder to achieve healthy and productive combustion and subsequent release of misation, voyage planning, weather routing MAIN SDG’s oceans greenhouse gases. and optimum use of trim, ballast and autoGoal 7 Affordable and clean energy: • Minimize and address the impacts of pilot to name a few. • By 2030, increase substantially the ocean acidification, including through GC Rieber Shipping is committed to lowshare of renewable energy in the global enhanced scientific cooperation at all ering the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission The vessels are equipped with selective energy mix levels intensity of its operations. Fuel consumption catalytic reduction (SCR), which is an ad• By 2030, double the global rate of imis the main source of such emissions. GC Rievanced active emissions control technology provement in energy efficiency Oils Producer of marine derived Omega-3 concentrates with high quality EPA/DHA cominations. Beate Opstad Thy in GC Rieber Oils with a sustainable commute to work. Photo: GC Rieber AS NEW PROJECTS • We have initiated a project to, at a also been given from GC Rieber Oils to our • Encourage companies, especially large An important part of GC Rieber Oils’ mission larger extent, use local Norwegian raw main raw material supplier in Peru. The supand transnational companies, to adopt is to reduce environmental footprint. GC materials. port has been made to register small famsustainable practices and to integrate Rieber Oils started a project in 2019, with • Started an initiative to extract omega-7 ily owned fishing boats, enabling them to sustainability information into their resupport from the Norwegian state (ENOVA), from a by-product for potential sea lice continue to deliver fish and secure livelihood porting cycle to recover energy from hot side of cooling treatment in farmed salmon. for them and their families. • By 2030, ensure that people everywhere water circuit for heating its new 30 storage • Sourcing exclusively from trustworthy have the relevant information and tanks. As much as 1 700 000 kWh are saved markets and partners to provide full MAIN SDG’s awareness for sustainable development annually corresponding to app. 10% of GC traceability. Goal 9 industry, innovation, infrastructure: and lifestyles in harmony with nature Rieber Oils’ annual energy consumption. • Utilizing energy management systems • By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and to reduce energy and water consumpretrofit industries to make them susGoal 14 Life below water: GC Rieber Oils has also initiated projects to tion. tainable, with increased resource-use • By 2025, prevent and significantly reconvert road transportation to sea trans• Initiated a project to make antibac from efficiency and greater adoption of clean duce marine pollution of all kinds, in portation of by-products. From having 70 by-products. and environmentally sound technologies particular from land-based activities, truck deliveries of a by-product last year and industrial processes. including marine debris and nutrient we’ll only need 7 deliveries by sea transport HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS • Enhance scientific research, upgrade pollution for the same volume. In support of education and young the technological capabilities of indus• By 2020, effectively regulate harvesting people we have engaged in a close trial sectors. Encourage innovation and and end overfishing, illegal, unreported In a longtime perspective GC Rieber Oils cooperation with our local technical school increase the number of research and and unregulated fishing and destruccontinues to focus on sustainable producin Kristiansund. GC Rieber Oils is opening its development workers. tive fishing practices and implement tion. Here are some examples of our ondoors for the school for visits and training science-based management plans, in ging projects: and give support for securing its existence Goal 12 Responsible consumtion and proorder to restore fish stocks in the short• Improving resource efficiency utilizand continuous development. We have duction: est time feasible, at least to levels that ing new production technologies and Increased hosting apprentices and contrib• By 2030, achieve the sustainable mancan produce maximum sustainable yield eco-friendly applications for uting to education during the past year. agement and efficient use of natural as determined by their biological charby-products. As we operate internationally, support has resources acteristics Photo: Mostphotos Compact Saving lives through food products for malnutrition, preparedness and maritime survival. NEW PROJECTS • Awareness drive in Company amongst people in vulnerable situations, including water-borne diseases and other comSeveral actions and projects have been employees for use of less single use plasinfants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient municable diseases carried out in both our factories and offices tic and avoid wastage of paper in the food all year round • By 2030, substantially reduce the numduring the past year: Company • By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, ber of deaths and illnesses from haz• Supported employees by providing them including achieving, by 2025, the interardous chemicals and air, water and soil • Installation of Air-purifiers in office at fund received from GC Rieber Foundanationally agreed targets on stunting pollution and contamination different locations. tion to fight against pandemic. and wasting in children under 5 years of • Increase in greenery inside and outside • Free distribution of RUSF and eeZee50 age, and address the nutritional needs Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth: the office/ factory. to eradicate hunger and malnutrition. of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactat• By 2030, achieve full and productive • Shifted from High Speed Diesel to Liquiing women and older persons employment and decent work for all fied Petroleum Gas (LPG). ANTI-CORRUPTION women and men, including for young • Installed Solar panel system All concerned employees are provided Goal 3 Good Health and well-being: people and persons with disabilities, and • Install water overflow mechanism & auto annual training on anti-corruption and to • By 2030, end preventable deaths of equal pay for work of equal value level controller at some sites deny any kind of bribery or facilitation fee to newborns and children under 5 years of • Protect labor rights and promote safe • Effective run hours interlock and elecget work done. All service providers are also age, with all countries aiming to reduce and secure working environments for all tronic units troubleshooting at detailed made aware of no bribery and facilitation neonatal mortality to at least as low as workers, including migrant workers, in level fee policy of the Company. 12 per 1,000 live births and under-5 morparticular women migrants, and those in • Hired an external agency for safe collectality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 precarious employment tion and disposal or treatment of solid MAIN SDG’s live birth non-hazardous waste generated in the Goal 2 Zero Hunger: • By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, Company • By 2030, end hunger and ensure access tuberculosis, malaria and neglected by all people, in particular the poor and tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, Salt Distributor of salt and minerals that serve markets in fish, food, road, agriculture and the oil industry. Photo: GC Rieber AS During the past year, GC Rieber Salt has The project is now in its first face. That together with Ragn-Sells. The goal is to exGoal 12 Responsible consumption and started working on two specific sustainable means mapping out GC Rieber Salts use of tract salt from waste. Together, Ragn-Sells production: initiatives, both relevant for our three priplastic, uncovering relevant problem areas and GC Rieber Salt can reduce waste and • By 2030, achieve the sustainable mary sustainable development goals. and projects within the company, setting develop a greener salt for the future. management and efficient use of goals or the future and carry out what innatural resources #PLASTSMART ternal actions to start with. MAIN SDG’s • By 2030, substantially reduce waste #PlastSmart (plastic smart) is an initiative Goal 9 Industry, innovation, infrastructure: generation through prevention, for interdiciplinary cooperation between ASH2SALT • Develop quality, reliable, sustainable reduction, recycling and reuse the business sector and other institutions. The Swedish garbage disposal company and resilient infrastructure, including • Encourage companies, especially large The goal is that all use of plastic in the fuRagn-Sells have developed a method to regional and transborder infrastructure, and transnational companies, to adopt ture will be recyclabe and part of a circular extract salts from the flying ash arising from to support economic development and sustainable practices and to integrate economy. burning waste. human well-being, sustainability information into their • By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and reporting cycle GC Rieber Salt became a #PlastSmartFlying ash is considered a dangerous waste retrofit industries to make them suspartner in 2020. This means that the comand is currently placed in waste dispoal tainable, with increased resource-use Goal 13 Climate action: pany oblige to take smarter actions twards sites after waste is burned and used for efficiency and greater adoption of clean • Integrate climate change measures into the use of plastic. It also means and that long-distance heating and electricity. This and environmentally sound technologies policies, strategies and planning GC Rieber Salt’s activities should not lead new method makes flying ash a rescource and industrial processes. • Improve education, awareness-raising to plastic taking the wrong turn and ending and part of a circular economy and energy. and human and institutional capacity on up in our outdoor surroundings. GC Rieber Salt is involved in the project climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning Property Developer and administer of central areas and buildings in Bergen. Illustration: Snølys SUSTAINABILITY AWARD knowledge about sustainable buildings. tem is used for research within the marine efficiency and greater adoption of clean In November 2019 GC Rieber Property won sector and will contribute to solve challengand environmentally sound technologies Bergen Chamber’s sustainability award . It A new hotel in the area Solheimsviken is also es in sustainability, fish health and and industrial processes, was given on the grounds that GC Rieber arising. The Hotel is already certified with technology in aquaculture. • Enhance scientific research, upgrade Property over the last ten years has “develBreeam Excellent environment certification the technological capabilities of indusoped several areas in Bergen in a sustainin the design face. The hotel will have severAt Marineholmen we have also established trial sectors. Encourage innovation and able way, with good solutions for buildings, al sustainable solutions. a city beach (see the front page photo). The substantially increasing the number of urban spaces and districts…”. This has been popular place is strengthening soscial research and development workers. a great inspiration and motivation for both CERTIFICATIONS sustainability and the local community Property and the rest of the group. It also GC Rieber Property uses the Breeam (Buildfeeling. Goal 11 Sustainable cities and communities shows us that the work we put down is both ing Research Establishment Environmental • Strengthen efforts to protect and safenoticed and valuable. Assessment Method) Certification, a way MAIN SDG’s guard the world’s cultural and natural of certifying the sustainability of buildings. Goal 7 affordable and clean energy: heritage NEWBUILDS During the past year we have certified an• By 2030, increase substantially the • By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita The new-build “Skipet” (the Ship) is soon other 5 of our existing buildings within the share of renewable energy in the global environmental impact of cities, including finished and ready to use. The tenants will Bream In Use. Most of our buildings are now energy mix by paying special attention to air quality move in to their brand new offices during Breeam-certified and all newbilds are certi• By 2030, double the global rate of imand municipal and other waste manfall 2020. The office building in massive fied consecutive. provement in energy efficiency agement wood is the first of its kind in Bergen. It also • By 2030, provide universal access to has solar celland green roofs and recycled PROJECTS Goal 9 Industry, innovation, infrastructure: safe, inclusive and accessible, green and car batteries for energy saving i the baseAt Marineholmen we’ve invested in a new • By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and public spaces, in particular for women ment. We’ve also arranged several tours RAS-system (Resiculating Aquaculture Sysretrofit industries to make them susand children, older persons and persons of the building to spread awareness and tem) together with other partners. The systainable, with increased resource-use with disabilities GC Rieber Foundations 20 % of The GC Rieber Group’s revenue goes to the GC Rieber Foundations, supporting projects within social welfare, arts and research. Photo: TV2 ABOUT US BACK TO THE ROOTS factories in both South Africa and India. The Rieber family has always recogcreation finds its way into social investIn 1917, the GC Rieber AS Support Fund The use of these funds will be decided nised that the company GC Rieber AS is ments through the GC Rieber Foundawas established, and the GC Rieber by local committees consisting of reppart of the wider community. This led to tions. Foundation still to this day has as one resentatives from both employees and the establishment of the first GC Rieber of its purposes to make contributions management teams in Compact South Foundation in 1929. Several foundations VISION to needy employees in the GC Rieber Africa and Compact India. have been set up since, the most recent In 2019, the Foundations celebrated Group as well as their immediate fambeing Paul (Paal) Rieber’s Foundation their 90 years anniversary. The Foundailies. Help can be given in the event of Being able to help our employees and supporting education of supplying thertion’s vision today is to support people difficulties such as illness, death etc. their families and communities during apies. They are now all a part of the GC with extra needs through their lives, these difficult times feels both imporRieber Foundations. from childhood to old age. In addition It has been many years since this has tant and relevant. The work of the GC to this, they contribute to beneficial been relevant, but when the COVID-19 Rieber Foundations means a lot to both The Foundations hold a 20% ownership purposes within social welfare, arts, repandemic broke out, GC Rieber Founemployees and shareholders of GC in the GC Rieber Group. Consequently, a search and outdoor life. dation allocated funds for emergency Rieber and motivates us to go the extra significant part of the Group’s value relief to employees in our offices and mile every day. Back side photo: Tove-Lise Mossestad
