2020 Statement of continued support RESPONSIBLE & SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS The world in which we operate changes constantly and significantly. New challenges arise in our economies, environments and societies at large. Many of these challenges are driven by climate change and related policy changes and by the acceleration and impact of digital and data. These two fundamental trends – climate change and digital influence the needs and desires of society, our clients, our current and new colleagues. Three years ago, we started with a strategy that enables the company to be prepared and ready for growth helping clients to navigate through and lead in a complex, volatile and rapidly changing world. Proud to share that we are making good progress, financially as well as the positive impact on society. We recognise that the challenges the world faces, as captured in the UN Sustainable Development Goals, can only be tackled by working in partnership. Our mission is to ‘Enhance Society Together’ with our clients and other stakeholders through innovation and co-creation. As we move forward, our mission has become even more relevant than ever before. We are constantly curious, applying our creativity and intellect to develop new solutions. Solutions that do not exist today, but which will help to enhance society tomorrow. It is therefore exciting and inspiring to see the impact of combining our creative human intelligence with analytical intelligence, leading to new data and better insights. Our multidisciplinary expertise across water, energy, industry and transport, combined with our mission puts us in an excellent position to deliver distinctive new services and solutions to meet the challenges expressed in the SDG’s and enhance society together. We aim to have a direct impact on society by going beyond the Triple Bottom Line framework: • From managing stakeholders, to partnering with stakeholders. • From managing environmental impacts, to improving the environment. • From saving money, to creating economic value for the community. We set targets, measure performance and report on Responsible & Sustainable Business (RSB) globally. Our ambitions are described in the Sustainability Policy Statement and RSB Charter, and in the RSB Plans and Actions of our businesses and supporting units / corporate groups. Our policies and Global Code of Business Principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our RSB policy, Integrity Management System and our HR policies and practices. Our mission is reflected in our company strategy and is a guiding principle for all our colleagues, uniting us with common purpose and drive. Erik Oostwegel CEO Royal HaskoningDHV Amersfoort, 25 May 2020 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV’s mission is to Enhance Society Together. We are an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy with over 139 years of experience. Our professionals deliver services in the fields of aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, transport, urban and rural development and water. We are an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy leading the way in sustainable development and innovation. Our 5200 colleagues, working from around 75 permanent offices in more than 30 countries on projects in over 140 countries, are committed to our promise to enhance society together. Our professionals deliver services in the fields of aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, transport, urban and rural development and water. We focus on delivering added value for our clients while at the same time addressing the challenges that societies are facing. These include the growing world population and the consequences for towns and cities; the demand for clean drinking water, water security and water safety; pressures on traffic and transport; resource availability and demand for energy and waste issues facing industry. By showing leadership in sustainable development and innovation, together with our clients, we are working to become part of the solution to a more sustainable society now and into the future. We are driving positive change through innovation and technology, helping clients use resources more efficiently and creating solutions which connect with people to make their lives easier, happier and safer. Connecting lives is our history and our future. We are connected through a passion to work on projects that matter and to engineer solutions for our clients that go beyond the original brief. We are connected through work that is enhancing society, contributing to a more sustainable future for our children and our children’s children. Our head office is in the Netherlands, other principal offices are in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Indonesia. We also have established offices in Thailand, India and the Americas; and we have a longstanding presence in Africa and the Middle East. The Responsible & Sustainable Business Update 2019 iReport is complementary to our Annual Report and provides further information on topics contained in the Annual Report 2019 website and Financial Statement. It provides additional detail and depth to ensure transparency on progress and performance from 1 January to 31 December 2019. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on info.cr@rhdhv.com. 2 Communications on progress 2019 – UN Global Compact Principles (from 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019) Please note: Responsible and Sustainable Business (RSB) was formerly known as CSR/CR Update Responsible and Sustainable References: General The UN Global Compact principles are included in our RSB and Integrity policies/management systems For references please see: comments and in our Global Code of Business Principles. Royal HaskoningDHV continuously raises awareness (e.g. about Integrity, Labour, Health and Safety, ➢ Our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com Environment) and monitors compliance with management systems and the Global Code of Business ➢ Our Responsible and Sustainable Principles. Business Update 2019 iReport The Global Code is available in 10 languages and distributed to all staff. ➢ GRI Table 2019 and our Annual Report The governance of RSB and Integrity is described in the RSB Statement and in our Responsible and 2019 website Sustainable Business Update2019 iReport. ➢ Global Code of Business Principles Issues and incidents are investigated, appropriate measures will be taken and will be reported at least ➢ Business Principles for Partners and quarterly to – and under supervision of – the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. Suppliers Third party due diligence is executed to work on a clean supply chain. We have implemented a software ➢ Responsible and Sustainable Business tool for third party due diligence. Third party due diligence is an essential part of our pre-qualification and (RSB) Policy Statement proposal process. In all meetings an Integrity Moment is mandatory to stimulate transparency and to share lessons learnt ➢ Integrity Management System (Anti(Prevent and Protect). Corruption Management System) which In the Annual report and the additional Responsible and Sustainable Business Update, the program and include: actions for 2019 are presented and evaluated. In addition, the plans for the coming year (2020) are ✓ Speak Up Line shared. This covers all items of the UN Global Compact principles. ✓ Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking In 2019 SGS, an external audit firm, has reviewed Royal HaskoningDHV’s Integrity Management System Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act and Program as required by the Anti-corruption Compliance System Certificate. It means that we continue to work under this prestigious 'best practice' certificate that is managed by ETHIC Intelligence. ✓ ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption The certificate includes commitment to all aspects of the UN Global Compact. Compliance System Certificate. EcoVadis assessed our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices and awarded Royal ➢ Our EcoVadis CSR Performance details, HaskoningDHV (Group) the Gold medal in 2019 for the fourth consecutive year. The global supply chain including a Score Card Summary, are & purchasing index is highly valued in the industry. It places our company in the top 2% of architectural available on our website. and engineering firms and in the top 5% for overall CSR performance among all businesses rated. The Gold medal covers international standards on sustainable development like ISO 26000, UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Standards (GRI table). The assessment includes environment, labour practices & human rights, fair business practices, anti-corruption and sustainable procurement. We value these subjects and have integrated them in our business processes. Principle 1: Respecting human rights is a business condition to our company. In our Global Code and in the ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should Business Principles for Partners and Suppliers human rights are included. ➢ No violations have been reported in support and Permanent monitoring related to human rights conditions take place in all countries in which we do 2019. respect the projects, to ensure we act according to our principles and to try to have a positive effect, even if our protection of impact is small. internationally We have implemented a software tool for third party due diligence. Third party due diligence is made an proclaimed human essential part of our pre-qualification and proposal process. rights Monitoring and audit of the protection of human rights are fully integrated in our Integrity Management System. The system is independently audited and awarded with the ETHIC Intelligence Certificate. 3 Providing healthy and safe working conditions are key values in within our organisation. Our ISO 45001: 2018 certificates also covers Travel security and incident management. Our global Management System is based on and certified against the globally accepted international standards ISO 9001:2015 (Quality), ISO 14001:2015 (Environment), ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health & Safety) and ISO 27001:2013 (Information Security) and it covers QHSE, integrity, business continuity, knowledge management, information security and our business principles. To confirm ongoing compliance with these standards, internal and external audits are organised and executed annually. The validity of our ISO certificates can be checked in the block chain. In 2019 our ISO 9001:2015 (quality) and ISO 14001:2015 (environment) certificates were renewed and we obtained the ISO 45001:2018 certificate for the first time, replacing our OHSAS18001:2007 certificate. To support monitoring, a local compliance officer is appointed in every country where Royal HaskoningDHV has a permanent presence. Principle 2: This principle is enabled though the independent Speak-up line. We will continue to execute and develop our Integrity Management System and reporting. We also will ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should make sure that continue to raise awareness on the importance of speaking-up (directly, or through our anonymous ➢ No violations have been reported in they are not reporting system). 2019. complicit in human By executing frequent internal audits in our operations and project locations RHDHV prevents abuse of rights abuses. this principle. Third party integrity risk assessments are executed on the start of all new projects. Monitoring of this principle is covered by the Integrity Moment during the project execution. At the project closure an integrity evaluation takes place. Principle 3: We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labour Organisations (ILO). We have a global HR policy and an international HR management team and system, which enables us to ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should uphold the recognise labour related issues worldwide. ➢ No violations have been reported in freedom of A global job positioning system (GPS) is in place to create transparency and equal opportunities for 2019. association and careers for all staff. the effective Our works councils and representatives are actively engaged. recognition of the In 2019 a worldwide employee engagement survey took place. Employees could freely and right to collective anonymously, give their impressions and opinions. These results will be implemented in the strategy of bargaining. HR. In 2019 we performed regularly pulse checks to monitor progress, on topics mentioned in the employee engagement survey, where employees could freely express their opinion. Principle 4: This is managed and monitored with our HR management system as well as through our Integrity Management System (e.g. through our SpeakUp system). We realise that we work in countries where ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses ensure the elimination of unfortunately forced labour could occur. We do not accept any involvement in forced labour. Neither do ➢ No violations have been reported in all forms of forced we accept this from our clients, business partners or suppliers. 2019. and compulsory The content of the UK Modern Slavery Act applies to all our operations worldwide. labour. Principle 5: This is managed and monitored with our HR management system as well as through our Integrity Management System (e.g. through our SpeakUp system). We realise that we work in countries where ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses ensure effective abolition unfortunately child labour could occur. We do not accept any involvement in child labour. Neither do we ➢ No violations have been reported in of child labour accept this from our clients or Business Partners and Suppliers. 2019. Principle 6: Diversity, equality and inclusion are key values in our company and reflected by our Global Code of Business Principles. It is part of our HR management system and Integrity Management System. ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should eliminate The Supervisory Board sees inclusion and diversity as an important topic. 4 discrimination in Our global career positioning system (GPS) supports transparency and equal opportunities for careers. ➢ Four incidents have been reported in respect of We held unconscious bias training for everyone involved in recruitment. In addition, prior to leadership 2019. Investigation by Group Integrity employment and re-appointments, we conducted a talent survey of all current and potential colleagues for leadership & Compliance took place and occupation positions. This enabled us to develop insights to run a neutral and inclusive appointment process. appropriate measures were taken. The topic of equality, diversity and inclusion was addressed globally with line managers and all employees. It highlighted the importance of the topic, initiatives taking place within our company all over the globe (as described below) and the increasing number of reports of behaviours such as discrimination and harassment. In South Africa, we retained our Level 1 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) accreditation in 2019, having been one of the first engineering consultancies in South Africa to achieve this level. More great examples are shared in our Responsible and Sustainable Business update 2019. Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is illustrated in our annual ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should report (Enhancing Society Together) and Responsible and Sustainable Business Update. ➢ See our regular communication channels: support a This is included in our ISO14001 certificate. We were the first engineering and consultancy company in 1. Our RHDHV website: precautionary the Netherlands to be successfully audited against the new ISO 14001:2015 2. Projects Highlights approach to 3. News Room environmental Our global Management System is based on and certified against the globally accepted international 4. Papers & Articles challenges; standards ISO 9001:2015 (Quality), ISO 14001:2015 (Environment), ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational ➢ Via Social Media: LinkedIn, Twitter or Health & Safety) and ISO 27001:2013 (Information Security) and it covers QHSE, integrity, business Facebook continuity, knowledge management, information security and our business principles. ➢ No violations have been reported in To confirm ongoing compliance with these standards, internal and external audits are organised and executed annually. The validity of our ISO certificates can be checked in the block chain. 2019. In 2019 our ISO 9001:2015 (quality) and ISO 14001:2015 (environment) certificates were renewed and we obtained the ISO 45001:2018 certificate for the first time, replacing our OHSAS18001:2007 certificate. We seek to motivate clients to make sustainable choices, embed Enhancing Society Together and contribute to the SDGs in our daily practice by using our 4 Questions. These guide our conversations with clients and partners to identify where we can add value for society. The SDGs are specifically mentioned as part of our 4 Questions conversations to maintain clear focus on areas where we are committed to make a difference. During 2019, these 4 Questions were actively used in 74% of our projects. Our 2019 KPI was 75% usage in our projects. We have many examples of how we use our expertise and experience to contribute to progress on the SDGs. In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions. Enhance Society Together is promoted via our regular communication channels and social media. Principle 8: The SDG match with our RSB Priorities. We focus where we can add most value. Key to our RSB strategy is the desire to focus our impact in areas that we master and actively influence and, through that ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should undertake impact, contribute to particular UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our Projects and in our ➢ No violations have been reported in initiatives to Operations. 2019. promote greater The 4 Questions continued to support our teams to discuss better solutions with the client. Our on-going environmental projects, the SDGs and the 4 Questions which we ask in every project to keep our focus on sustainable responsibility; growth to Enhance Society Together are all interrelated. 5 Under the coordination of the Operational Excellence Steering Committee and the hackathon teams, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance and sustainable digital solutions. Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists that integrate environmental management in our engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge internationally (Knowledge Management program). As is custom, RSB (people, planet, profit) were included in several training modules, to develop skills and awareness, and to communicate our ambition of showing leadership in sustainability. Principle 9: With our businessand market position, we are very well able to distribute environmentally friendly technologies across the globe. ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should encourage the ➢ See our website: awards & nominations Besides distribution of environmentally friendly technologies, we focus on development of new solutions. development and and our news pages. To make our SDG contribution relevant and actionable we use our 4 Questions to Enhance Society ➢ No violations have been reported in diffusion of Together. Innovation is integral to our strategy and we have further developed a structured and scalable environmentally 2019. process to boost our innovation pipeline and embed a culture of innovation across our organisation. friendly Innovations pursued are those which fit strategically, are client-centric, scalable, financially technologies sustainable and ideally offer a different business model. This is supported by amongst others our Innovation Hub and the Business Line Innovation Boards. Our cleaner technologies are shared and promoted internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda®, an innovative and efficient water treatment technology). We continued our long-term relationship with several universities. Our partnership (SDG17) strategy focuses on influencing policy frameworks and cross-industry transformation. Royal HaskoningDHV received many awards for our projects and innovations throughout the years. Our most recent obtained awards and nominations are shared on our website. A selection of the awards, nominations or ranking highlights from 2019 are also shared in our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update 2019. We promoted new and cleaner technologies at conferences and events. Principle 10: Integrity and anti-corruption are key to our business and our (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance towards corruption. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by our Integrity management ➢ For references, please go to ‘GENERAL’. Businesses should work against system, which includes clear instructions and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Group Compliance ➢ See our website: awards & nominations corruption in all its Officer and Local Compliance Officers, reporting structures, anonymous SpeakUp line, an IMS and our news pages. forms, including Reference Book, training, and an integrated approach to internal and external auditing. ➢ No violations have been reported in extortion and Local Compliance Officers report issues quarterly to their Resident Director and the Group Integrity & 2019. bribery Compliance Officer. The Group Compliance Officer reports monthly to the Executive Board and quarterly to the Supervisory Board. We continue creating awareness on risks and to comply with the requirements of our externally provided Anti-corruption compliance certificate. In 2019 we have implemented an automated support system for third party due diligence. Third Party Due Diligence is made an essential part of our pre-qualification and proposal process. In 2019 we have asked all employees to do a mandatory e-learning about our Global Code of Business Principles. It covers all aspects of responsible business and the Principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2019 the integrity and anti-corruption and anti-bribery was continuously promoted and communicated internally during on boarding sessions with new employees, interactive sessions with project managers and during the mandatory Integrity Moment in all our management meetings. 6 In 2019 several incidents of violations and non-compliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated and/or investigated, and appropriate mitigating measures have been taken for correction and prevention. The company was in none of the reported issues actively involved in corrupt practices, extortion or bribery. The company, nor its executives or other staff were subject to investigations or prosecution by any Authority. 7
