INNOVANDO SRL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl INNOVANDO SRL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Innovando Srl aims to boost a resourceefficient circular economy in the waste management sector through its ecoinnovative and technology-driven services. Our environmental and regulatory compliance solutions are designed to reduce compliance risk, enact full accountability and ensure a real-time waste traceability for enterprises operating across Europe. Our purpose is to make the business case for resource recovery and create incentives to change consumer behavior. The Communication on Progress captures the alignment of all Innovando Srl strategies and operations with universal principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption, along with all the actions we take to advance societal goals. 3 Contents A statement by the CEO 04 Introduction 06 Innovando Srl focus on the Global Goals Reporting on UNGC About Innovando Srl  08 An innovative small-medium enterprise (SME) PDCA Management activities of Innovando Srl The quality ISO certifications The point of generation Logistics network Monitoring Transparency Knowledge exchange and technology transfer Critical Raw Materials EIT RAW Materials TOPSTARS Summer School About Part 1: UNGC Circular economy Innovando Srl Description of actions Sustainable investing Part 1: UNGC – Description of actions  23 Page Page 06 23 Innovando Srl and the ten principles of the UNGC Part 2: Corporate sustainability in action  26 Adopt a Tree: Rebirth of the Park Levico Terme Mosaicoeaias Social Cooperative Society & Innovando Srl Part 3: Measurement of outcomes  28 Company structure Part 2: Corporate Part 3: Measurement sustainability in action of outcomes Company demographics Training hours in 2019 ELT management activities 2019 Page Page 26 28 ELT and sustainability The recovery Waste mangament in hour offices 4 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl A statement of continue support Ever since United Nations launched a new agenda for Sustainable Global Development towards 2030, Innovando Srl has liaised its governance with a set of Global Goals intended to end poverty, fight inequality, stop climate change and improve lives. 15th of February, 2020 Both national and local governments must an innovative SME speaks not only about adopt and implement a risk reduction our technological progressiveness, but strategy, which include a set of planning it also reflects our diverse and highlyand evaluation tools development. skilled workforce. This way we support Innovando Srl has been active in this the fundamental economic changes, while process in the past, thus, naturally we will excluding the raising job uncertainty from continue taking our part in delivering on the scope of our work. We achieve this by the goals that are aligned with the most successfully managing multiple projects, relevant priorities. Moreover, we perceive performed within our collaborative this as an opportunity to engage with network of partners, equally committed governments and drive the change to meet to lead the responsible industry waste the goals requirements, aiming to ensure infrastructure innovation. an overall health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Primary goal, integrated with the existing service and the nature of our business, is At Innovando Srl, we are small but to ensure sustainable consumption and compact team of people united around a production patterns. Through its collection common purpose: to drive a sustainable and processing network with nearly 2,000 waste management innovation. Being collection points Innovando Srl trades 5 We are small but compact team of people united around a common purpose: to drive a sustainable waste management innovation. up to 60,000 tons of waste annually. we treat wastewater sludge and to contribute UNGC development in Our waste management global provide a resource recovery, while Italy. We’re pleased to demonstrate service applies an environmental fighting challenges and barriers of the our focus on responsible business policy approach that underlines Smart Cities concept. In addition, our practices, as well as to provide an producer’s responsibility for reducing smart dustbin and waste management evidence of our common valueenvironmental impact across the latest sensor technological solutions based management approach whole product life cycle process are creating a higher resource expressed partly in our Code of Ethics – from selection of materials, to efficiency and cost-effectiveness in and Model 231 and updated in our products’ design, to its end-of-life and pollution reduction. Communication on Progress (CoP) especially for their take-back recycling with some of our achievements during and disposal. We navigate our business model and 2019. Moreover, we are excited about corporate strategy by effectively our continuing commitment and The roots of EPR represent an integral serving all our stakeholders over time, support to the Ten Principles of the part of our quality procedures and namely our employees, customers and United Nations Global Compact and recently developed technologies at communities. This has been instantly Global Compact Network Italia. the basis of the circular economy, recognized at the first meeting of tackling another SDG that fights Global Compact Network Italia, when Enjoy reading! against poor water quality and an Innovando Srl joined its new Board of inadequate sanitation. More precisely, Directors whose primary purpose is 6 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Introduction SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLEAN WATER AND COMMUNITIES AND SANITATION INDUSTRY, INNOVATION CLIMATE RESPONSIBLE AND INFRASTRUCTURE ACTION CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION LIFE QUALITY PARTNERSHIP ON LAND EDUCATION FOR THE GOALS Innovando Srl focus on the Global Goals As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Innovando Srl makes a commitment and integrates Ten Principles into its strategies and operations. The Communication on Progress (COP) is our mechanism to inform all the stakeholders on progress we made in implementing Ten Principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. 7 Communication on Progress Period covered by this report: March 2019 — March 2020 Reporting on UNGC About Innovando Srl Sustainability and financial reporting Innovando Srl is an innovative SME that have always played a significant offers complete solutions for industrial part of Innovando’s End-of-Life waste management, waste disposal Tire Management. Innovando Srl and regulatory compliance, designed annually produces a communication for small, medium and large companies on tire management performance, in throughout Europe. accordance with the current legislation requirements, delivers it and presents Initially structured with the aim of to all its stakeholders. Based on legality providing the most innovative waste and transparency principles, Innovando management and EPR solutions, Srl provides a clear evidence about its Innovando Srl has quickly grown to the commitment to the transition process leading position on the market that towards sustainability and circular manages up to 60,000 tons of industrial economy. waste, collected from nearly 2,000 points throughout Italy. The Communication on Progress captures the alignment of all Innovando This has been officially registered at Srl strategies and operations with National Register of Environmental universal principles on Human Rights, Managers of Trento (TN05020) in Labour, Environment and AntiCategory 8 class C: Intermediation and corruption, along with all the actions we waste trade. take to advance societal goals. 8 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Global Waste Management Service Consulting Organic Waste Strategic eco-innovation, Innovative solutions for sustainability, reporting, processing and material circular economy recovery of wastewater treatment sewage sludge Extended Producer Waste Trading Responsibility Wide waste collection and End-of-life tire (ELT) and treatment network across battery compliance Europe management services for Italian manufacturers and importers Collection iSystem Wide service coverage Cloud-based innovative system of full waste traceability 9 An innovative small-medium enterprise (SME) The “innovative SME” notion, defined by the Italian Ministry of Economic Development (D.L. n. 3/2015) is exclusively obtained by the SMEs characterized with a strong innovation component. Other than this, an innovative SME’s balance sheet is fully in accordance with the Recommendation 361/2003 of the EU Commission and its workforce are required to be highly skilled. At the same time, an innovative SME is a company that owns an original registered software and patents, while being in its advanced stage of their lifecycle. Fulfilling these and all the additional requirements illustrates Innovando’s attempt to spread an innovation-oriented entrepreneurial culture across the country. PDCA Management activities of Innovando Srl Plan-Do-Check-Act is our iterative 4-step management method used in all business activities. In the past years we noticed not only our significantly greater efficiency, but a greater control over all activities, including the outsourced ones, which translates into an overall stakeholder satisfaction. . The Quality The operational processes and the specific know-how of Innovando Srl in the field of eco-sustainable waste management have been developed within an IntegratISO Certifications ed Management System for Quality and the EnvironIntegrated Management System for Quality and Environment, certified and aligned with UNI EN ISO standards. ment, certified according to the UNI EN ISO 9001: 2015 and UNI EN ISO 14001: 2015 standards. The accreditation bodies have certified Innovando’s services, divided into administrative and accounting support activities, as well as planning, coordination, supervision and control of the various operational phases. 10 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl The point of generation Logistic network The point of generation refers to the location where Following green logistics and sustainable supply chain waste initially accumulates and is under the control management state of the art inspired us to define a of the waste-generating process operator. Over the new concept and to optimize the logistics network past years, Innovando Srl advanced its services for in a more strategic way. Our fast-growing collection identifying the most suitable waste generation points and coordination network balances between the for tire specialists, machine shops and other industrial long-term economic performance and environmental sectors. Through our service we help clients underdimension of sustainability. Through the logistic serstand all regulations governing the management of vice provider network, evaluated by specific criteria, waste, from the moment it is produced, or the point of the collected waste is transferred to the temporary generation, through the final. storage centers and recovery plants. Monitoring Transparency Real-time monitoring of all management processes Innovando Srl implements environmental within the entire cycle of collection, transportation communication in a planned and strategic way. and waste recovery are provided through our Reporting issues about the environment are involving internally developed cloud-based system (iSystem, the global community, so apart from providing page 16 of this document). responsible and credible reports, our team is considering the influence report will have and the way messages will be perceived. Thus, all the topicrelated reports are offering rational and responsible information, aligned with all the relevant legislations and presented in the most transparent manner. 11 Critical Raw Materials Being crucial to Europe’s economy, Critical Raw Commission has created a list of CRMs for the EU. Materials (CRM) form a strong industrial base, producCurrently, the CRM 2017 contains Natural Rubber and ing a broad range of goods and applications used in Phosphorous, speaking this way explicitly about the everyday life and modern technologies. However, their risks associated with these materials supply. Prosscarcity happened to be a growing concern within the perously, Innovando’s innovative technologies are EU and across the globe, which is why the European enabling both rare elements recovery. Knowledge exchange and technology transfer Raw materials and materials science in ing innovative technologies into society. general are largely critical in the transiConsequently, Innovando Srl contributes to tion towards green energy technologies. strengthening industry-science linkage and comInnovando Srl actively participates in munication, helping researchers to increase their EIT Raw Materials Summer Schools, proimpact creation through the innovation, benefiting viding its human resources to challenge at the same time from the research and development and support PhD researchers in deploystate of the art. 12 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl EIT RAW Materials TOPSTARS Summer School 2018-2019 EIT RAW Materials TOPSTARS Summer School 2018 Participant: Rubber Conversion Srl, Innovando’s spinoff Challenge: Natural rubber recovery technologies European Institute of Innovation and Technology is a body of European Union and the largest consortium in the raw materials sector worldwide. Its vision is to develop raw materials into a major strength for Europe, Highlights July 2018 while enabling sustainable competitiveness of the (data for each edition) July 2019 European minerals, metals and materials sectors along the value chain. 60 students Under University of Trento’s international activities, TOPSTARS 2018 edition offered to PhD students a unique hands-in opportunity to address a societal 10 days challenges in the Raw Materials framework, by combining the technical expertise with innovation and entrepreneurship experience. For this occasion, Innovando Srl proposed a challenge which underlined technical 6 mentoring sessions issues about technological innovation in rubber recycling business, since Natural rubber belongs to the “light rare earth elements” CRM 2017 list. At the same 4 tutor sessions time Innovando’s technical, innovation and business experts offered their mentoring support for the teams 26 hours of in a fast pitching sessions, as well as in the technical team working feasibility phases. 13 EIT RAW Materials TOPSTARS Summer School 2019 Participant: Innovando Srl Challenge: Wastewater treatment sludge processing technologies Similarly, the 2019 innovation challenge for PhD students and researchers tackled their entrepreneurial thinking and topics like business & innovation, high-tech ventures marketing and business model generation techniques in innovative wastewater treatment sludge processing technologies. This time, Innovando Srl provided fully covered tutoring and mentoring sessions in order to help students understand the strategic importance of added value, as well as to present its knowhow and human resource creativity in problem-solving and learning environment. This topic of challenge proposed by Innovando Srl was a result of our newly structured business unit. Thus, we progressed the challenge by targeting two-fold goals: 1) technological challenges related to the rare element recovery (such as Phosphorous which belongs to the “platinum group metals” CRM 2017 list) and 2) technological transfer and new market penetration challenges, related to these technologies implementations in developing countries. The outcomes of this non-conventional environment and highly stimulating atmosphere were largerly significant for students’ competences building and upgrading. They learned not only how to work in teams, how to prepare a business plan and how to pass the key information, but more importantly, they understood how to create a successful pitch deck presentations for potential investors. This will certainly transform the way they interact with the job market in the future. 14 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Circular Economy Innovando Srl is committed to supporting the transition to circular economy, as evidenced by the numerous activities and Sustainable Development Foundation provided innovative solutions for waste treatment and reuse. We This is an authoritative point of reference for the assist enterprises across industries main sectors and actors of the green economy and seek mutually acceptable whose main purpose is to promote green economy through initiatives in different sectors like energy solutions through our continuously and climate, waste and the circular economy, growing partnership network. sustainable mobility, green strategies, ecoinnovation and many more. Our common vision of sustainability and responsibility is expressed through an active participation of Innovando Srl in all their activities. Green Centre for Research on Geography, Resources, Environment, Energy & Networks In order to strengthen our services, we collaborate The Green Economy Observatory GEO is a dynamic with the world-class professionals who form the netplatform for research and analysis on Green and Cirwork of ARTIS, an accredited consultancy and analycular Economy trends following two main approachsis agency specialized in research and development es – Policy and Management, where Innovando Srl of methodologies aimed at reducing the exploitation plays an active role. of raw materials. In this context, the activity of Innovando Srl focuses on the evaluation of the innovative materials development and applications. 15 Circular Economy Launched by Innovando Srl, this online informative This is a scientific-editorial project carried out by the platform’s purpose is to support the transition to Sustainable Development Foundation and Fise Unicircircular economy by combining the strength of the cular in a form of the annual recycling report in Italy. collective voice of the people and inspiring the model Innovando Srl provides the support to this project for the sustainable change. Recycling Point is strucevery year by distributing its updates and the critical tured as a place where citizens have an opportunity to point of view on the waste recycling in Italy, while idenexpress their opinion and to set the media agenda by tifying also the European and international dynamics actively participating in the dialogue co-creation and of current trends in the relevant economic contexts. sustainable business promotion. Sustainability and circular economy are broad topics that concern not only institutional policies and corporate choices but also “ordinary” people consumption behaviors. Area Science Park is a National Public Research Body As a company of the Fise Unicircular, Innovando’s role under the aegis of Ministry of University and Research is to enhance and reintroduce goods and materials (Italy) that has also been managing since 1978 the deriving from their transformation into production first and the most important multi-sector Science and and consumption cycles. By sharing our know-how Technology park in Italy. It promotes the development and expertise, we help other businesses translate their of innovation processes. With its partners, EIT Raw internal linear processes into new, circular business Materials and Area Science Park, Innovando Srl is models, with a range of economic and environmental promoting the establishment of a Regional Innovative advantages, benefiting, consequently from the new Network on Critical Raw Materials. value creation and competitive differentiation. 16 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Sustainable investing #1 PFU24 & iSystem — Waste traceability innovative software iSystem Our 3-in-1 solution convers all the fundamenWithout research there is no innovation tal points of the operational supply chain and without innovation there can be no process, while solving the most important progress. In other words, there can be no problems, namely: management of End-of-Life Tires without iSystem, an integrated system control and traceability able to ensure transparent 1. Traceability management and structured, which transoptimizing waste management logistics is lates first of all into the full traceability of essential for the entire process efficiency the refusal, starting from the collection increase. stage to the next recovery. 2. Bureaucracy iSystem is a cloud solution to manage at iSystem contributes to an overall best the information flow of the operationbureaucratic simplification and helps our administrative compliance management al chain. The system is capable of trackoperations to avoid manual errors in ing all movements in real-time, ensuring document management. maximum transparency of processes and optimization of flow planning as well as 3. Fragmentation providing essential performance indicators this innovative platform allows physical and administrative operations to be (KPIs) for different monitoring needs, planmanaged separately, while providing the ning and reporting. complete solution. 17 Complete solution & full traceability system iSystem guarantees a complete traceability of the entire ELT (End-of-Life Tyre) management process, from the collection to the recovery. Customizable dashboards are allowing supply chain participants, namely waste producers, temporary storage centers and customers, to access the most relevant information and documentation. Transparency Implementation Guarantee benefiting manufacturing of strict data verification fulfillment of all legal companies, waste holders and standards obligations in document managers management Continuous update The solution is in continuous development and evolution and in the future will include also the integration of Simplification Monitoring optimization devices and algorithms, computer security services based on a of the supply chain of the performance of all blockchain structure, traceability soluoperational processes services provided in real time tions based on geolocation and more. 18 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Value proposition: mastering data management Innovando Srl counts its customers’ data a viable greater accessibility and transparency improvecorporate asset that needs careful protection ments, but also our data management activities and an active governance in order to increase our reduction strategy. Preserving compliance with customer satisfaction along with the revenues. the current regulations and allowing the real-time full traceability of all documents, in every phase In consideration of the regulatory changes introof the process, represents Innovando’s expertise, duced at the 2018 Budget Law, our innovative previously demonstrated in the first platform we integrated software iSystem represents both the developed PFU24. PFU24 platform — PFU24.com The PFU24 platform enables digital management of all processes related to the ELT operations. Once registered at PFU24, all waste producers can transmit their collection orders with an IT interoperability directly to Innovando Srl, which takes care of the collection activities through its logistic partners. iSystem software solution represents the upgraded version which allows also the coordination and communication between the various players in the production chain. With an iSystem all the Moreover, through the support of ELT quantities are explicit and visible in a real Power BI (Business Intelligence), it time, along with the quantities of recovered or is also possible to elaborate reports recycled materials. Therefore, anyone involved in and statistics needed for different the supply chain process has a complete access purposes, like environmental impact to the information and documents of their intermeasurements and other management est, visible in a customizable dashboards. activities. 19 PFU24 platform — PFU24.com FROM THE WASTE PRODUCER SIDE 1. After registering on the iSystem portal, the waste producer inserts the waste STORAGE CENTER collection request for the certain quantity of End of Life 2. The request is beening processed and Tires from the internal part automatically forwarded to the relevant of the own reserved area. storage center (each storage center is covering certain region / province with its collection service); the storage center receives an email about the new order and its details. After storage center confirms the reception, the waste producer receives the information with the expected date of the collection. SERVICE COLLECTION REQUEST 3. Once the ELTs have been collected, the storage center uploads to the portal the relevant “waste identification” form. INNOVANDO SRL checks up the uploaded documentation and confirms the conclusion of the process. TEMPORARY STORAGE 4. ELTs collected by the CDS are stored in temporary storage centers, i.e. authorized equipped areas at the collectors, where all the operations are carried out in order to optimize the subsequent transmission of the ELTs to the destined plants. Then, ELTs are sent by transport companies to authorized recovery plants. ORGANIZATION OF THE FINAL RECOVERY PLANT CONTRIBUTIONS 5. The CDS therefore enter, via the iSystem portal, a disposal order , with which they request the organization of the contributions from INNOVANDO. Then, INNOVANDO organizes transportation to a final recovery plant. The CDS finds all information (date, transporter, vehicle plates, destination destination plant, etc.) will be sent to your own reserved area. Once the transport to the final plant has been completed, the related documents (FIR etc.) are uploaded to the portal. 20 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Sustainable investing #2 Acknowledging this huge amount of annually discarded End-ofLife Tires (ELT) opened up the major environmental challenges in terms of restrictions against landfills disposal, but also to difficulties in obtaining suitable products to be sold in the market as secondary raw materials. Being familiar with all modern rubber recycling disadvantages associated with a number of operational drawbacks, in addition to poor quality of the components, Innovando Srl decided to invest in an innovative technology development. As its response to all the rubber recycling challenges, Innovando Srl created an independent company, thus, a spinoff Rubber Conversion Srl, aiming to provide the most sustainable and economically viable method for the rubber reutilization which will enable the highest product offcuts reuse. Quality Raw Materials from ELTs Recognized as the most promising method to reuse ELT-derived rubber in high-quality products, our patented devulcanization technology has been awarded by the Circular Economy Network in November 2018, when Rubber Conversion became the winner of the First National Circular Economy Startup Award for its innovation. Designed for the entire rubber industry, our devulcanization technology is helping Rubber Conversion’s clients to enhance their production and post-production rubber waste, as well as to reduce the Natural Rubber consumption. Considering the scarcity of this material and the short supply globally, the problem has AWARDS been recognized by the European Commission and added to the — 2018 Critical Raw Materials list in 2017. — 2019 21 Creating the 0.3 System Green Economy and Sustainability Rubber and Plastics Federation (Italian: Federazione Gomma Plastica) underlined all previously mentioned rubber industry challenges in a topic-related event, organized in a technical collaboration with Rubber Conversion. In October 2018, this event gathered the most important Italian industry leaders to discuss the reutilization possibilities for post-production and post consumption rubber. The risk of the natural rubber supply and the investments in the alternative rubber recycling technologies was in the focus of this event when Rubber Conversion presented its innovative devulvanization technology. This represents an innovative model for improving the recovery rates of rubber from post-production and post-consumption materials, including ELTs. 22 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Sustainable investing #3 Innovative sludge processing technologies Identifying and investigating the most innovative the innovative and patented chemical treatment alternatives for biomass disposal played a significant process. Formed as our new business unit, the sludge part of Innovando’s activities in the recent years. recovery technology’s goal is to obtain the high-quality On top of our material recovery projects, we’d like fertilizers which will allow the replacement of the to emphasize the one related to the municipal synthetic ones with the organic materials. wastewater sewage sludge processing by applying Starting from the wastewater treatment does not produce waste anymore but process, Innovando’s innovative fertilizers for a direct implementation in technology is treating biological agriculture. materials in liquid phase, directly on the water purification plants, providing This way we changed the impact this way a reduction of Nitrogen, framework by introducing circular separation of Phosphorous (Critical technologies in water treatment sector. Raw Material) and production of a pH Moreover, the end-product obtained in soil corrective fertilizers. Our treatment the process, a soil corrective, has been acts inside the wastewater treatment recognized by the National Register of phase, on liquid sludge line, which is fertilizer manufacturers and the product not a waste yet, thus, the whole process has been accredited and registered at simplifies an overall management and ECHA – European Chemicals Agency. administration: the treatment plant 1 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Innovando Srl is pleased to confirm its reaffirmation of the support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Prior to this principle-based framework official adoption in March 2019, an integral part of Innovando Srl activities has been expressed in the Organizational Model 231 and the related Code of Ethics (Legislative Decree No. 231 of June 8, 2001), both requiring all the stakeholder commitment and participation in terms of transparency, fairness, health and safety at work, responsibility and environmental protection along the entire supply chain. Therefore, the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles adoption represents our natural progress with already implemented principles and demonstrated actions within all our operations. One of the ways in which Innovando Srl expresses its commitment to sustainable growth is through its focus on the environmental needs and the needs of local communities. As an essential part of our social responsibility, ISO 26000:2010 serves to assists in contributing to sustainable development and to go beyond legal compliance. 24 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Human Rights Innovando Srl ensures workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Innovando Srl proects workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal and sexual or psychological harassment, Principle 1 abuse or threats. Innovando Srl takes measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects Business should uphold the freedom of that could harm or threaten human life and health durassociation and the effective recognition ing coordinating, manufacturing, usage or disposal of of the right to collective bargaining. products. We respect Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Environmental Protection and the details Principle 2 of the previously mentioned Organizational Model 231 and Code of Ethics are published on our website, as an Make sure that they are not complicit in integral part of our transparency in communication human rights abuses. with all our suppliers, employees and partners. By fully accepting and implementing the scope of the Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, Innovando Srl ensures Labour that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, that it complies with minimum wage standards, ensuring that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. By voluntarily adopting codes, standards and policies Principle 3 of social sustainability, the management of Innovando Business should uphold the freedom of Srl continuously maintains a suitable working environassociation and the effective recognition ment and explores the needs of the staff, while ensurof the right to collective bargaining. ing the appropriate management of safety, some of the examples are: Principle 4 » Risk Assessment Document, which identifies the The elimination of all forms of forced and health and safety in the company and defines the compulsory labour. prevention and protection measures to be implemented. Principle 5 » Fire Risk Assessment Document, which identifies the infrastructure, the areas at risk, measures to be The effective abolition of child labour. adopted in order to eliminate the risk of fire. » Staff safety courses Principle 6 » Consultation and inspection of the head of the prevention and protection service in charge (RSPP) The elimination of discrimination in » Consultation and inspection of the competent docrespect of employment and occupation. tor with a periodic health controls for the staff. 25 Environment Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Business should support a Undertake initiatives to Encourage the development precautionary approach to promote greater environmental and diffusion of environmentally environmental challenges. responsibility. friendly technologies. Innovando Srl avoids environmental damage through (managerial, operational but also ethical and environthe regular maintenance of production processes and mental). This includes the definition of all the innovaenvironmental protection system (air pollution contive technologies development and use, with particular trol, waste, water treatment systems, etc.). At the same reference to the optimization of logistic flows for the time, Innovando Srl ensures emergency procedures to waste collection and treatment. prevent and address accidents affecting the environThe goal we set previously was to ensure transparent ment and human health. Innovando Srl minimizes the and structure management, while enabling a comuse and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical plete traceability of all operations through the whole and other dangerous substances. supply chain actors coordination and we managed it by upgrading PFU24 portal and by incorporating the As mentioned in the company description pages, innovative cloud-based software iSystem, described Innovando Srl has developed an Integrated Managein previous chapters of the document. This way, we ment System for Quality and the Environment (QMS) in provided the availability of all information in real time, accordance with UNI EN ISO 9001: 2015 and UNI EN ISO along with the processing of statistics and reports for 14001: 2015. Therefore, we’re continuously engaged in different planning, monitoring and reporting needs. optimizing cycles and operations in order to increase Furthermore, the optimization of logistic flows contribour customer and stakeholder satisfaction by effecuted to the wider rationalization of resources, resulttively applying the QMS. In this context, we established ing at the same time with environmental benefits by a Policy for Quality and Environment which represents reducing emissions and saving energy. a framework for evaluating company’s objectives Anti-corruption Innovando Srl assesses the risk of corruption when doing business, as well as that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. Innovando Srl implements the defined principles of Principle 10 quality of all the services we provide, regulatory comBusiness should work against corruption pliance with laws and regulations while being focused in all its forms, including extortion and on the individual needs in human resource managebribery. ment terms. 2 26Communication on Progress (CoP) — — Innovando Innovando 2019 Srl 2019 Srl Corporate sustainability in action Adopt a Tree: Rebirth of the Park Levico Terme After the extreme weather and storm hits on the 29th of October 2018, one of the most important parks of the Province of Trento has been completely destroyed. In order to help replanting of the trees of the historic Park Levico Terme but also to convey an important message “the tree is a heritage, the tree is life”, a project “Adopt a Tree” was born to support the unrecognizable park after the bad weather conditions. Innovando Srl collaborated in the action by contributing with a donation paid on behalf of all its clients. This amount has been invested in the Park Rebirth activities. Thanks to your contribution to support the Adopt a tree project, around 32.000,00 EUR have been collected by the 31st of December 2019” — Levico Team 27 MeA — Mosaicoeaias Social Cooperative Society & Innovando SRL: Cultural, legal and scientific evolution on disability studies and welfare — Project The aim of the project was to provide a referred to the DGR 154/2018, DGR 2141/2017, the program guideline for interventions and Decree Ministerial (DM) 23/11/20016 of the Ministry services for people with serious disabiliof Labor and Social Policies and the Law 112/2016 ties between 18 and 64 years. “After us”. The social inclusion of people with The supporting partner role of Innovando Srl in this physical and complex disabilities is still project helped its full customization in all phases, an open issue in Italy and in order to from an ideation, to the analysis of the situation, to implement social policies in the most elaborating and project planning, all the way to its effective way, we should increasingly implementation and a final evaluation. The duration move forward interventions which are of the actions is covering period of 4 years, starting aiming in breaking down barriers of all from 2019. kinds. A public call for project proposals 3 28Communication on Progress (CoP) — — Innovando Innovando 2019 Srl 2019 Srl Measurement of outcomes Innovando Srl has a system which outlines how certain activities (rules, roles and responsibilities) are directed in order to achieve the goals of an organization. Company structure The follwing structure determines how information flows between levels with the company and its visual representation illustrates the clarity Innovando Srl provides for everyone at all levels. 29 Company structure General Direction High Direction Business Projects and Development Development RGQA — Quality & environment Competent Doctor First aid & fire RLS RSPP prevention staff Administration IT Sales Administration Logistic Technical Area Consultancy Consultancy Orders Technical Director Global Service Global Service Transports ELT General Marketing 30 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Company demographics The demographics 60% Women of management & employees grouped by diversity factors. 40% Men Age (27-60 years) 18% 55-64 years 9% 45% 45-54 years 25-34 years 27% 35-44 years Education 55% High School Graduate 36% Bachelor and/or Master 9% Doctorate 31 Training hours in 2019 Starting work support 490h Innovando provides to its employees starting work support: course on hygiene, health & safety on workplaces in accordance with the state-regions agreement 221/2011. Information and training of workers Total traing hourse in 2019 pursuant to art. 37 of Legislative Decree 81/08 and the state-regions agreement 221/2011. Trainings according to the UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 and UNI EN ISO 14001:2015 – based on the information and training of employees regarding the company 40h management system with particular attention to the policy procedures and requirements SGQA – Environment Quality Management System (Italian: Sistema di Gestione Qualità Ambiente). Total traing hours on average per person Training activities » Training & support on the use of iSystem platform, » Web conference tools and how to provided by Innovando Srl use them – training » Participation in the training plan “DIPINTO Digitalizzare”, » Società Benefit Training & ConInternationalization and Innovation for the Compettiveness sulting: evaluating B CORP busi(Fondimpresa): 24 hours business (completed); 16 hours ness models and its applicability international negotiation strategies » Power BI training – Business » Electronic billing training – deepening the understanding of Intelligence instrument Power BI the admin area of the innovations introduced by electronic for the final reporting of the end invoicing and the related accounting procedures of life tire process 32 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl End of life tire (ELT) management activities 2019 Collection suppliers 19.060 +2000 BY AREA Northern Italy OPERATORS 6 VECHICLES 87 Tons collected Points of collection Collection divided in different In Italy Central Italy 3 21 categories and activities, aligned (ELT manufacturers, with the DM n. 82 of 11th of April tire dealers, etc.) South and islands 4 37 2011 and s.m.i Total 13 145 ELT recovery 2019 Recovery suppliers 18.195 BY AREA RECOVERY R1 RECOVERY R3 Tons (100%) of the ELT recovered Northern Italy 0 2 Central Italy 0 2 South and islands 0 2 R1 recovery Rest of Europe 2 3 25% R3 recovery Total 2 9 75% 33 Collection suppliers Suppliers for collection distributed all over Italy Recovery suppliers Suppliers for recovery distributed in Europe R1 Recovery R3 Recovery End of life tire (ELT) management activities 2019 34 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl ELT and Sustainability Innovando Srl is committed Material footprint to promoting and training 2019 its logistics network with an aim of adopting good In both recycling of materials and energy recovery terms, ELT ELT management practices, management of Innovando Srl avoids the virgin raw material from the collection phase, to utilization in order to affect positively the Material Footprint the treatment and recovery balance. In particular: phases, in order to minimize the environmental impact of The ELT rubber granulates recovery helps with the ELT on the ecosystem. avoiding the vulcanized rubber polymer components production (natural, synthetic rubber, carbon black, metal oxides and other additives). Innovando Srl monitors its supply chain Steel recycling avoids the production of steel from in terms of environmental performance. the iron. The environmental impact related to the ELT collection and treatment activities is The recovery of textile fibers and other materials demeasured annually, considering the balriving from the ELT are reused as fuel for the producance of Material and Carbon Footprint as tion of energy in authorized plants (cement plants); indicators. avoiding the use of other fossil fuels (in particular pet-coke and coal). 35 Carbon footprint Collection and 2019 transportation Measured in kg/ton of CO2 equivalent and represents the total In a tire Life Cycle Assessment, the amount of greenhouse gasses emitted, directly and indirectly, transportation phase plays the crucial during the life cycle of a product or service: from extraction and role, from the points of collection processing of raw materials, to transformation in semi-finished to the material and energy recovery and finished products, up to the management of the waste to be centers. recovered or disposed. The value expressed by this indicator is The optimization of an overall transthe result of the balance between the emissions generated by the portation must be the main objective activities connected to the analyzed process (negative impacts / in the logistics network planning environmental costs) and those avoided thanks to the recovery of activities where partner companies of matter or energy (positive impacts / environmental goods due to Innovando Srl guarantee the effithe lack of recourse to new productions from virgin raw material). ciency of the service we provide, by optimizing all collection rounds, while Considering the total ELT managed by Innovando Srl in 2019, identifying the most suitable and the data shows that the amount of emissions generated by the economically viable means. various activities of the supply chain (collection and transport logistics, treatment and combustion) is lower than the amount of Consequently, we achieve a positive equivalent CO2 that has been avoided to produce thanks to the impact on an overall vehicle emissions recovery of materials deriving from ELTs, that is the emissions and therefore on the carbon footprint that would have been generated for their production from virgin of the transport phase. raw material. Material footprint in numbers 2019 13.605 tons 65% of recovered secondary raw materials 8.845 tons of recovered rubber 10% 4.590 tons 1.360 tons sent to energy recovery of recovered textile fibers 25% 5.325 tons 3.400 tons of pet-coke as a fuel avoided of recovered steel 36 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl The recovery All our reference partners need to fulfill a pre-defined This is aligned with the Legislative Decree 152/2006 list of efficiency and quality requirements and all their which states that in a waste recovery process all plants are subject to check ups and inspections. On interventions need to be related to the raw materials top of this, our fully transparent ELT management saving, from separate collection, to reuse, to recycling promotes a proximity logic, in other words tendency to and energy recovery. choose the closest plant to the origin of the tires. MOULDED & WATERPROOFING TIRES BELTS EXTROUDED GOODS & MATTING Side walls Conveyor Belts Auto Components Roofing Sheet Tire plies Power Transmission Belts Hoses Pond Lining Tire treads and retreads Pipes Road Surfacing PCR, TBR, OTR, Gaskets Mats Solid, Agricultural, Bicycle Footwear The ELT recovery activities of Innovando products into the production processes Srl, fit either under the R1 or R3 recovof new, high-performance products, inery codes, as defined in the EU Waste cluding tires, thus lowering the pressure Framework Directive 2008/98, where R3 on non-renewable resources. ELT mateplants stand for the actual recovery of rial is mainly reused in sports surfaces, material and the R1 plants for the recovbut also different kinds of mats and ery through energy enhancement. panels for acoustic insulation and for waterproofing buildings, products for New treatment technologies are urban furniture, infrastructure elements enabling reintegration of ELT-derived for roads and tramways. 37 Waste management in our offices Separate waste collection 100% 80% PEFC or FSC certified ecological recycled paper detergents Green products toilet paper and ecological wipes (Nordic Swan and Blue Angel environmental certifications) All Innvando Srl business units aim at reducing polly sound technologies, reflects our commitment to lution while developing and implementing the most the SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. innovative technologies. For instance, our wastewater Furthermore, as part of our business implementation sludge treatment technology is significantly improving strategies, we also enhance scientific research and upwater quality while eliminating dumping and halving grade the technological capabilities of industrial secthe proportion of untreated wastewater. This recytors. We will continue our active support to the quality cling increase and the safe reuse we promote globally education activities, as we demonstrated in the past corresponds to the Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation. two years. A goal 12 related to the Responsible ConInnovando Srl started strengthening its international sumption and Production reflects our spin off Rubber cooperation and capacity-building support also to deConversion core business activities. This business unit veloping countries. Undoubtedly, all our business units is helping the entire rubber manufacturing sector to are contributing to the resilient infrastructure building, increase their rubber production and post-consumpwhile promoting sustainable industrialization. tion waste reutilization by implementing our circular Upgrading infrastructure to make industries more business models. sustainable with greater adoption of environmental38 Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 — Innovando Srl Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 Innovando Srl © 2020 all rights reserved 39 INNOVANDO S.R.L. — Italy Via Per Marco, 12c 38068 Rovereto TN Tel. +39 0464 755630 info@innovandotech.com www.innovandotech.com © 2020 all rights reserved
