2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY FULL FULLREPORT REPORT Contents 3 5 11 Letter from the About the Report Strategy and Objectives Managing Director FY19 Focus 21 23 25 Health and Safety Value Chain Long Term Outlook 26 28 31 Environment Communities People and Culture 34 41 Governance and Risk Membership and Affiliations 43 67 80 Case Studies Performance Data GRI / UNGC Index 2 OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT Letter from Managing Letter froDirector m & CEO Managing Director & CEO Thank Thank you you ffor or ddownloading ownloading Orocobre’s the 2019 201Orocobre 9 Sustainability Report. Sustainability Report. I am pleased to present this overview of the Company’s safety, environmental, social and governance performance in FY19 for the Olaroz Lithium Facility, a year in which we reinforced our mission to become a sustainable, world class supplier of lithium chemicals, placing strategic focus on safety, quality and productivity. Ensuring the safety of our workforce remains our number one priority, both in current operations and our Stage 2 expansion. We continue to strengthen our safety culture, systems and behaviours through safety leadership programs, integrated management software, enhanced operational risk analyses, and the formation of targeted Safety Committees. 2019 was a challenging year for the lithium industry with supply-demand changes impacting negatively on the market and lithium pricing. This has continued into 2020. These market conditions sharpened our focus on delivering high quality product. Initiatives were undertaken to enhance process stability, final product quality, and customer claims management. Strategic marketing of our products remains a priority as we work collaboratively with JV partner Toyota Tsusho Corporation (TTC) to secure long-term contracts that will deliver enduring revenue streams. Equal focus was placed on our operating performance by increasing productivity and decreasing operating costs, in particular targeting improvements in pond management, process stability, and recovery rates, and cost reduction initiatives across the business. We have also sought to promote efficiencies across all areas of operations, especially regarding energy and water consumption and where possible, the recovery and reuse of these resources. By maintaining our strategic position as one of the world’s lowest cost lithium producers, we can grow our operations through this period of market softness and emerge even stronger when the market corrects over coming years. Reinforcing the strength of our position and maximising future market share is the Olaroz Lithium Facility’s Stage 2 Expansion. The project is fully funded and development activities have progressed steadily over the past 12 months. Our communities remain central to our operational and development activities, with continuous engagement identifying employment and supply opportunities. The nature of our land use agreement with local communities coupled with complexities associated with traditional livelihoods resulted in our approach to landholder engagement being redefined. We continue to work with all local communities to ensure their quality of life is enhanced by our activities. Finally, we have increased our focus on talent management, ensuring we have the right people in the right roles to drive the Company forward. This has been supported through a greater focus on development, improvement of internal/ external recruitment processes and a review of our performance management systems to better incentivise employees. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 3 Through commitment and collaboration within our corporate, operational and project teams we were able to make significant progress during FY19 towards becoming a leading and sustainable global supplier of high grade, high value lithium chemicals. To better communicate our progress year on year we have re-engineered our sustainability reporting approach, providing more in-depth disclosures on the topics of interest to our stakeholders. This has resulted in a delayed disclosure for FY19 but establishes a solid process for clear, timely and comparable reporting in future. As we progress with construction and commissioning of the Stage 2 Expansion, we will see significant and ongoing on-site activity and, in turn, variability in performance with regards to certain environmental and social metrics. We have defined preliminary targets for FY25 and FY30 for operational performance and will also set targets annually to reflect our combined operational and development activity. We are currently facing the unprecedented challenge of Covid19 and its impacts on our markets and our operations. We realise this may impact on the delivery of some of our objectives. Our priority in 2020 will be on ensuring the health and safety of our people, our communities and contractors. Thus far, international and domestic company-related travel has been restricted, bio-security plans have been developed in accordance with industry best practice and national regulations, an emergency committee has been established to coordinate operations, and Board and management are meeting more regularly to define impacts and develop contingencies. We remain committed to ensuring the safety and sustainability of our operations through this period and will share our experiences in depth in our FY20 Sustainability Report. I look forward to keeping you informed on the Company’s growth throughout 2020. Martín Pérez de Solay Managing Director 4 OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT About the About theReport Report 2019 2019 SSustainability ustainability Re Report port The 2019 Financial Year (FY19) Sustainability Report illustrates the sustainability performance of Orocobre Limited (Orocobre or the Company) as joint venture partner and manager of the Olaroz Lithium Facility. The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards (Core) and documents Orocobre’s progress against the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as well as the Company’s contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To indicate the alignment of Orocobre’s sustainability initiatives and disclosures with the UN SDGs, SDG icons will be posted at the top of each Management Approach Disclosure to highlight the goals being covered. * SDG 14 (Life Below Water) is not included as it has no relevance within the context of Orocobre’s lithium operations. As the development and performance of the Olaroz Lithium Facility remain the central focus of Orocobre investors and shareholders, the focus of sustainability reporting remains on SDJ and its activities. The specific topics addressed in the report were defined based on a detailed materiality process which analysed public announcements and developments, internal documentation and insights shared with Orocobre by numerous stakeholder groups. This year Orocobre has decided to move away from producing hardcopies of the Sustainability Report, opting to produce a more sustainable and accessible online report that meets a broader range of stakeholder needs. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 5 The 2019 Sustainability Report includes:  Overview: a summary of the Company’s sustainability approach and performance in FY19.  Full Report: more detailed disclosures of its sustainability approach and performance in accordance with GRI Standard requirements. Rather than downloading the full report in its entirety, the Company encourages stakeholders to make use of the Report Builder to download and view only those sections of the report in which they have a specific interest.  Performance Data: which clearly presents sustainability data by category in accordance with recognised indicators.  Management Approach Disclosures: which outline current management approach to topics of ongoing relevance to the business and its stakeholders.  GRI Index: which supports stakeholders to navigate the report by providing the specific location of all the general, standard and topic-specific disclosures defined by the GRI Reporting Standards. For any questions or feedback regarding this report, please contact Orocobre’s Chief Sustainability Officer via sustainability@orocobre.com Forward Looking Statements Reports published by the Company contain “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable securities legislation. Forward-looking information may include, but not be limited to, the results of the Olaroz Feasibility Study, the estimation and realisation of mineral resources at the Company’s projects, the viability, recoverability and processing of such resources, costs and timing of development of the Olaroz Project, the forecasts relating to the lithium market including market price whether stated or implied, demand and other information and trends relating to any market tax, royalty and duty rates, timing and receipt of approvals for the Company’s projects, consents and permits under applicable legislation, adequacy of financial resources, the meeting of banking covenants contained in project finance documentation, production and other milestones for the Olaroz Project, and the Olaroz Project’s future financial and operating performance including production, rates of return, operating costs, capital costs and cash flows, potential operating synergies, other matters related to the development of Olaroz and Cauchari. Forward-looking information is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information, including but not limited to the risk that further funding may be required, but unavailable, for the ongoing development of the Company’s projects; the possibility that required concessions may not be obtained, or may be obtained only on terms and conditions that are materially worse than anticipated; changes in government taxes, levies, regulations, policies or legislation; fluctuations or decreases in commodity prices; the possibility that required permits or approvals may not be obtained; uncertainty in the estimation, economic viability, recoverability and processing of mineral resources; fluctuations or decreases in commodity prices; general risks associated with the feasibility of the Company’s projects; risks associated with construction and development/expansion of Olaroz; unexpected capital or operating cost increases; risks associated with weather patterns and impact on production rate and the uncertainty of meeting anticipated program milestones at the Company’s projects. The Company believes that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking information are reasonable. Assumptions have been made regarding, among other things: the Company’s ability to carry on its exploration and development activities, the timely receipt of required approvals, the price of lithium, the ability of the Company to operate in a safe, efficient and effective manner and the ability of the Company to obtain financing as and when required and on reasonable terms. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list is not exhaustive of all factors and assumptions which may have been used. There can be no assurance that forward-looking information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such information. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking information, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 6 OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT Sales de Jujuy Sales de Jujuy Orocobre’s key properties are held by its Argentine operating company Sales de Jujuy S.A. (S SDJ, ORE 66.5%) and contain those properties associated with the Olaroz Lithium Facility Olaroz). (O SDJ is the manager of the Olaroz Lithium Facility Joint Venture. The shareholders are Sales de Jujuy Pte Ltd (S SDJ PTE) and JEMSE, a mining investment company owned by the provincial government of Jujuy, Argentina. SDJ PTE is a Singaporean company that is the joint venture vehicle for Orocobre and Toyota Tsusho Corporation (TTC). Joint JointVenture VenturStructure e Structure Orocobre Toyota Tsusho (TTC) TTC is the exclusive sales 15%* agent, with Orocobre and TTC (Australia) (Japan) exercising shared decision 72.68% 27.32% making over marketing, (SDJ S.A. 66.5%) (SDJ S.A. 25%) product allocation and terms. Sales de Jujuy Pte Ltd JEMSE (Singapore) (Jujuy, Argentina) 91.5% (Common Share) 8.5% (Class B Share) Project Company — Sales de Jujuy S.A. (SDJ) (Jujuy, Argentina) Debt Guarantee Lender Guarantor (Mizuho) (JOGMEC) Olaroz OlarozLithium LithiuFacility m Facility The Olaroz Lithium Facility is located in Jujuy Province in northern Argentina, approximately 230 kilometres northwest of the provincial capital city of Jujuy. The operations are at an altitude of approximately 4,000 metres above sea level and produce lithium carbonate from the Salar de Olaroz brine resource. Olaroz Lithium Facility currently produces purified and primary grades of lithium carbonate, which are sold into battery, technical and chemical markets. The Olaroz Lithium Facility was the first large scale brine-based operation to be constructed, commissioned and operated in more than 20 years. Since operations commenced in 2015, over 40,000 tonnes of lithium carbonate have been produced. This milestone is testament to the efforts of the operational team at Olaroz whose development and operating skills provide an on-going competitive advantage for Orocobre as it progresses through the Stage 2 Expansion at Olaroz. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 7 2019 – Third full year of production 2019 Third full year of production A low cost, high margin Focus on quality, Strong medium Forecasted Demand brine based lithium productivity to long-term Growth 2019 – 2025 carbonate producer and safety fundamentals of 17 to 20% CAGR Realised price of World class brine FID approval to more Stage 2 Expansion >US$10,000/t Lithium resource capable of than double lithium underway with Carbonate Equivalent supporting multiple carbonate capacity at new ponds and site (LCE) and an average phases of expansion Olaroz with a lithium infrastructure under Gross Cash Margin of hydroxide plant to be construction 58% in FY19 built in Naraha, Japan The Olaroz Lithium Facility produces a range of lithium carbonate products that are sold into global markets. Demand for lithium chemicals continues to increase as the world’s consumers require high quality lithium batteries in applications that are increasingly dominated by state of the art, high performance electric vehicles (EV) and grid power storage applications at residential and commercial scale. Consumer electronics continue to provide significant underlying demand, but it is the wholesale adoption of EV technology by global auto manufacturers and commercial grade Energy Storage Systems (ESS) that will drive growth in lithium demand over the next decade. Orocobre is determined to help meet the world’s growing demand for lithium through the sustainable development of its assets, including staged expansions of the Olaroz Lithium Facility, and its customer base, maintaining a mix of short and long-term contracts with diversity of both geography and market segments. Olaroz sells primary and both micronised and non-micronised purified lithium carbonate to a diverse customer base of approximately 100 customers in Asia, Europe and North America. The main markets for primary grade product are the chemical manufacture, ceramic and glass markets, with purified grade typically sold to cathode manufacturers for use in the production of batteries. This report provides an overview of Orocobre’s key sustainability challenges and achievements over the past year and sets its areas for focussed improvement in coming years. 8 OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT Highlights and Commitments Highlights Improved our position on Established a Dow Jones Sustainability Implemented INTELEX Sustainability Committee Indices (DJSI) of the Board a cloud based environmental, 28% improvement in Score health, safety and quality responsible for governance of 26% improvement in Ranking management system sustainability strategy, risk and 39% above Average performance management Commissioned an Commenced a detailed Currently undertaking formal External Risk Human Rights Climate Risk Assessment Management Review Risk Assessment formulating an enterprise-wide risk management framework CO2 1.2% Reduction in Doubled the number of 0.3% Reduction in Operational Women in Management Operational Water Intensity Emissions Intensity 22.2% of SDJ Management Team to 48.16 m per tonne 3 to 3.14tCO2-e per tonne of lithium produced of lithium produced. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 9 Commitments ACHIEVED ONGOING + Established central safety + Maintain Total Recordable Injury committee and five subcommittees Frequency Rate (TRIFR) <5.7 through (training, operational discipline, Phase 2 Expansion audit, risk management and 1 incidents investigations) + Intelex to completely replace the existing system for HSEQ management + Implemented Intelex — a cloud based environmental, health, safety and quality management system (HSEQ) to Health & enhance safety management/reporting Safety 2 + Increased percentage of product + Delivery Performance Measure within specification + Supplier Monitoring & Compliance + Implemented Supplier Code of Conduct Value Chain + Improved position on the Dow Jones + Further Improve position on the DJSI 3 Sustainability Indices (DJSI) + Leverage further data to better define + Enhanced financial reporting the Salar de Olaroz Resource Long-Term Outlook 4 + Integrated energy and emissions into operational Key Performance + Improve visibility and accuracy of water consumption data Indicators (KPIs) across operations Environment + Strengthened strategic partnerships + Establish a ‘Theory of Change’ 5 to advance sustainable development to improve measurement and in the region evaluation of the community investment strategy Communities 6 + Incorporated KPIs and objectives into annual performance review + Establish targeted development and succession plans + Completed cultural evaluation program + Enhance transparency through improved policies, systems and communications People & Culture 10 OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT Strategy S trategy and andObjectives Objectives Strategy Strategy Orocobre’s Sustainability Strategy supports the Company’s approach to financial growth whilst promoting the integrity and wellbeing of the environment and communities where the Company operates. In accordance with the UN Sustainable Development Goals Orocobre seeks to promote the global transition to a low-carbon future, reduce operational impacts on the environment, and improve the quality of life for local communities. The Company’s Sustainability Strategy is thus centred on the provision of high-quality, batterygrade lithium to the global market, operational excellence, and strategic community investment. The Strategy is based on the understanding that the Company can only grow within the limits set by society and the environment. At a societal level, effective engagement with Company stakeholders is key to bringing about the changes that promote market growth, enable operational progress, and support social licence. At an environmental level, understanding the local and global environmental trends and limits over the short, medium and long term provides the Company with critical insights and opportunities to optimise and sustain its products, operations and communities now and in the future. ENVIRONMENT TY BIO ALI DIV QU ER AIR SIT Y NATURAL RESOURCES RS SU STO PP VE LIE IN RS SE RS EMISSIONS WASTE WATER ENERGY PEOPLE GLO U BA EN D LW AR SO USE TY CIE MI CI CUS SO NG ET ND S OR TO Y RA CT LA ME NT RS CO SU PP CT PRO LY POLICY MAKERS DU IN SAFETY CHA PRODUCTIVITY UNIONS QUALITY O MENT PE ERS R AT I O N S IRON RTN ENV PA JV C LI Y OM TE MA EC ON AR S UL IE EM D RC PL O B CI O YE RY ES O L AT GU RE T M N EN AT COMMUNITIES N U RA O IR LR V ES S O CI E T Y EN OU RC ES ES VI C SER STEM ECOSY OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 11 IONS EMISS IN WAST NATU WATE ENER PEOP CHA PR O MENT PE ERS R AT I O N S IRON RTN UNIONS ENV PA JV C LI Y O OM PE R AT I O N S TE SU MA EC PP ON CT PRO LY AR DU IN CHA Y UL SAFETY S OM IE RC EM D PRODUCTIVITY PL EC O B CI O ON QUALITY YE RY VISION: To be a sustainable, world class supplier of lithium chemicals ES TO AR U LA O EG PE R AT I O N S S IE UL R EM D PL O B RC T O M NRY YE CI EN ES O A AT TU COMMUNITIES N UL R O G AL IR RE V RE EN RespoV nsIS ibIO leN P:ro Todube ct a sustainable, Sustaiworld class perasupplier of lithium Thrivichemicals SO S O CI E T Y nable O tions ng Communities T N UR AT CE MEN ES U S VI C RA COMMUNITIES SER N STEM O L IR RE V ECOSY SO S O CI E T Y EN UR CE S ES VI C SER TE M ECOSYS Rethe To be spon sible Pro supplier ofduct choice Susmaintain To rations Opehighest tainable the Thriving Communities To cultivate thriving, for quality lithium chemicals levels of safety, efficiency resilient communities that Tothat promote be the supplier global theof choice and To maintain theand resilience the highest areToautonomous and selfcultivate thriving, transition for to a low-carbon quality lithium chemicals lowestofoperating levels costs in safety, efficiency resilientsustaining. communities that economy. that promote the global the industry. and resilience and the are autonomous and selftransition to a low-carbon lowest operating costs in sustaining. economy. the industry. ENVIRO NMEN T BIO DIV ER SIT Y NATURAL RESOURCES TY ALI QU NATURAL RESOURCES SU AIR PP LIE RS WATER ENERGY PEOPLE EMISSIONS RS STO WASTE WATER ENERGY PEOPLE VE IN TY CIE USE EMISSIONS SO ND S OR EN RA CT LA WASTE VIR NT RS CO ON SE MEGLO U BA EN SU NT PP CT D LW AR SO PRO LY MI CI DU CUS IN CHA NG ET TO Y ME RS SU UNIONS PP CT O PE PRO LY R AT I O N S CT DU IN CHA PRO POLICY MAKERS DU SAFETY OM Y PRODUCTIVITY EC ON QUALITY AR S IE UL EM D O PL O B RC O RY PE YE CI R AT I O N S ES TO ATE LA GU CLIM RE ERS T N RTN M AT EN U COMMUNITIES PA RA N O L IR RE V JV SO S O CI E T Y EN UR CE S ES VI C SER TE M ECOSYS SHARED OPERATIONAL COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE VALUE EXCELLENCE SHARED OPERATIONAL COMPETLow ITIVCarbon E ADVANTAGE V ALUE Health EXCSafety ELLENCE High Quality Education Low Carbon Quality Health Strategic Marketing Safety Empowerment High Quality Productivity Education Quality Transparency ALI TY Strategic Marketing Empowerment QU AIR Productivity Production and Natural Transparency RS STO VE Resources IN EMISSIONS EN WASTE VIR RS ON SE ME GLO Production and Natural U BA EN NT D LW AR SO MI CI NG CUS ET TO ME RS Y Resources CT PRO POLICY MAKERS DU ENVIRO NMEN T UN U NS Sustainable evelopment GoGoals ustainable DDevelopment al s ATE CLIM ERS RTN PA BIO JV DIV ER SIT Y UN Sisucommitted Orocobre le DethevUN stainatobadvancing elSustainable opmeDevelopment nt GoaGoals ls (SSDGs) through NATURAL RESOURCES ENERGY SU PP LIE RS WATER PEOPLE its products, the effective management of its operations, and strategic community investment in the regions Orocobre in which itto is committed operates. SDGs) through advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (S SO CIE TY OR S ND USE CT LA its products, the effective management of its operations, and strategic community investment RA NT CO in the regions in which it operates. CT SU PP PRO LY DU IN CHA UNIONS O PE R AT I O N S Y OM Operations Community EC ON Products AR S IE UL The Company TheCompany setssets clearclear environmental TheThe Community Community Investment Investment Strategy Orocobre services services Orocobre a wide a wide range of EM D PL O B RC O RY YE CI ES TO and social objectives and fosters a defines how Orocobre manages, LA customers in an extensive value chain; environmental and social Strategy defines how Orocobre range however, the primary focus of its an of customers in GU RE culture of collaboration and monitors and reports performance T N M AT EN objectives Companyand sets fosters to adrive Themanages, Communitymonitors U The clear environmental Investmentand Strategy Orocobreextensive services value a widechain; range however, of of RA COMMUNITIES N activity is in the development O L IR continuous improvement against community-based sustainable RE V SO S O CI E T Y EN customers in an extensive value chain; UR and socialof culture objectives and fosters collaboration anda defines how performance reports Orocobre manages, CE lithium chemicals to fuel the transition commitments. against the primary focus of activity S ES sustainable development. development ECOSYS TE M SER VI C however, the primary focus of its culture of collaboration and monitors and reports performance to a low-carbon economy. continuous continuous improvement improvement to to drive community-basedsustainable community-based against sustainable activity development of of battery the development isisininthe drive sustainable sustainable development. development. development development commitments. commitments. lithiumgrade chemicals to fuel lithium the transition chemicals to to a low-carbon economy. fuel the transition to a low-carbon economy. 12 OROCOBRE STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES The following provides an overview of the Company’s commitments and contributions to the UN SDGs, based on its current footprint, activities, and initiatives delivered in collaboration with the government and local communities. Empowering local communities through financial inclusion, microfinance and effective management of natural resource benefits. Supporting local agricultural producers to overcome climate challenges and establish sustainable production systems. Promoting the health and Protecting the health, wellbeing of local safety and wellbeing of communities. the workforce. Poviding training and Providing access to quality development for the education to employees and workforce. local communities. Ensuring gender diversity Empowering women in the within the workforce and communities to engage, along the supply chain. develop and lead. Reducing water Promoting greater consumption and community access to clean managing water-related water and sanitation. ecosystems. Exploring opportunities Providing the lithium for renewable energy Supporting the provision of required to enable generation. clean and affordable energy transition to a low to communities. carbon future. Prioritizing local Stimulating entrepreneurship employment and and economic growth in the engaging and developing local communities. local suppliers. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 13 Innovating and upgrading to ensure sustainable, Providing local communities efficient and resilient with internet access. operations. Providing income Promoting non-project strategies through local related revenue generation employment and local opportunities. procurement. Respecting and Promoting the resilience of preserving cultural and people and built natural heritage across all environment within local aspects of the operation. communities. Ensure efficient use of natural resources, effective waste management, sustainable procurement practices, and regular sustainability reporting and nonfinancial accountability. Ensuring operational Supporting the resilience resilience and adaptive and adaptive capacity of capacity to climatelocal communities to related events. climate-related events. Protecting the biodiversity of the region in which it operates and ensuring responsible rehabilitation. Ensuring transparency Supporting the and access to remedy administrative capacity of across operations. local institutions. Establishing solid relationships with governments, communities and developing multistakeholder partnerships in response to shared sustainable development challenges. * Goal 14 (Life Below Water) is not included as it has no relevance within the context of the Company’s activities. 14 OROCOBRE STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Sustainability Framework Sustainability Framework Orocobre’s Sustainability Framework outlines the core structure of the Company’s sustainability performance management system. Sustainability Framework Governance Orocobre’s Sustainability Framework outlines the core structure of the Company’s sustainability performance management system. Continuous Improvement Stakeholder Engagement Risk Management Environment Community People Health & Safety Supply Chain Customer Policies, Guidelines, Performance Standards Targets and KPIs Limits and Controls Plans and Procedures Assessments and Audits Being a young company in the early stages of both its operational and sustainability journey, Orocobre acknowledges that attaining industry-leading sustainability credentials will take time, Projects improvements across every focus and incremental Operations area of the business. Joint Ventures The Sustainability Framework provides a roadmap of core elements that will be systematically strengthened over coming years. Being a young company in the early stages of both its operational and sustainability journey, Orocobre is taking a staged approach to sustainability management and reporting by Orocobre acknowledges that attaining industry-leading sustainability credentials will take time, establishing solid management fundamentals as a priority and then developing meaningful focus and incremental improvements across every area of the business. metrics and controls. This will enable the Company to ensure targeted, accurate and consistent monitoring The of sustainability Sustainability Framework performance across theoforganisation. provides a roadmap core elements that will be systematically strengthened over coming years. Orocobre understands the importance of quantitative targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) andisistaking Orocobre committed to setting a staged approach to at these the appropriate sustainability time. management and reporting by establishing solid management fundamentals as a priority and then developing meaningful As the Company is still refining and stabilising its production processes, expanding its metrics and controls. This will enable the Company to ensure targeted, accurate and consistent operations, and implementing centralised sustainability reporting systems, targets and KPIs will monitoring of sustainability performance across the organisation. remain qualitative rather than quantitative until an assured sustainability performance baseline is defined understands Orocobre in 2020. the importance of quantitative targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and is committed to setting these at the appropriate time. As the Company is still refining and stabilising its production processes, expanding its operations, and implementing centralised sustainability reporting systems, targets and KPIs will remain qualitative rather than quantitative until an assured sustainability performance baseline is defined in 2020. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 15 5 Year Plan 5 Year Plan To provide investors with a clear indication of the activities and timelines Orocobre envisages for complete implementation of its Sustainability Framework, as well as the external benchmarks that it will be using to objectively evaluate its progress, the Company has developed the following 5-year plan. 16 OROCOBRE STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES FY20 Objectives FFYY2200OObbjejeccttiviveess InIn order order toto drive drive continued continued focus focus onon improved improved sustainability sustainability performance performance and and maintain maintain momentum momentum across across allall parts parts ofof the the business, business, the the Company Company defined defined the the following following objectives objectives for for FY20. FY20. FRFARMAM EWEW OO RKRKCO CO MM POPO NN NE ETNT FYF2 Y020OO BJBEJC ET VE CITVIE ENEV NIVRIORNOMNEMN ETNT   Continue Continue toto reduce reduce operational operational water water andand emissions emissions intensity intensity   Assurance Assurance ofof environmental environmental data data   Finalise Finalise Theory Theory ofof Change Change toto 2030 2030 and and strategic strategic investment investment CMOMMU MNUIN and and collaboration collaboration plan plan toto support support implementation implementation CO TIYTY   Introduce Introduce systems systems and and processes processes toto improve improve social social impact impact measurement measurement and and reporting reporting PEPO EP OLPELE   Finalise Finalise Organisational Organisational Talent Talent Mapping Mapping  Enhance Diversity and Inclusion  Enhance Diversity and Inclusion metrics metrics and and performance. performance.   Strengthen Strengthen health health and and safety safety reporting reporting and and performance performance HEHAELATLHTH&&SA SFAEFTEYTY   Promote Promote effective effective use use ofof lead lead and and laglag indicators. indicators.   Prepare Prepare for for certification certification shift shift from from OHS18001 OHS18001 toto ISO45001 ISO45001 SU UPPLPYLY SP CHCA HIANIN   Improve Improve local local supplier supplier performance performance   Promote Promote local local supplier supplier development development CUCSUTSOTMOEMRER   Enhance Enhance communication communication andand engagement engagement between between customers customers and and operational operational teams. teams. GOGVOEVRENRANNAC NECE   Strengthen Strengthen management management reporting reporting and and engagement engagement with with Board Board Sustainability Sustainability Committee Committee STSA TKAEKH HL EO OD LEDRERENEGNAGGAEGM MN EE ETNT   Enhance Enhance quality quality and and visibility visibility ofof engagement engagement practices practices and and outcomes outcomes withwith diverse diverse stakeholder stakeholder groups. groups. RIR SIKSKMAMNAANG AEGMEEMN NT ET   Finalize Finalize detailed detailed stages stages ofofthethe Human Human Rights Rights andand Climate Climate Risk Risk Assessments Assessments OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 17 FY19 Focus FY19 Focus Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Orocobre maintains formal engagement channels with all key stakeholders, working collaboratively to address issues as they arise. Topics raised through engagement channels are reviewed and categorised at the end of each Financial Year to identify issues of greatest significance across Orocobre’s stakeholder groups. For more information, refer to the Stakeholder Relations Management Approach Disclosure. Institutional External Stakeholders who Stakeholders who impact, or are impacted we respect and by, the organisation at consider but do not a regional, national or I actively engage with international level N EX on a regular basis ST TE IT RN Long-Term Outlook Communities UT AL ION AL I N T E RN A L People & Culture Stakeholders Environment L NA O ATI Value Chain ER Internal OP Operational Stakeholders who Stakeholders who work within the impact, or are impacted organisation to deliver by, our operations and on our objectives activities at a local level 18 FY19 FOCUS Materiality Materiality To determine the material topics and issues for disclosure in this FY19 Sustainability Report, Orocobre undertook a detailed materiality process. Orocobre’s materiality process is composed of 3 core stages: In FY19, the issues identified through engagement with investors, customers, employees and communities were consolidated, prioritised and then gauged against issues of greatest relevance to Orocobre. This process highlights a series of discrete issues that were specifically relevant to Orocobre’s performance during the reporting year, thereby informing the content to be covered in the Sustainability Report. In FY19 the material issues identified for disclosure in the Sustainability Report were: The materiality process also enables Orocobre to reaffirm, update and reprioritise its Sustainability Focus Areas. These are topics of ongoing relevance to Orocobre’s operations based on their significance to our stakeholders and our business. Disclosures relating to Orocobre’s management of specific Sustainability Focus Areas are available on the Company’s website. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 19 Materiality Matrix PRIORITY ISSUES BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP INVESTORS PEERS  Market conditions and macro issues  Community Investment impacting lithium price  Gender Diversity  Production and operational performance  Water + Waste  Financial reporting to facilitate appropriate valuations and peer comparisons  Biodiversity  Product quality and impact on product  Safety pricing  Community Engagement  Management of climate impacts on  Governance and Risk production  Employee Training and  Securing long-term contracts Development COMMUNITIES CUSTOMERS  Water consumption and community access  Product quality and price to water  Customer Satisfaction with product  Monitoring, verification + communication of delivery data  Product Responsibility / product  Impacts on fauna due to lack of water, stewardship pasture, and company movements in the  Ethics and Governance grazing fields  Energy and emissions profile of  Waste and effluents – management on site product and in the communities  Safety Performance of the  Long-term agreement requests from indirect operations impact communities.  Human Rights  Land use agreements between the community and landholders  Projects supporting culture and traditional livelihoods  Updates on Expansion: work planning, work execution, staff income, service contracting. 20 FY19 FOCUS FY19 Focus Areas Health and Safety Health and Safety Strengthening StrengtheninSafety g SafeCulture ty Cultand urePerformance & Performance Workforce health and safety is the number one priority for Orocobre, particularly as Stage 2 Expansion activities intensify. Orocobre maintains a ‘zero harm’ approach when it comes to the safety of employees, project contractors and local communities. The Company is committed to reducing workplace risks and incidents and has implemented an enhanced safety management system (Intelex) which is expected to provide both operational efficiencies and improved safety performance. Intelex — a cloud based environmental, health, safety and quality management system — provides a centralised repository of policies and procedures, enabling real-time reporting of safety observations/ incidents and tracking of all incidents through cause-based investigations. The construction phase of the Stage 2 Expansion is resulting in increased site activity and therefore an increased risk of safety incidents. Orocobre remains focussed on managing and mitigating these risks as effectively as possible through augmented training, engagement and control systems for employees and contractors. Job hazard assessments are completed by all workers before undertaking any task. Supervisors have been trained to evaluate and assess the job hazard assessments and to approve them with their teams and any contractors operating in their area. New projects and initiatives on site pass through a ‘HAZOP’ and/or a ‘What if?’ process to evaluate potential risks and impacts. A ‘Management of Change’ process is also in place to ensure risks, impacts and opportunities are considered across all areas and departments as a result of any change initiative. In FY19, Orocobre recorded only a slight increase in incident frequency rates despite the increased activity. Employees 2017 2018 2019 TRIFR 3.2 2.9 3.3 LTIFR 3.2 2.9 3.3 Contractors TRIFR 3.9 2 3.3 LTIFR 3.9 2 3.3 Total Workforce TRIFR 3.4 2.5 3.3 LTIFR 3.4 2.5 3.3 SafetyLeadership Safety Leadership Orocobre continued with DuPont’s Safety Leadership and Culture program during FY19, developing stronger ownership of safety responsibility across all levels of the business. This program is targeted at Senior and Middle Management positions and seeks to promote effective safety communication and leadership across all areas of the business. As part of the program, the Company established a central safety committee and five subcommittees to provide better control and follow-up of safety issues. Central Safety Committee (led by the Operational Management Team): meets once a month and reviews security indicators, action plans and accountability to ensure continuous improvement. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 21 Sub-Committees (each led by two managers and middle management representatives): meet between 2 to 4 times a month to progress their specific work plans as outlined below.  Behavioural Observations: develop teams of observers and ensure observation targets are adopted and achieved across Operations and Expansion.  Incident Management: deploy methodology and strengthen leadership accountability in the investigation and analysis of accidents and incidents.  Risk Management: create quantitative risk matrices and establish a baseline for process risk analysis.  Operational Discipline: ensure appropriate training and certification for specific jobs and verify compliance.  Training: ensure that leadership teams train their employees in work procedures. It is anticipated that an additional subcommittee will be created in FY20 to specifically address contractor-related issues. For more information about the Company’s Health and Safety performance, please refer to the Management Approach Disclosure and Performance Data. Case Study: Defensive Driving Due to an observed increase in vehicular accidents within and around Sales de Jujuy’s operations, the Company decided to deliver a defensive driving course for all employees required to manage a vehicle. This Defensive Driving course introduced participants to defensive driving techniques that could be directly applied to enhance their safety on the roads. The course lasts 12 hours and consists of two components: Theoretical: addressed reaction timing, night driving, difficult terrain and the capabilities of 4x4s and other vehicle types. Practical: involved exercises on a designated driving course using standard Company vehicles, and simulations of extreme situations so that the driver can practice and apply defensive driving techniques. The Defensive Driving course was delivered 3 times with a total of 102 people participating. The Company also enlisted six employees in a Train-the-Trainer program so that they could continue to provide defensive driver training to Company employees and contractors. The Train-the-Trainer course enhanced the theoretical knowledge and practical skills of participants through the application of different driving techniques. The course lasted 48 hours and included both theoretical and practical components. All six participants became CESVI approved instructors, a certification that lasts three years. 22 FY19 FOCUS HEALTH AND SAFETY Value Chain Value Chain Product Quality Product Quality The Olaroz Lithium Facility currently produces purified and primary grades of lithium carbonate, which are sold into battery, technical and chemical markets. Throughout FY19 SDJ focussed on improving operational process controls to enhance product quality. In addition, feedback was sourced from customers across the European Union (EU) and Asia so that plant operators could improve responsiveness to customer’s specification requirements. One specific quality improvement project developed in FY19 for implementation in FY20, will enhance the product packaging process to address customer feedback regarding the quality of delivered product. By focusing on the sustained delivery of high-quality product, the Company aims to enhance customer relationships and secure long-term contracts. Quality remains a key strategic focus area, along with productivity and safety. Planned FY20 improvement initiatives include:  Continue reducing product impurity levels to meet or exceed customer expectations  Reduce variability and improve market perception of product quality.  Implement further product packaging improvements For more information about the Company’s product quality please refer to its Quality Assurance Management Approach Disclosure and Performance Data. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 23 SupplyChain Supply ChaiControl n Cont& roCapability l & Capability To enhance product quality, workplace safety and operational productivity, Orocobre needs to maintain both visibility and control of its suppliers. Quality of feedstock materials can impact the chemical production processes and in turn, the quality of the final product. The operational team is working to better control production inputs and processes so that quality and consistency of Orocobre’s products can be further enhanced. Contractor safety performance was a core focus during FY19. Contractor inductions and certifications were streamlined with evaluations now conducted at the SDJ office (in San Salvador de Jujuy) prior to arrival at the Olaroz Lithium Facility. This eliminated administrative tasks for onsite safety teams, ensuring all necessary safety training and certifications are approved prior to arrival. A Supplier Code of Conduct was introduced in FY19 outlining minimum standards required for all suppliers, including adherence to Orocobre’s suite of social and environmental policies. The focus for FY20 is:  Enhance controls to ensure supplier compliance with performance standards  Capacity building programs to support local suppliers’ compliance with these standards  Review criteria for the selection of suppliers to ensure the Company upholds its commitments to quality, cost, social and environmental performance. Breakdown of FY19 Suppliers and Procurement Spend by Region For more information about the Company’s Supply Chain approach please refer to its Supply Chain Management Approach Disclosure and its Performance Data. 24 FY19 FOCUS VALUE CHAIN Long Term Outlook Long term Outlook Market Conditions Market Conditions Market conditions are a material issue for our business. Quarterly updates on market conditions are provided in regular ASX quarterly reports published on the Orocobre website. Annual reviews are provided in the Company’s Annual Reports, available on the Orocobre website. In response to difficult market conditions in FY19, the Company focussed on improving recovery rates, optimising reagent use and improving logistic efficiency. Operational reviews identified opportunities to improve plant equipment availability, minimise downtime and reduce soda ash consumption. In addition to these cost-related initiatives, Orocobre continued to pursue strategies to mitigate price pressures. The Company explored various partnership structures, contract lengths and pricing mechanisms. The formation of a Joint Marketing Committee in FY19 composed of Orocobre and TTC representatives provided the framework for ongoing product and customer development collaboration. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 25 Environment E nvironment Operational Efficiency Operational Efficiency Since commercial production commenced at the Olaroz Lithium Facility in 2016 the Company has remained focussed on minimising water and energy consumption. As energy is a critical component of operational costs, opportunities were sought to reduce consumption both in the short and long term. This includes heat capture technology as part of future energy contracts. Heat capture technology would involve harnessing the heat produced through electricity generation and it then being utilised in the production processes. There was increased demand for information regarding the carbon and water intensity of operations from the Company’s customers and the subsequent battery production chain. New regulation in the EU has lowered the acceptable emissions profile for vehicle manufacturers’ products which in turn generated a stronger focus on securing low carbon technology suppliers. As demonstrated in the following charts, total groundwater extraction in FY19 increased due to Stage 2 Expansion construction activities. This resulted in an increase in the Olaroz site intensity of water use, however this is expected to normalise at the completion of the Stage 2 Expansion. Process energy consumption and energy intensity remained relatively stable and increased in line with production, however overall site fuel consumption and emissions increased due to higher diesel consumption which are also related to construction activities. These metrics would also be expected to normalise upon completion of Stage 2 construction. Global concerns regarding water scarcity have led to an increase in requirements for companies to provide more transparent disclosure regarding current and future water use. Orocobre continues to clearly demonstrate it has one of the lowest emissions and water intensity profiles amongst global lithium producers. It is important to note that Orocobre does not extract any freshwater for its operations. It extracts only highly brackish groundwater (unfit for human consumption or any agricultural use) which is treated onsite (via reverse osmosis) to provide process water. The Company currently withdraws only one-third of the water it is legally permitted to extract and does not operate in any areas identified as water stressed. Water management initiatives will remain a key focus for the organisation. Includes immaterial amount of additional electricity consumed by Stage 2 Expansion construction personnel in camp and office Emissions inventory methodology in accordance with GHG facilities. Protocol was introduced in FY18. FY17 data only included material emissions sources: electricity generation, process Heat intensity refers to process heat which is only used in heat and transport. operations. Electricity includes additional electricity consumed by Stage 2 Expansion construction activities and personnel on site and in office facilities. 26 FY19 FOCUS ENVIRONMENT CriticalInfrastructure Critical Infrastructure FY19 has seen a significant increase in the number of personnel onsite primarily due to the increase in activities associated with the Stage 2 Expansion. Orocobre has therefore been ensuring adequate site-based infrastructure is in place to manage the additional waste and effluents generated. An additional sewage treatment plant (STP) was installed in FY18, and this has been made fully operational in FY19 with the installation of additional storage tanks and improved STP management. General waste is normally disposed at the Jujuy waste disposal facility; however, its limitations required the implementation of additional local solutions which meet national environmental standards. This has enabled SDJ to maintain high standard waste disposal practices. Orocobre will maintain a strong focus on waste and effluent management as expansion activities ramp up and the number of staff onsite continues to increase. The highly brackish groundwater extracted at Olaroz is not suitable for human consumption or any agricultural use. For more detailed information about Orocobre's Environmental Performance, please refer to the management approach disclosures for Biodiversity, Climate, Energy and Emissions, Water and Effluents, and Waste, and to the Environmental Performance Data. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 27 Communities Supporting S upporting Changing ChangiDynamics ng Dynamics Following three years of commercial production and over a decade of sustained community investment via the Company’s Shared Value program, noticeable change is taking place within the local communities. The ten communities are benefiting from greater levels of local employment and procurement, improved access to energy and communications infrastructure, enhanced educational and recreational facilities and increased income-generating capacity. (See Community Investment and Empowerment disclosures, Case Studies and the Communities Performance PerformamceData Datafor formore more detailed information.) That said, challenges still arise and engagement methods continue to evolve in response to community stakeholder needs and changing community dynamics. In FY19, as the Company’s expansion activities required community consultation on sensitive topics including land use, local employment and supply contracts, Orocobre was compelled to assume a mediation role between community representative bodies and other community stakeholders. This was a unique situation and one which prompted the drafting of the Landholder Cooperation Policy. Orocobre has a conclusive land easement agreement with the community of Olaroz Chico to undertake production and expansion activities at the Olaroz Lithium Facility. While Orocobre’s land access is assured on that basis, community engagement activities in FY19 highlighted the need to acknowledge traditional landholder boundaries and agreements and support the community of Olaroz Chico in maintaining a strong relationship with its members and neighbours. Increased focus on employment and contract opportunities has seen commercial interests dominate community negotiations and decision-making. Orocobre is mindful of ensuring the communities’ needs and interests are being given priority over specific commercial interests and will continue to work collaboratively with communities to safeguard traditional customs and values. Traditional TraditionaLivelihoods l Livelihoods Another core focus has been traditional livelihoods, with Orocobre being called on to respect, protect and promote these in different circumstances. The easement agreement with Olaroz Chico provides Orocobre with access to land required for operations in exchange for a series of investment and engagement commitments and defined direct payment figures based on theoretical production values.(See Community Investment disclosure for more information). While no one inhabits the land defined in the agreement, there were members of both Olaroz Chico and Huáncar communities that had traditionally used the land for livestock grazing. Orocobre worked closely with these affected land users to reach an agreement and develop a suitable Livelihood Restoration Plan, ensuring their quality of life would not be negatively impacted. A Landholder Cooperation Policy was prepared outlining the Company’s commitment to respecting, protecting and promoting traditional livelihoods in these situations. The Company continues to promote traditional livelihoods through its Shared Value program, including the Vicuña Shearing Project underway in Olaroz Chico, the Fibre Spinning Project underway with artisanal women in Huancar, and the Recycled Walls Project to support local agricultural producers across the Puna. Orocobre worked closely with affected land users to reach an agreement and develop a suitable Livelihood Restoration Plan, ensuring their quality of life would not be negatively impacted. 28 FY19 FOCUS COMMUNITIES Community Data Community Investment $776,524 $884,995 $901,952 Comm unity Data $900,000 Strategic Community $9,665 Investment $800,000 Land Rental Payments $700,000 $356,292 $264,600 Grants and Donations $553,500 Community Investment $600,000 Commercial Initiatives $500,000 $400,000 Management Costs* $300,000 * Management Costs include $505,375 $519,038 salaries, administrative costs $200,000 and other overheads associated $344,988 with management of the $100,000 Shared Value department. $6,549 $3,464 $0 2017 2018 2019 Community Empowerment Local Community Suppliers Local Community Employees 20 50 200 60% 18 45 180 16 40 50% 160 14 35 140 Millions USD 40% 12 30 120 10 25 100 30% 8 20 80 6 15 20% 60 4 10 2 5 40 10% 0 0 20 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 0% Procurement Spend Number of Suppliers 2016 2017 2018 2019 Local Community Proportion of Employees Total Workforce For more information about the Company’s approach to Communities, please refer to the Community Engagement, Community Empowerment and Community Investment disclosures. and to the Community Performance Data. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 29 Shared Value Cases Sh S ha arre ed dV Va allu ueeC Ca asse ess Orocobre’s Orocobre’s Shared Shared ValueValue programs programs are developed collaboratively are developed collaboratively with with local local communities. communities. The The Company facilitates the process and empowers communities to achieve their objectives. Company facilitates the process and empowers communities to achieve their objectives. Orocobre’s Orocobre’s Shared Shared ValueValue team team work closely with work closely with local local stakeholders stakeholders and and utilises utilises cross-sectoral cross-sectoral partnerships partnerships to to develop develop programs programs that that contribute directly to contribute directly to the the achievement achievement of of the the UNUN SDGs. SDGs. For For more more information, information, refer refer to to the Case Studies the Case Studies section section of of our our online online Report. Report. Leveraging the Circular Providing technology, Promoting sustainable Working collaboratively Economy to promote advisory and market agricultural practices with local stakeholders community nutrition, access to empower that protect biodiversity to establish quality agriculture and housing. women and and develop revenue education pathways maximise income. streams. in the region. CASE STUDY Pastos Chicos, Puesto Sey, CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Coranzulí, Susques Huáncar Olaroz Olaroz UN SDGs: 2, 11, 12 UN SDGs: 1, 5, 8, 9 UN SDGs: 10, 15 UN SDGs: 4, 17 Government Payments Royalty and Other Government Payments $ USD Provincial Royalty 1,694,533 Other Provincial and Municipal Taxes 196,567 Other National Taxes 2,551,283 Employment Taxes Paid by Sdj 2,861,811 Total Paid by SDJ 7,304,194 Provincial Withholding Tax to Local Business 1,757,491 National Withholding Tax on Salaries 1,221,370 National Withholding Tax to Local Business 9,586,231 Total Withhheld by SDJ 12,565,092 * Based on statutory rules SDJ is require to withhold applicable taxes to both employees and small businesses and submit such * Basedonon *Based statutory SDJSDJ rules is require to withhold applicable bothtoemployees taxes both employees and small businesses and submit suchto the local proceeds statutory rules to the local is require authorities withhold on atomonthly applicable basis. taxes to and small businesses and submit such proceeds proceeds to authorities on the local authorities a monthly basis. on a monthly basis. Orocobre works Orocobre works closely closely with with local stakeholders and local stakeholders and utilises utilises cross-sectoral cross-sectoral partnerships partnerships to to develop programs that contribute directly to the develop programs that contribute directly to the achievement of the UN SDGs. achievement of the UN SDGs. 30 FY19 FOCUS COMMUNITIES People P eople aand nd CuCulture lture Talent Management Talent Management During FY19, Orocobre’s main employee focus was getting the right people in the right roles to enhance the productivity, quality and safety of operations. Given the increase in operational and construction activity onsite, the total number of employees has grown substantially. Employee headcount has increased 51%, with new hires up from 20% in FY18 to 37% in FY19. The turnover rate dropped significantly, being just 7.3% in FY19 compared to 13.3% in FY18. Internal and external recruitment processes have been enhanced to target highly skilled candidates for specialist tasks. The Company anticipates an increase in turnover in FY20 as teams are consolidated and optimised, as well as a decrease in full-time employee headcount per tonne of lithium carbonate produced. The Company also foresees an increase in employee development activities. Employee growth and development pathways are currently being reviewed to ensure employees are given ample opportunity to develop, advance and excel in their roles. To support the development of the workforce, Orocobre is implementing a new online learning management system which will provide specific training to Company employees. This system is being used for all onsite inductions and for core training on Safety and Code of Conduct policies. The system will be expanded to include training for all employees in FY20. Performance P erformancManagement e Management To enhance productivity and performance of operational teams, Orocobre has introduced a new Performance Management System that places greater focus on individual performance and the achievement of specific objectives. Previously, performance evaluation and short-term incentive appraisal was based predominantly on departmental and Company performance, with only 20% based on individual performance. By increasing the individual component to 50%, Orocobre seeks to generate greater individual responsibility for key objectives that contribute to overall performance. Employees are now required to define and agree on a series of quantifiable objectives with their managers and undertake regular performance reviews throughout the year to track their progress. To support this process, Orocobre continues to explore and implement appropriate software and systems that promote data visibility and allow real-time performance monitoring. The implementation of systems such as Intelex facilitates tracking of performance by department and the inclusion of objectives, limits and quotas for performance in areas of shared responsibility such as environmental, safety and quality. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 31 Culture Evaluation Program In FY18, Orocobre noted that while employee engagement scores were increasing, employee participation in the survey was low. Rather than undertaking another survey in FY19, Orocobre decided to undertake a detailed evaluation of workplace culture to identify any issues contributing to the decline of participation rates. The evaluation, facilitated through external consultants, comprised two components: a qualitative component which involved interviews with employees across all parts of the Company; and a quantitative component which required employees to respond to a series of questions that indicate the perceived cultural performance of the Company against an established benchmark. The employee interviews identified the existing culture of the organisation and values (both positive and negative) that underpin that culture. The cultural evaluation indicated shared values of loyalty, commitment, respect and teamwork all contribute positively to the Company’s corporate culture. Areas identified as requiring greater focus in FY20 included: the creation of a ‘one team’ mentality to unite all departments and activities; greater transparency regarding performance, decision making and opportunities; enhanced safety focus; and performance management. People Data Workforce breakdown Senior Managers Middle Managers Operators Total Male Female Local Provincial National International <30 30 – 50 >50 8 6 2 6 2 3 5 67 53 14 21 23 22 2 7 54 7 2017 207 180 27 121 53 32 112 83 11 282 239 43 142 76 60 4 119 140 23 11 9 2 8 3 8 3 92 78 14 5 40 44 3 8 77 7 2018 206 176 30 133 48 25 88 108 10 309 263 46 138 88 77 6 96 193 20 18 14 4 11 7 11 7 105 88 17 5 41 54 5 12 82 11 2019 344 294 50 175 105 64 151 175 18 467 396 71 180 146 129 12 163 268 36 85% 15% 39% 31% 28% 3% 35% 57% 8% Local 39% <30 35% Regional 31% Male 85% Local Gender Age 30 – 50 57%  mployment E National 28% Diversity Female 15% Diversity >50 8% International 3% 32 FY19 FOCUS PEOPLE AND CULTURE Turnover 45 14% Voluntary Turnover 40 12% Involuntary Termination 35 10% Overall Turnover Rate 30 25 8% Voluntary Turnover Rate 20 6% Involuntary Termination Rate 15 4% 10 2% 5 0 0% 2017 2018 2019 New Hires Total Male Female Local Provincial National International <30 30 – 50 >50 2017 42 40 2 27 6 8 1 24 16 2 2018 63 47 16 18 23 21 1 17 44 2 2019 175 147 28 51 55 62 7 66 97 12 New Hires by Region New Hires by Gender New Hires by Age 175 175 175 150 150 150 125 125 125 100 100 100 75 75 75 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Local Provincial National International Male Female <30 30-50 >50 For more information about the Company’s approach to People, please refer to the Employee Engagement, Training and Development, and Diversity and Inclusion disclosures, and to the People Performance Data. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 33 Governance and Risk Governance and Risk G overnance Governance The Orocobre Board comprises eight Directors with significant public company management experience and strong backgrounds in exploration, project development, operations management, financial markets, accounting and finance. The Directors bring diversity of experience from different industry sectors and geographies. In addition to these Directors, Orocobre also has an Executive Leadership Team that are responsible for all areas of the business. Supporting the Board are a series of Committees, each with defined Charters and responsibilities. Orocobre has created a Sustainability Committee of the Board, responsible for the governance of the Sustainability strategy, risk, performance management and reporting. The Sustainability Committee has oversight on a number of areas including health and safety, environmental and social topics. Authority for these areas is delegated to the Company’s Chief Sustainability Officer who is required to monitor sustainability risks and performance and provide regular updates and reports to both the Executive Leadership Team and the Sustainability Committee. The Sustainability Committee provides guidance on the sustainability strategy of the organization, engages in the review of formal social and environmental risk assessments, and is responsible for the ultimate review and approval of the Company’s annual sustainability report. The Sustainability Committee also oversees stakeholder concerns as presented in monthly reports and as part of the annual materiality process. For more information, please refer to the Governance Management Approach Disclosure and Governance Performance Data Additional documentation, including the code of conduct, charters for the operation of the Board and its committees, and other key policies supporting the Governance Framework, is fully disclosed on the Corporate Governance page of Orocobre’s website. 34 GOVERNANCE AND RISK Risk Management Risk Management Enterprise Enterprise Risk RisFramework k Framework Within its operations in Argentina, the company is aligning with Risk Management standard ISO 31000 as part of its Integrated Management System, to enable a comprehensive approach to risk across all areas of activity. During FY19 the Company commissioned an external risk management review to formulate a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management framework based on the principles ISO 31000. The structure facilitates continuous improvement of Orocobre’s risk management capability, with roles and responsibilities of varying degrees of accountability at all levels of the organisation. Orocobre considers risk an inherent component of all business activities that can be minimised with effective identification and management strategies. The framework was developed on the basis that everyone involved with the Company’s activities (e.g. employees, contractors, partners etc.) should be risk-aware, identify and manage sources of risk, and communicate incidents. Where risk presents itself as an opportunity or is connected to an opportunity, the business follows a structured risk process to determine the risk versus reward relationship. For more information on Orocobre’s Risk Framework, please refer to the Risk Management Approach Disclosure. General GeneraRisk l RisOverview k Overview The Company has in place risk management policies and systems to mitigate these risks wherever possible, including monitoring ongoing exploration results, monthly review of operational results and continued discussions with Orocobre's partners and the government of Argentina. The Company continues to identify and monitor the environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities associated with its activities and implement action and initiatives accordingly. The organization also acknowledges that many of these risks and opportunities are dependent on, or affected by, third part activity – be it government, suppliers, or other operators in the region. As such, a central component to the Company’s risk and opportunity management approach lies in regular and proactive engagement with third parties. The following is a breakdown of Orocobre’s risk register, categorised in terms of environmental, social and governance risks. Some of these challenges require a long-term approach, while others can start to be addressed immediately. The Company acknowledges that this is only its third year of production and as such there is still much to learn, adapt and refine over the coming years. Orocobre is firmly committed to effectively minimising and mitigating these risks (and any others that may arise) whilst capitalising on opportunities to deliver transformative societal change, be it in the support of global energy transitions, or local socio-economic development. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 35 Environmental Risks OPERATIONS STAKEHOLDERS PRODUCT Resource and Process Energy, water & biodiversity Low carbon future Performance Development of strong local The continued growth and The increase of Mineral partnerships to enhance rate of growth in the Resources through drilling community access to clean demand for electric vehicles outside the currently defined and affordable energy, clean and the economic viability of Mineral Resource. water, and biodiversity. electric vehicles relative to internal combustion engine OPPORTUNITY The optimisation of plant vehicles. performance and the associated production rate ramp-up. The application of new technologies to improve overall system recovery. Benefit associated with higher evaporation rates resulting from climate change and consequent potential positive impacts on production rates. Environmental impact on Government licenses & Environmental impact on production permits distribution Risks associated with Argentina sovereign risk Supply chain disruption due adverse weather patterns both at a national and to natural disaster. resulting from climate provincial level and the change and consequent political and financial risks New low-carbon alternatives potential negative impacts typically associated with The development and on production rates. developing countries adoption of new battery including reliance on technologies that may rely Damage, destruction or government for the grant impact on plant, other on inputs other than lithium. and renewal of mining physical assets or supply concessions, environmental chain e.g. by on/offsite permits and water access natural disaster, fire or rights. explosion. Environmental impact on The Resource RISK communities The current size of the Our activities might impact Mineral Resource at Olaroz on the local environment in and the current lack of such a way as to affect the Reserves (as defined under local communities. the JORC Code) or the inability to expand Perceptions of our impact operations beyond current on environment committed projects. Stakeholder perceptions of The brine grade and quality our environmental impact of the brine feedstock. may differ to our actual performance and generate Non-ORE managed assets reputational and social Environmental or other licence issues. accident/disaster at a nonOrocobre managed joint venture or investment. 36 GOVERNANCE AND RISK Social Risks OPERATIONS STAKEHOLDERS PRODUCT Diversity Community Quality of Life Enhance Supplier Performance Benefits of a diverse and Initiatives to enhance quality inclusive workforce, of life of local communities Development of local supply including innovative through strategic investment capability to promote local OPPORTUNITY approaches, collaborative and collaboration with economic development and solutions, and positive, government, NGOs and local demonstrate social productive work stakeholders. responsibility of product environment. supply chain. Local Workforce Local communities engaged and trained as local workforce to operate and manage the facility. Health and Safety Community Safety Product Quality Ineffective management of Increased activity, movement Production of inhealth and safety resulting in of people and transportation specification product as injury/loss of life as well as through local communities required by customers for operation, financial, negatively impacts the health Stage 1 & Stage 2. reputational or regulatory and safety of inhabitants. implications. Product Quantity Social Licence Industrial Action Not achieving the design Loss of support by local production rates for Stage 1 Labour disputes communities and activism and Stage 2. challenging Orocobre’s Talent Management “social licence” due to actual Industrial Action or perceived concerns.. RISK The retention of key Supply chain disruption due employees and availability of Local Government Relations to commercial failure of a skilled local workforce. operator, industrial action or The ongoing working other cause. The loss of one or more key relationship between SDJ management or the inability and the Province of Jujuy Joint Venture Relationship to replace staff creating gaps (JEMSE). in knowledge, experience The on-going mutually and relationships. beneficial relationship with joint venture partner, marketing partner and significant shareholder Toyota Tsusho Corporation or the risk of misalignment of interests. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 37 Governance Risks OPERATIONS STAKEHOLDERS PRODUCT Multiple Phases of Expansion Collaborative Projects Competitive Advantage in OPPORTUNITY Growing Market Long life asset with Unique operation delivering significant potential for positive economic, social and Strong environmental and higher levels of production. environmental impacts locally social performance and globally presents differentiates the Company opportunities for innovative from its brine-based peers. collaboration. Corruption Changes in Legislation Product Price Actual or alleged fraudulent Changes in government Fluctuations or decreases in or corrupt activities involving taxes, levies, regulations, product prices and currency. company assets. policies or legislation. Market Competition Stage 2 Expansion Local Economy Increasing competition from Not delivering on time and on Sudden changes in the local competitors and the prices budget the construction and financial system that may for the commodities sold by commissioning of the Stage 2 affect the operations. the Company. Expansion of Olaroz. The impact of high rates of Competitors may develop Failing to achieve set inflation on local costs more effective and successful performance targets for Stage products impacting sales and The ongoing impact of 2 Olaroz expansion due to profitability the loss of one or devaluation of the ARS. incorrect selection of more large customers technology, wrong planning Meeting Investor Global Economic Downturns assumptions, performance of Expectations contractors/subcontractors, Adverse conditions in the Benefits from future incorrect operational global economy and financial acquisitions may not be assumptions, poor markets or downturns in realised or unanticipated construction management etc. customers end markets, costs may occur during and including the impact of Mismanagement after integration. natural disasters, climate Inadequate, strategic and There may not be an active, change, pandemics and other RISK corporate planning leading liquid trading market for major adverse events. management and the business Orocobre securities. Marketing Capability to allocate time, effort and The Orocobre securities resources into the wrong Ineffective marketing of price can fluctuate priorities and initiatives. Olaroz production due to significantly and investors lack of experience or Intellectual Property may not be able to sell their resources leading to shares for the value of which The loss of intellectual suboptimal commercial they were purchased. property or commercially outcomes. sensitive information from Board of Orocobre has not Investor Confidence cyber security breaches, yet decided if/when it will employees (or ex-employees), declare dividends. The quality of operational theft or other causes and financial management Distribution of financial information leading to Operating Costs benefits inaccurate forecasting and The expected operating costs Distribution of financial loss of confidence in the including fluctuations in the benefits is ineffective or Company.. energy and reagent cost and perceived to be ineffective, the comparison of these costs thus placing strain on the to the operating costs of Company’s social licence. competitors. Financial Obligations The meeting of all relevant banking covenants in respect to the operation of Olaroz. 38 GOVERNANCE AND RISK Targeted Risk Assessments Standalone risk assessments are conducted in accordance with existing policies for areas requiring specific methodological approaches such as Climate and Human Rights. These assessments are conducted independently but considered in conjunction with Orocobre’s enterprise risk management framework. Climate C limate Orocobre is currently undertaking its first formal Climate Risk Assessment. The objective is to provide the Company greater understanding of climate-related risks and opportunities, so that they can be integrated into strategic, managerial and operational decision-making. The assessment of Orocobre’s exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities is based on the Company’s portfolio of assets, products and markets evaluated against a series of global climate scenarios. The Climate Risk Assessment is a foundational step in understanding and quantifying the impacts of changing climate on its business strategy and financial performance. The Assessment is being conducted in 2 stages:  Stage 1 involves desktop research and internal stakeholder engagement to evaluate the transitional and physical climate risks and opportunities on the Company’s critical functions under different climate scenarios and across different timeframes. Critical functions include: market demand and access to markets built assets supply and distribution routes access to competitive and reliable inputs people and workplace regulatory compliance, license to operate and geopolitical stability access to capital and insurance.  Stage 2 involves a more detailed review of the high priority risks and opportunities identified in Stage 1 and will provide clear strategies and frameworks for control and optimization action over the coming years. A more detailed update will be provided in FY20 based on the outcomes and findings of that assessment. For more detailed Climate Risk information, please refer to the Climate Management Approach Disclosure. Human Human Rights Rights Orocobre has commenced a detailed Human Rights due diligence process, to be conducted in 2 Phases. 1. Assessment of Contextual Issues: evaluating the overarching human rights issues of relevance based on Orocobre’s industry, operations, location and supply chain. 2. Identification of Salient Issues: evaluating the salient human rights issues based on more detailed evaluation of risks and impacts through on-site assessment and extensive stakeholder engagement. Phase 1 of the due diligence process is now complete. An expert human rights consultancy facilitated a desktop analysis of internal and external source documentation as well as a series of internal stakeholder interviews with members of Orocobre’s Executive and Operational Management teams. Human rights issues were analysed and prioritized based on the Severity of the potential impact on the humans affected, and Relevance of the risk for the company. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 39 The table below indicates the contextual human rights issues that emerged as having greatest potential impact on people and the greatest relevance for Orocobre given the nature of its operations and the jurisdictions in which it operates. ISSUE SIGNIFICANCE High Medium Low Labour Rights Health and Safety Gender based discrimination Harassment Freedom of association Access to employment opportunities Supply Chain Decent working conditions in global supply chain Decent working conditions in local supply chain Environmental Impact Access to water Public health and environmental impact Indigenous Peoples Free, Prior and Informed Consent Social and cultural identify, customs and traditions Land Right to livelihood and access to natural resources Ownership and access to land use Cumulative Impacts Access to water Right to an adequate standard of living Access to Remedy Access to remedy Security Life, Freedom and security; Opinion and expression Bribery and Corruption Decent working conditions; Adequate standard of living The assessment also identified the following three areas as opportunities to promote access to human rights, acknowledging that Orocobre already demonstrates actions and initiatives in each of these areas.  Community Development: Including inclusive socio-economic development; access to basic services such as energy, education and health; participatory methodologies and inclusion of vulnerable populations; partnership with the government to avoid replacing the role of the state.  Local Economic Empowerment: Promote local employment, both direct and indirect, through business management, entrepreneurship training and capacity building programs. Adapt to the opportunities that arise based on local traditions and culture.  Natural Resource Governance: support efforts for the government and local communities to exert greater control over their natural resources and its revenues, be it through international initiatives like the EITI or local programs. For more Human Rights information, please refer to the Human Rights Management Approach Disclosure. 40 GOVERNANCE AND RISK Memberships and Affiliations Memberships and Affiliations In addition to its involvement with industry bodies and associations, Orocobre seeks to align with recognised external initiatives that will support a robust and holistic approach to sustainability management and disclosure. Orocobre operates in accordance with industry standards, and maintains certified management systems for Environment, Quality and Health & Safety. External InInitiatives External itiatives Memberships Memberships and Certified MManagement Certified anagement and AssoAssociations ciations Systems Systems Other Management Other Management Systems Systems OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 41 References and Links References and Links Report Section Source or Link Sustainability Report Overview Overview Document Health and Safety Quality Assurance Energy and Emissions Water and Effluents Waste Biodiversity Climate Community Engagement Community Empowerment Management Approach Disclosures Community Investment Diversity and Inclusion Employee Engagement Training and Development Supply Chain Stakeholder Relations Risk Management Governance and Ethics Human Rights Tax and Financials Health and Safety Value Chain Economic Performance Performance Data Environment People Communities Governance GRI Index GRI Index Artisan Development Program Baccalaureate Program Raising Recycled Walls Program Case Studies Vicuña Shearing Program Community Infrastructure Program 42 MEMBERSHIP AND AFFILIATIONS Case Studies OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 43 Raising Recycled Walls Strategic Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)    44 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – RAISING RECYCLED WALLS Executive Summary Description of the Initiative      OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – RAISING RECYCLED WALLS OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 45 Indicators             Partnerships 46 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – RAISING RECYCLED WALLS Updates i By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round. ii By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and nonfarm employment. iii By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality. iv By 2030, significantly reduce the number of deaths and the number of people affected and substantially decrease the direct economic losses relative to global gross domestic product caused by disasters, including water-related disasters, with a focus on protecting the poor and people in vulnerable situations. v By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 47 OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – RAISING RECYCLED WALLS Artisan Development Huancar Fibre Spinning Strategic Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)   48 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT HUANCAR FIBRE SPINNING Executive Summary Description of the Initiative • • • OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT HUANCAR FIBRE SPINNING OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 49 Indicators                 Partnerships Updates 50 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT HUANCAR FIBRE SPINNING ii iii iv v vi OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 51 OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT HUANCAR FIBRE SPINNING Community Infrastructure Strategic Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)    52 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE Executive Summary Description of the Initiative proposal OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 53 Indicators           Partnerships 54 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE Updates Olaroz OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 55 Puesto Sey San Juan De Quillaques 56 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE Jama Pastos Chicos Huancar OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 57 Catua 58 CASE STUDIES OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE Regional Baccalaureate Program Strategic Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)    OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 59 OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – REGIONAL BACCALAUREATE PROGRAM Executive Summary Description of the Initiative OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – REGIONAL BACCALAUREATE PROGRAM 60 CASE STUDIES Indicators          Partnerships Updates OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – REGIONAL BACCALAUREATE PROGRAM OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 61 OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY – REGIONAL BACCALAUREATE PROGRAM 62 CASE STUDIES Sustainable Vicuña Shearing Strategic Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)    OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE VICUÑA SHEARING 63 Executive Summary Description of the Initiative   OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE VICUÑA SHEARING 64 CASE STUDIES Indicators              Partnerships Updates OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE VICUÑA SHEARING OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 65 OROCOBRE LIMITED CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE VICUÑA SHEARING 66 CASE STUDIES Performance Data OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 67 Sustainability Report 2019 Health and Safety Health and Safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)1 General KPIs Workforce Safety 2017 2018 2019 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 1 3.4 2.5 3.3 Lost‐Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2 3.4 2.5 3.3 1 TRIFR: number of lost time, medical treatment, restricted work and fatality incidents per million man hours worked. 2 LTIFR: number of lost time injuries per million man hours worked Note: LTIFR and TRIFR rates have been identifical due to Argentine authority automatically assigning 10 days leave in the event of medical treatment. In future, we will be reporting a Lost Time rate based on the medical assessment of each incident, to gain a more constructive insight into incident trends and severity. Performance Data Workplace Safety Safety Performance Workforce safety performance (per million man hours) 2017 2018 2019 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 1 3.4 2.5 3.3 Lost‐Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2 3.4 2.5 3.3 Severity Rate 3 67.1 177.2 35.9 Fatalities 0 0 0 Employee safety performance Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 3.2 2.9 3.3 Lost‐Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 3.2 2.9 3.3 Severity Rate 86.4 284.2 14.3 Fatalities 0 0 0 Contractor safety performance Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 3.9 2 3.3 Lost‐Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 3.9 2 3.3 Severity Rate 19.6 145.1 48.7 Fatalities 0 0 0 Workforce Safety Data per 200,000 man hours 2017 2018 2019 Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) 0.7 0.5 0.7 Lost‐Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.7 0.5 0.7 Severity Rate 13.4 35.4 7.2 Note: Restatement of employee and contractor data from previous reports (including FY19 Annual Report) following detailed review and categorisation of 2017‐2019 health and safety data. Injury rates are subject to change over time as we improve our health and safety management and reporting methodologies, and as case classifications change in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. 1 TRIFR: number of lost time, medical treatment, restricted work and fatality incidents per million man hours worked. 2 LTIFR: total incidents resulting in lost time by million man hours worked 3 Severity rate: number of lost or restricted work days per million man hours Health and Wellbeing Health Services Occupational Ilnesses 1 2017 2018 2019 Occupational illnesses related to the Company's operations 0 0 0 Incidents of work‐related ill health 0 0 0 Health Assessments 2 New site‐based workforce that received pre‐work medical assessments 100% 100% 100% 3 Site‐based workforce that received an annual medical assessment 100% 100% 100% 1 Health evaluations are conducted annually to identify potential illnesses. As yet, no occupational illnesses or incidents of work‐related ill health have been identified for the Olaroz Lithium Facility. 2 All new contractors and employees are required to complete a medical assessment prior to accessing the Olaroz Lithium Facility 3 All workers involved in site‐based activities are required by law to undergo a periodic (annual) medical assessment 68 PERFORMANCE DATA Sustainability Report 2019 Value Value Chain Chain 1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) General KPIs1 2017 2018 2019 Lithium Carbonate Production (t) 11,862 12,470 12,605 Process Capability Index 2,3 NA 52% 80% Claims Index (%) 3,4 NA 0.58% 0.87% Community Suppliers as % of Total Supplier Base (by number) 4% 4% 5% Community Suppliers as % of Total Supplier Base (by contract value) 15% 14% 13% 1 Sales de Jujuy exclusively 2 Process Capability Index: % of Analytes with Cpk > 1 3 Data not available for 2017 4 Claimed Product / Total Product Dispactched Performance Data Production Production 2017 2018 2019 Lithium Carbonate Production (t) 11,862 12,470 12,605 Core Input Materials 2017 2018 2019 Soda Ash Consumption (t) 36,314 41,157 38,368 Lime Consumption (t) 30,063 45,176 51,005 Customers Product Quality 2017 2018 2019 Process Capability Index NA 52% 80% Satisfaction 2017 2018 2019 Number of claims / 1000 dispatches 2 NA 23.4 39.3 Claims Index (%) 2,3 NA 0.58% 0.87% 1 Process Capability Index: % of Analytes with Cpk > 1 2 Data not available for 2017 3 Claimed Product / Total Product Dispactched Suppliers Supplier Base 2017 2018 2019 Local Communities 28 29 43 Provincial 166 176 181 National 448 461 523 International 44 42 53 Percentage of Total Suppliers 2017 2018 2019 Local Communities 4% 4% 5% Provincial 24% 25% 23% National 65% 65% 65% International 6% 6% 7% Percentage of Total Procurement Spend 2017 2018 2019 Local Communities 15% 14% 13% Provincial 22% 26% 27% National 56% 54% 49% International 7% 6% 11% Supplier Performance 2017 2018 2019 Breach of Supplier Code of Conduct 1 NA NA NA ‐ Suppliers sanctioned NA NA NA ‐ Suppliers terminated NA NA NA New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 2 NA NA NA New suppliers screened using social criteria 2 NA NA NA 1 Supplier Code of Conducted was established in FY19. Methodology for tracking and measuring training and compliance not yet complete. 2 Methodology for quantifying new suppliers screened not yet established. Contract‐specific screening criteria is used when inviting vendors to provide products or services. The criteria incorporate social, environmental and financial factors and consider vendor capability, reputation and performance in the marketplace including reference validation. 69 Sustainability Report 2019 Economic Economic Performance Performance Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 1 General KPIs 2017 2018 2019 Revenues $ 120,064,797 $ 148,881,700 $ 124,683,826 Profit / Loss (before tax) $ 51,778,289 $ 64,851,774 $ 19,978,938 Tax and other payments to government 2 $ 9,575,594 $ 10,509,395 $ 19,869,286 Economic Value Retained $ 40,139,470 $ 60,929,446 ‐$ 24,114,270 1 Sales de Jujuy operations exclusively. All values in USD. 2 Argentina exclusively Performance Data Economic Value Generated and Distributed Direct Economic Value Generated 2017 2018 2019 Sales Revenue $ 120,064,797 $ 148,881,700 $ 124,683,826 Other Revenue $ ‐ $ 14,666 $ ‐ Direct Economic Value Generated $ 120,064,797 $ 148,896,366 $ 124,683,826 Economic Value Distributed 2017 2018 2019 Operating Costs 1 ‐$ 42,859,176 ‐$ 44,429,927 ‐$ 48,495,985 Employee wages and benefits ‐$ 14,460,451 ‐$ 15,314,652 ‐$ 15,143,414 Payments to providers of capital ‐$ 12,601,361 ‐$ 17,350,015 ‐$ 64,287,564 Total payments to government ‐$ 9,575,594 ‐$ 10,509,395 ‐$ 19,869,286 ‐ Payments to government in Argentina ‐$ 9,575,594 ‐$ 10,509,395 ‐$ 19,869,286 Community investments ‐$ 428,745 ‐$ 362,931 ‐$ 1,001,847 Economic Value Distributed ‐$ 79,925,327 ‐$ 87,966,920 ‐$ 148,798,096 Economic Value Retained 2017 2018 2019 Economic Value Retained $ 40,139,470 $ 60,929,446 ‐$ 24,114,270 1 Excludes impairment loss of US $ 3.4M as at June 30, 2019. Tax 2017 2018 2019 Corporate income tax paid on a cash basis ‐ ‐ ‐ Corporate income tax accrued on profit / loss ‐$ 18,655,345 ‐$ 21,942,696 ‐$ 17,726,050 Difference between tax accrued and tax due ‐$ 18,655,345 ‐$ 21,942,696 ‐$ 17,726,050 Argentina 2017 2018 2019 Provincial Royalty $ 167,515 $ 1,641,172 $ 1,694,533 Other provincial and municipal taxes $ 1,474,137 $ 132,995 $ 196,567 Other national taxes $ 57,277 $ 849,644 $ 2,551,283 Employment taxes paid by SDJ $ 2,122,897 $ 1,486,995 $ 2,861,811 Total Paid by SDJ $ 3,821,826 $ 4,110,806 $ 7,304,194 Provincial withholding tax to local business $ 636,729 $ 582,780 $ 1,757,491 National Withholding tax on salaries $ 5,117,039 $ 550,341 $ 1,221,370 National withholding tax to local business $ ‐ $ 5,265,468 $ 9,586,231 Total Withhheld by SDJ1 $ 5,753,768 $ 6,398,589 $ 12,565,092 1 Based on statutory rules SDJ is require to withhold applicable taxes to both employees and small businesses and submit such proceeds to the local authorities on a monthly basis Financial Assistance from Government 2017 2018 2019 Tax relief and tax credits 1 ‐$ 6,450,107.00 ‐$ 7,590,806.00 ‐$ 4,856,304.00 1 Puna Refund. 70 PERFORMANCE DATA Sustainability Report 2019 EnvironmentalPerformance Environmental Performance Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)1 General KPIs 2017 2018 2019 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & 2) (tCO2‐e) 1 29,375 39,228 47,756 2 Operational emissions intensity (tCO2‐e/t) 2.48 3.15 3.14 Water extraction (m3) 485,300 607,609 691,324 Operational water intensity (m3/t) 3 40.98 48.73 48.16 Waste generated (t) 108.95 126.67 181.50 1 Sales de Jujuy exclusively 2 Intensity value based on total emissions by tonne of lithium produced. Only considers operational emissions to ensure comparability over time. 3 Intensity value based on total water extraction by tonne of lithium produced. Only considers water extraction for operations to ensure comparability over time. Performance Data EHS Management & Compliance Notices of violation (NOVs)/citations 2017 2018 2019 Environmental 0 0 0 Safety 0 0 0 Fines Environmental fines paid $0 $0 $0 Number of environmental fines 0 0 0 Safety fines paid $0 $0 $0 Number of safety fines 0 0 0 Energy Energy Consumption 2017 2018 2019 Electricity (GJ) 335,643 311,527 330,401 Heat (GJ) 209,249 298,880 296,295 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 544,892 610,406 626,696 Electricity Intensity (GJ/t) 28.30 24.98 26.21 Heat Intensity (GJ/t) 17.64 23.97 23.51 Energy Intensity (GJ/t) 45.94 48.95 49.72 Fuel Consumption 2017 2018 2019 1 Natural Gas (GJ) 544,892 610,407 626,696 Diesel (Stationary) (GJ)2 ‐ 14,084 21,152 ‐ Operations ‐ 14,084 12,897 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 8,255 Diesel (Transport) (GJ)2,3 ‐ 47,664 145,666 ‐ Operations ‐ 47,664 44,670 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 100,996 Petrol (Transport) ‐ 222 0 Total Fuel Consumption (non‐renewable) 544,892 672,377 793,514 ‐ Operations ‐ 61,748 684,263 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 109,251 NOTE: Restatement of figures from 2018 report due to methodology changes 1 Natural Gas: m3 to GJ conversion factor of 0.03451 2 Diesel: L to GJ conversion factor of 0.0366 3 Increase in Transport Diesel attributable to Stage 2 Expansion and increased construction activity on site. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 71 Emissions Carbon Emissions GHG Emissions Summary * 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2‐e) 29,375 39,206 47,719 ‐ Operations 29,375 39,206 39,507 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 8,213 2 Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2‐e) ‐ 22 37 ‐ Operations ‐ 22 27 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 10 3 Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2‐e) ‐ 12,145 13,818 Scope 1+2 ‐ Total emissions intensity (tCO2‐e/t) 4 0.17 3.15 3.79 Scope 1+2 ‐ Operational emissions intensity 5 (tCO2‐e/t) 2.48 3.15 3.14 Production (t) 11,862 12,470 12,605 Scope 1 Emissions (as % of total Scope 1 emissions)* 2017 2018 2019 Natural gas (for electricity generation) 62% 45% 39% Natural gas (for processes) 38% 43% 35% Stationary Diesel ‐ 3% 3% Transport Diesel 1% 10% 23% Transport Petrol ‐ 0% 0% Petroleum based oils and greases ‐ 0% 0% Scope 2 Emissions (as % of total Scope 2 emissions) * 2017 2018 2019 Purchased electricity ‐ Jujuy office ‐ 100% 73% Purchased electricity ‐ Expansion office ‐ ‐ 27% Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Details (tCO2‐e)* 2017 2018 2019 Waste generated in operations (emissions from disposal and treatment) NA 196 283 6 Employee business travel NA 132 261 Purchased goods and services7 NA 5,680 5,295 Fuel and energy‐related activities not included in Scope 2 8 NA 6,136 7,980 Capital goods9 NA NA NA Upstream transportation and distribution NA NA NA Downstream transportation and distribution10 NA NA NA Employee commuting NA NA NA GHG emissions from use of sold products NA NA NA End‐of‐life treatment of sold products NA NA NA Total NA 12,145 13,818 * Complete emissions inventory methodology in accordance with GHG Protocol was introduced in FY18. Emissions reporting in FY17 included only our material emissions sources: electricity generation, process heat, and transport. 2 Reported using Scope 2 location‐based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3 Tracking of our Scope 3 emissions began in 2018 4 Intensity value based on total emissions on site (Operations + Expansion) by tonne of lithium produced. 5 Intensity value based on total emissions by tonne of lithium produced. Only considers operational emissions to ensure comparability over time. 6 Business Travel: Emissions calculated based on km travelled and short, medium and long‐haul flight emissions factors. 7 Emissions associated with the production of soda ash, and with the provision of water at Jujuy offices. 8 Extraction, production, and transportation of fuels and energy purchased or acquired 9 Construction materials and services 10 Transportation and distribution of lithium carbonate from plant to ports (road/rail) and from ports to customers (ship) NA: Not available. Note: We will expand coverage of our Scope 3 emissions over �me to include those not currently available. 72 PERFORMANCE DATA Water 3 Water Extraction by Source (m ) 2017 2018 2019 1 Groundwater 485,300 607,609 691,324 ‐ Operations 485,300 607,609 607,057 ‐ Expansion ‐ ‐ 84,267 Water Intensity (m3/t) 2017 2018 2019 Total Water intensity (m /t) 3 2 40.91 48.73 54.85 Operational Water intensity (m /t) 3 3 40.91 48.73 48.16 Production (t) 11,862 12,470 12,605 Water Risk by Region (m3) Olaroz ‐ Current 4 Low Medium High Water Stress 691,324 ‐ ‐ Overall Water Risk 681,324 ‐ ‐ Olaroz ‐ Future 5 Water Stress 691,324 ‐ ‐ Overall Water Risk 681,324 ‐ ‐ Water Discharges 2017 2018 2019 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 6 0 0 0 NOTE: Olaroz does not extract any fresh water for use in operations. 1 The ground water extracted is highly saline and not suitable for human consumption or agricultural use. 2 Intensity value based on total water extraction (Operations + Expansion) by tonne of lithium produced. 3 Intensity value based on operational water extraction by tonne of lithium produced. Only considers water extraction for operations to ensure comparability over time. 4 Based on the WRI Aqueduct Tool Water Risk Atlas . Low: 0‐2 (<20%) includes Low and Low‐Medium; Medium: 3 (20‐40%) includes Medium‐High; High: 4‐5 (>40%) includes High and Extremely High 5 Based on the WRI Aqueduct Tool Water Risk Atlas Pessimistic Future Outllook: Projected Change in Water Stress value to 2030. Low: 0‐2 (<20%) includes Low and Low‐Medium; Medium: 3 (20‐40%) includes Medium‐High; High: 4‐5 (>40%) includes High and Extremely High 6 The Company does not have water run‐off or effluent discharges to water bodies. Waste Waste Generated by Type (t) 2017 2018 2019 Non‐Hazardous 94.35 107.81 156.83 Organic 54.27 57.07 74.41 Recyclable 15.77 18.06 28.79 Non‐recyclable 24.31 32.68 53.63 Hazardous 14.6 18.86 24.67 Total Waste Generated 108.95 126.67 181.5 Non‐Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (t) Landfill 78.58 89.75 128.34 Recycled 15.77 18.06 28.79 Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (t) Recovery 5.44 4.36 ‐ Treatment and Disposal 11.82 14.53 24.67 Spills Significant spills1 0 0 0 1 We have had minor spills which we have reported in our annual sustainability disclosures, but none that are significant. Biodiversity Biodiversity Impact 2017 2018 2019 Number of sites used for production, extraction or plantation activities 1 1 1 Total land area of production sites (ha) 18,000 18,000 18,000 Land area used or impacted by Company's activities and installations 1 1,529 1,529 1,529 Number of sites assessed and mapped for biodiversity (past 5 years) 1 1 1 Total land area of said sites (ha) 18,000 18,000 18,000 Operational sites that contain or are adjacent to globally or nationally important 0 0 0 biodiversity area2 1 Figure refers to total anticipated land coverage for Company‐related assets as disclosed in the 2017 EIA Addenda (Stage 2 Expansion). 2 Operational site is not located within a national or international protected area. The 18,000ha is located within the Olaroz‐Cauchari reserve. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 73 Sustainability Report 2019 People People Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)* General KPIs Headcount 2017 2018 2019 Total SDJ Headcount 282 309 467 1 ORE Corporate Headcount 11 16 16 Diversity & Inclusion 2017 2018 2019 Women on the ORE Board 13% 13% 13% Women in ORE executive roles 2 0% 14.3% 9.1% Women in SDJ senior management roles 3 25% 18% 22% Local Community Employment 39% 45% 39% Engagement 2017 2018 2019 4 Response rate to the Employment Engagement Survey 59% 53% ‐ Engagement Score on Employment Engagement Survey 99% 99% ‐ * Sales de Jujuy exclusively, unless stated otherwise. 1 These figures do not relate to SDJ data and are provided for indicative reference only. 2 “Executive” refers to members of the ORE Leadership Team. These figures do not relate to SDJ data and are provided for indicative reference only.Percentage change from 2018 to 2019 due to increase in size of Executive Team. 3 “Senior Management” is defined as SDJ General Manager and direct SDJ reports. 4 An Engagement Survey was not conducted in 2019. This was to avoid survey fatigue given that a Cultural Review, involving extensive employee engagement, was undertaken in 201 NOTE: ORE Total Workforce breakdown (including ORE and BRX) can be found in ORE's Corporate Governance Statement Performance Data Workforce Data Total Workforce 2017 2018 2019 Total SDJ Headcount 282 309 467 ORE Corporate 11 16 16 Workforce Breakdown Activity 2017 2018 2019 Operations 282 293 425 Expansion ‐ 16 42 Contract type 2017 2018 2019 Full Time Contract 282 309 467 ‐ Permanent 278 289 422 ‐ Fixed Term 4 20 45 Part Time / Casual 0 0 0 Employment category 2017 2018 2019 1 Executives 2 Managers 8 11 16 Middle Management 67 92 105 Operators 207 206 344 Gender 2017 2018 2019 Men 239 263 396 Women 43 46 71 Region 2017 2018 2019 2 Local 142 138 180 3 Regional 76 88 146 National 60 77 129 International 4 6 12 Age 2017 2018 2019 <30 119 96 163 30‐50 140 193 268 >50 23 20 36 1 Executive figures indicate SDJ employees involved in ORE Executive Meetings. For all workforce calculations they are considered SDJ Management. 2 Local refers to employees from the 10 local communities 3 Regional refers to employees from the Province of Jujuy (excluding 10 local communities) 74 PERFORMANCE DATA Diversity & Inclusion GENDER DIVERSITY Women in Workforce (% by contract type) 2017 2018 2019 Full Time Contract 15.2% 14.9% 15.2% ‐ Permanent 14.4% 13.8% 13.5% ‐ Fixed Term 75.0% 30.0% 31.1% Part Time / Casual 0 0 0 Total Female Employees 43 46 71 Women in Workforce (% by employment category) 2017 2018 2019 Executives1 0% Managers 25.0% 18.2% 22.2% Middle Management 20.9% 15.2% 16.2% Operators 5.3% 14.6% 14.5% CULTURAL DIVERSITY Local Community Employees (% by contract type) 2017 2018 2019 Full Time Contract 39.4% 44.7% 38.5% ‐ Permanent 39.9% 47.8% 40.5% ‐ Fixed Term 0% 0% 20.0% Part Time / Casual 0 0 0 Total Local Community Employees 111 138 180 Local Community Employees (% by employment category) 2017 2018 2019 Executives 0% 0% 0% Managers 0% 0% 0% Middle Management 31.3% 5.4% 4.8% Operators 58.5% 64.6% 50.9% PARENTAL LEAVE Parental Leave 2017 2018 2019 Employees Eligible for Parental Leave 13 24 22 ‐ Male 8 22 19 ‐ Female 5 2 3 Employees that Took Parental Leave 13 24 22 ‐ Male 8 22 19 ‐ Female 5 2 3 Parental Leave Return Rate 2017 2018 2019 Returned from Parental Leave 13 24 22 ‐ Male 8 22 19 ‐ Female 5 2 3 Left following Parental Leave 0 0 0 ‐ Male 0 0 0 ‐ Female 0 0 0 Return Rate (6 months) 100% 100% 100% Retention Rate (12 months) 100% 100% 100% 1 Executive figures indicate SDJ employees involved in ORE Executive Meetings. For all calculations they are considered SDJ Management, not Executive. Compensation Employee Compensation 2017 2018 2019 Total compensation paid to employees/payroll, including benefits $14,460,451 $15,314,652 $15,143,414 Executive Employee Ratio 2017 2018 2019 Ratio of annual total compensation for highest paid individual in the country to the 5.04 4.78 5.98 median annual total compensation for all employees in the country Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation's highest‐paid indiivudal to the median percentage increase in annual total 1.19 0.68 0.43 compensation for all employees Gender Salary Ratio 2017 2018 2019 Senior Managers 1 0.91 0.86 Middle Managers 0.96 0.97 0.89 Operators 0.92 0.92 1.03 Ratio Total Employees 0.96 0.93 0.93 75 Turnover Headcount 2017 2018 2019 Number of Employees 282 309 467 Turnover Rates 2017 2018 2019 Overall turnover rate 1 10.3% 13.3% 7.3% Voluntary turnover rate 7.4% 6.5% 5.1% Involuntary termination rate 2.8% 6.8% 2.1% 1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring. * Turnover by Gender 2017 2018 2019 Male NA 9.1% 5.8% Voluntary turnover rate NA 5.5% 4.1% Involuntary termination rate NA 3.6% 1.7% Female NA 4.2% 1.5% Voluntary turnover rate NA 2.9% 1.1% Involuntary termination rate NA 1.3% 0.4% Turnover by Region* 2017 2018 2019 Local1 NA 1.9% 1.7% Regional2 NA 5.5% 1.9% National NA 5.5% 2.8% International NA 0.3% 0.9% Turnover by Age* 2017 2018 2019 <30 NA 8.7% 1.3% 30‐50 NA 4.2% 5.4% >50 NA 0.3% 0.6% * Breakdown of turnover data not available for FY17 1 Local refers to employees from the 10 local communities 2 Regional refers to employees from the Province of Jujuy (excluding 10 local communities) New Hires New Hires 2017 2018 2019 Total New Hires 42 63 175 Hire rate* 14.9% 20.4% 37.5% New Hires by Gender 2017 2018 2019 Male hires 40 47 147 Male hire rate 14.2% 15.2% 31.5% Female hires 2 16 28 Female hire rate 0.7% 5.2% 6.0% New Hires by Region 2017 2018 2019 Local hires 1 27 18 51 Local hire rate 9.6% 5.8% 10.9% Regional hires 2 6 23 55 Regional hire rate 2.1% 7.4% 11.8% National hires 8 21 62 National hire rate 2.8% 6.8% 13.3% International hires 1 1 7 International hire rate 0.4% 0.3% 1.5% New Hires by Age 2017 2018 2019 Number of hires <30 24 17 66 <30 hire rate 8.5% 5.5% 14.1% Number of hires 30‐50 16 44 97 30‐50 hire rate 5.7% 14.2% 20.8% Number of hires >50 2 2 12 >50 hire rate 0.7% 0.6% 2.6% * Percentage of new hires in the total onboard head count; regular employees only. 1 Local refers to employees from the 10 local communities 2 Regional refers to employees from the Province of Jujuy (excluding 10 local communities) 76 PERFORMANCE DATA Employee Engagement Employee Engagement Survey 2017 2018 2019 Response rate to the Employment Engagement Survey 59% 53% ‐ 1 Engagement Score on Employment Engagement Survey 99% 99% ‐ Note: Engagement Survey was not conducted in 2019 to avoid survey fatigue: a Cultural Review, involving extensive employee engagement, was undertaken in 2019 1 The Engagement Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: Engaged, Enabled, and Energized. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of workers covered by Collective Bargaining Agreeements 40% 36% 41% Learning and Development Training and Education1 2017 2018 2019 Hours of training for all employees NA NA 12,951 Average training hours per employee NA NA 27.73 Total investment in training (USD) NA NA $ 83,333 Average investment per employee (USD) NA NA $ 178 Total training courses NA NA 48 Training and Education (by gender) Male employees total training hours NA NA 11,076 Average training hours per male employee NA NA 27.97 Female employees total training hours NA NA 1,875 Average training hours per female employee NA NA 26.41 Performance Reviews 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees who have received a formal performance evaluation 100% 100% 100% 2 Overall achievement of stated objectives 100% 100% 82% Achievement of stated objectives (by employment category) Executive3 NA NA NA Senior Management 100% 100% 67% Middle Management 100% 100% 73% Operators 100% 100% 75% Stated objectives achieved (by gender) Male 100% 100% 74% Female 100% 100% 72% 1 New methodology for tracking and measuring employee training hours implemented in 2019. All data shown is for the period from January to June 2019 only. 2 In FY19 there were changes to the performance objectives process, defining more targeted and challenging organizational and individual objectives. 3 Executive positions are held at ORE level – not applicable for SDJ. OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 77 Sustainability Report 2019 Communities Communities 1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) General KPIs 2017 2018 2019 Community Investment $ 511,924 $ 528,703 $ 348,452 Easement Agreement 1 $ 264,600 $ 356,292 $ 553,500 1 Agreement with direct impact community only: Olaroz Chico Performance Data Community Empowerment Local Communities' Revenue 2017 2018 2019 1 Salaries and benefits paid to local community employees (USD) NA $ 1,940,616 $ 2,582,784 Value of supply contracts awarded to community suppliers (USD) $ 4,876,439 $ 6,798,099 $ 18,328,599 2 Easement Agreement $ 264,600 $ 356,292 $ 553,500 1 Salary breakdown for local community employees not available for FY17 2 Agreement with direct impact community only: Olaroz Chico Local Communities' Share in Revenue 2017 2018 2019 1 Local communities represented in SDJ's FTE Headcount 142 138 180 Local community businesses with SDJ supply contracts 28 29 43 Local Communities' Rights 2017 2018 2019 Incidents of violations involving rights of communties or indigenous peoples 0 0 0 1 FTE = Full time employee Community Investment Community Investment (by Activity) 2017 2018 2019 Grants and Donations $ 6,549 $ ‐ $ 3,464 Strategic Community Investment $ 505,375 $ 519,038 $ 344,988 Commercial Initiatives $ ‐ $ 9,665 $ ‐ Total Investment $ 511,924 $ 528,703 $ 348,452 Community Investment (by Input) 2017 2018 2019 Cash grants and contributions $ 398,594 $ 510,862 $ 345,252 In‐kind donations $ 113,330 $ 17,840 $ 2,869 Valuation of employee volunteer time ‐ ‐ $ 331 Total Investment $ 511,924 $ 528,702 $ 348,452 Management Costs $ 524,354 $ 564,417 $ 375,781 Total Investment (incl. Management Costs) $ 1,036,278 $ 1,093,119 $ 724,233 Other Community Contributions 2017 2018 2019 Easement Agreement 1 $264,600 $356,292 $553,500 Total Cash Value of Community Contributions2 $776,524 $884,994 $901,952 1 Agreement with direct impact community only: Olaroz Chico 2 Total community investment (excl. management costs) including Olaroz Agreement 78 PERFORMANCE DATA Sustainability Report 2019 Governance Governance Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)1 General KPIs 2017 2018 2019 Independent Directors ‐ Full Board 88% 75% 63% Attendance ‐ Full Board 96% 95% 97% Average tenure 6 6 6 1 Sales de Jujuy operations exclusively Performance Data Corporate Governance 2017 2018 2019 Total Directors on Board 8 8 8 ‐ Non‐Executive Directors 7 7 7 ‐ Female Directors 1 1 1 Average tenure (years) 6 6 6 Separate Chairman of the Board and CEO Yes Yes Yes Number of countries/cultures represented 4 4 4 Independent Directors ‐ Full Board1 88% 75% 63% ‐ Audit and Risk Committee 2 100% 100% 67% ‐ Remuneration Committee 3 100% 100% 100% ‐ Related Party Committee 4 ‐ 100% 84% ‐ Sustainability Committee 5 ‐ ‐ ‐ Number of Board meetings scheduled or held 14 11 10 Attendance ‐ Full Board6 96% 95% 97% ‐ Audit and Risk Committee 2 80% 56% 93% ‐ Remuneration Committee 3 100% 100% 100% ‐ Related Party Committee 4 ‐ 100% 93% ‐ Sustainability Committee 5 ‐ ‐ ‐ Independent Performance Review Yes Yes Yes Board Review and Approval of Sustainability Report Yes Yes Yes Shareholder support of the advisory vote on executive compensation 89% 96% 95% 1 Masaharu Katayama, Richard Seville and Martin Perez de Solay are all considered non‐Independent Directors. Masaharu Katayama joined the Board in 2018 following T 2 Audit & Risk Committee has 3 members and meets 3 times a year 3 Remuneration Committee has 3 members and meets once a year 4 Created in 2018, the Related Party Committee has 7 members and meets 4 times a year 5 Created in 2019, the Sustainability Committee has 3 members. Meeting schedule commences 2020. 6 Meetings held in person or via teleconference Ethics Code of Conduct Employees1 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees who have read and signed the Code of Conduct 100% 100% 100% Percentage of employees trained on Code of Conduct NA NA 100% New employees trained on Code of Conduct NA NA 88 Hours given on training of Code of Conduct NA NA 22 Employees trained on grievance channels NA NA 58 Hours of training on grievance channels NA NA 58 Employee training on Human Rights policies or procedures NA NA NA Third Parties2 2017 2018 2019 Suppliers trained on the Code of Conduct NA NA NA Business Partners trained on the Code of Conduct NA NA NA 3 Breaches Concerns brought to the company's attention regarding Code of Conduct issues NA ‐ ‐ Allegations investigated for noncompliance with company policy NA 1 2 Ratio of substantiated allegations to concerns/issues raised NA 100% 100% Employees dismissed due to substantiated corporate policy violations NA 1 2 Employees who received disciplinary actions as a result of substantiated concern NA 1 2 1 2017 and 2018 not available. New methodology for tracking and measuring employee training implemented in FY19. Data shown is for the period from January to June 2019 only. 2 Methodology for tracking Supplier and Business Partner training on Code of Conduct yet to be implemented. 79 3 Tracking of Code of Conduct breaches and disciplinary actions began in 2018. GRI / UNGC Index 80 GRI / UNGC INDEX GRI Standards and UNGC Contents Index GRI STANDARDS & UNGC Contents Index Foundations GRI Disclosure Location or comments UNGC Additional location Gri 100: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization About the Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About the Report 102-3 Location of headquarters About the Report 102-4 Location of operations About the Report 102-5 Ownership and legal form About the Report 102-6 Markets served About the Report Supply Chain MAD 102-7 Scale of the organization About the Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers FY19 Focus Principle 6 Diversity and Inclusion MAD 102-9 Supply chain FY19 Focus Supply Chain MAD 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain FY19 Focus 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Sustainable Development Policy Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives Memberships and Affiliations Stakeholder Relations MAD 102-13 Membership of associations Memberships and Affiliations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance and Risk Risk Management MAD Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior FY19 Focus Principle 10 Governance and Ethics MAD 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance and Ethics MAD Principle 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance and Risk Governance and Ethics MAD Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups FY19 Focus Stakeholder Relations MAD 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Diversity and Inclusion MAD Principle 3 People Performance Data 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders FY19 Focus Stakeholder Relations MAD 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement FY19 Focus Stakeholder Relations MAD 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised FY19 Focus Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Anuual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the Report 102-47 List of material topics FY19 Focus 102-48 Restatements of information About the Report 102-49 Changes in reporting About the Report 102-50 Reporting period About the Report 102-51 Date of most recent report Orocobre web OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 81 102-52 Reporting cycle About the Report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About the Report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index Material MaterialTopicsTopics GRI Disclosure Location or comments UNGC Additional location Gri 200: Economic disclosure Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Tax and Financials MAD 103-2 Management Approach Tax and Financials MAD 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Tax and Financials MAD Economic Performance Data Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 201-2 Governance and Risk Principle 7 Risk Management MAD due to climate change 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Performance Data Market Presence 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Diversity and Inclusion MAD 103-2 Management Approach Diversity and Inclusion MAD Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 202-1 People Performance Data to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 Diversity and Inclusion MAD People Performance Data community Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Community Investment MAD 103-2 Management Approach Community Investment MAD FY19 Focus 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Community Investment MAD Case Studies 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Community Investment MAD Community Performance Data Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Supply Chain MAD 103-2 Management Approach Supply Chain MAD 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain MAD Community Performance Data Gri 300: Environment Disclosure Energy 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Energy and Emissions MAD Environment Performance Data 103-2 Management Approach Energy and Emissions MAD Environment Performance Data 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and Emissions MAD Principle 8,9 Environment Performance Data 302-3 Energy intensity Energy and Emissions MAD Principle 8,9 Environment Performance Data 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and Emissions MAD Principle 8,9 Environment Performance Data Water 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Water and effluents MAD 103-2 Management Approach Water and effluents MAD 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water and effluents MAD Principle 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 303-2 Water and effluents MAD Principle 9 water 303-3 Water recycled or reused Water and effluents MAD Principle 8 Environment Performace Data 82 GRI / UNGC INDEX GRI Disclosure Location or comments UNGC Additional location Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Biodiversity MAD 103-2 Management Approach Biodiversity MAD Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 304-1 Biodiversity MAD Principle 8 Environment Performance Data areas of high biodiversity value Emissions 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Energy and emissions MAD 103-2 Management Approach Energy and emissions MAD 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy and emissions MAD Principle 7 Environment Performance Data 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Energy and emissions MAD Principle 8 Environment Performance Data 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy and emissions MAD Principle 8 Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Water and effluentes MAD Waste MAD 103-2 Management Approach Water and effluentes MAD Waste MAD 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water and effluentes MAD Principle 8 FY19 Focus 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste MAD Principle 8 Environment Performance Data 306-3 Significant spills Non applicable. The Company does not discharge any water. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Waste MAD Principle 8 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Non applicable. The Company does not discharge any water. Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Biodiversity MAD Water and effluentes MAD 103-2 Management Approach Biodiversity MAD Water and effluentes MAD 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines related to this indicator during FY19. Environment Performance Data Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Supply Chain MAD 103-2 Management Approach Supply Chain MAD New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 Value Chain Performance Data Principle 8 criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-2 Value Chain Performance Data Principle 8 actions taken Gri 400: Social Employment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Employee engagement MAD Training & Development MAD 103-2 Management Approach Employee engagement MAD Training & Development MAD 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People Performance Data Principle 6 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 Not applicable. They company does not have part-time employees. provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Employee engagement MAD Principle 6 People Performance Data Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Health and Safety MAD H&S Performance Data 103-2 Management Approach Health and Safety MAD FY19 Focus 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and Safety MAD FY19 Focus OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 83 GRI Disclosure Location or comments UNGC Additional location Occupational Health and Safety Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 403-2 Health and Safety MAD investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Health and Safety MAD Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 403-4 Health and Safety MAD occupational health and safety Training and Education 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Training & Development MAD 103-2 Management Approach Training & Development MAD 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee People Performance Data Principle 6 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 Training & Development MAD People Performance Data assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 People Performance Data Principle 6 and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Diversity & Inclusion MAD 103-2 Management Approach Diversity & Inclusion MAD 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity & Inclusion MAD Principle 6 FY19 Focus 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men People Performance Data Principle 6 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Human Rights MAD Community Investment MAD 103-2 Management Approach Human Rights MAD Community Investment MAD Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 411-1 No incidents during 2019. Principle 1 Community Performance Data peoples Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Human Rights MAD 103-2 Management Approach Human Rights MAD Operations that have been subject to human rights 412-1 Human Rights MAD Principle 1,4 Governance & Risk reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Governance Performance Data Principle 1-6 Local Communities 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Community Investment MAD Community Engagement MAD 103-2 Management Approach Community Investment MAD Community Engagement MAD Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 Community Performance Data Case Studies assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative 413-2 Community Engagement MAD Principle 1 impacts on local communities Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Supply Chain MAD 103-2 Management Approach Supply Chain MAD 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Value Chain Performance Data Principle 1-6 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 414-2 Value Chain Performance Data Principle 2,5 taken 84 GRI / UNGC INDEX OROCOBRE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY FULL REPORT 85 orocobre.com
