2 Table of Contents Chairman’s Letter ......................................................................................................................................... 4 Executive Summary ...................................................................................................................................... 7 Sustainability Highlights ...............................................................................................................................11 Report Profile ...............................................................................................................................................16 Wipro and Sustainability – A strategic Overview .........................................................................................18 Wipro & its Stakeholders ............................................................................................................................53 Workplace Sustainability .............................................................................................................................58 Ecological Sustainability ............................................................................................................................. 73 Customer Stewardship ............................................................................................................................. 101 Financial Stewardship and Investors ........................................................................................................ 111 Supply Chain Sustainability .......................................................................................................................122 Partnering for Social Change ................................................................................................................... 130 Assurance Statement ................................................................................................................................146 Feedback and Communication ..................................................................................................................152 3 Chairman’s Letter Dear fellow stakeholders Welcome to our 12th Sustainability Report. The second stems from increased regulatory mandates globally, including in India, that require At Wipro, we think that it is critical to engage with the companies to disclose their Sustainability social and ecological challenges that face humanity. It performance. An example of this is the Security and is our conviction that the engagement with social Exchange Board of India’s requirement of the top 500 issues must be deep, meaningful and formed on the listed companies to use the Integrated Reporting bedrock of long term commitment. This is also framework in their annual reports -which we were an reflective of the fact that such an approach serves early adopter of, much before the regulatory mandate. both, enlightened business interest and social good. We run our sustainability programs on a strong We welcome this trend, as we believe that transparent foundation of ethical principles, good governance and Sustainability disclosures signal a company’s good sound management our continued commitment to governance, superior risk upholding the UNGC’s Ten principles covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, is one management, and long-term orientation, all of which such example. These are embedded in our values, directly feed into the company’s economic policies and processes across the value chain. performance. One of the global gold standards in responsible investing has been the Dow Jones When we began our comprehensive Sustainability Sustainability Index (DJSI). We have been included in program in 2008, this report was the only the DJSI for 10 years in a row. For us, Sustainability disclosure of our Sustainability strategy and disclosures are not an end but a catalyst for performance. Over the years our Sustainability continuous self-reflection and improvement. disclosures have grown manifold. This is a larger trend across the world of business and Let me now present the key highlights for the reporting elsewhere, driven by two factors. The first is the year while simultaneously placing it in the context of increased emphasis investors are placing on the progress we have made in the last decade companies with superior Environmental, Social Our ecological impact: and Governance (ESG) standards, and for which they expect extensive Sustainability disclosures. About a Our work in ecological sustainability follows a quarter of the global financial assets are ESG boundaryless approach that focuses on reducing the investments, this is just one evidence of the first factor. Chairman’s Letter 4 Wipro Sustainability Report ecological impact of our own business operations workforce. Currently, we have 545 such employees while simultaneously supporting and catalyzing covering collectively 15 different types of disabilities. actions outside our business boundaries.40% of our energy footprint in India is from renewable energy Over the years, we have invested in ensuring that our sources. Combined with compounded improvements infrastructure, policies, systems and people practices in our energy efficiency, we have reduced more than support persons with disability in being an integral and half a million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions energized part of our workplace. Our work on this from our operations over the last 9 years. Our matter doesn’t stop within our own organization; progress on water use exemplifies our boundaryless outside, we have a specific program that supports approach – inside our facilities, 42% of our water inclusive school education for children with usage comes from high grade recycling, which has disabilities. Our support for 17 projects in six states, helped save and avoid nearly 5000 million liters of help more than 2200 children with disability have water over the last five years. We recognize though, access to school education. This will serve as a that in the larger societal perspective, all of us need to steppingstone to higher education and livelihoods that do more. Therefore, for the past 7 years, we have can help them live a life of dignity and relative been supporting programs in urban groundwater independence. Partners who run these projects are management that combine a rigorous scientific chosen not only for their expertise and experience, but approach with active citizen participation that more importantly for the deep sensitivity they have effectively help harvest, conserve and use water in demonstrated for children with disabilities. local urban neighborhoods. Such a decentralized This work is a part of the larger canvas of our systemic approach represents a new paradigm in managing our and deliberative work in education which we have urban ecological commons in a more community been engaged with for nearly two decades. We participative way. strongly believe that good education is the most Our Employees and Communities: powerful catalyst of long-term social change. It helps empower individuals and communities in a manner One of our core values ‘Treat every individual with nothing else can in contributing to a more just and respect’ is at the heart of how we engage with people humane world. In this context, let me highlight the – whether they are our own employees, our suppliers Wipro Education Fellowship program which supports or our communities. In practical terms, this means young committed individuals doing exemplary work in empowering people to be able to lead lives of dignity school education. We currently have more than 100 and well-being. A primary driver of empowerment at Fellows working on a diverse range of thematic issues the workplace is diversity and inclusion of which across education, including Civic Values, the role of gender is a critical dimension. Women constitute 35% art sports in education, science education……apart of our workforce. Our endeavor is to support our from regular curricular work with teachers, students women employees in their professional progress at and the community. Much of this work is with deeply crucial life stages. For example, our policies provide disadvantaged communities. for generous maternity support. 98% of our India locations have day care centers ensuring that women Navigating the future: employees with young children do not have to Any talk about the future is fraught with uncertainty. compromise on their careers, by having the There are some things though one can be reasonably reassurance of high-quality child-care. sure about. For example, the fact that the world’s One of the most disadvantaged groups in society population is going to increase from the current 7.5 comprises persons with disability. Their disadvantage billion to at least 9 billion by 2050, 75% of which will is not just in a physical sense but social and emotional live in cities, putting enormous pressures on urban as well, stemming from the stigmas attached to systems and services. disability, in some milieus. Empowering persons with Another matter that we can be unfortunately certain disability requires a lifecycle approach that starts from about is that our planet is warming faster than we early childhood and covers nutrition, education, thought. Scientific consensus across the globe holds livelihoods and emotional support from family and that we are already in a climate emergency and even community. It was in 2008 that we started a systematic in the best-case scenario, we will have to live with program to include persons with disability in our increased frequency of extreme weather events Sustainability Highlights 5 Wipro Sustainability Report accompanied by disruptions to the planet’s water cycle and biodiversity. Its impacts on human health, physical infrastructure and economic productivity are likely to be very severe as suggested in a recent report by the McKinsey Global Institute. A scenario such as this begs the question “ What can we do as individuals, as communities, as corporations?”. My immediate response is that first and foremost, we should recognize the seriousness of the situation and not try to dilute it in any manner. This would mean that as corporations we must do at least two things: first, we have to step up manifold our investments and efforts in reducing our own climate impacts across our value chain. Second, we must clearly and explicitly recognize climate risk as deeply material to our business continuity and bring it center stage into the conversations with our investors, customers, suppliers, employees and communities. This is the minimum we can do. We need to do much more, and we are attempting that. At Wipro, our carbon reduction targets are aligned with what global climate science suggests is required for average temperature rise to be contained within the 1.5 deg C limit. We are one of the few companies in the world to have adopted sciencebased targets. We have recently carried out a comprehensive climate risk assessment for each of the major cities we operate in. The findings are sobering it shows that our cities will be impacted much more severely than we have known till now. Putting all of this in perspective, therefore, we think that in spite of all the work we have done, we need to do even more. We also urge our investors, customers and other stakeholders to join us in this journey so that we can collectively forge a path forward that puts the interests of society and the planet on par with that of business. With Best Wishes RIshad Premji Sustainability Highlights 6 Wipro Sustainability Report Chairman’s Letter 7 Wipro Sustainability Report Executive Summary growth in key strategic fields such as digital, cloud, cybersecurity and industrial and engineering services In this summary, we present below the organization through our “Big Bet” program. background, the diversity of our programs spanning A Proactive risk management lens is a critical input multiple capitals, the embedding into core into the crafting of our strategy. In doing so, we are organization processes as well as our engagement also informed by global sustainability trends that with the wider community. The core principles, would impact the emerging business and sociodirection of our engagement with stakeholders and our economic landscape. As per the World Economic programs stem from our values. The values Forum’s 2019 Global Risk Report, the top three trends encapsulated in the “Spirit of Wipro” are; Be in the world are “Rising Income and Wealth Disparity’, Passionate about clients’ success’, ‘Treat each ‘Changing Climate’ and ‘Increased Polarization” –are person with respect’, ‘Be Global and Responsible’ and all interconnected with the issues economic and social ‘Unyielding integrity in everything we do’. These stability. In FY 2018-19, we started a comprehensive values guide all our actions and are foundational exercise of assessing climate related risks and its tenets of any social change for the better. impacts where we have major operations in India and Our core business: We are a global IT Service abroad. organization and provides a range of IT and ITThe significant risks we see are from the possibility of enabled services which include digital strategy increase disruption to operations due to extreme advisory, customer-centric design, technology weather events, especially in our coastal cities in consulting, IT consulting, custom application design, India. Infrastructure damage, employee absence and development, re-engineering and maintenance, productivity loss are all likely impacts of such climate systems integration, package implementation, global change induced events. Our mitigation strategy infrastructure services, analytics services, business comprises a robust business continuity plan and wellprocess services, research and development and covered infrastructure insurance. hardware and software design to leading enterprises worldwide. Collaborating with our customers: Our approach to customer stewardship is based on our vision of How we create economic value: We are present in delivering maximum value to our customer businesses 60+ countries with 700+ clients across various based on a solid relationship of trust, collaboration and industry sectors. In FY 19, our revenue increased by competence. Our Customer Centricity framework is 7.8% from previous year to INR 589,060 million while used to drive appropriate actions that continually help operating profit increased by 18.5% to INR 99,910 customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction surveys million. We paid total taxes of INR 25,242 million are conducted formally and at appropriate intervals to across countries where we operate in. Our total net capture customer feedback. We also provide worth as of March 2019 was INR 570,753 million. sustainable inspired solutions to customers across 73.85% of total shares were held by promoter and industries like Automotive, Healthcare, Natural promoter group and the rest by mix of banks, financial Resource, Utilities, Oil and Gas among others. While institutions, private companies, member of public and we look to create the most customer-centric solutions, others at the end of the FY 19. The ownership we also recognize the related risks arising out of structure in Wipro is designed in a way to create pervasive technology. We have a structured risk economic value on one hand and social value on other identification and mitigation program in place, to by the two philanthropic arms in India’s development address areas such as cyber security, data privacy space. In addition during FY 2018-19, 35,589 number and business continuity. of secondary jobs were created for every direct employments with us. Our approach to workplace sustainability: Value for customers is created primarily by our talented Our business strategy and risk management: Our employees, who design, develop, and implement strategy is about driving a “Digital first” approach solutions. We have global and diverse workforce of through four foundational pillars i.e. Business 170,000+ employees spread across 60 countries. Transformation, Modernization, Connected Intelligence and Trust. As part of these, we are prioritizing and disproportionately investing to drive Executive Summary 8 Wipro Sustainability Report We place strong emphasis on respecting dignity, Our lifecycle approach to energy efficiency starts with diversity and being sensitive to human rights and green building design and incorporates rigorous design our policies and processes to promote execution of the use of right energy efficient transparency and responsible conduct at the technologies and procured renewable energy. We workplace. Our people strategy is based on Culture have clearly defined Science Based Targets (SBTs) Transformation, Career Reimagined, Digitization and for reduction in carbon intensity and emission still Talent Analytics and Capability Building. We view 2050. These initiatives have resulted into energy employees as key stakeholders and have numerous saving of 184 million over last nine years. Our rigorous engagement platforms and initiatives to drive focus on improving freshwater efficiency has resulted continuous communication, seek feedback and in saving of 5030 million liters of freshwater over past encourage advocacy. Our approach towards people five years. At an overall level, 42% of our total water development to social change as well. We have over requirement is met through recycling in FY 19. Our 12,500 employees from nearly 40 chapters in India efforts in water goes beyond organizational and overseas who are voluntary engaged in boundaries. We have partnered with experts community and environmental initiatives. Our multiorganizations, citizen groups and government bodies dimensional Diversity and Inclusion program enters in to address issues affecting the communities in the its 12th year and we continue to drive initiatives proximity of our locations through programs like around the theme of gender, nationality, persons with Participatory Ground Water Management Program. disability and people from disadvantaged All our campuses in India segregate, track and communities. We extend our efforts in promoting manage more than 40 sub categories of waste. Close diversity to our partner employees, communities and to 90% of the total waste from India is recycled supplier networks as well. through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie ups. Our urban biodiversity Partnering with our supply chain: We considers our program addresses the twin aims of creating suppliers as vital to business continuity and biodiversity in our urban campuses while also using it performance. In order to build and maintain a as a platform for wider employee education and sustainable supply chain, we partner with suppliers to advocacy. We believe that this makes for a more promote ethical and responsible sourcing of green holistic work setting and builds a deeper sense of products and services. We also assess supply chain connectedness with the natural surroundings. risks arising out of weak people practices and work with suppliers to mitigate and eradicate them. Our principle of good citizenship and responsibility Specifically, we engage with suppliers and contractors extends beyond the boundaries of our core business to strengthen labor and human rights compliance and to communities. Our approach in this regard is two fair working conditions. We have a robust people pronged: to mitigate/minimize any negative impacts of supply chain comprising of contract employees our operations on proximate communities, and to engaged in IT services and Solutions Delivery, proactively try and make a positive difference to Security and essential functional services such as communities. We engage in deep and meaningful Maintenance and Housekeeping. manner on education, ecology and community care. The common thread that runs through all our social Our environmental externalities and how we initiatives is derived from the values of Sprit of Wipro: manage them: Our ecological sustainability programs ‘Treat each person with respect, Be global and comprise of multiple themes that are identified through responsible, Unyielding Integrity in everything we do’ a rigorous assessment of environmental impact are universal tenets that underline our approach to arising from our business and supply chain social change and community engagement. operations. In 2017-18, we continued to participate in the Natural Capital Valuation exercise, to gauge the Our initiatives are designed to be contextually relevant impacts created by our operations and value chain on to the requirements of local communities and a comprehensive set of environmental factors. The geographies. In India, for instances, the challenge and results of the assessment have been incorporated complexities of the school education are widely back into our sustainability agenda, goals and actions. known. The Wipro Education program partners with The key themes of our ecological sustainability civil society to bring about systemic, long term program are Energy, Water, Waste Management, improvement in school education. The Wipro Earthian Campus Biodiversity and Urban Resilience. program on the other hand engages with schools and Executive Summary 9 Wipro Sustainability Report colleges, to foster sustainability thinking and acting among the young in India. The Wipro Cares community care program engage with communities in various part of India, and support initiatives on primary healthcare, education for underprivileged and girl children, children with disabilities and rehabilitation in disaster hit areas. Several of these initiatives are in geographies distant from our operational locations; we support them as they have significant, intrinsic value, and contribute to long term social well-being. Governance and Management: All our programs and actions are based on a strong foundation of ethics and values, manifest in the Spirit of Wipro. Our values and principles of ethical conduct are embedded in all our policies, processes and procedures. We also have a comprehensive Code of Business Conduct for our suppliers that cover basic issues of human and labor rights. Stakeholders are encouraged to highlight and report any wrong-doing or violation of our values and ethics via the Ombuds process, without fear of reprisal. The reporting process is open to all and we have a relatively large number of cases reported, which is the reflection of stakeholder empowerment, transparency, and trust placed in the Ombuds process. Our approach to corporate governance extends well beyond statutory compliance with a fourtiered governance structure, with clear roles and responsibilities that advocate, implement and review and guide ethical conduct. While our sustainability strategy, action and evangelism are carried out across levels, geographies and functions, the primary oversight of all program is at the corporate level with our Board of Directors led by our Chairman and the Group Executive Council. We consider voluntary disclosures such as this sustainability report as being integral to our standards of good governance. Comprehensive and wellarticulated sustainability disclosures reflect attributes of transparency and accountability that are central tenets of our sustainability philosophy. We have been active participants in several Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) disclosure frameworks such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Index, Ethisphere’s World Most Ethical Company listing and the Vigeo-Eiris Sustainability Ranking. Our disclosures aligned with GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) and NVGs (National Voluntary Guidelines) are available in the public domain. We believe that a robust culture of disclosure and transparency complements regulatory compliance and helps us to reach out to all stakeholders. Executive Summary 10 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 11 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 12 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 13 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 14 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 15 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 16 Wipro Sustainability Report Report Profile Reporting Period for Sustainability April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 Report (Referred hereafter in short as ’18-19’) Date of most recent previous report Wipro Sustainability Report for last fiscal year 2017-18, released in March Link to previous report https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/sustainability/sustai nability_reports/sustainability-report-fy-2017-18.pdf Reporting Cycle Annual basis Contact Point Mr. P.S. Narayan Vice President and Head, Sustainability Email: Narayan.pan@wipro.com Scope and Boundary Businesses* Wipro Technologies Wipro Business Process Services Geographies America Europe India Japan Middle East Asia Pacific Scope of Reporting Financial Performance Indicators All Geographies Environmental Performance Indicators India (Energy data reported for overseas location) Employee Metrics All geographies Social performance metrics Primarily India Other Qualitative Reporting All Geographies (unless otherwise specified) *A list of all entities included in the consolidated financial statements is given in pages 82-86 of Wipro Annual Report for FY 2018-19. However, the scope of this report is restricted to Wipro Technologies, Wipro Infotech and Wipro Business Process Services Approach Like our previous reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the Aa1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for each of the stakeholders. Each individual section on this report is structured as our response to concerns of the respective stakeholder identified through the materiality assessment. Additionally, for financial year 2018-19 we have followed the ISO26000 guidelines Sustainability Highlights 17 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 18 Wipro Sustainability Report Wipro and Sustainability A strategic Overview In this section, we present an overview of the organizations strategy and business operations. Governance driven by core values is integral to how we engage and work with our stakeholders. Our approach to corporate governance in this section coves the key areas of governance by the board, risk management, Codes of Conduct and Policies, disclosures and grievance redressal and feedback mechanisms. All of these together provide the anchors for navigating our journey in being a responsible organization Organization Overview Wipro Limited (NYSE: WIT, BSE: 507685, NSE: WIPRO) is a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company. We harness the power of cognitive computing, hyper-automation, robotics, cloud, analytics and emerging technologies to help our clients adapt to the digital world and make them successful. A company recognized globally for its comprehensive portfolio of services, strong commitment to sustainability and good corporate citizenship, we have over 170,000 dedicated employees serving clients across six continents. Together, we discover ideas and connect the dots to build a better and a bold new future Values, Vision, Policies The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro. These are our Values. It is about who we are. It is our character. It is reflected consistently in all our behavior. The Spirit is deeply rooted in the unchanging essence of Wipro. It also embraces what we must aspire to be. It is the indivisible synthesis of the four values. The Spirit is a beacon. It is what gives us direction and a clear sense of purpose. It energizes us and is the touchstone for all that we do Wipro Vision “To earn clients’ trust & maximize value of their business by providing solution that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies & best in class execution” Policies Values are the foundational cornerstones of an institution and shape its essential core i.e. ‘what it stands for’. The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro. Policies and processes further articulate these across key organizational and stakeholder domains. Some of the key policies are: • Code of Business Conduct • Ecological Sustainability Policy • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • Health and Safety Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Human Rights Policy Policies and processes are developed based on globally accepted frameworks and norms, industry benchmarking as well as consultations with leadership and experts. For effective implementation, we have appropriate governance in place for all policies. Communication, advocacy and engagement is done at multiple levels through various forums Sustainability Highlights 19 Wipro Sustainability Report Business Overview Our business comprises of the IT Services, IT Products and ISRE segments IT Services We are a leading provider of IT services to enterprises across the globe. We provide a range of services, which include digital strategy advisory, customer-centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application design, development, re-engineering and maintenance, systems integration, package implementation, cloud infrastructure services, business process services, cloud, mobility and analytics services, research and development and hardware and software design. 56.8% IT revenue is from Americas, 25.5% is from Europe and 17.7% is from Rest of the World. Our key service offerings and percentage contribution to our revenue are outlined below: Sustainability Highlights 20 Wipro Sustainability Report Our IT Services business is organized into seven industry verticals: IT Products Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system integration services. These products include computing, platforms and storage, networking solutions, enterprise information security and software products, including databases and operating systems. We continue to focus on being a system integrator of choice where we provide IT products as a complement to our IT services offerings rather than sell standalone IT products ISRE Seagmenent Our India SRE segment consists of IT Services offerings to organizations owned or controlled by Government of India and/or any Indian State Governments Sustainability Highlights 21 Wipro Sustainability Report Key Organizational Metrics Customer Size Distribution for IT Services 700 595 571 600 500 400 357 339 300 268 262 200 171 172 94 96 100 39 41 20 22 8 10 0 > $1M > $3M > $5M > $10M > $20M > $50M > $75M > $100M 2018 2019 Financial Metrics 900000 800000 700000 600000 500000 400000 300000 200000 100000 0 Revenue (Rs Profit After Tax Total Equity (Rs Billion) Debt (Rs Billion) Total Assets (Rs Billion) (Rs Billion)* Capatalization Billion) (Rs Billion) 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Number of Shareholders Number of Employees 350000 330075 200000 175690 165481 163827 300000 269694 156718 241154 142282 250000 223313 227369 150000 200000 100000 150000 100000 50000 50000 0 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Sustainability Highlights 22 Wipro Sustainability Report Good Governance and Management Practices Corporate Governance At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence to the statutory and regulatory requirements. It is equally about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the highest levels of transparency and propriety. Our Corporate Governance Gidelines codifies the best corporate governance practices. These guidelines provide a systematic and structured framework for the Board to review and evaluate the Company’s performance in an independent manner, while at the same time providing assurance to the Directors in terms of their authority to oversee the Company’s management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines give an overview of the responsibilities of the board, board composition, board meetings, board committees and process of management review The guidelines can be viewed at https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/investor/corporategovernance/policies-and-guidelines/ethical-guidelines/12766-corporate-governance-guidelines.pdf Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely Board of Directors As at March 31, 2019, our Board had eight NonExecutive Directors and three Executive Directors. Out of the three Executive Directors, the Executive Chairman and Managing Director and Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer are Promoter Directors. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Director is a professional CEO who is responsible for the day to day operations of the Company. All the eight Non-Executive Directors are Independent Directors, free from any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgment. In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors satisfy the criteria of independence as defined under the Companies Act, 2013, the Listing Regulations and the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company manual. The Board is well diversified and consists of two Women Independent Directors and three Directors who are foreign nationals. The profiles of our Directors are available on our website at https://www.wipro.com/leadership Given below is a list of core skills, expertise and competencies of the individual Directors: Sustainability Highlights 23 Wipro Sustainability Report * These skills/competencies are broad-based, encompassing several areas of expertise/experience. Each Director may possess varied combinations of skills/experience within the described set of parameters, and it is not necessary that all Directors possess all skills/experience listed therein. Age Diversity of Board In FY 2018-19, 4 members of Board are between 30 50 years and rest above 50 years. Board Tenure of Directors In FY 2018-19, 4 members of board has +10 years, 6 members of Board has 05 years and 1 member of board has 6 -10 years. Average tenure of Board of Directors is 11.8 years Board Nomination and Selection Our Corporate Governance Guidelines specify the board nomination process as well as board membership criteria. We consider different factors of expertise and experience on economic and social aspects in board selection. These factors such as independence, alignment with company's values, diversity and complementarity in terms of age, skills and knowledge, management experience, industry background, perspectives, etc., ensures selection of a Board which can act in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders Training of Board The board undergoes familiarization program and other continuing education programs which are aimed at developing and enhancing the collective knowledge of economic and social topics related to their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to enable them to perform their duties better and to recognize and deal appropriately with issues that arise Board Evaluation In line with the Corporate Governance Guidelines of the Company, Annual Performance Evaluation was conducted for all Board Members, for the Board and its Committees. This evaluation was led by the Chairman of the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee with specific focus on performance and effective functioning of the Board. Sustainability Highlights 24 Wipro Sustainability Report Evaluation of the Board was based on criteria such as composition and role of the Board, Board communication and relationships, functioning of Board Committees, review of performance of Executive Directors, succession planning, strategic planning, etc. Evaluation of Committees was based on criteria such as adequate independence of each Committee, frequency of meetings and time allocated for discussions at meetings, functioning of Board Committees and effectiveness of its advice/recommendation to the Board, etc Evaluation of Directors was based on criteria such as participation and contribution in Board and Committee meetings, representation of shareholder interest and enhancing shareholder value, experience and expertise to provide feedback and guidance to top management on business strategy, governance, risk and understanding of the organization’s strategy, etc The outcome of the Board evaluation for financial year 2018-19 was discussed by the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee and the Board at their meeting held in April 2019. The Board has received highest ratings on Board communication and relationships, functioning of Board Committees and legal and financial duties. The Board noted the actions taken in improving Board effectiveness based on feedback given in the previous year. Further, the Board also noted areas requiring more focus in the future, which include spending more time on trends, long-term threats and opportunities Conflict of Interest Board members are not prohibited from serving on Boards and/or Committees of other organizations, except for companies that are in competition with the businesses pursued by the Company. However, members of the Board are required to comply with applicable regulatory requirements with respect to limits on number of directorships in the both the country of incorporation and the country of residence. The Board Profile section in our Annual Report discloses other board memberships held by our Board of Directors. Service on Boards and/or Committees of other organizations shall be consistent with the Company’s conflict of interest policy. Wipro is a promoter group-led company with the promoters having other diverse businesses and interests. Given the fact that the promoter group has occasions to engage in Related Party Transactions (RPTs), disclosures on the same are made in our annual reports in the interest of transparency. Such transactions are guided by ‘Policy on Related Party Disclosures’, an abridged version of which is made available in our website at https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/investor/corporate-governance/policies-and-guidelines/ethicalguidelines/12759-abridged-policy-for-related-party-transactions.pdf Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function that aims at assessing threats to business sustainability and mitigating those threats. The function is backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing and mitigating risks. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) works in close co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) enables and supports business objectives through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stake holders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees. This is done by identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional processes through a collaborative approach. As part of this, the leveraging of technology and tools for continuous monitoring and reporting of risks is crucial Risk Management Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, Information Security and Business Continuity, Data Privacy and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To effectively mitigate these risks, we have employed a risk Sustainability Highlights 25 Wipro Sustainability Report management framework, which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards as below • Orange Book by UK Government Treasury • COSO; Enterprise Risk Management Integrating with Strategy and Performance (2017) by Tread way Commission • AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines by AUS/NZ Standards Board • ISO ISO 31000:2018, Risk management – Guidelines Risk Governance The Board Committee on Audit, Risk and Compliance consisting of non-executive independent directors has the responsibility of periodically reviewing the company’s policies for risk assessment and risk management and assess the steps taken to control such risks. The committee also reviews and approves the Strategic and Operating Plan of Enterprise Risk Management function of the Company. Concomitantly, the internal Audit function at Wipro also plays a key role in identifying and highlighting potential risks to Board Committee. High risks including concerns related to grievance redressal, sexual harassment prevention and critical security incidents are tracked and reviewed periodically. They are reported to the Audit committee of the board every quarter. Customer related issues and key employee engagement developments are also reviewed by the board Sustainability Risk Management Sustainability risks are increasing nowadays and have become a growing concern among investors, customers, employees, communities, regulators, etc. In current scenario, maintaining a sustainability risk register is must. In FY 19, we started a comprehensive process to assess the impact of risks due to climate change on Wipro’s operations at major locations in India and abroad. This exercise is based on two scientific scenarios i.e. RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.8. Climate change risks like increase disruption to operations due to extreme weather events, employee absence and productivity loss are likely to impact Wipro’s operations. Our mitigation strategy comprises a robust business continuity plan and well-covered infrastructure insurance. We are also carrying out Human Rights due diligence at our operations and value chain Sustainability Highlights 26 Wipro Sustainability Report Major Risk Management and Risk Mitigation Initiatives Major Risks Mitigation Plan Based on the perceived risks, effective security controls implemented Information security and cyber to detect, prevent an remediate threats. Program to continuously security breaches that could monitor the effectiveness of the controls have been implemented to result in systemic failures, loss, effectively sustain the security controls. Based on the changing threat disclosure of confidential landscape, focus is on continuous improvement of efficacy of the information security controls with adoption of new processes and later technology solutions Intellectual property violating or misusing our clients intellectual Elaborate program exists and is enhanced on an ongoing basis, to property rights or for breaches assess and mitigate the risks on account of intellectual property, both of third-party intellectual customer and Wipro owned. The program is crucial and assists in property rights or confidential identifying, monitoring, governing and creating awareness across the information in connection with organization services to our clients The data privacy program has been augmented keeping into consideration privacy regulatory requirements, with specific emphasis to revalidate all existing frameworks, policies and processes that can Data privacy regulations (such be leveraged by respective support function and delivery teams, as general data protection covering all applicable geographies and areas of operations regulation in Europe) relating to Wipro has implemented the data process/data transfer agreements with personal information dealt with customers as well as vendors for flow down DTA/DPA to ensure GDRP both by and on behalf of Wipro governance of personal data. We have also strengthened Wipro increases the risk of nonsystems to strengthen personal data governance for controller compliance perspective. Also, setup a process to handle subject access requests related to personal data. Implemented personal incident management process to ensure speedy governance on personal data related incidents, if any Regulatory compliances covering various federal, state, A program on statutory compliances is in place with the objective to local and foreign laws relating to track all applicable regulations, obligation arising out of the same and various aspects of the business corresponding action items that requires to be adhered to ensure operations are complex and compliance along with necessary workflows enabled. The program is noncompliance can result in monitored and regularly reviewed to ensure compliance substantial fines, sanctions etc. appropriate risk and control matrices have been designed for all critical Functional and operational risks business processes and both design and effectiveness is tested under arising out of various operational the SOX & internal financial control programs and theme based processes assessments Sustainability Highlights 27 Wipro Sustainability Report Risk management framework has been deployed for large value deals to assess solution fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks Service delivery risks relating to among the other risk factors. Additionally, contract compliance complex programs providing programs are in place with regular reviews, early warning systems as end-to-end business solutions well as customer satisfaction surveys to assess the effectiveness of the for our clients service delivery and early detection of any risks arising from the service delivery Strong control measures have been put in place to ensure employee health and safety. Awareness is created about various issues and are Workplace environment, safety communicated on regular basis to employees. Wipro maintains Zero and security Tolerance for violators of code of business conduct. Also employees are provided with an online web portal to log in concerns relating to various subjects including environment and safety in the work place Business continuity risks arising out of global disruptions like Strong control measures have been put in place to ensure employee natural disasters, IT outages, health and safety. Awareness is created about various issues and are Cyber, pandemic, terror and communicated on regular basis to employees. Wipro maintains Zero unrest, power disruptions etc. Tolerance for violators of code of business conduct. Also employees which will challenge or impact are provided with an online web portal to log in concerns relating to the availability of people and various subjects including environment and safety in the work place process, technology and infrastructure An assessment of doing business in a new country is done in order to Geopolitical risk arising out of analyse the feasibility of doing business based on the country’s entering into contracts in a new economic stability, corruption index, investment opportunities, ease of country doing business and physical safety Appropriate measures are being taken to provide uninterrupted high Risk of protectionism policies quality services to the clients at all geographies. Additionally, impacting the business localization efforts are being prioritized. More than 64% of USA workforce are local. In Latin America almost all our employees are local Sustainability Highlights 28 Wipro Sustainability Report Code of Conduct Compliance Management Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Framework Conduct (COBC) that provides the broad direction as Compliance processes at Wipro have the oversight of well as specific guidelines for all business the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, and the transactions. The COBC is applicable to all business Corporate Compliance Committee. The Committee is practices and employees, contractor employees and responsible for matters relating to Wipro’s Code of consultants. It covers critical aspects like customer Business Conduct, grievance redressal and other relations, protecting customer information, supplier applicable statutory matters selection, conflicts of interest, gifts, entertainment & business courtesies, communicating with the public, Wipro has an effective framework for monitoring confidential information, intellectual property, compliances with applicable laws. The Board has competitive/business intelligence, protecting the approved a Global Statutory Compliance Policy which privacy of employee and personal information, provides guidance on broad categories of applicable business records and internal controls, safeguarding laws and process for monitoring compliance. In company assets, insider trading, anti-trust and fair furtherance to this, an online compliance competition, anti-corruption, political management system monitor compliance real-time involvement/lobbying, global trade; human rights, and provides update to senior management and diversity and non-discrimination, harassment-free Board on a periodic basis. The Audit, Risk and workplace, safe and healthy work environment, and Compliance Committee and the Board periodically sustainability and corporate citizenship monitors status of compliances with applicable laws based on quarterly certification provided by senior The COBC is socialized at multiple points of an management employee’s lifecycle it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and subsequently, We also have a dedicated in-house Legal & every employee has to take an online test annually to Compliance team focused on compliance to identify assert their familiarity with the tenets of the COBC. and analyze the legal and regulatory changes The code can be accessed at: resulting in creation and update of policies and processes. The team oversees compliance with local https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/investo business laws and regulatory compliance in each of r/corporate-governance/policies-andthe countries we operate. It is important to assure the guidelines/ethical-guidelines/code-of-businessstakeholders that internal systems are fair and just. conduct-and-ethics.pdf Global Immigration Management System (GIMS), Integrated Risk management and Human Resources The COBC is the central document on which the have been identified as functions with “material” Company’s ethics compliance message is compliance related risks. As a result, the legal and disseminated to all employees. Hence, it is constantly compliance team reviews the process of these reviewed by the Legal & Compliance team to ensure functions. Dashboards are maintained across it stays current with trends and changes in corporate Business Units and Support Functions and reviewed ethics, benchmarking with the best and most ethical for contractual compliances periodically. Suitable companies in the world and keeping up with the external consulting firms are engaged for Corporate, statutory changes Taxation and Labour law compliance activities Wipro will take appropriate disciplinary action including termination against any employee, agent, GSCCP Program contractor or consultant, whose actions are found to In 2014, the Global Compliance Management Project violate the terms of COBC. We have a zero tolerance was started with the objective of adopting a global policy for non-compliance with the nonnegotiable statutory compliance certification program (GSCCP) aspects of COBC e.g. child labor, anticorruption etc. framework and automating the framework. The project 360 degree feedback process rates Wipro managers covers all functions across 24 countries, including on how well they align with the principle of unyielding India. Under this project, Compliance Landscaping is integrity being done under the broad categories of Corporate and Commercial laws; Industry specific laws; Employment, Human Resource & Immigration laws; Sustainability Highlights 29 Wipro Sustainability Report Environment, Health & safety; and IT and Data. An https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/investo external service provider has been engaged for this r/corporate-governance/policies-andproject. A compliance tracking tool has also been guidelines/wipros-ombudsimplemented, to track statutory compliance across process/Ombuds%20Policy.pdf global operations and ensure compliance with all relevant legal requirements 1,460 complaints were received via the Ombuds process and 1,414 complaints were closed in FY Anti-Corruption 2019. All cases were investigated and actions taken as deemed appropriate. Based on selfdisclosure Our code of conduct and the supplier code of conduct data, 23.5% of these were reported anonymously. The cover requirements of FCPA (Foreign corrupt top categories of complaints were people processes practices act) and the UK anti-bribery act. High risk at 38% and workplace concerns and harassment at functions assessed are procurement, Talent 22%. The majority of cases (73%) were resolved Acquisition, CMF, Human Resources, Facility through engagement of human resources or Management Group, Sales and the geographies mediation, or closed since they were unsubstantiated selected are based on the relative ranking in Transparency International ranking of countries we Wipro has a policy and framework for employees to operate in report sexual harassment cases at workplace and our process ensures complete anonymity and Grievance Redressal confidentiality of information. Adequate workshops Wipro is committed to the highest standards of and awareness programs against sexual harassment openness, probity and accountability. Having a robust are conducted across the organization. The below whistle-blower policy that allows employees and other table provides details of complaints received/disposed stakeholders to raise concern in confidence is an during the financial year 2018-19 and includes all essential condition for a transparent and ethical cases reported in the system, even if unsubstantiated. company. This ensures a robust mechanism is in In some cases, a clear action has been taken (warning place, which allows employees, nonemployees, or separation) and the rest of the cases have been partners, customers, suppliers and other members of resolved through counselling or other specific actions public to voice concern in a responsible and effective manner. Number of complaints filed 142 during the financial year Under Ombuds Policy adopted by each of our Number of complaints 156* businesses, all complaints are addressed to Ombuds disposed of during the and investigative findings are reviewed and approved financial year by Chief Ombudsperson who reports into Compliance Committee. Dedicated email address Number of complaints pending 38 (ombuds.person@wipro.com) are created to facilitate as at end of the financial year receipt of complains and for ease of reporting. The company has a 24x7 hotline where the concern can be communicated through telephone call. All employees and stakeholders can register their concern either through web based portal or at www.wiproombuds.com. The toll free numbers provides global languages options. Following an investigation, a decision is made by the appropriate authority on the action to be taken basis the findings of the investigation. In case the complainant is nonresponsive for more than 15 days, the concern may be closed without further action Complete details of the Ombuds process for employees and non-employees is available at the following links in our website: Sustainability Highlights 30 Wipro Sustainability Report Break-up of Complaints received through the Ombuds Process (excluding PSH) 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% HR/People Process COBCE/Security Falsification / Workplace Others Policy destruction of Harassment information 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Source of Complain 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Employee Anonymous Other Vendor Contract Client Emp/Retainer 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Type of Action Taken (excluding PSH) 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Separation Warning Letter Counselling / Process/Policy Benefits Others Advisory Change Granted 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Sustainability Highlights 31 Wipro Sustainability Report Besides the Grievance Redressal, the stakeholders also have the option of sharing their concerns with us via mail mentioned in our website. We have registers at all our locations which can be used by any stakeholder group to express their concerns. The concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity which are mandated by law to report are communicated to the relevant agencies as and when such issues happen. In FY 18-19, there was no instance of ethical or unlawful activity which required seeking external advice or reporting to external agency Training Training programs on ethical compliance and the Grievance Redressal are regularly conducted at various leadership levels. At these interactive sessions, key applicable ethical policies are explained, with real organizational case studies and relevant judicial pronouncements on ethical matters. Statistical data on the complaints / concerns received by the Ombuds-persons, and the processes adopted to address these are shared with the participating leaders. Every new hire is required to attend an ethical compliance session titled “Spirit of Wipro Session” where key aspects of the ethics framework are communicated. We have an annual test and certification for all employees on the Code Of Business Conduct. Additionally, specific training through e-learning modules is rolled out on various subjects including anti-corruption, Gifts, entertainment, and Business Courtesies, and is mandated for all employees in a phased manner Other modes of maintaining awareness of ethical compliance among employees include focused training sessions organized for various functionsProcurement, Operations and Administration, Human Resources, Finance and Accounts, Internal Audit. At these classroom sessions, key policies relevant to the participants are discussed and feedback is taken for addressing any changes to processes and policies. Mailers on Compliance are periodically circulated by the ombuds process group through emails, posters at key employee access locations. External Trainings are organized regularly for Legal & Compliance, Finance, Accounts, and Internal Audit teams on anticorruption laws of USA and UK, best practices on implementing anti-corruption processes in organizations. These sessions are conducted by US external counsel and consulting firms. In accordance with mandatory local law, all manager-level employees located in the states of California and Connecticut within the US are required to undergo training and certification on prevention of sexual harassment. In addition, special training are conducted for Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee panel members, and SOPs are published for better governance encompassing the requirements under law on sexual harassment Sustainability MegaForces and their influence on Sustainability Strategy We have identified eight global sustainability megaforces that influence our sustainability strategy. We present the current scenario and their business implication in brief below A thriving global community, now and in the future, depends on the stable functioning of all interacting components of ecology and society Unfortunately, scientific evidence indicates that human influence has altered Earth System processes to a point that we have begun transgressing planetary boundaries that have kept civilization safe for the past 10,000 years. Scientists claim that we have entered a new geological epoch 'the Anthropocene' characterized by manmade actions interfering and changing the environment The changes in the Earth system can be understood through the framework of nine planetary boundaries proposed by a team led by Johan Rockstrom at the Stockholm Resilience Center, it shows that four planetary boundaries have been transgressed (climate change, loss of biosphere integrity, land-system change, altered biogeochemical cycles (phosphorus and nitrogen)) while some are at risk of being surpassed (ocean acidification) While the world income (GDP per capita) has increased exponentially over the past century, income inequality did decrease till the 70's-80's and is now showing a rebound to levels seen near the beginning of the century (IMF). About a billion people are estimated to be living in extreme poverty today. A quarter of all children under the age of five years is estimated to be stunted due to malnutrition Sustainability Highlights 32 Wipro Sustainability Report In 2019, UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Report indicates that advances are being made in some areas while monumental challenges still remains. The most urgent area for action is climate change. Failure to cut the greenhouse gas emission will result into temperature rise of 1.5 degree in coming decades. The other concerning area is increasing income inequality among and within countries. Poverty, hunger and disease continue to be concentrated in the poorest and most vulnerable groups of people and countries Just as problems are interrelated, the solutions to poverty, inequality, climate change and other global challenges are also interlinked. The involvement of business in SDG action and progress is considered an integral part of governmental plans. Businesses across the world must be willing partners in the journey towards progressby bringing technology, ingenuity, enterprise building capacities and creating markets for development of sustainable alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate with all stakeholders across its value chain and with the community to transition to a future that is equitable to all stakeholders and is cognizant of interdependent issues and planetary boundaries Sustainability Highlights 33 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 34 Wipro Sustainability Report Materiality Determination and our Strategic Sustainability Priorities Sustainability reporting should aim to be a faithful reflection of the organization’s values, vision, plans, progress and challenges on the different dimensions of sustainability. Determining ‘materiality’ helps an organization to understand issues that are relevant to its stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. This understanding, in turn, makes sustainability strategy and action more in tune with stakeholder priorities, and more robust in terms of creating impact and navigating risk. The process has to be centered at the intersection of organizational relevance and stakeholder priorities. In this section, we discuss the rationale, approach and outcomes of our materiality determination exercise Materiality Recalibration Materiality is informed by the socio-economic context in which an organization operates and the needs of its primary and/or influencing stakeholders. It requires us to keep ‘ears to the ground’ by understanding stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations, the business context, local and macro developments and changing thresholds of sustainability risks and opportunities over time The Driving Principle In addition to the classic framework that maps issues on the basis of ‘Relevance to the Organization’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, our materiality framework incorporates the following driving principles: • Incorporation of multiple dimensions: Material dimensions vary from one organization to another as the context of each company and the industry or geography in which it is operating is not necessarily the same. The issues faced by a business can be different even within the same sector and geography. The materiality determination should reflect the complexities of multiple environmental, social and governance dimensions that are relevant to Wipro as a company and to the IT Services sector. It is also important to look at the probability and impact of the issues over a long period of time. The societal and global context could shift and what would have been peripheral in the short term could eventually become central and critical • Individual stakeholder view: The conventional materiality matrix typically places issues based on relevance to the company and relevance to stakeholders; however, given that a company will have multiple stakeholders who are often very different in the roles that they play, it makes little sense to talk about ‘stakeholder relevance’ as an abstract, macro notion unless it is mapped to the next level of detail to the individual stakeholder • Intrinsic worth: In the conventional materiality matrix of ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, certain critical sustainability issues may not score high on either of the dimensions. And yet, they have an intrinsic worth that compels serious and deep engagement. Therefore, our new framework will look at all these three factors Our Approach The questions ‘Who are your stakeholders?’ and ‘What are their material issues?’ are important starting steps and we consider these questions as the building blocks of our sustainability initiatives and reporting. Based on GRI G4 Guidelines and AA 1000 principles of ‘Stakeholder Inclusiveness’, ‘Materiality’ and ‘Sustainability Context’, we have adopted the following approach to determine materiality for our company. Sustainability Highlights 35 Wipro Sustainability Report Stakeholder identification Defining who an organization’s primary stakeholders are, can be relatively straightforward within the business ecosystem. But when it comes to larger social and environmental contexts, the meaning of stakeholders can assume a form that is unduly large or amorphous. Here it becomes important to understand and identify those attributes of stakeholders that makes them important to business and necessitate meaningful engagement. We began our identification by defining those attributes and then mapping our value chain to determine stakeholders who qualify the attributes These led us to identify the following eight stakeholders’ groups. Readers will note that, except for minor semantic differences, these are the same stakeholders that appear in our previous reports. Therefore, the materiality recalibration exercise essentially reaffirmed our earlier decision in this regard • Employees • Customers • Investors • Suppliers Sustainability Highlights 36 Wipro Sustainability Report • The Education System: Partners and Academic Institutes • Communities and Civil Society Networks • Government and Policy Networks • The Young Citizen and Future Generation While the first four have direct and operational/ business value chain impacts, the other four are part of the larger community and society that we operate in Identification of Issues Material issues and their relative importance to Wipro and our stakeholders are not static and are likely to change with time. In line with this, we followed a threefold approach based on the Five Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility. We try to present a 360 degree perspective on our business and ecosystem through this process and its outcomes Internal Assessment A significant part of materiality determination stems from the organization’s overall mission, values, commitments and competitive strategy as well as the impact of or on its economic performance. An internal perspective on risks as identified through organizational processes like risk assessment studies and audits or self-assessments using disclosure frameworks is also considered in the process. Listed below are the sources of information External Benchmarking We conducted an extensive review of literature to identify issues considered as material and identified as risks by our business peers and also to understand expectations expressed in international standards and agreements. Listed below are the sources of information Sustainability Highlights 37 Wipro Sustainability Report Stakeholder feedback Stakeholder inclusiveness is central to the materiality determination process. It is important to consider reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders so as to provide a balanced view of the issues that emerge. At Wipro, we engage with our stakeholders regularly to understand their concerns and develop plans to address those concerns From the above-mentioned sources, a universe of all issues or dimensions that could be material for our businesses was identified Materiality Map Prioritization of Material Issues The sustainability context of each of the issues or dimensions identified was detailed so as to understand their materiality to our business and industry. Following this, a prioritization exercise was undertaken by looking at the intrinsic worth of each issue as well as its relative priority. The stakeholder’s feedback was also taken into account by incorporating their ratings for each of these dimension against four criteria of 1) Relevance to Wipro’s business operations; 2) Relevance to stakeholders; 3) Impact; and 4) Time horizon of impact In 2014-15, we held a formal consultation with senior leadership, employees and external sustainability experts from industry and academia, on stakeholder priorities, concerns and expectations. We also considered inputs from customers and investors. The collective outcome of the consultation process was a revised materiality matrix. Since then, we have revisited the materiality matrix/map each year, and consider any refresh that it requires, based on latest stakeholder feedback and input Sustainability Highlights 38 Wipro Sustainability Report • List all material dimensions Redefine • Prepare a shortlist of high priority dimensions after core internal stakeholder consultations • Engage with large group of internal stakeholders Engage • Consult key external stakeholders-customers, suppliers, community, external experts from business, academia and society • Develope a raised materiality matrix based on stakeholder feedback Strategize • Develope programs and engagement plans • Comunicate to stakeholders Materiality Reporting of the Year In line with GRI standard requirement to focus on ‘what matters’ and ‘where it matters’, we undertook an exercise to determine the most material issues to include in this report from multiple dimensions of risk, returns and relevance. We adopted the following steps to identify material aspects for reporting • Mapping the identified material issues to GRI Topics • Defining the boundary of each ‘Topic’ based on impacts • Deciding the scoping of reporting for other issues/dimensions From the universe of issues or dimensions that was identified as material, a total of 20 topics have been finalized for reporting. Depending on the relative importance, the other issues identified will be detailed in the respective sections as part of disclosure of management approach. The outcomes of the process were shared with all relevant functions for review and the consequent feedback was incorporated Given below is the mapping of identified aspects and topics to respective sections and primary stakeholders StakeWhat is Where the Why the topic is material? Respective holders material? impact occur? Sections Employment Business continuity and obsolescence are typical concerns for the technology sector, given the pace of change that the industry is known for. Ensuring continued meaningful employment for employees and creating opportunities for external talent, consistently are therefore important focus areas. Occupational Health and Safety performance is a key Health and measure of an organization’s duty of care. Low Safety injury and absence rate are generally linked to positive trends in staff morale and productivity. The aspect is critical for stability of the workforce especially for an organization like Wipro. Diversity and It is legislative mandated in India to provide Equal equal pay for work of equal value. According Opportunity to WEF Gender Gap report 2018, India is part of the bottom forty countries in global index and one of the worst-performing countries on Economic participation and opportunity. In 2009, the same study showed that the Sustainability Highlights 39 Wipro Sustainability Report average annual income of women In India is US $1185 compared to US $ 3698 for the men employed in the India’s corporate sector. Diversity, especially gender equity, in another well-known issue in STEM sector. NoA study by CII found that 25% of women faced Discrimination gender bias on jobs. Another survey conducted in 2013 revealed that 5 out of 10 employees have experienced one or other kind of discrimination, indicating the strong prevalence of discrimination practices while recruiting and at work Freedom of The right of workers (and employees) to Association organize collectively in organizations of their and Collective own choice is a fundamental provision of the Barganing People Supply UN Universal declaration of Human Rights. ChainGlobal (employee, Employees contract and Workplace Capacity support staff) The quality of employee is considered to be an Building and important source of competitive advantage to Sustainability Career any organization. Hence maintaining and Development improving the human capital of the company, particularly through training that expands the knowledge base of employees, is a key differentiator. Energy Global Supply Studies estimates that ICT system now use Chain (includes 1,500 terawatt hours of power per year which business travel is about 10% of the world’s total electricity and commute) generated. Jevons paradox proposes that the contribute to 69% increase in efficiency which comes along with of total technological progress trends to increase environmental (rather than decrease) the rate of consumption impact of that resources. Emissions Global Supply Emissions are the major contributors to climate Chain (includes change. As demand of ICT is expected to business travel quadruple by 2020, the total carbon footprint of and commute) ICT sector is set to grow at 6% per year. Data contribute to 69% center footprint is expected to triple by 2020. of total To limit the negative impact of climate change, environmental it is critical to limit the temperature increase to impact 2 degree Celsius above pre industrial level. Current & Future Water Operations in World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report generations India as they 2018 identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact risks. The UN-Water (2018) constitute 80% of forecasts that 2 billion people live in countries overall footprint or regions which experience high water stress and higher and 700 million people worldwide could be impact displaced by intense water scarcity by 2030 Effluents and Operations in Unmanaged disposal of waste and effluents Waste India as they can have significant impact on receiving ecosystem and this in turn can affect the constitute 80% of quality of the water supply available to the overall footprint organization and its relationship with and higher communities & other water users. Reduction of impact waste and effluents can contribute directly to lower costs for materials, processing and disposal at the same time reduce financial risks from the loss of raw materials, Sustainability Highlights 40 Wipro Sustainability Report remediation costs, regulatory action as well as reputation. Campus All large Wipro The vast sprawling campuses where we Ecological Biodiversity campuses in operate gives an opportunity to promote Sustainability India ecological balance by improving biodiversity Urban Primarily India Given the urban centric nature of our Resilience operations, ecological issues affecting urban areas cannot be overlooked by the organization. A better, safer and cleaner environment promotes wellbeing of the citizens. Customer All our customers Given the pervasive nature of technology, data Privacy and businesses privacy has become a concern for businesses. Any lapse from the organizations part in safeguarding the privacy and interests of customers can have financial, legal and reputation impacts to business Customer All our customers Engagement is critical to understand and meet Engagement and businesses expectations of customers and customer Customers Customer retention is dependent on the quality of Stewardship engagements. Innovation All our customers Opportunities to learn and innovate in and businesses emerging areas of work drive the engagement levels of employees. Also innovation helps generate revenue for the business and builds relationships for the long term. Economic Economic Economic performance is key to the Performance performance: sustainability of any business and the success Across the value of the business cascades to the stakeholders chain, primarily involved. India AntiAnti corruption: Corruption can be a significant risk to business Investors corruption Supply chain and as it can have create legal and regulatory business implications. There are instances where Financial functions, instances of corruption by organizations Stewardship primarily India affecting the economy at large. Anti-corruption as a focus area is also naturally aligned with our Spirit of Wipro values. Supplier Social aspects of Supply Chain Supply Chain: Sustainability environmental India based assessment suppliers The responsibility of the business does not Supplier Environmental ends within the boundary of the organization. Workplace Suppliers* social aspects of supply The suppliers play critical role in the Sustainability chain: Categories sustainability and hence issues faced by the Assessment based on life supplier ecosystem should be considered by cycle the organization for effective risk mitigation. assessment of services and products (see natural capital accounting) Community Community Communities in It is critical for business to engage with the Social & civil and India and other social and ecological challenges that face Responsibility society counties where humanity in a deep and meaningful manner Sustainability Highlights 41 Wipro Sustainability Report networks; Education we have with long term commitment; for that is the only The significant way by which real change can happen on the education operations. Other ground. It is these engagements which gives ecosystem countries include the organizations ‘license to operate’. South Africa, United States of America Climate Change Risk Assessment We are currently carrying out a comprehensive climate change risk assessment program, encompassing both physical and transitional risks, for our major operational locations across the globe, covering India, China, Philippines, Germany, Romania, the UK and the US. This is being done for two scenarios (based on the IPCC defined RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5) for the medium to long term (2030-2050). This assessment provides detailed analysis of the changes in key climatic parameters such as temperature and rainfall that are likely to impact Wipro’s operations. It takes into consideration a variety of climate risks which include, an increase in extremely hot days and extremely warm nights, increasing frequency of heat waves, exacerbated urban heat island effect, air quality deterioration, urban flooding and decreasing water availability Our assessment shows that we are likely to observe an increase in day-time temperature (0.02-2.98ºC) and night-time temperature (0.35-1.74ºC) across all locations except Chennai, where a decrease (0.7 ºC) in the day time temperature is likely, in both the short term (by 2030) and long term (by 2050). This increase in day time temperatures could contribute towards an increase in the energy consumption and associated operating costs at each location. This change could also adversely impact the health and well-being of our employees decreasing their productivity. When it comes to rainfall, our risk assessment model predicts an increase in rainfall, ranging from 11 to 267mm, for every city except Kolkata, Pune and Vishakhapatnam which will likely see decreases (13.2-126mm) in rainfall in the long term. Increase in extreme precipitation is likely to lead productivity loss due to employee absence caused by disruption in city infrastructure and an increase in tropical diseases. Given that every city other than Kochi and Kolkata already lie in highly water stressed zones, the predicted rise in temperature coupled with increasing urbanization is likely to accelerate water stress. The corresponding increase in rainfall in most cities is unlikely to help improve this situation unless additional water conservation measures are taken up in the city. Thus, across the country we are likely to experience increasing challenges and costs for procuring water We notice that our operations in Romania, China, Philippines and USA are likely to be susceptible to physical risks such as floods, tropical storms and tornadoes. These events could impact the wellbeing of our employees in the affected regions thus impacting our operations. Philippines in particular is likely to face significant fluctuations in rainfall and humidity patterns which could lead to an increase in the spread of infectious diseases in the country, affecting the health of our employees. On the other end of the spectrum, we find that our operations in Germany, the UK, the US, China and Romania, are the ones most exposed to transitional risks arising from policies and regulations geared towards enabling these countries’ transition into low carbon economies. However, we must point out here that the majority (more than 70%) of our employees are based out of India. In addition the fact that all our overseas locations are leased premises reduces the direct infrastructural risk in our overseas centers Wipro’s Sustainability Framework The principle of focusing ‘within as well as outside the boundary’ informs our strategic choice of looking at sustainability as a boundary-less continuum and this forms the backbone of our sustainability framework. This continuum spreads across two conceptual dimensions business responsibility and social responsibility Sustainability Highlights 42 Wipro Sustainability Report Business responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its essential duties and obligations, and running its business with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of its operations is minimized. This translates to: The second dimension of social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community. While this categorization is conceptually useful, the right approach is to look at both the dimensions as an integrated continuum which is based on the same fundamental principles Bases on the above-mentioned dimensions of social responsibility, a graphical representation of our sustainability framework is shown below Sustainability Highlights 43 Wipro Sustainability Report Overview of our Sustainability Journey Wipro started its formal sustainability journey in 2001 with Wipro Cares, our community care program followed by Wipro Education in 2002, an initiative that addresses issues of systemic reforms in school education. Wipro earthian is our flagship program running in its ninth year which integrates education and sustainability into schools and colleges. This pursuit of good citizenship is a deliberative choice Wipro made in line with its core values of Wipro Over the years, our programs have expanded in scope and scale with significant initiatives getting added around ecology, workplace and employee engagement, customer stewardship, and suppliers. Running through these diverse programs is a common thread of thinking that reflects our position on sustainability Business wields enormous power and influence in today’s world, both, economic and sociopolitical. With this power comes the concomitant responsibility make a difference in the larger social context. For us, this starts with a set of foundational values as embodied in the Spirit of Wipro: ‘Be passionate about client success’, ‘Treat each person with respect’, ‘Be global and responsible’ and ‘Unyielding integrity in everything we do’. These values emphasize respect for all stakeholders and are the ethical bedrock of conducting business which is nonnegotiable under any circumstance In engaging with the issues of sustainability, business must do so in a manner that is consistent with its core drivers; a spirit of innovation, financial and operational rigor, a keen focus on outcomes are hallmark attributes of the business sector and these must inform business action in sustainability in equal measure. In the absence of this, the approach to sustainability is likely to be peripheral and hollow. What this also implies is that there is nothing that business must do that seems to be driven by the need to oblige or comply Related to the previous point is our conviction that we should be deeply engaged with our partners rather than treat it as an outsourcing exercise. This involvement must manifest in a carefully and deliberately chosen set of initiatives without spreading oneself thin. For similar reasons, we prefer to avoid using the term Corporate Social Responsibility as the term can be perceived to have a patronizing connotation to it; Sustainability is a more inclusive and appropriate term that suggests a proactive, comprehensive, and collaborative approach During the course of our sustainability journey, we have tried to establish a formal framework for our sustainability program which address proactively the concerns of our stakeholders as well as contribute to their well-being Sustainability Highlights 44 Wipro Sustainability Report We identified our workforce, customers, suppliers, proximate communities, civil society networks and future generations as our stakeholders with whom we share mutual relationship of interest, influence and impact. Our engagement with our stakeholders and our materiality assessment gave us insights into issues relevant to our business as well as stakeholders and identify possible areas of engagement. For more information on our stakeholder identification and materiality assessment, refer to section on ‘Materiality Determination’ We have formulated eight guiding principles to guide our approach to sustainability. The principles add to the rigor of our sustainability program. The principles are listed below and is discussed in detail in the subsequent sections Sustainability Governance: How we run our programs The sustainability governance mechanism at Wipro derives greatly from the above guiding principles. At Wipro, sustainability is every one’s job. The responsibility is spread across hierarchies, functions and businesses with multiple functions seeing themselves as key stakeholders in its success; among these, the Global Operations team, the People Function, the Investor Relations team and the Legal team play a major role in several of the programs. However, the oversight of sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our Chairman, Board of Governors and Group Executive Council Board Oversight The Board of Directors comprises 3 Executive and 8 Independent Directors. In keeping with the company’s Corporate Governance guidelines, the Board is comprised of a majority of Independent Directors. The Board of Directors has designated one Independent Director as Lead Independent Director. The Lead Independent Director is responsible for coordinating the activities of the other independent directors, and to perform various other duties. The general authority and responsibility of the Lead Independent Director are to be decided by the group of Independent Directors The nomination and selection process for appointing Directors is led by the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee. Nomination is governed by Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Board Nomination policy. Nomination criteria includes experience, expertise, and specific diversity factors such as Gender and Nationality, to promote diversity of composition and perspective. Further, importance is given to personal characteristics such as ‘awareness of the Company’s responsibilities to its customers, employees, suppliers, regulatory bodies, and the communities in which it operates’. Familiarization programs are conducted for newly appointed Directors, through meetings with key officials and senior business leaders. During these meetings, Directors are familiarized with the roles and responsibilities of Directors, as well as other specific aspects such as governance, strategy, and related matters Sustainability Highlights 45 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability governance at Wipro is informed by our strategic choice to work across both dimensions – business responsibility and social responsibility. Business responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its essential duties and obligations, and running its business with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of its operations is minimized. The second dimension of social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee is headed by an independent director, and also acts as the CSR Committee an apex body that oversees Wipro's sustainability policy and programs. The Committee comprising of entirely independent directors has the additional responsibility of reviewing the Company’s policies on Corporate Social Responsibility, including public issues of significance to the Company and its stakeholders This committee and the Chairman will discuss and sign off the goals and objectives along with the budgets of CSR programs at the beginning of every year. Subsequently, the sustainability team leadership will allocate the budgets in line with the defined priorities and goals. The sustainability/CSR leadership team also presents a quarterly report to the Chairman and the Board CSR Committee The Committee comprises Dr. Ashok Ganguly, Mr. N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens. During the financial year 2018-19, the Committee met four times and in each of the meetings, update on CSR initiatives were discussed Organization Structure The operating structure of Wipro’s multiple sustainability initiatives is based on the idea of building a Coalition or network of partners internal and external with nodal responsibility lying with a distinct group. The initiatives are handled by four functional groups at the corporate level which carry distinct responsibility and accountability but are part of a common sustainability charter under the Chief Sustainability Officer. The operational oversight of sustainability programs as well as reporting rests with Head of Sustainability. This includes the responsibility of formally reviewing and approving sustainability disclosures to ensure comprehensive reporting of material topics as well as seeking external assurance The sustainability organization includes four functional groups namely eco-eye, Wipro Cares, Wipro Education and Wipro earthian. The overarching responsibility for our sustainability charter rest with our Chief Sustainability Officer who reports to the Chairman. All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular planning and budgeting cycles of the company and are also reviewed by the group executive council • Carries the primary responsibility for sustainability programs at corporate Wipro Eco-Eye level. Also has the oversight of sustainability disclosures like GRI Sustainability report and Business Responsibility Report. wipro cares Wipro • Works on our community development Cares Wipro • Responsible to drive our education reform agenda Education Wipro • Wipro’s Sustainability education program for schools and college brings Earthain together two of our key concerns: Education and Sustainability Sustainability Highlights 46 Wipro Sustainability Report Collectively, these four programs pull together the different strands of our sustainability initiative and steers it in the defined direction. The reporting structure is illustrated below Responsibility Matrix All key organizational stakeholders have vested responsibilities related to planning, execution, evangelization, review, as well as advocacy of the sustainability agenda of the company. Given below is the responsibility matrix for our environment programs (energy, water, waste and biodiversity). Other sustainability programs have similar matrix pertinent to their operations Sustainability Highlights 47 Wipro Sustainability Report Transparency & Disclosure As a part of our philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards, transparency and accountability, disclosures are considered critical in the company. Disclosures help us adhere to regulatory requirements as well as in proactively informing and engaging with our various stakeholders. Due care is taken to disclose timely, consistent and accurate information through annual financial reports, sustainability reports and other public reports to shareholders and the public regarding financial performance, liabilities, control and ownership, and corporate governance issues We have been active participants in the major frameworks that assess the Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) performance of companies, e.g., the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE Russel ESG, MSCI ESG, the Carbon Disclosure Index, World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, Vigeo Sustainability Rating etc. Wipro has been consistently rated among the leaders, both globally and in India. Feedback attributes this to our comprehensive and well-defined framework of goals and inclusive stakeholder reach supported by a solid governance process External Advocacy: Collaboration for Change Given the fundamental axiom that sustainability is about maximizing social and environmental ‘good’, it requires an engagement template that emphasizes informed advocacy of the underlying issues amongst all stakeholders. Each stakeholder Business, Government, Academia, and Civil Society – brings a dynamic and energy to the table that is unique and complementary. We think that industry’s role must go beyond its own boundaries and should be one that seeks to vigorously promote advocacy of sustainability challenges. In doing so, the conscious emphasis must be on the difficult and the long term in preference to the easy and the short term Our areas of focus on policy and advocacy have centered on Water, Energy and Climate Change, e-Waste, Education and Diversity. We work through different industry platforms as well as with research partners who carry expertise in these domains Our primary identified stakeholders for public policy and advocacy are • Relevant government ministries and departments, both at the center and the states where we operate in; Our interactions have been largely with the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, and Ministry of Corporate Affairs • Industry networks and associations play a crucial role as catalysts for awareness, advocacy and action on the multiple dimensions of sustainability; by providing a common platform for industry representatives to share and exchange ideas and practices, industry association can help foster a virtuous cycle of feedback led improvement. Industry networks also lend strength and credibility in the dialogue process with government on important matters of policy and directives. The industry networks that we have been an integral part of are: • The CII-ITC Center of Sustainable Development • CII National Environment Committee • The CII led Indian Business for Biodiversity Initiatives (CIIIBBI) • The Leaders for Nature (LFN) framework of the India, Chapter of the International Union of Conservation Network • Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like Energy, Climate Change, Water, Biodiversity, Community Education, Health etc. require strong civil society involvement as the third pillar along with government policy and business engagement. NGOs and academic institutions, by combining the right blend of field work and academic rigor can generate valuable insights that can inform the work of practitioners, policy makers and industry professionals. Illustrative examples of such organizations that we work with are: Carbon Disclosure Project in the area of Climate Change, BIOME and ACWADAM in the area of Water and our network of nearly 72 education partners across the country Sustainability Highlights 48 Wipro Sustainability Report Advocacy Engagements Water, biodiversity, mobility and Waste Management • Water: continued to be a major area of collaborative focus for us in 2018-19. The major advocacy platforms that we have been deeply involved in are summarized below: • Urban Water: Participatory Ground Water Management (PGWM) and Wetland program seeks to address the pressing issue of water in Bangalore. It does this through a combination of scientific hydrogeology and the involvement several citizen groups as part of a unique decentralized governance framework. We have a similar project running in Pune through our partners ACWADAM, which has seen active engagement with the municipal authorities in the city • Biodiversity: Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues is through two national levels forums -the CII-India Business for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI). We have been supporting the “World Sparrow Day” and the “Wipro-Nature Forever Society Sparrow Awards” for the past five years • Waste Management: We continue to be part of the sub-committee on ‘Waste’ in the CII National Environment Committee. We are associated with “Reimagine Waste” hackathon for the past two years, being conducted in association with Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, Waste Ventures and other partners. We supported a study to understand the contribution of informal economy to waste and material recycling in Bengaluru. This study was done by Hasiru Dala in association with IIHS, Bengaluru. The study report will now be disseminated through workshops and a publication • Bangalore Sustainability Forum: This forum was set up in early 2018 and convened by Wipro along with the National Center for Biological Sciences. BSF brings together civil society, academia, research institutions and government with the broad goals of fostering curated interactions between different stakeholders on issues of urban sustainability. Over the past year, the forum has curated three retreats on the themes of Urban Water, Biodiversity and Climate Change • Mobility: Wipro became the first Indian major business to join EV 100 initiativea global initiative launched by The Climate Group which addresses this alarming concern by bringing together forward looking companies committed to accelerating the transition to electric vehicles (EVs) and making electric transport the new normal by 2030. Our initiative is in line with Government of India’s National E-Mobility Programme and country’s ambition of ensuring that 30% of all vehicles on the road are electric by 2030 Diversity Over the years, Wipro has participated in various eminent forums by bodies like SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management), NASSCOM, Catalyst, NHRDN (National HRD Network), UNGCNI etc. We continued our engagement with external stakeholders where we hold advisory board / core committee positions • Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender inclusion. Wipro is also one of the founding members of CII’s Business for Human Rights Initiatives Sustainability and CSR We continued to strengthen our participation in advocacy on the cause of corporate sustainability as a whole Wipro’s electronics city campus was awarded the Greenco Silver Rating by CII-GBC (Green Business Center). We were the first campus in IT Services sector to have received the award. The rating is provided based on 700 points performance covering energy efficiency, water conservation, renewable energy, GHG emission reduction, waste management, material conservation, green supply chain and other innovations As Co-Chair of the CII-GBC Greenco forum (Bangalore chapter), the goal is to drive the adoption of the ‘Greenco’ framework by the IT sector. The Greenco framework encourages companies to establish a multidimensional framework of ecological sustainability that spans the areas of Energy, Water, Waste, Biodiversity and Product Stewardship Speaking engagements in public forums play an important role in building sustainability awareness and advocacy. We actively participated as speakers in several events in previous years, some examples of which Sustainability Highlights 49 Wipro Sustainability Report are: the CRB’s India and Sustainability Standards conference, GRI Conference on Disability Reporting, the CII Annual Greenco Summit, and Sustainability workshops at IIM Bangalore, IIM Lucknow and MDI Gurgaon How do our Programs map with SDGs Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was adopted with the objective of stimulating action over the next 15 years in areas which are of critical importance for humanity and the planet. These goals focuses on achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions economic, social and environmental in a balanced and integrated manner. These goals call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet and covers a wide range of issues like poverty eradication, economic growth education, health, social protection, climate change, environmental protection Given the ambitious nature of the targets for 2030, magnitude of efforts required to achieve them and the scale of challenge, it is not possible to achieve the goals without meaningful partnership between different stakeholders. Businesses as drivers of economic growth and employment and a source of finance, technology and innovation is a key stakeholder and it has great potential to contribute towards the implementation of the SDGs. They can use SDGs as a framework to explore new opportunities and pursue responsibilities, thereby assisting in the implementation of the goals at national level At Wipro, we are actively working on multiple aspects of development which are aligned with the different themes of SDGs. Our initiatives and their alignment with the SDGS are explained alongside Sustainability Highlights 50 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 51 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 52 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 53 Wipro Sustainability Report Wipro & its Stakeholders Organizations do not exist in silos; it can be even said that every organization is the sum total of interactions with different stakeholders so as to create value for all parties involved either directly or indirectly. In such a system of interdependencies, engagement with stakeholders is central; however, over the past few decades, stakeholder engagement has become more than just interactions happening over the normal course of business. Engaging with stakeholders has a greater purpose of understanding risks and opportunities associated with the social, environmental and economic climate that a business is embedded in Summary of Stakeholder Engagement Customers Employees Rationale for Building relationships with People are at the core of a knowledge-based engagement (Key customers is core to organization like ours. Partnering with drivers / Benefits of / understanding their business employees to understand their expectations Risks of not needs and emerging trends. and feedback enable us to strengthen our engaging) Close engagement helps people processes and thereby strengthen Wipro to communicate unique our talent pool enabling better retention and differentiated value to outcomes customers Strategic objective Partnerships with customers to • To solicit feedback and employee of engagement meet their present and perception to enhance and improve emerging business information people processes and improve employee technology requirements satisfaction • To empower employees and provide them with voice in key people decisions Key material issues • Quality and timeliness of Empowerment, Continuous Learning , delivery Quality of Work, Work-Life balance, • Impact on customer’s Compensation & Benefits, Workplace business goals facilities, Health & Safety , Counseling and • Does Wipro meet the Advice, Diversity in the workplace, Career expected norms on planning, Appraisal and Feedback, Integrity environment, labor and and transparency at workplace, the human rights and corporate company's larger vision on sustainability and responsibility? social issues Steps taken to • Deeper engagement with • Enhanced communication and address stakeholder customer across levels collaboration forums to voice feedback • Develop better review, • Continuous review and improvements to concerns communication and existing processes feedback processes • Detailed analysis of employee satisfaction scores and survey feedback to close gaps Modes of Strategic and operational Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual ( 360 engagement reviews, Customer Meets, degree feedback) Formal customer feedback and surveys Primary internal The Chief Executive Officer, The Human Resources group, Environment custodian Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Health and Safety group ( joint responsibility Business Operations Officer, for health and safety) the Chief Quality Officer, Sales & Marketing functions & their teams Sustainability Highlights 54 Wipro Sustainability Report At Wipro, we look at stakeholder engagement as a sine qua non for fostering responsible and sustainable business practices that benefit both, the organization and the stakeholders. What follows is a summary representation of our engagement with the eight stakeholders. This acts as a valuable input to our materiality determination process Suppliers Investors Rationale for Supplier engagement helps Engaging with our investors helps gain engagement (Key reduce risks from quality and diverse perspectives on business strategy disruption of services and performance. It also helps us drivers / Benefits of / proactively communicate our performance Risks of not and future plans which in turn can help engaging) strengthen our brand Strategic objective Partnerships with suppliers to To communicate our strategy and of engagement meet diverse business operations performance as well as our views on requirements economic environment; To seek feedback on our performance • Ease of doing business with • Corporate governance Key material issues Wipro across the Order to • Financial performance Payment life cycle • Labor & Human rights • Ability to meet corporate • Attrition responsibility requirements • Compliance with regards to ethical business conduct, social practices and • Communication Steps taken to Strengthen our governance systems and address stakeholder • Capacity building Processes concerns • Collaboration with suppliers Modes of Regular operational reviews, Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, engagement Supplier meets, Vendor survey Investor meets, Analyst conferences, Primary internal Central Procurement Office, Chief Strategy Officer custodian Wividus Shared Services, Facility Management Group The Education ecosystem: Communities and Civil Society Networks Partners and Academic Institutes Rationale for Education is one of the strategic The imperative for business to engage engagement (Key long term community engagement deeply with communities and society drivers / Benefits of / programs identified as force stems from the fundamental axiom that for Risks of not multipliers for effecting social business to flourish, the fabric of society engaging) change and sustainable must be strong development. It is one of Wipro's main planks of societal engagement Strategic objective Developing a good understanding To engage on systemic issues that are of engagement and capacity building of civil force multipliers for social change and society organizations working in sustainable development school education is the core objective of our education program Sustainability Highlights 55 Wipro Sustainability Report • Quality of education in • Education for disadvantaged children Key material issues schools e.g. children of migrant laborers, • Teacher capacity children with hearing disability etc. development • Primary healthcare for rural • Understanding of good communities education • Environment issues that affect • Availability of resource disadvantaged communities e.g. organizations and people in Water, solid waste specific areas in school • Long term rehabilitation for disaster education affected area • Facilitating mutual learning Steps taken to Designing programs to address the among partner organizations address stakeholder specific through annual partners’ concerns forum needs of the communities with whom we • Cross leveraging the learning are associated. from diverse partner experiences through our engagement with partners Modes of Periodic visits, conference calls, Periodic meetings with partners, open engagement email, reviews, reports of meets with community, Partner newsletters workshops or events, Frequency 34 times a year for each Varies from monthly to quarterly partner/project Primary internal Wipro's CSR group , Wipro Wipro's CSR group, Wipro Cares, Location Custodian education the school education team leadership Governments and policy networks The young citizen and future generations Rationale for Corporations must engage with The young citizen has enormous potential engagement (Key government as part of the larger as a change agent and in creating lasting drivers / Benefits of / charter of bringing about systemic positive impact to the environment and Risks of not changes in society through society. Trying to safeguard the interests of engaging) legislation, policies and directives. future generations is a fundamental act of responsibility leading to Strategic objective To participate meaningfully and to To ensure a safe and sustainable planet of engagement influence policy directions for for future generations. larger social good • India's policies on climate • Ecological sustainability of our planet Key material issues change, energy efficiency, at a local, national and global level water, e-waste, biodiversity • Issues of inclusiveness and fairness and ICT for social change • Meaningful work and livelihoods • Legislation policies on workplace inclusion, labor and human rights • The role of corporate social responsibility • Taxation legislation in the countries we operate In Sustainability Highlights 56 Wipro Sustainability Report Steps taken to Active involvement in both, policy Design and execution of several projects address stakeholder formulation and in a more general that addresses societal and environmental concerns process of debate and problems beyond the scope of business dialog on various challenges of development and sustainability Modes of Planned meetings, workshops, Indirect inference from our school and engagement taskforces and steering college interventions as well as with committees of industry network Wipro's employees bodies Frequency Varies from monthly to annual Primary internal Corporate Affairs group, Senior Human Resources Group, Wipro's Custodian Leadership, Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Group, Wipro sustainability team team Sustainability Highlights 57 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 58 Wipro Sustainability Report Workplace Sustainability Introduction Enterprises and the International Labor Organization’s declaration on Fundamental Principles & Rights at Our people are our core and as an organization we Work (1998). While these provide the guidelines and are committed to their holistic and sustainable direction for responsible business conduct at a global development. We firmly believe that we cannot build a level, our policies are shaped and customized by local great business without being able to attract, retain and regulations and law of the land nurture the best available talent. We are committed to partnering with employees and strengthening our Policies & Principles talent pool by providing them with growth, career enhancement opportunities and a safe and secure At Wipro, respect for human rights is highly cherished. workplace. Today, we have a large and diverse We would never create a policy or a process which workforce (170,000+ employees of 125 nationalities knowingly compromises any aspect of our employees’ working for us as on 31st March 2019) and we rights and privileges. Some examples where we have continuously design and implement processes and positively shaped our processes to include aspects of programs to foster people development, leadership human rights is listed below: development and skill enhancements among our • Our Company-wide Code of Business Conduct global teams (COBC): Our COBC (available publicly on our company website) imbibes our commitment for Business Context human rights and zero tolerance for discrimination at all stages of the employee Our people centric interventions are driven by the lifecycle. Our COBC applies to all employees, dynamic business landscape we operate in. Today, members of the board of Directors as well as to innovations like artificial intelligence, automation and contractors, sub-contractors, retainers or any analytics are disrupting traditional business models, other such basis. As suppliers serve as an and opening up newer opportunities and revenue extension of the Company, and their conduct and streams. Continuous learning is key to staying behavior while carrying on business for / behalf relevant in any industry and more so in the IT and ITeS of Wipro can impact Wipro’s reputation, are expected to be in compliance with the COBC. All sector. Organizations are moving away from being suppliers are also mandated to sign & confirm process-centric to becoming experience-centric in their acceptance to our Supplier Code of order to attract, nurture and retain the best global Conduct available publicly (SCOC.) Our values talent and code of conduct are socialized at multiple times in the employee life-cycle through Human Rights & Values at Wipro touchpoints like induction and onboarding, classroom sessions, all hands meets, awareness Our Approach & Commitment: We believe mailers/posters and through our mandatory that economic value cannot be sustained unless it is online COBC certification which all employees undertake every year.. created on a foundation of ethics and responsibility. Creating a safe and empowered workplace with a • Human Rights Policy: Wipro Human Rights culture that drives equal opportunity, nonpolicy is published on the company website and discrimination, meritocracy and one in which is intended to express Wipro’s active commitment to do business with ethical values employees feel ‘listened to’ are therefore our core and embrace practices that supports priorities. We imbibe these principles in all our environment, human rights, and labor laws processes like hiring, compensation, access to globally. Our commitment to uphold and promote training, promotions, etc. and do not engage in or human rights and interests of our global support discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, workforce is long-standing and integrated in our race, caste, religion, age, disability, gender and sexual Code of Business Conduct & Ethics (COBC). Our Human Rights Policy is aligned to globally or political orientation. Our people practices are accepted standards and frameworks like the U.N. shaped by the Spirit of Wipro values, Code of Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration of Business Conduct (COBC), as well as principles of the Human Rights and International Labor U.N. Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration of Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration) Sustainability Highlights 59 Wipro Sustainability Report Our commitment to human rights covers • Benefits and engagement of extended/contract employees, suppliers, clients, communities and workforce countries across geographies where we do • Unconscious bias at the workplace business. Wipro is also one of the founding members of CII’s Business for Human Rights Mitigation Policies/Processes Initiative We have created specific interventions to tackle these • Ombuds and Sexual Harassment: We have established committees / processes like the issues Ombuds process, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee, Audit/Risk & • Contract Employee Engagement: We engage Compliance committees and an Inclusion & contract employees for infrastructure support at Diversity Council to review progress and our offices in India. The duration of engagement formulate strategies to address material issues varies depending upon the project and role. We pertaining to compliance, safety and a have created eLearning modules on COBC, harassment-free workplace. We keep our Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) and employees informed about these processes data privacy for them. Chatbots have been through trainings, mailers and internal social introduced to clarify any doubts that employees media platforms. may have on policies and guidelines. We also proactively conduct open houses for our contract • Freedom of Association – We respect the right of employees across India where we address their employees to free association without fear of concerns /queries, take feedback and provide reprisal, discrimination, intimidation or them career guidance. Specific concerns on harassment. Our employees are represented by delayed claims, role change and location formal employee representative groups in certain change, among others are actively addressed. geographies including Continental Europe and Latin America which constitute about 3.4% of our • Sensitization on Unconscious Bias: As workforce with a further 2.5% under collective mentioned above, under the umbrella of our bargaining agreements. Our HR representatives #BreaktheBias campaign, we have monthly meet these groups periodically to inform and leadership blogs, mailers and a mandatory econsult on any change that can impact their learning module which raise awareness among terms and conditions / work environment. employees on how they can eliminate biases at the workplace. Around 9000 employees have been trained till date on the e-module since Q3 FY 2019. The campaign also includes scenario Risk Identification Process based quiz questions with focus on various We have established committees/processes like the aspects of inclusion Ombuds process, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Approach to workplace Committee, EPS, Audit/Risk & Compliance committees, EHS and an Inclusion & Diversity Council sustainability to review progress and formulate strategies to address To create agile yet sustainable people processes we issues pertaining to compliance, safety and a have looked at the Human Resource function from the harassment-free workplace. We keep our employees stand point of a value chain. Our human capital value informed about these processes regularly through chain consists of people strategies which are based trainings, mailers and internal social media platforms. on current and future business requirements We have also started a process of Human Rights discussed above. Our policies, processes and Audit in association with the industry body, systems flow from these strategies which encompass Confederation of Indian Industries (CII). The study is the lifecycle of our employees. Finally, the outcomes designed to identify any risk of Human Rights of these people interventions are reflected through our violations or gaps in any of our own operations or in people result indicators, which directly or indirectly the extended supply chain contribute to the intellectual, social, natural and financial capital of Wipro. Throughout this value chain, Identified Risks our strategies, processes and policies reflect an unflinching commitment to the Spirit of Wiproour Through various audits and feedback, we have values as well as globally recognized principles of identified the following as potential risks to Human business responsibility and human rights Rights Sustainability Highlights 60 Wipro Sustainability Report People Strategy soliciting and acting on this feedback determines our performance in processes like talent attraction, Our people strategies are geared to create learning engagement, and retention. We conducted our annual opportunities, build careers, and foster an Employee Perception Survey (EPS) to gather empowering and inclusive culture where our employee feedback which acts as an input to the employees find meaning in what they do while they materiality determination process. Additionally, our create value for Wipro. The following are the pillars of customers, investors and peer organizations also our people strategy which we believe will yield long influence our people value chain and provide term sustainable people results for both Wipro and its perspectives on material issues & risks. Finally, the employees: geo-political situations, particularly in markets where we have high dependencies also form a vital input to Cultural Transformation our people strategy. The key platforms of engagement We aim to build an inclusive and empowering work and issues identified for aspects pertaining to human environment focussed on enhancing employee capital, are summarized in the table below experiences, localization and talent optimization Career Reimagined Our focus is to hire the right individuals, assimilate them quickly, develop leadership and create an internal pipeline and mobility of talent to build a futureready organization Building Capability Anticipating and developing future skills and behavioural competencies is vital to Wipro’s long-term sustainability. We continue to invest in skill enhancement across levels, with a focus on upskilling and building Digital capabilities to drive innovation Digitization, Analytics and AI We are proactively adopting digital trends and automating our people processes. We use digitalization and talent analytics to enhance employee experiences and drive business outcomes which result in employee delight Understanding Material Aspects While our values are at the core of our actions, we believe that it is only through focused and continuous engagement with our stakeholders that we can build a truly inclusive and empowered enterprise. These inputs are gathered as part of our materiality determination effort, as well as from feedback received through social audits and assessments. Aspects that stand out as most critical and vital to the organization as well as stakeholders, are identified as the top areas of materiality, for action and reporting. Our analysis of employees’ perception, expectation and feedback forms a primary input in designing our talent management processes. Our approach to Sustainability Highlights 61 Wipro Sustainability Report Influencing Current and Emerging Areas of Focus and Material Aspects and Stakeholders Impact Topics Identified Simplification of people processes to enhance workplace experience Skill building to address emerging technology capability areas Employees Career growth opportunities Capability building of managers Comprehensive compensation & benefits Well-being and safety Helping customers solve their business problems and create competitive differentiation for them in the market. Enhanced focus on operational efficiencies in the immediate term Driving expertise and reskilling towards technologies of the future -Hiring & Onboarding -Performance and Talent Customer Diversity & Inclusion Management System -Learning and Need for collaboration, co-creation and learning Development agility -Employee Wellbeing -Employee Engagement Employee well-being and safety and Communication Heightened focus on social aspects of supply chain -Inclusion and Diversity Increased focus on compliance with Global standards Alignment with sustainability frameworks like Dow Investors Jones Sustainability Index Peer Talent attraction & retention strategy organizations Talent Pool availability Macro-economic and financial systems, government, civil society, regulatory bodies High dependency on US and European markets Others Emergence of multiple low-cost English-speaking destinations Risks to offshore business models Changes in immigration laws / regulations Sustainability Highlights 62 Wipro Sustainability Report Hiring & Onboarding Governance Localization figures are published in the Annual Approach & Commitment Report of the company Wipro follows a well-established approach to hiring On a quarterly basis diversity hiring metrics and and onboarding. We have a robust process to source initiatives are reported to the CEO and the Inclusion and select the best talent, both for entry-level roles as and Diversity Council well as lateral hires through our website, channel partners, job fairs, campus placements, and internal job postings. Our comprehensive onboarding program Performance & Talent Management helps assimilate new talent seamlessly within the organization. We also partner with various universities Approach & Commitment to build teams in accordance with client expectations • Our development-focused performance management system is based on the principles Policies & principles of meritocracy, fairness and transparency. Our quarterly review process, introduced in 2016, We are an equal opportunity employer and focus on continues to be a robust platform to encourage meritocracy at all stages of the hiring and deployment feedforward discussions that are candid, process, including role-mapping and remuneration. constructive and meaningful. The appraisal Our comprehensive onboarding program aided by process begins with setting goals and objectives best-in-class systems, help assimilate new talent (Goals and Objectives) for the quarter. Organizational goals are cascaded to each seamlessly within Wipro. The program includes employee through role-based objectives. Each mandatory sessions on the Spirit of Wipro and objective has mutually defined measures of Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the workplace performance (MOP). The process is designed to ensure emphasis on feed forward discussions. Focus Areas Before the manager submits comments and ratings on system at the end of every quarter, • Localization continues to be a strategic focus for employee's performance in previous quarter, our talent agenda and we have made focus areas for the next quarter, strengths and considerable progress in this area in our key development areas are discussed. Online markets. We have been significantly investing in coaching modules are made available to US in terms of increased hiring & setting up of managers on having effective discussions. A 3delivery centers question feedback survey is also triggered to the • In FY 2019, we moved towards digitalizing and employee to rate the quality of discussions with exploring new channels for our campus hiring their Managers. A 360-degree feedback is in process. For the first time, we conducted a place for mid and senior management roles. An National Level Talent Hunt for engineering Agile Performance Management system is in graduates in India with over 95,800 applicants place for specific job requirements of certain roles • Our recruitment process has become more inclusive with diversity-focused sourcing and • 360 degree developmental feedback (Wipro engaging with veterans in the U.S.A. We Leadership Qualities): Our WLQ (Wipro consciously want to increase our diverse talent Leadership Qualities) survey covered employees pool across levels, hence one of our key talent in middle and senior level roles. Peers, criteria is on diversity hiring, subject to principles reportees, clients and other stakeholders provide of meritocracy. For example, we realize that one online feedback against defined leadership of the key levers to hire gender-diverse talent is qualities and Wipro Values. A comprehensive ensuring that we have enough gender-diverse report is generated for each manager basis the profiles at the applicant stage. Hence, we have scores, ratings and qualitative feedback recorded appropriately modified our systems and in the survey programs to track the same • Succession Planning: Post the appraisal • Global 100 Program continues to be a key focus process Talent Review and Planning (TRP) is and has successfully brought in diverse talent undertaken. This helps to define talent strategy across the globe who are engaged in impactful for respective business units for the year, identify work and are groomed into potential leaders of the top talent and have succession planning in the future place. The TRP process is for critical, senior and executive management roles. Additionally, each Sustainability Highlights 63 Wipro Sustainability Report Unit also has a formal Talent Review and Additionally intuitive reports and streamlining the Planning process to identify, train and develop process becomes key levers to make the overall key resources. Executive coaching is provided to experience seamless and robust top leadership to facilitate their all-round • Talent Management: Our ability to identify and development groom talent is one of the strategic differentiators • Role Based Assessments: Role-based for us. Therefore creating the correct form of assessments are conducted for key roles (e. g. assessments, assessing the right qualities, Program Manager, Delivery Manager, Architects) setting up of domain academies, rotating talent for new hires and role aspirants. These and improving the standard of our leadership assessments are based on a group of development coaching becomes key for us. parameters identified for a role holder to Placing appropriate development plans and successfully perform in the role. These help the interventions are also crucial to overall success organization, to take data based decisions for of creating a strong talent pipeline role movements and learning & development initiatives. It helps the individuals to prepare Governance: Individual development plan/ change roles based The entire Performance Management, Talent on assessment centre output Management, Assessment and Executive Coaching is • Skill based learning programs linked to talent taken care by multiple dedicated central teams and management processesWipro also weaves in governed by global and geography specific policies a culture of continuous learning through like Policy on Rotation, Promotion etc. These teams programs such as TrendNxt and DigitalNxt, covering 20,000+ employees in our IT sector. improve upon the policies and process continuously These are skill based learning platforms that based on feedback and research. Units have their empower employees to take charge of their SPOCs for these process who make sure on the careers by continuously expanding their technical ground execution is smooth and seamless. The ability knowledge. Employees can choose from a range to identify great performance, differentiate talent and skills to undergo trainings & acquire hands on reward and nurture the same creates sustainable experience, eventually giving online competitive advantage in the kind of knowledge assessments to get certified. Employees earn credits for each skill mastered, & these credits industry Wipro operates in form threshold points for progression nominations Learning and Development • Internal Fulfilment: Talent Marketplace, an online platform has enabled internal role Approach & Commitment fulfilment for senior roles. The objective of the initiative is to connect the right talent to available We have a comprehensive Learning and opportunities within the organization Development program which caters to the behavioral, technical and leadership needs of our workforce. Our Policies and Principles curriculum includes classroom courses, on-the-job• Our Performance and Talent Management trainings, blended learning, social learning, mentoring processes are designed to achieve holistic and gamified modules to suit the diverse needs of the development for all our employees through participants. We continuously align our learning and performance differentiation, transparency, and development investments with the business effective evaluation imperatives as well as the evolving expectations of our Focus Areas employees. We believe, that these programs help build capabilities in new and emerging technologies, • Performance management system: which in turn enables our employees to deliver value encourages continuous meaningful feedback and to our clients, leading to better Customer Satisfaction discussion between the manager and the employee. Creating tools to help managers Scores (CSAT) overcome unconscious bias, and have fruitful discussions is one of the main levers for a great Policies & principles performance management system • Alignment of the organizational strategy to • WLQ: Identifying the qualities that are relevant to individual needs: In the face of changing client our values, business environment and business expectations and the advent of rapidly changing strategy and continually updating the same is technologies, it has become imperative to have a one of the key foci of the WLQ process platform that equips the organization with Sustainability Highlights 64 Wipro Sustainability Report futuristic skills and competencies. Anticipating transform our employees across roles to be and defining future needs and developing these digital and adopt a digital way of workingcompetencies in the employees is vital to • Foundational Digital courses “Digital 101” where organizational sustainability. Wipro offers foundation level knowledge on digital areas is multiple learning & development opportunities to provided 90000 employees covered employees at various stages of their career. These are aimed at upskilling, cross-skilling, and • Immersive (60-120 hr) training for professionals reskilling through a number of training programs 2000 employees covered, where deeper hands in technical, domain, soft skills, and leadership on experience is provided aspects. While dedicated teams identify learning needs at an organizational level, employees • Digital transformation program partake in identifying their individual learning “Accelerating Digital Aptitude aDapt”: A high needs through appraisals, feedback surveys, and number of delivery managers and Delivery career tools Heads trained-this program has enabled project delivery leaders to understand methodologies in • Capability Building: Capability building and executing and managing digital projects. career development initiatives at Wipro encompass building awareness on career paths, • Building Capability: We have engaged more identifying developmental areas for current & than 7,600 senior and middle level managers aspired role through a rigorous performance effectively in workshops such as Global management process, mentorship, and building Executive Leadership Program, Global Business capability through training & assessments. Our Leaders Program, ADROIT, EMPOWER, Design infrastructure supports both traditional and ‘newThinking, Win More: Account Mining for Growth, gen’ ways of learning. While dedicated facilities among others. We have sustained interventions like learning centers, training labs are used for like LeadNxt, Global 100, India 200, PRiSM, instructor led classroom sessions, enterprise Your Career Your Choice, Women in Leadership solutions like 24 x7 access to e-Learning and Leading Global Teams to manage key modules, WebEx, Video Based learnings, aspects such as customer focus, leadership simulation based learning, etc. are being widely development, diversity and inclusion. Over adopted, providing convenient and flexible 50,000 employees across various levels were learning environment trained in behavioural skills including communication, customer service, and more to Focus Areas ensure faster assimilation in the organization • Equal Opportunity to Learn, Anytime, • Mentoring Networks: We have launched Anywhere 55,000+ employees are using Mentoring Networks, a platform where TopGear, a social learning and crowdsourcing employees can find, connect and sustain platform. Through this platform 7,841 real-life meaningful mentoring relationships project challenges were completed by these • Building Foundational Talent: We ensure employees in FY 2019. We have created 250+ campus recruits learn behavioural skills through learning videos which are accessible on mobile. a mandatory three-day program, EMERGE. We We have enabled learning through social impart communication skills and customer learning platforms, revamped our Learning orientation to employees through such Management System and put special emphasis interventions on hands-on trainings and assessments. We provide equal learning opportunities to all our Governance employees, where they can nominate themselves for any technical or behavioral course of their choice and get trained Management review of Talent training strategy • Digital Upskilling: To keep pace with the speed at which Wipro is growing in the Digital space we A structured governance mechanism is in place to have created a structured, multi-pronged review the progress on learning initiatives derived program to impart Digital like Fullstack, from talent strategy. These reviews are done on SDET,AI-ML, microservices, Decision Weekly, Monthly and Quarterly basis by L&D Head, science, Machine Learning (ML), IoT, COO and CEO respectively. The variances on plan blockchain, Cloud, Mobility, DevOps) to our employees -junior, middle and seniors. We have versus actual learning accomplishments are enabled over 133,000 employees in digital skills discussed and appropriate support or direction is as of FY 2019. Learning is provided at 3 levels provided to make corrections. We also track the (Awareness, Knowledge & Immersive) to Sustainability Highlights 65 Wipro Sustainability Report efficiency of our Talent Strategy through are outlined in detailed policy documents and are improvements in the Employee Satisfaction Scores available to all employees on the company intranet. In order to familiarize the human resources teams on the compensation Employee Well-being philosophy and benefits across geographies and empower them to answer employee queries, an Approach & Commitment in-house Compensation and Benefits (C & B) certification program is held every year in A safe workplace is a fundamental human right and multiple batches. Additionally, organizational / business unit level sessions are also held to we are committed to providing this to all our create awareness amongst employees through employees, partners and visitors to Wipro facilities. avenues like HR-facilitated workshops, chat Through our programs, we believe in influencing all sessions, webinars, teleconferencing and mailers aspects of an employee’s life – including physical, mental and emotional wellbeing. Every year, through Focus Areas the mandatory certification of our Code of Business The focus areas for Employee Wellbeing remains, Conduct, we reinforce our commitment towards a Physical, Emotional and Financial Wellbeing: healthy, safe and harassment-free workplace and evangelize individual responsibilities of each Physical well-being employee • Safety Standards: We have implemented strict safety standards at all our facilities and Policies & Principles operations, based on global best practices and • Physical Wellbeing: Protection of employees regulatory requirements. We have well-defined from injury or occupational disease is a major policies and standard operating procedures to continuing objective. We continue to enhance ensure the safety of women employees inside safety & security at the workplace by prescribing and outside the campus. These include Safety policies & procedures, creating awareness and Awareness Programs, Global 24x7 Security imparting trainings. Protection of employees from Command Centre, cab pick-up/ drop facility with injury or occupational disease is a major escort, mobile apps to confirm “Safe Reach”, continuing objective. Ergonomic related illnesses among others and upper respiratory infections are material for • Risk Assessment: Wipro has established, our workforce. We have institutionalized health implemented and maintained a Risk Assessment and safety processes including trainings for procedure for ongoing hazard identification, risk service providers, risk assessments, ergonomic assessment and determination of necessary session for employees, vaccination campus, controls, considering all the requirements of the health awareness sessions and regular cafeteria OHSAS 18001:2007 Standard. We conduct food inspections. There is special focus on periodic as well as annual assessments of our aspects such as women’s safety, assistance to campuses/offices, employees, stakeholders and persons with disability, emergency response, and service providers as a part of this process. preventive health & safety measures Environment, Occupational Health & Safety • Emotional Wellbeing: We want people to be at management systems in our campuses conform their productive best and hence we want to to international standards such as 14001/OHSAS create an inclusive and harassment-free 18001 and are certified by accredited third party workplace. Processes like employee counselling agencies. Besides internal and other third-party service and grievance handling mechanisms are audits, EHS experts assess every unit at periodic in place. We have institutionalized key policies intervals not exceeding six months, to ensure like health and safety policy, prevention of sexual compliance to statutory norms and EHS harassment policy and a robust grievance requirements redressal system (Ombuds) • Safety and security: Wipro has voluntarily • Financial Wellbeing: Wipro’s compensation and committed to providing best-in-class ‘duty of benefits program takes an integrated approach care’ support to our global and diverse workforce and provides a range of options for better of over 170,000 employees and 100,000 unique financial and social security including taxbusiness travellers spanning over 230 cities managing options, insurance & medical worldwide. Wipro has a dedicated Global packages, assistance in managing financial and Security Command Centre, run by the Global personal issues, retrials, etc. The compensation Security Group, to mitigate risks and ensure & benefits programs available in each geography safety for a globally mobile workforce. The Foresight & Analysis (F&A) Division proactively Sustainability Highlights 66 Wipro Sustainability Report and continually assesses global developments to Emotional well-being provide business with various risk briefs and forecasts, and carries out country risk • Mitr is our employee counselling and support assessments to provide insight to business forum in India. It enables employees to reach out teams on the operating environment, before they to counsellors 24x7 in-person and/or on phone to even enter a market. We have well-defined seek assistance for issues pertaining to personal policies and standard operating procedures to or professional life. In geographies outside India, ensure the safety of women employees inside we have employee counselling services provided and outside the campus. These include Safety as a part of Employee Assistance Programs Awareness Programs, Global 24x7 Security • Ombuds: We have a robust ombuds process Command Centre, cab pickup/ drop facility with which allows employee, contractors, vendors, to escort, mobile apps to confirm “Safe Reach”, raise a grievance or complaint without any fear of among others reprisal. The team does a trend analysis basis • Sensitization: We have institutionalized various the complaints received by them to identify the channels that raise awareness, foster dialogue root causes and accordingly highlight the same and provide opportunities for employees to give to top management. Recommendations are also feedback. Over the years, our engagement shared with Audit, Risk & Compliance Board programs have evolved to cater to our diverse which result in process improvements thereby workforce building a stronger governance mechanism • Participation in committees: All our facilities • Sexual Harassment: Our Prevention of Sexual have safety committees which meet quarterly Harassment (PSH) committee ensures that all and participate in risk assessments, safety grievances (globally) are resolved expeditiously inspections, incident investigations and hygiene and in an unbiased manner through defined audits. 3500+ permanent and contract procedures. The team also focuses on inducting employees participated in committees on safety, and increasing the number of members of the food, transport, etc. across India, to represent the PSHC team to ensure presence across all interests of the workforce locations and Geos which in turn would lead to increasing number of education and awareness • Coverage of Training: All employees and sessions regarding PSH among employees as contractors working for Wipro undergo the well as faster resolution of cases highlighted. The necessary Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) team conducts proactive quarterly internal audits training to ensure they meet with the standard of on closed cases that were reported and actions competence required by law in performing their taken. A deeper assessment of such PSHC duties cases has brought to the fore that more trainings • Health: All our campuses meet on unconscious bias & workplace gender Indian/International standards on hygiene, sensitivity & inclusion would need to be lighting, ventilation and effective controls on organized globally across locations noise and dust. Wipro has 24 Occupational Health Centers with adequate medical staff to Financial well-being monitor occupational health and provide • We continually strive to provide our full-time and immediate relief, when required. Wellness events part-time employees with compensation are conducted to raise awareness on fitness and packages commensurate with their skills and health among our workforce experience. Our programs are reviewed • Cafeteria: A Food Safety Standards Authority of intermittently to ensure relevance to today’s India (FSSAI) license is mandatory for vendors changing workforce and mirrors the latest operating within Wiproowned locations in India. industry offerings, based on the region’s local Regular inspections and audits are conducted by regulations / laws and norms. Allowances and internal and external teams to ensure compliance benefits are further customized for employees who travel outside their home country for short• FitforLife: Our physical wellbeing program that term project deputation, to suit immediate encourages employees to remain fit and lead a financial / settling-in needs. Standard benefits healthy lifestyle. We have a special Wellness like leave plans, insurance, retrials (contribution Corner mobile app and a web portal that to / provision of retirement plans / provides employees access to health trackers superannuation schemes in accordance with and a host of other online services to enhance local laws & industry practices) and other their physical wellbeing. emoluments are provided to our full-time and fixed-term employees, based on the country of operation and law of land Sustainability Highlights 67 Wipro Sustainability Report • Parental Leave: Our return to work rate for male from the representative employees. The risk employees availing parental leave has typically assessment is evaluated every year and also as and been close to 100% , hence we closely track and when the accidents / incidents / near misses are monitor return to work ratio for women noticed. Employees, stakeholders and Service employees which is around 90%. We continue to scale our flexibility initiatives for women providers are part of this risk assessment. Our internal employees through various leave options, onsite audit team conducts checks on the effective day care centers and wellness benefits implementation of ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 standard requirements every 6 months by involving • We have been providing long term incentives by granting restricted stock units (RSU’s) since cross functional teams. 20 locations in India and 8 in 2004, towards long term retention of key talent. Australia are certified or ISO 14001 and OHSAS We continue to drive a high-performance culture 18001 through our variable pay programs. Our management compensation is now more closely Apart from the Internal Audits, the corporate internal aligned with organizational objectives and audit team also conducted the audit at selected commitments, and rewards higher performance, locations to check the effectiveness on the closure of significantly the gaps identified in internal audits and the report is submitted to the senior management as part of the Management Reviews. In addition to this, we also Governance participate in client audits Taking cognizance that employee well-being and safety is an aspect which impacts at various focal Employee Engagement and points, the overall responsibility for health & safety is assumed by the HR, EHS, Audit, Risk and Communication Compliance team. Around 80% of our workforce works in locations across India and majority of them Approach & Commitment work from Wipro facilities. Taking this into account, we Communicating and engaging with our workforce have established a core EHS team with city-wise EHS fosters a sustainable employer employee relationship. coordinators who drive compliance to standard We have several channels of communication at Wipro procedures defined at a corporate level. The EHS both formal as well as informal. To facilitate open Team along with stakeholder and service providers channels of feedback and communication within the organize awareness programs on health and safety, organization, on our values, rights, policies and thereby impacting performance on health and safety processes, apart from sending regular updates via aspects. We have established a robust and an org-wide mailers, we have instituted town halls, integrated Risk Assessment process for Initial Yammer blogs, Wipro Meets’ sessions with the CEO Environmental Review and Hazard Identification. We and senior leadership teams as well as group and conduct periodic as well as annual assessments of our individual connect sessions with the human resources campuses/offices teams. We also engage with our employees on various platforms some through formal channels like Major locations exceeding 2000 employees have Work Councils and unions in countries like Germany safety committees which meet quarterly and while others being as informal as hosting a debate on participate in risk assessments, safety inspections, our internal social networking site Yammer incident investigations and hygiene audits. Remaining locations report work place hazards in the HSE portal Policies & Principles and get discussed in city-wise committee meetings. Employees also record their observations on under We believe that employees become empowered only various categories like Major/ Minor/ First-Aid / Near when they are aware of the policies and processes misses etc. through our intranet portal. Decisions that impact them and when they can truly participate taken during these meetings are communicated along in the consultation process. With this in view, we have with corrective actions and target dates in order to institutionalized various channels that create minimize risks. These committees bring together awareness, foster dialogue, and provide opportunities stakeholders at various levels to promote positive for employees to give feedback. Over the years, our occupational health & safety culture. The safety focus on participative engagement has increased and committee meetings represent 100% participation our programs have been more closely aligned to cater Sustainability Highlights 68 Wipro Sustainability Report to our diverse and multi-generational workforce. • Human Rights Due Diligence & Assessment International justice, empathy and continuous Structured interventions like our grievance interactions with our employees are the cornerstones Redressal process of Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) and Ombuds, Employee of our engagement and communications initiatives Perception Survey (EPS), Contract Employee Engagement, governance reviews with Health Focus Areas Committees, Audit Risk & Compliance Board and • Yammer Yammer is a private social network for Inclusion & Diversity Council, help us to Wipro and is built around open communication. proactively identify and mitigate risks on human Yammer is leveraged to get feedback on projects rights and any other organization processes. Our and initiatives, share best practices and also due diligence & assessment process has resolve support issues. Yammer groups allow identified the following impacted groups/issues -i) members to participate in discussions with benefits extended to contract workforce ii) colleagues from across the globe, join unconscious bias at workplace hobby/interest clubs, take part in employee • Contract Employee Engagement: Our focus on engagement initiatives, facilitate YamJam with responsible people practices extends across our leaders. Since its launch in 2014, we have had people value chain and covers our contract over 106,000 users, who shared over 2.3 million employees as well. The Partner Employee messages, and formed 11,000 groups. It is Engagement (PEET) team consists of human currently the largest social engagement tool in resource professionals and undertakes Wipro responsibilities like induction and orientation, • Microsoft Teams MS Teams is the hub for performance management, engagement, teamwork that integrates all the people, content, retention, rewards and recognition, training and and tools that teams needs to be more engaged career development etc. for contract employees and effective. MS Teams helps to communicate deployed on IT delivery projects. The PEET team through Chat, Meetings & Calls to keep everyone drives various initiatives like client site visits to in the know. To enable collaboration, it is meet contractor employees to understand needs integrated with Office 365 apps (e.g. Task and concerns, driving programs to build capacity, management with Planner app), MS Teams can facilitating conversion of contract employees into be public (Open to all, e.g. Block chain at Wipro) retainers or full time employees etc. Quarterly / or private for team members closely working Half yearly / annual audits are conducted by together on shared goals (e.g. A customer PRO (Partner Relation Office) on the empaneled project or Operations Management). Since its partner to ensure that they comply with the launch in 2017, we have had over 36,000 users statutory and labour compliance. The PRO using Microsoft Teams with 60,000+ team (Partner Relation Office) is responsible for conversations across mobile/desktop/browser vendor selection and management; it ensures channels compliance of partner agencies to legal and statutory employment norms. Audits are • Wipro On-air In February 2017, we pilot conducted on the empaneled partner to ensure launched Wipro On-air, an in-house podcast that they comply with the human rights, statutory series in Bangalore to spur employee and labour compliance. Major updates in this engagement, share corporate messages and area are: bring teams together. Since its launch in 2017, it has received over 600,000 hits over 50 podcasts. • Through client-site visits and open house The Wipro OnAir group on Yammer is one of the meetings, we connect with contract most engaged groups with over 21,000 employees to understand their needs and members. Wipro On-air has become a go to concerns. Meet Matters is one such forum platform to know more about our company, for partner employees to interact with their understand its multicultural workforce better, and employer listen to colleagues share their personal stories • We have introduced several initiatives, of courage and resilience. Our ‘Unplugged’ including a chatbot and a new claims system series brings to employees our leaders up, close for our partner employees that enable a and personal; and all this, enveloped in music more simplified and smoother experience at from around the world. The application is hosted work. Through an online learning system, on myWipro and is also available on mobile. they can also develop various skills and Employees can access the podcasts and competencies archives on the application, request for songs, give feedback and nominate colleagues whom • Human Supply Chain Management: A further they would like to be on air extended people supply chain, consists of temporary workers who are in soft service Sustainability Highlights 69 Wipro Sustainability Report functions such as Housekeeping, Security etc. ‘Wipro Meets’, business unit level ‘All Hands We protect the interest of such workers by Meets’, round table discussions and functional ensuring that the contracting agency is in review meets and off sites. Another important compliance with the Supplier code of conduct enablement to engagement is through business and there is no violation of Human Rights for e.g. managers and HR teams who meet employees ensuring salaries of all workers are in compliance through one-to-one meetings & team with relevant Minimum Wages legislations. We discussions. Additionally, customized ensure that the temporary contract workers work engagement frameworks are used by business under the similar working conditions as units to address needs specific to employees in employees and employee benefits such as that unit or to that business/domain recreation and refreshments are also made available to them Inclusion & Diversity Governance: Approach & Commitment • Employee Perception Survey: EPS is the At Wipro “Inclusion is about integrating diversity formal mechanism to capture, analyze and take actions on employee feedback. This is done effortlessly into everyday working; encouraging all to through (1) Biennial Employee Perception participate and be their authentic selves. An inclusive Survey (EPS), and (2) a shorter dipstick survey workplace respects uniqueness among individuals (EPS Pulse) which is held between two EPS and nurtures an overall sense of belonging. We cycles. Our in-house built EPS analytics tool celebrate and learn from diverse ideas, backgrounds, provides breakdown of the results at various perspectives and experiences. This provides us with levels e.g. geography, business unit, gender, an opportunity to realize our true potential. The career levels, age, nationality, tenure and enables us to formulate action plans. EPS 2019 essence of co-creating, guided by our values defines results have already been analyzed and action Inclusion & Diversity at Wipro.” areas based on employee feedback have been finalized for the coming year. Based on Nurturing inclusivity is an intrinsic part of Wipro’s feedback, we have simplified several of our culture. It has remained a key focus area for the systems and processes including revamping our organization and is a strategic enabler to ensure a Employee Helpdesk, introduced policies that holistic business growth. At Wipro, our client portfolio allow greater flexibility at work (the Work from is diverse in composition, in terms of locations, culture, Home policy was introduced in FY 2019), and made trainings and job rotations more flexible. industries and technologies they deploy. In order to Supplementing the annual EPS, we have also address the increasing complexities of such a diverse introduced Employee Insights, a platform to seek clientele, it is imperative to cultivate a workforce, real-time, continuous and targeted feedback from which can generate a rich mosaic of ideas that employees, besides communicating actions enhance innovation resulting in higher revenues & taken on feedback. This is done through a greater customer satisfaction There is a visible, deep combination of pop-polls and enterprise level organization-led strategic commitment to experience surveys with built-in analytics inclusivity as a ‘way of life” and nurture a sense of • Feedback through multiple platforms: Wipro belonging within teams. This is further strengthened, holds employee feedback in very high regard and with the CEO as the Executive Sponsor of the solicits this through formal surveys, informal Inclusion and Diversity (I & D ) Council. This makes I forums like one to one meetings, All Hands Meetings, focus group discussions, roundtables & D a mainstream business driver and a must-have and team meetings. We actively scan for any trait, rather than a stand-alone, aspirational initiative. specific issues & risks relating to human rights As signatories to UNGC and U.N. Women’s and labour practices through various Empowerment Principles, we express our engagement platforms. Our employee commitment to becoming a responsible business engagement programs are driven at multiple leader and role model levels – organizational, unit/team and individual. Key organizational changes and announcements are cascaded through emails, Policies & principles online posts, posters, kiosks, and on-floor Wipro is committed to being an equal opportunity sessions and through business and HR teams. employer and inclusion and diversity principles are The leadership team engages with employees throughout the year through online chat embedded in our organizational values, culture, sessions, Leader blogs, organizational level Sustainability Highlights 70 Wipro Sustainability Report policies, processes, Code of Business Conduct employees in India that gives an overview of (COBC) relevant policies and processes which (to-be) mothers at Wipro usually look for We imbibe these principles in all our policies and • Inclusivity trainings: We continue to nurture a processes like hiring, compensation, access to more inclusive work environment by conducting training, promotions, etc. and do not engage in or sensitization programs on breaking unconscious support discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, bias, working with a culturally diverse workforce race, caste, religion, age, disability, gender and sexual and creating focused development programs for or political orientation. Our philosophy focusses on women employees. Over 7,000 employees have been covered through the crosscultural hiring or deployment of talent based on sensitization and women’s training programs. experience/role and our commitment on rewarding Over 9000 employees have undertaken the meritocracy Unconscious Bias module since its launch in Q3’FY19. Over 625 Wiproites have been Our strategic focus today is to become more sensitized on disability. 1,600+ Wiproites across “Inclusive” than merely representing our “Diversity” the globe pledged their support for inclusivity by through numbers. We have a two-pronged approach participating in an Inclusive Walkathon and other towards achieving our goals allied activities. 112,000 employees have completed the PSH online assessment. At Wipro, • We constantly build Inclusion as a Way of Life we believe in the power of conversations and within our culture. Our culture is rooted in the role modelsthis is enabled through our mentoring principles of respect, fairness and equality programs, I&D speaker series/panel discussions/Women in Business customer • We focus on policies and processes that create sessions and reinforce Inclusion. The entire organization, beginning with our leadership, is aligned with our • Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities: I&D vision 90% of our user-facing internal applications, 95% of our external career site, 90% of the mandatory Our focus areas include Gender, Persons with e-learning modules and 20% of the intranet Disabilities, nationalities, underprivileged mobile applications have been made accessible communities, suppliers, and more recently, LGBT for our employees with sensory disabilities. 100+ community. Across the spectrum, we focus on engineers and training content developers have been coached on Web Content Accessibility building plurality of ideas and on the elimination of Guidelines and Web Accessibility Initiativeunconscious bias Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAIARIA) Focus Areas • LGBT Workplace equality: In FY 2019, we • Focus on returning mothers: We have inundertook many initiatives to make our house Day Care Centers in eight locations and workplace more inclusive towards the lesbian, 11 tie-ups covering 98% of our India employee gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) population. In-house day care centres enrol community. These include, revising our Code of children from 6 months to 6 years. The food Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct prepared in the centres is in line with and Equal Opportunity Policy to include recommendations from nutritionists. A basic protection against discrimination based on study curriculum is a part of the package. Parent gender identity and gender expression. We Teacher Meetings (PTMs) are conducted on a modified our resume application system to monthly basis and milestones of kids shared with include gender neutral language. We launched every parent. Core Committees have been Wipro Pride – an employee resource group for formed across locations which include members LGBT and ally employees. We have also created from facilities, security, HR teams and parents to gender-neutral restrooms in Wipro offices. conduct internal audits, complementing external Employees can self-identify as LGBT in our ones internal HR systems. We supported Business Roundtable’s endorsement of the US Equality • We have created a WoW (Women of Wipro) Act, a federal standard that provides nonMom program which aims to support employees discrimination protections based on sexual returning from maternity break as they transition orientation and gender identity for employment, back to work. HR representatives connect with public spaces, education, services, federal the employees to provide them with any support programs, and housing. Wipro has received a or information that they might need. Further, we score of 95 out of 100 on the 2019 Corporate have curated a WoW Mom handbook for Equality Index (CEI). It is the premier Sustainability Highlights 71 Wipro Sustainability Report benchmarking survey and report on US Engagement EPS Pulse 2018-19 corporate policies and practices relating to LGBT workplace equality, administered by the Human • 75% overall engagement score (up 1.4% from Rights Campaign. Wipro’s score reflects its EPS 2017) commitment to LGBT workplace equality, with • Increase in scores across all parameters/drivers regard to tangible policies, benefits, and of Engagement from EPS 2017 practices • Managerial Effectiveness and Team & • Thought Leadership & Advocacy: Wipro has Collaboration highest-rated drivers of participated in various eminent forums through engagement. Career and WorkLife balance are the year, including a senior business leader areas which need more focus participation at the United Nations Global Compact • Engagement scores for Males is at 74.1% (up 1.6% from EPS 2017) while for Females is at Governance 76.7% (up 0.9% from EPS 2017). For all the questions in the EPS, Female scores are higher Inclusion and Diversity is an independent function in than the Male scores the organization led by a Senior Leader. We understand that the success of transformational Inclusion initiatives depends on how much the larger • 35.2% Overall Gender Diversity (0.2% higher organization believes in the strategy and the strength YoY) of the initiative and its success in trickling down to the lowest levels in the organization. With this in mind, our • 16.9% women in management (in junior, middle and senior management) positions I & D charter and agenda is supported cross-functional project teams and senior leaders assume leadership • 125 nationalities of individual diversity pillars. Focus areas/goals are • Localization: USA 64.0%, UK 30.9%, Australia reviewed on a quarterly basis by the I & D Council 31.2% which is chaired by the CEO. The I & D council is • 545 employees with disabilities employed (with composed of Senior Leaders/Executives with 15 disability types) representation from gender, geographies and ethnicity Leaders who significantly influence human capital strategies of the organization are measured on the performance of key indicators in this area. The indicators provide insights into the effectiveness of human capital strategies and are reviewed regularly both at organizational and individual business unit levels. The key targets are: • Attrition low to mid double digits with focus on retaining top talent • Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Score Show measurable progress on engagement levels (Top scores) over the past two years Productivity & Retention • Gross Utilization has gone up to 74.4% (increased by 2.2%) • Net Utilization has gone up to 84.8%, excluding Trainees (increased by 2.3%) • Voluntary attrition* (includes employee-initiated termination) 17.6% (increased by 0.8%) • *IT Services excluding BPS Sustainability Highlights 72 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 73 Wipro Sustainability Report Ecological Sustainability capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Wipro recognizes the environmental challenges that Trucost’s econometric input-output model which takes face humanity today are as critical as are economic into account spend across different sub-categories of imperatives. Hence ecological sustainability is an procurement. essential part of our approach to responsible In the 2017-18 financial year, the natural capital corporate citizenship valuation of the environmental impacts relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to INR Understanding Life Cycle Impacts 10,841 million (2% of Wipro’s revenue and 10 % of To understand the unsustainable dependency of Wipro’s profit in the same period). The largest Wipro on vulnerable natural resources, a natural contributions came from GHG emissions (47%), water capital valuation exercise was conducted during the consumption (26%) and air pollution (16%). reporting year. This exercise helped us get an overall integrated environmental impact assessment of our In terms of GHG emissions, although Scope 3 operations and supply chain. The details of the emissions increased in some areas (specifically, 12% exercise is covered under the sub-section “Natural in the case of purchased goods and services), this Capital Valuation” was offset by a decrease in Scope 1 & 2 emissions, leading to a decline of 3% year on year (this follows a In addition, we continue to explore additional and 10% reduction in 2016-17) Water consumption specific quantitative and qualitative metrics to meanwhile showed a small increase year on year evaluate water (see sub-section “Responsible Water (1%) with most of this attributable to supply chain Framework”) and waste management (see subwater consumption. Air pollution saw a steep decline section “Pollution and Waste Management”) in our of 20%, driven by operational changes. The overall campuses. We have set specific goals to reduce our natural capital valuation was down 6% from the 2016 footprint associated with key Scope 3 categories (like -17 financial year and up 13% since 2014-15 emissions from Business Travel, employee commute and upstream fuel and energy related emissions), ozone depleting refrigerants, indoor air quality and noise pollution. The outcomes of these assessments contribute to our program design and stakeholder engagement Natural Capital Valuation Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. The overall objective of the natural capital valuation project (done in association with Trucost) is to quantify and value the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s IT Services operations and supply chain. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint (from energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and management, land use change, etc.) and upstream value chain impacts from business travel, employee commute, fuel and energy related activities and the embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, business data and employee commute valuation is derived from actual data, extrapolated for a few global locations and environmental categories. The natural Sustainability Highlights 74 Wipro Sustainability Report Summary Impact contribution by percentage 120.0 100.0 80.0 60.0 40.0 20.0 0.0 GHG Emission Air Pollution Water Water Pollution Waste Land Use Consumption change Operations Purchased Goods and Services (Scope 3) Fuel and Energy Related Activities (Scope 3) Business Travel Employee Commute Impact Contribution by percentage Category GHG Air Water Water Waste Land Use Emission Pollution Consumption Pollution change Operations 36.4 4.2 29.4 48.9 33.2 10.7 Purchased 12.0 10.5 51.5 19.8 62.7 Goods and Services (Scope 3) Fuel and 17.0 51.2 19.0 51.4 47.0 26.7 Energy Related Activities (Scope 3) Business 19.8 2.9 Travel Employee 14.8 31.3 Commute Sustainability Highlights 75 Wipro Sustainability Report Understanding Material Aspects of Stakeholders StakeEmerging Concerns Material Strategy Impact Description and holders Aspects Long Term Target/Goals Water scarcity near Water Reducing our Increase in Details are given out locations can external operating cost Responsible disrupt our operations water due to increase in Water and create the dependency water prices in Management imbalance as large from future Section section of our municipal employees stays and private close to our offices. water source by improving water efficiency and recycling rate along with absolute water reduction. Reducing footprint at Waste Regular Increase in Details are given point of generation monitoring operating cost in Pollution and Employee and segregation at and disruption of Waste Reducing source requires user business Management material (employee) centric continuity due to Section impact and behavioral stringent recycling interventions government Safe disposal regulations for or treatment waste handling In-campus Biodiversity To convert Increase in Details are given biodiversity programs existing revenue due to in Campus are a platform for Campuses improve Biodiversity employee into motivation and Section engagement in nature biodiversity increase in conservation and zones intangible citizen science areas benefits for For all new employee and campuses visitors biodiversity principles to Improvement in be brand reputation incorporated into designing phase. Investors Investor led Various Use of Improvement in All the Sections sustainability environment multiple brand reputation frameworks like Aspects channels of Carbon Disclosure including communicati Project and the Dow Energy, on to keep Jones Sustainability Greenhouse investors Index (DJSI) cove Gas informed environmental Emissions, about aspects in Water material comprehensive detail. Abstraction, issues and Investors are looking Water and Air long term at strong, proactive Pollution, Solid Sustainability Highlights 76 Wipro Sustainability Report environmental Waste strategy of programs from Management organization companies as part of and the latter’s risk Biodiversity mitigation strategy True and fair reporting of financial outlook and maintaining high level of transparency for business outlook, risks and opportunities. Customers Customers extend the Various Our Increase in All The Sections boundaries of their environment approach is revenue through based on our increase in sale own responsibility aspects but vision of of our product through their supply predominantly delivering and services that chain sustainability Energy value to our reduces programs which and GHG customer dependency and requires companies Emissions businesses impact on to improve their social based on a environment. and environmental solid footprint relationship of trust, collaboration and competence. We ensure this by providing sustainability inspired solutions. Refer to customer stewardship for details. Supply Trucost study on Various Our Supply Unattended All the sections Chain natural capital environment chain social and valuation aspects, but approach is environmental predominantly based on the impacts in supply points to the fact that Energy and principles of chain can externalities account GHG ethics and increase the cost for nearly 50% of the Emissions, integrity, of handling in total environmental Water ecological future and may impact for Wipro. This Abstraction, sustainability even impact is across emissions, Water and Air and license to operate Pollution, Solid workplace water abstraction and Waste sustainability. pollution, air Management Refer to pollution, land use Supply Chain and waste. Supply Sustainability chain engagement section for hence is a core details. element of operational environmental programs Civil Society Energy Conservation Energy Energy Reduction in Details are given Building Code Efficiency operational cost in Energy Sustainability Highlights 77 Wipro Sustainability Report Government (ECBC), renewable Renewable, and reliability on Efficiency and Future energy procurement Energy external source GHG Mitigation Generations and generation are Purchase subject to prices section increasingly being and Travel hike due to covered in regulations Substitution emerging regulations in Refer to future GHG mitigation measures for details Civil Society Biodiversity Biodiversity To convert Increase in Details are given Government conservation and existing revenue due to in Campus Future ecosystem services Campuses improve Biodiversity Generations are primary interest into motivation and section. areas with civil biodiversity increase in society organizations zones intangible benefits for For all new employee and campuses visitors biodiversity principles to Improvement in be brand reputation incorporated into designing phase Ecological Sustainability Governance Sustainability governance at Wipro is informed by our strategic choice to work across both dimensions – business responsibility and social responsibility. Business responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its essential duties and obligations and running its business with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of its operations is minimized. The second dimension social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community. The responsibility is spread across hierarchies and functions seeing themselves as key stakeholders in its success; for ecological issues the Global Operations team, the People Function, Community programs team, the Risk office and employee chapters play a major role in several of the programs. However, the oversight of sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our Chairman, Board of Directors and Group Executive Council. The goals and objectives are jointly set with inputs from across functions. The quarterly reviews are attended by the Chairman, Chief Strategy officer, CFO and Chief HR officer. We benchmark our performance with our global peers through extensive disclosures as well as a system of rigorous audits both internal and external. We have started the process of incorporating key sustainability risks like climate change into our ERM framework All key organizational stakeholders have vested responsibilities related to planning, execution, evangelization, review, as well as advocacy of the sustainability agenda of the company. Given below is the responsibility matrix for our environment programs (energy, water, waste and biodiversity). Other sustainability programs have similar matrix pertinent to their operations Environmental Risks The Enterprise Risk Management and Sustainability functions at Wipro oversee environmental and climate change related risk identification and mitigation. Impacts of extreme weather events, Urban water stress, air pollution, waste management and impacts on employee health and well-being are material issues that we are engaged with. The risk assessment is conducted as part of the annual strategic planning exercise, in which all senior leaders participate a multi-year (3 to 5 year) planning view is incorporated and priorities are categorized as short, medium and long term Sustainability Highlights 78 Wipro Sustainability Report Climate Change Risk Assessment We are currently carrying out a comprehensive climate change risk assessment program, encompassing both physical and transitional risks, for our major operational locations across the globe, covering India, China, Philippines, Germany, Romania, the UK and the US. This is being done for two scenarios (based on the IPCC defined RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5) for the medium to long term (2030-2050). This assessment provides detailed analysis of the changes in key climatic parameters such as temperature and rainfall that are likely to impact Wipro’s operations. It takes into consideration a variety of climate risks which include, an increase in extremely hot days and extremely warm nights, increasing frequency of heat waves, exacerbated urban heat island effect, air quality deterioration, urban flooding and decreasing water availability. Our assessment shows that we are likely to observe an increase in day-time temperature (0.02-2.98ºC) and night-time temperature (0.35-1.74ºC) across all locations except Chennai, where a decrease (0.7 ºC) in the day time temperature is likely, in both the short term (by 2030) and long term (by 2050). This increase in day time temperatures could contribute towards an increase in the energy consumption and associated operating costs at each location. This change could also adversely impact the health and well-being of our employees decreasing their productivity. When it comes to rainfall, our risk assessment model predicts an increase in rainfall, ranging from 11 to 267mm, for every city except Kolkata, Pune and Vishakhapatnam which will likely see decreases (13.2-126mm) in rainfall in the long term. Increase in extreme precipitation is likely to lead productivity loss due to employee absence caused by disruption in city infrastructure and an increase in tropical diseases. Given that every city other than Kochi and Kolkata already lie in highly water stressed zones, the predicted rise in temperature coupled with increasing urbanization is likely to accelerate water stress. The corresponding increase in rainfall in most cities is unlikely to help improve this situation unless additional water conservation measures are taken up in the city. Thus, across the country we are likely to experience increasing challenges and costs for procuring water. We notice that our operations in Romania, China, Philippines and USA are likely to be susceptible to physical risks such as floods, tropical storms and tornadoes. These events could impact the wellbeing of our employees in the affected regions thus impacting our operations. Philippines in particular is likely to face significant fluctuations in rainfall and humidity patterns which could lead to an increase in the spread of infectious diseases in the country, affecting the health of our employees. On the other end of the spectrum, we find that our operations in Germany, the UK, the US, China and Romania, are the ones most exposed to transitional risks arising from policies and regulations geared towards enabling these countries’ transition into low carbon economies. However, we must point out here that the majority (more than 70%) of our employees are based out of India. In addition the fact that all our overseas locations are leased premises reduces the direct infrastructural risk in our overseas centers Environmental Management Systems Our programs and management systems are pivoted and derived from the Ecological Sustainability Commitment, available at http://www.wipro.com/documents/Ecological_Sustainability_Policy.pdf We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management System (EMS). 20 of our campus sites in India and 8 in Australia are certified to ISO 14001:2004 standard Compliance Wipro complies with all applicable environmental regulations and in the reporting period, there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or negative consequences due to our operations Sustainability Highlights 79 Wipro Sustainability Report Our Ecological Sustainability Programs Wipro’s ecological sustainability program directly addresses four of the eight sustainability mega forces. It is an integral part within many of our key programs, internal and external and across stakeholders Our Program focus on the following aspects: Wipro’s Ecological Sustainability Programs Our journey in ecological sustainability reinforces some foundational principles: • Both the environmental impacts and outcomes of measures we implement are multiple and inter-related • The need to assess programs through rigorous goal setting, qualitative measures and quantitative metrics, acknowledge issues, explore alternatives and prioritize responses specific to the context of each issue We continually assess operational risks to the environment and apply the precautionary principle in our approach to get insights and plan our environmental programs What follows is a brief description of our policies, systems and programs we follow as part of our ecological sustainability charter Scope of Reporting India: 58 locations (includes 3 data centers) representing 77% of our workforce. 34 of these locations are owned (includes 3 data centers) and the balance 20 are leased Overseas: 202 office locations. Most locations are leased and used as marketing/liaison offices Primary data of resources and environmental impacts from new infrastructure being built by our civil and construction partners is presently not included in our reporting as systems are being developed. However this is covered in our natural capital valuation Aspect Aspect Boundary Energy India (offices and DC’s) -100% coverage Actuals Overseas offices 100% coverage Estimated Water India 98% coverage Actuals (Estimated for the balance leased spaces) Overseas Not reported Sustainability Highlights 80 Wipro Sustainability Report Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation Approach Our approach to energy efficiency and GHG mitigation is centered on the following approach • Baselining energy and emissions parameters • Setting ambitious scientifically valid and traceable goals • Developing robust mitigation programs A robust mechanism of measuring and reporting performance metrics is a primary requirement to set scientifically valid, traceable and accountable goals. We have used the science based target setting framework from WRI (World Resource Institute) that tries to align with the 2015 Paris agreement which aims to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius from pre-industrial levels. We have undertaken a recalibration of our greenhouse gas emission targets to account for two organizational accounting changes – the first due to divestment of our overseas customer data center business to Ensono and the second based on requirements of GHG protocol standard of accounting all leased/rented office spaces emissions under Scope 3. Considering 2017 as the base year, we have set medium term targets till 2022 and 2030 and longer term targets till 2040 and 2050 The following goals have been set for the period 2017-18 to 2021-22: • Absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions – Absolute emissions reduction of 23,700 tonnes.• Energy Intensity in terms of EPI (Energy Performance Index) Cumulative reduction of 7.8% in EPI over 5 years • GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) on Floor Area (FAR) basis Cumulative reduction of 16 % in GHG intensity from 117 Kg CO2 eq./ Sq. Mt. (kgpsm) to 98 kgpsm of CO2 eq • Renewable Energy (RE)Increase renewable energy procurement by 55% to a target of 120 million units in 2021-22 We have deliberately not set a Carbon Neutral goal or an offset program for reducing Scope emissions due to the externalities involved in most alternatives like embedded carbon and water footprint, land use change and broader ecological and social sustainability issues involved in such programs. For example, mass afforestation of a single species over a large area may help achieve a carbon reduction goal but have a high negative impact on water sustainability, biodiversity and livelihoods. Our focus is on pushing the envelope on operational emission reduction programs across our value chain The full trajectory of Wipro targets till 2050 is given below Scope 1+2 carbon intensity (kgCO2/m2) 140.0 120.0 117.0 113.3 108.7 104.4 100.0 102.9 98.4 80.0 76.2 60.0 40.0 42.3 20.0 11.4 0.0 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2027 2035 2050 Scope 1+2 carbon intensity (kgCO2/m2) Sustainability Highlights 81 Wipro Sustainability Report Scope 1+2emissions (Mtons) 200,000 180,000 176,272 174,056 172,075 170,161 160,000 164,334 152,490 140,000 120,000 112,331 100,000 80,000 60,000 57,517 40,000 20,000 15,475 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2027 2035 2050 Scope 1+2emissions (Mtons) Highlights of Energy and GHG Emissions Related Performances Absolute Emissions: The absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions (India) for FY 2019 have decreased by 40% from 1,61,858 to 1,17,290 tonnes a reduction of over 44,500 tonnes. This is primarily due to significant drop in Scope 2 emissions by 29% due to energy efficiency improvement of nearly 18% as well as increase in share of in renewable energy procurement from 33% to 40% . In addition our India data center emissions have reduced significantly due to reduction in capacity utilization and divestment in the middle of the year The dashboard below provides a summary of our Global and India GHG emissions, including data centres. In accordance with the GHG protocol, from 2016-17, we have reclassified leased offices (upstream and downstream) as part of Scope-3. The figures are net emissions for all years, after considering zero emissions for renewable energy procured GHG Scope 1 & 2 (Tons of CO2 Eq.) 200000 176272 180000 160000 152361 140000 113082 120000 100000 80000 50874 53470 60000 40000 20000 4208 0 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Data Centers Office Emissions Intensity: Our India office space emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) is at 71.3 Kg CO2 eq. per Sq. Mt. per annum, a decrease of nearly 30 % from FY 2018. Concomitantly the global people based emissions intensity is down by more than 29% to 0.85 tons per person per annum Sustainability Highlights 82 Wipro Sustainability Report Emissions Intensity (Sc 1 and Sc 2) Kg Co2 eq. per sq. mt. PA) 140 117 113 120 109 104 103 98 100 117.0 80 101.1 60 71.3 40 20 0 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 Target Actual Energy Consumption: The overall energy consumption from Scope 1 and 2 boundaries (operational and financial control) is 900.8 million Mjoules, compared to 1344.3 million Mjoules in the previous year, a reduction of 33%. The total energy consumption, electricity and back-up diesel generated, for office spaces in India is 225 million units (including leased spaces globally this is 265 million units). Our overseas data center business was divested before the reporting year. Data centers in India, till their divestment contributed to another 5.1 million units For India operations, about 98 million units constituted renewable energy procured through PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers. Of this 92 million units is with green attributes (zero emissions). Another 10 million units is from renewable resources for our downstream leased space. In total renewable energy in our portfolio is 108 million units Fuel (MwH Eq.) 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000 50000 0 2019 2018 2017 Sustainability Highlights 83 Wipro Sustainability Report Fuel Source Type 2019 2018 2017 Renewable Biogas (m3) Fuel-Renewable 88.632 10.728 72.75 Charcoal (Kg) Fuel-NonNon-Renewable 488.9375 451 404 Renewable Non-Renewable LPG (Kg)FuelNon-Renewable 6807.446 5827 7164 Diesel (L) for Elec. FuelNonNon-Renewable 5388 6657 16029 Renewable Purchased Electricity (Grid) Grid Grid (Composite) 133049 252017 265088 (Compositie) Renewable Purchased Electricity-Renewable 91891 91810 76466 Solar Heater-Renewable Renewable (Gen) 1332 1332 1332 Generated Renewable (Gen) Solar PV-Renewable Generated 194 194 194 Total 239239 358299.1 366750 Energy Intensity: EPI for owned office spaces, measured in terms of energy per unit area has decreased by around 18.5% to 142 KwH units per sq. meter per annum. The absolute energy has reduced by 14% for the reporting year. The office space has increased by 5.3% in the reporting year EPI (KwH/ Sq. mt. Per annum) 200 181 177 180 174 170 169 167 160 181 140 174 120 142 100 80 60 40 20 0 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 Target Actual Sustainability Highlights 84 Wipro Sustainability Report Emission Profile 350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 -50,000 -100,000 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Year 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Fuel 15,043 7,175 6,145 Refrigerant 11,134 8,871 7,279 Direct Transport Logistics Employee Commute 107,980 78,429 79,160 Business Travel 137,242 134,939 117,819 Waste 753 746 760 Upstream Fuel+Energy 103,504 101,886 76,659 emissions Purchased goods / services 55,588 62,952 82,246 Upstream Leased Assets 27,332 24,302 Purchased Electricity 291,288 265,069 179,216 RE Purchase (Offset) -62,702 -75,284 -75,350 Net Scope 2 228,586 189,785 103,866 Sustainability Highlights 85 Wipro Sustainability Report Absolute GHG Emissions: Scope 1 and 2, Split by Geo and Office / Data Centers Emissions Split by office space and data centers India and Rest of World (RoW) 200000 150000 100000 50000 0 India RoW India RoW Office Space Data Centers 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Office Space India 177242 141905 99658 RoW 13624 12264 14140 Data Centers India 10397 9497 4208 RoW 40477 43973 0 Scope 3 Emissions: A summary of our Scope 3 emissions (other indirect sources) is provided below. Out of the 15 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG corporate value chain standard, we are currently reporting on all the 8 categories applicable to us Downstream Scope 3 emissions: We have moved some facilities to a subleased model in the middle of the reporting year. This will be reported separately from the next year Scope 3 Emissions Category Current Reporting, Coverage within IT business Tons of CO2 eq. Purchased goods and services Based on purchase ledger for FY 2018 and 82,246 application of econometric input-output model for different categories and business activities: Fueland energy-related Well to Tank (WTT) and Transmission and 76,659 activities (not included in scope Distribution (T&D) losses globally 1 or scope 2) Upstream transportation and Not Reported, as not material distribution Waste generated in operations For India operations (85% coverage 760 Employee Commuting For India operations, which represents nearly 85% 79,160 of footprint Business travel Global. Includes air, bus, train, local conveyance 117,819 and hotel stays Upstream leased assets Leased offices spaces in India (14708 tons) and 24,302 (Leased overseas (12624 tons CO2 eq) office space) Downstream leased assets Included in Scope 1 and 2 (transitioned mid year) (Office space leased out) Total 380,946 Sustainability Highlights 86 Wipro Sustainability Report A comparison of Scope 3 emissions for a 3 year period is given below. This includes emissions from three primary activities which are integral to our business operations – Business Travel, Employee Commute and Waste GHG Scope 3 (Tons of CO2 Equiv.) 300,000 245,975 250,000 214,114 197,739 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Total Emissions: The overall emissions across all scopes is 498,236 tonnes. Within this, the main contributors to our GHG emissions are: Electricity – Purchased and Generated (22.1%), upstream fuel and energy emissions (15.4%), Business Travel (23.6%) and Employee Commute (15.9%).Leased office spaces contribute to 4.9% of emissions Total (Scope1 + Scope2 +Scope 3) Net of RE 700,000.00 659,830.70 612,115.00 600,000.00 498,236.00 500,000.00 400,000.00 300,000.00 200,000.00 100,000.00 0.00 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Sustainability Highlights 87 Wipro Sustainability Report Energy Efficiency and GHG scalable infrastructure with On Demand provisioning, High Availability and High Performance Computing Mitigations Programs environment. Out of this, we have enabled 6,300 VDI’s Our five year GHG mitigation plan consists of three across two of our campuses in the year. Thin clients key elements consumes less energy (80% less) compared to Desktop, resulting in savings of 0.75 million units. • Energy Efficiency (Reduce) Over a 5 year period, energy efficiency initiatives have • Renewable Energy (RE) Purchase (Replace) and resulted in savings of 140 million units (based on per • Travel Substitution (Reduce and Replace) capita consumption). 2. Retrofit of older equipment with more energy efficient equipment 3. Consolidation Of these, RE procurement will contribute the of operations accompanied by a transition from leased maximum, 80% share to GHG emission mitigation to owned facilities with the resulting increase in overall strategy for Scope 1 and 2 utilization of office space 4. Higher quality Energy Efficiency: Over the preceding five year maintenance operations. These initiatives have helped save 32 Mn KwH units in the reporting year period, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency measures Others: This is primarily due to significant drop in Green Buildings: We were one of the early adopters Scope 2 emissions by 29% due to energy efficiency improvement of nearly 18% as well as increase in of Green Building Design with 18 of our current share of in renewable energy procurement from 33% buildings certified to the international LEED standard to 40% . In addition our India data center emissions (Silver, Gold, and Platinum) have reduced significantly due to reduction in capacity Server Virtualization: Since 2007, we have been utilization and divestment in the middle of the year working on a server rationalization and virtualization program, through which we have decommissioned old Renewable Energy physical servers and replaced the processing capacity Strategic Procurement: For the reporting period with virtualization technology on fewer numbers of 201819, RE contributed to approximately 40% of our servers. As of March 2019, we have 6,750 virtual total India energy consumption. We procured 92 Mn. servers (4,780 in March 2018) running on 386 physical units of Renewable Energy through the PPAs (Power servers which contributes to an energy savings of Purchase Agreements) with green attributes from approximately 29 million units in the reporting year. private producers. This has been done by including The savings showed an increase of 44% over the non-tradability of Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) previous year for contracted power through contracts and including verification of generation in the regulators national Operational Efficiency Measures: Over the years, REC registry. This has helped mitigate 75.3 tons of significant focus has been given to reduce the energy CO equiv consumption of our locations by bringing in various operational efficiency measures in our operation. In-situ Renewable Energy Use: The rooftop Solar These measures include 1. Better operation controls PV installations at 6 of our campuses followed by for priority areas of operations like chillers, water extensive use of solar water heaters in our guest systems and installation of timer controls to avoid blocks and cafeterias have resulted in equivalent unnecessary usage. The Global Energy command savings of 1.54 million units of grid electricity in the centre aggregates Building Management System reporting year inputs on a common platform to optimize operational control and improve energy efficiency. At one of our Business Travel: The IT services outsourcing model campuses, we have seen a 15% YoY reduction in requires frequent travel across the delivery life cycle absolute energy consumption. This has been to customer locations, mainly overseas, and achieved by operating the plant in auto-mode (based contributes to around 1/5th of our overall emissions on real time demand), performance monitoring of footprint. This includes travel by air, bus, train, local equipment and optimization of air-water balance in conveyance and hotel stays. Policies on usage of chiller plant – resulting in improved thermal comfort. different modes of travel based on distance and time We have enhanced our Virtual Desktop Infrastructure taken, need and budget-based travel and increasing (VDI) capacity to 8,000. VDI’s provide high capacity focus on processes which enable remote working and Sustainability Highlights 88 Wipro Sustainability Report collaboration are some of the cost and process Water Efficiency optimization measures implemented over past few years. We have seen an air travel footprint reduction Continuously improve water efficiency (freshwater use of around 21% compared to FY 2018 per employee) of our operations Employee Commute: Employees have various Responsible Sourcing choices for intra-city commuting. In addition to To ensure responsible sourcing and water company arranged transport (36%), employees management in proximate communities, especially in owned cars & two wheelers contribute to 12% and locations that are prone to water scarcity other modes of transport including public transport account for the balance Water Scarcity Over the past few years, we have taken steps to Recognizing water availability as a business risk, to facilitate a shift towards improved access to public proactively assess and plan for the water security of transport for employees (buses, commuter trains) and the organization in a manner that is congruent with the carpooling. Our car pooling initiative launched through first two objectives a third-party mobile app based partners in July’16 in Bengaluru has now scaled and expanded to 8 other Goal setting locations in India. With this, we ow have 74,000 registered users across locations. Around 9 Million • To improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year on year kms of rides were shared in the reporting year saving 2100 tons of CO2 equivalent emissions • To reduce absolute water consumption in existing campuses by 20% between FY 2016 We became the first major Indian business to join and FY 2021 EV100 in April 2018, a commitment to transition our • To ensure responsible water management in global fleet to electric vehicles (EVs) by 2030. EV100 proximate communities, especially in locations is a global initiative by The Climate Group bringing that are prone to water scarcity together forward-looking companies committed to The following sections describe our implementation accelerating the transition to electric vehicles (EVs). In approach and the initiatives in this context the current year (since July 2018), 2.0 Million Kms across 33,000 trips have been covered in Hyderabad, Water Efficiency the first location where we have started the program Our goal to reduce absolute water consumption in IT infrastructure enablers like anytime direct existing campuses by 20% between FY 16 and FY connectivity access to office intranet applications, 2021 will be realized through an integrated approach secure personal device connectivity through the summarized below: BYOD initiative (Bring Your Own Devices) are other key steps in enabling more flexible work place options • Implementing standard metering infrastructure and procedures across campuses Water Stewardship • Demand side optimization (improving efficiency through flow restrictors across campuses and arresting leakages) Approach • Improving recycling efficiency through ultraAt Wipro, we view water from the inter-related lens of flirtation with eventual use for non-contact efficiency, conservation, coupled with our role as a applications other than landscaping and responsible citizen in engaging outside our sanitation operational boundaries; our articulated goals are • Integrating rain water harvesting into the therefore predicated on these three dimensions consumption side of the campus water cycle • Improving water governance by building user awareness and involvement of water plumbers Sustainability Highlights 89 Wipro Sustainability Report Our Initiatives sourced by them in turn from river or lake systems. Water that is purchased from private sources can be • Aerators: We have installed Aerators in all our traced to have been extracted from local aquifers. Not wash basins across the campuses during FY surprisingly, ground water contributes to nearly 56% 2015-16. Aerators provide a constant flow rate of 0.5 GPM through variable pressure optimizing of our total freshwater consumption across cities in water use to a great extent India an overexploited resource which has also been largely left out of effective governance mechanisms • Waterless Urinals: We have retrofitted existing urinal system with waterless urinal system by We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies installing key valves in some of the locations. This system doesn’t require water for flushing. that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to This in turn has reduced water consumption and their relative size, function, or status as a support energy related to pumping of the system source for endangered species. None of our operations are significantly impacted by our • Smart water metering: We have installed smart water meters in our campuses to ensure withdrawal or are covered under any nationally or continuous monitoring of water consumption data internationally designated water conservation areas. in real time. These smart meters have enabled At three of our locations (Bengaluru, Chennai and us to identify wastage areas so that immediate NCR) we are predominantly dependent on private action can be taken sourcing of water supply through tankers, which in turn • Waste water reuse: Entire waste water draw from local aquifers. During summer periods, our generated in the campus is treated at our sourcing could be impacted due to shortages or sewage treatment plants. Recycled water is used community concerns. We also have quality issues for landscaping and flushing. We have installed (high TDS), which results in treatment costs Ultrafiltration and Reverse osmosis in three of our major locations and reusing the treated water Many of our locations in India are leased and located for cooling systems, this has reduced our fresh in prime city areas. For these locations, waste water is water consumption by 42%. The water quality is monitored on a regular basis ensuring standards discharged to CSTP’s (Common Sewage Treatment and safety of the employees Plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water into any • Nano filtration: Conventional water softeners is being replaced by membrane softeners (Nano subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead filtration) which gives good quality softened directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. Nano filtration removes nearly all viruses, water. The treated water from our sewage treatment most of the natural organic matter and a range of plants are tested and are in conformance with the salts. Nano filtration removes divalent ions, which parameters specified by the respective local pollution make water hard, so it is used to soften hard control boards water • Rain Water Harvesting: Rainwater harvesting Performance against Goals and integration into freshwater use is a significant improvement area for water The per employee water consumption for the reporting sustainability across our campuses. We plan to year is 951 litres per month as compared to 991 litres integrate rainwater use into primary freshwater in FY 2018, an improvement of around 4%. use cycle across identified large campuses over Freshwater consumption has seen a marginal the next two year period. Presently rain water increase from last year at 1518 million Liters constitutes 1% of the total fresh water essentially due to few leakages from aging pipeline • Employee participation: We are encouraging network. Real-time monitoring pilots are being employee to participate and share their view on implemented in two of our campuses. Water free the sensitive issues like water and waste. We systems (where applicable), smart metering, celebrate world water day along with the employees optimizing heating and cooling and recycling of blow down are other initiatives being explored. However, Responsible Sourcing of Water we have achieved 18% reduction in absolute fresh Groundwater, municipal water supplies and private water consumption from FY 2016 and are on target to purchase contribute to nearly 98% of the total fresh exceed our target of 20% reduction by FY 2021 water consumption. The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are Sustainability Highlights 90 Wipro Sustainability Report Water withdrawals by source (kiloliters) 1000000 900000 800000 700000 600000 500000 400000 300000 200000 100000 0 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Ground Water Municipal Water Supply Private Purchase RainWater Utilized Ground Water Municipal Water Private RainWater Supply Purchase Utilized 2015-16 303567 764943 755022 32917 2016-17 230327 603145 857435 11081 2017-18 181283 623035 677498 32887 2018-19 146575 701416 654037 15972 Water Consumed Vs Water Recycled (Kiloliter) Our total freshwater consumption is 1,518 million litres and We recycle 1,090 million litres of water in 27 of our major locations (vs 1,045 million litres in FY 2018) using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and ultra-filtration units. Recycled water represents 42% of our total water consumption (vs 41% in the previous year). The amount of recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted is around 72%, up from 69% in FY 2018. This improvement in efficiency is due to the adoption of ultra-filtration and RO projects for STP treated water at three our large locations. Of the total treated water (1090 million liters), 62% is used for flushing and 6% is used in cooling tower. The balance 32% is used for our landscapes – the quality is equivalent to freshwater (Less than TDS of 1000). Our water recycling initiatives have cumulatively saved 5030 million liters of water over a 5 year period Way Forward One of our focus areas will be to monitor, measure, manage and reduce water wastages. Re-evaluation of the water flow equation for every location, with broad inclusion of diverse treatment procedures will be deployed. We will use the logic of comparison between the total water that flows in and that flows out of the campus and account for the gaps observed. We will continue to expand the uses of treated water by further increasing the scale of UFRO treatment for usage in non-contact purposes Sustainability Highlights 91 Wipro Sustainability Report Pollution and Waste Management Pollution of air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and industry which is one of the principle sources of pollution holds special responsibility for effective mitigation and abatement Approach Managing these ‘commons’ in an urban context again requires business organizations to look beyond its own boundaries and to adopt an integrated approach. Therefore our waste management strategy includes (i) regular monitoring of air, water and noise levels to operate well within regulatory norms. (ii) Reducing materials impact and recycling (iii) arranging for safe disposal or treatment. To operationalize our strategy, we segregate and monitor waste processing across 15 broad categories and more than 40 sub categories. The process is given below • Segregation of waste into organic, inorganic-waste, hazardous, packaging, bio medical and other categories • Recycling segregated waste either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements • 90% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups • A majority of the balance mixed solid waste is also handled through authorized vendors – however its trail is not entirely known to us or verifiable and therefore, we have adopted a conservative approach of classifying it as untreated waste • Segregation is to be done at source (point of generation) with the intent of ensuring recyclability of segregated waste. Further segregation of Municipal Solid Waste within the campus may not be attempted as the segregated waste will be soiled and is not (or cannot be) segregated. This may ultimately be disposed in landfills as the vendors will see no value recoverable from waste • Enable better segregation in work areas by removing individual single bins and ensuring segregated waste is put in separate bins • Location Hospitality team will work with Cafeteria and tuck-shop vendors to ensure use of reusable cutlery and to report all waste, total generated in the campus and its disposal. Mandating suppliers/vendors to take back waste generated inside the campus without a view on its traceability (handling and final destination) does not absolve us of our responsibility • Vendor awareness on waste to be centered on product design, packaging, etc • Comprehensive and independent waste assessment audits across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams • The comprehensive external waste assessment we conducted across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams pointed to areas of improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams across the recycler ecosystem. We work with our partners and vendors in driving better practices and behaviors keeping in mind both human and ecological impacts of any changes Goals Settings • To maintain and improve our current in-house recycling rate of 80% • To improve total mixed solid waste and scarp recycling rate by 80% by FY 2021 from current 65% Air Pollution Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (generated power through DG sets). We monitor diesel generator stack emissions (NOX, SOX and SPM), indoor air quality (CO, CO2, VOC’s, RSPM), treated water quality and ambient noise levels across 25 key locations every month. These meet the specified regulatory norms Sustainability Highlights 92 Wipro Sustainability Report Performance against Goals Waste Management The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations. Other waste includes broken furniture, tiles, and worn/torn carpets – which are largely recycled • 100% recycling of inorganic waste. Waste segregation at source is implemented as a standard practice at all locations and extensive communication with active involvement of employees and our partners has been key to achieving this goal • Presently 84% of organic waste is handled in-campus and rest is sent as animal feed to farms. • Modified Operational Control Procedures (OCP) and e-waste recycler requirements has been rolled out in FY2017 • The total quantum of waste collected was 6,205 tons in 2018-19, against 6,652 tons in 2017-18. This decrease of 7% is primarily due to reduction in Construction and Demolition (C&D) debris from extensive renovation/retrofit work at some of our campuses Around 81% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. A small proportion is incinerated and the rest is sent to approved landfills Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (all figures in metric, unless mentioned specifically) is provided in the pie chart. This does not include C&D waste, all of which is sent to approved landfills Waste Handling Methods 6.00, 6% 3.00, 3% 9.83, 10% 81.00, 81% Recycled-Internal Other methods Incineration Landfill Waste Disposed in Tonnes Handling Methods Category 201620172018Disposed Provided by Organizational 17 18 19 Directly Contractor Defaults Garden Waste 754 833.4 713.1 Recycled 100% Food Scraps 1243 1412.3 1636.9 Recycled 100% Dimensional Wood/Lumber 150 69.1 301.6 Recycled 100% Sustainability Highlights 93 Wipro Sustainability Report STP Sludge 530 530.9 805.8 Recycled 100% Organic Waste Total 2677 2845.7 3457.5 Magzines 2 0.2 1.6 Recycled 100% News Papers 11 12.7 16.6 Recycled 100% Office Stationary 2 1.3 Recycled 100% Mixed papers 117 136.0 76.2 Recycled 100% Tissue Papers 308 311.1 305.7 Incineration 100% Inorganic Waste (Total) 439 461.3 400.3 Cardboard 196 162.2 142.2 Recycled 100% Styrofoam 2 0.8 1.4 Recycled 65% Landfill 35% Thermacol 9 6.0 8 Recycled 65% Landfill 35% Dimensional Wood/Lumber 140.8 Recycled 100% Packaging Waste (Total) 207 169.1 292.57 Milk Covers 11.9 Recycled 100% Plastic Covers 36.2 Recycled 100% Waste bin covers 6.3 Recycled 100% Spoons & forks 0.2 Recycled 100% Chemical Containers 4.6 Recycled 100% Water & pet Bottles 11.5 Recycled 100% Partition plastic waste 11.4 Recycled 100% Stationary Waste 1.2 Recycled 100% Others Specific 10.2 Recycled 100% Plastic waste (Total) 93.8 Sustainability Highlights 94 Wipro Sustainability Report Bio medical waste 368.90 424.10 14.5 Incineration Kgs kg 100% Electronic Items, Computers. 16 460.1 286.7 Recycled 100% Electrical Chokes, Defective PCB Boards Tubelight & CFL's 9 7.6 7.4 Recycled 100% Used Oil 36 21.8 16.3 Recycled 100% Batteries 165 153.3 155 Recycled 100% Oil Soaked Cotton Waste 1 0.6 1.3 Incineration 100% DG Filters 3 1.3 1.9 Incineration 100% Ink Cartridges 0.5 1.3 0.2 Recycled 100% Hazardous, Biomedical, E214 645.9 483.8 waste (Total) Mixed metal 168 285.2 300.6 Recycled 100% Mixed Solid Waste 218 258.2 193 Recycle 65% Landfill 35% Mixed Plastics 176 117.7 184.3 Recycled 100% Other Scraps 235 222.7 188 Recycled 60% Landfill 40% Others (Total) 797 883.8 866 Total Waste 4334 5006 5593.6 Electronic Waste During FY 18-19, the total end of life e-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 294 tons We have started working on the recommendation of e-waste audits conducted earlier for better management of electronic waste. Based on the recommendations, e-waste recycler guidelines and operating procedures have been revised as per the new e-waste guidelines from the government. These now include comprehensive records verification for better material traceability. In accordance with the new e-waste rules of 2016, we are also considering refurbishing as one of the options for end of life disposal. Oil Spills There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period Sustainability Highlights 95 Wipro Sustainability Report Air Emissions We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 47 of our locations, this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (SOx) and particulate matter. A scheduled PPM (Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying out the maintenance of the DG sets to check its efficiency. Monthly stack monitoring is also carried out to check NOx, SOx and SPM levels to ensure the emissions are within the regulatory norms. For the reporting year, weighted average of air pollutants from DG stack are within the prescribed limit The weighted average of stack emissions of more than 100 DG’s at 20 of our large and owned locations is as follows Weighted average of air pollutants from DG stack (mg/Nm3) 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 NOx Sox SPM 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 NOx Sox SPM 2014-15 296 28.2 55.8 2015-16 226.4 24.3 45.2 2016-17 291 28.4 55.7 2017-18 252.1 21.4 53.5 Sustainability Highlights 96 Wipro Sustainability Report Indoor Air Pollutants Our Biodiversity Projects Indoor air quality is seen to have a correlation with Our first flagship project in biodiversity was the unique health of employees and can be a cause of some Butterfly Park and wetland biodiversity zone that uses respiratory ailments. We regularly monitor presence of recycled water at the Electronic City campus in indoor air pollutants like VOC (Volatile Organic Bengaluru. The first stage of our campus biodiversity Compounds), POP (Persistent Organic Pollutants) project the butterfly park – was completed in March and other hazardous air pollutants and for the 2013. The park is witness to hundreds of migratory reporting year the air quantity are well within the butterflies who stop over in the park for nearly a month acceptable limits governed by national and in their 400 Km pre monsoon annual migration from international laws and standards Western to the Eastern Ghats in India. The second phase of the project, a ~3 acre Wetland park, was also Controlled Emissions of Ozone completed in 2016 Depleting Substances (ODS) Our second project in Pune includes five thematic The quantity of refrigerants (R134-A, R404-A, R-407gardens aesthetic and palm garden, spring garden, A, R-407-B, R-407-C, R-410-A and R-22) in 2018-19 Ficus garden, spice and fruit garden – through was 9.16, 20% reduction from previous year, for all plantations of native spaces specific to the local owned (India) locations. Out of that, R-22, a ODS geography. This would be a unique project in a substance under Montreal Protocol amounts to 3.1 corporate campus with a dense year-round flowering tons. Based on the GWP (global Warming Potentials) of more than 240 species of native plants serving as per GHG protocol for these substances, this is multiple ecological purposes. These are long term equivalent to 8,594 tons of CO2 equiv. or 1.81 tons of multi-year projects and similar programs will 2 CFC-11 ODS/refrigerant commence at two of our other campuses Campus Biodiversity In all these programs we work closely with expert partners in biodiversity, conservation, ecological Approach design and communications. A work environment IT Services is predominantly an urban-centric sector which integrates biodiverse and natural design and the impacts on biodiversity are rarely direct and principles has multiple intangible benefits for not of the same order or scale as in biodiversity zones employees and visitors it builds a larger sense of in the hinterland e.g. the Western Ghats reserv connectedness and emphasizes values of sensitivity and our place in the world around us. To strengthen Therefore, our approach since inception more than these connects, we regularly conduct photography, five years back has been to turn our focus inward on walks and plantation activities for employees and their our own campuses, many of which have reasonably children large non-built up spaces. Our urban biodiversity program addresses the twin aims of creating Urban Resilience biodiversity in our urban campuses while also using it The growth of Indian cities has been widely studied as a platform for wider education and advocacy. Along and analyzed. Driven by industry led growth and the with this the program takes and integrated approach structural shifts in village based economy of towards the contribution of reducing energy and agriculture and animal husbandry, we are seeing a carbon intensity, improving water retention and significant shift in population towards urban centers. ambient air quality According to a study by McKinsey and Co, there will be 69 metropolitan cities by 2025, each with a Goal Settings population of one million or more, which collectively We have set the following goals: will be home to 78 percent of India’s urban population. Gandhi had written then that India is to be found in its • To convert five of our existing campuses to 7 million villages and not cities. It may not be too biodiversity zones and presumptuous to say now that the future of India lies • To design all our new campuses on biodiversity in how well it manages it urban centers principles Sustainability Highlights 97 Wipro Sustainability Report Cities are seen as magnetic hubs of modern social program involved extensive borewell monitoring, and development that attract enterprise through access to detailed studies in selected clusters. The idea was to skills and markets, engender social diversity through evolve a decentralized model of ground water cosmopolitanism and trigger technology led management innovation and improvisations. However unprecedented growth, lack of foresight, political will • Phase 1 of the three year participative ground and rent seeking across the spectrum have exposed water management program in the SarjapurBellandur area has been completed. Acting on the weak foundations of many urban cities. Water, insights from the detailed aquifer map of the solid waste, mobility, maintenance of commons like area, we have facilitated pilots in selected lakes/water bodies, ground water, parks and residential layouts that focus on a strategic shift playground, public health, inequality (slums comprise from deep aquifer extraction to tapping shallow a fifth of the total population in Indian cities) get aquifers in combination with a sustainable cycle inadequate attention from policy makers and public of rainwater harvesting. As part of citizen advocacy, we have developed a set of around executive bodies 20+ guides, case studies and primers related to urban water management. A web portal Approach http://bengaluru.urbanwaters.in/ has evolved into A resilient city would seek to engage on important a comprehensive repository and ready reference for matters related to urban water in Bengaluru urban aspects with all its key stakeholders. Wipro as a responsible citizen through its community programs • Phase 2 of the program is looking at Devanahalli is working closely with industry, government and area, a rapidly transitioning zone of the city. Engagements with town municipality, Special communities in creating platforms that enable working Economic Zone and townships in the area are on some fundamental and sticky issues like: (a) progressing well with exemplar stakeholder led Increase Water stress and scarcity in and around our projects like in stream sewage decontamination campuses (b) Increase traffic and congestion due to pilot and community well restoration being increase in private vehicles use during office hours documented and implemented and (c) Inadequate benefits offered and deplorable Other programs working conditions of waste pickers Other program we are working on is Urban Wetland Our Engagement Programs Program in Bengaluru. Here we are documenting wetland design and management protocols based on Water various lakes in the city. We are also considering • Participative ground water project: To develop creating a pan India urban water network for understanding of ground water and how it can practitioners working on local water resources and inform community led management. citizen based governance. In Pune, we have • KSWN – Karnataka State Water Network: In commissioned a program to produce a citizens report association with CII, a platform to bring together on Pune’s aquifers and the city’s groundwater different stakeholders to work on urban water footprint. The study will interface with multiple issues stakeholders, including the government and produce Participatory Ground Water management a longer term proposal on Pune’s urban water governance with a focus on Pune’s ground water and Program (PGWM) the river systems In the last four years, the program has attempted to explore the issues of ground water in a 35 sq. Km area Mobility around our corporate head-quarters in Bengaluru – an • Working with urban public transport body in area that is completely dependent on ground water for Bengaluru for better adoption of public transport its needs and which is largely unregulated. This is by employees representative of many rapidly developing urban and • Enabling employee groups on cycling and peri-urban cities in India; in Bengaluru itself around carpooling 40% of its water needs is met by ground water. Our approach was to use a science based approach to understand the hydrogeology of the area and engage communities through various platforms (citizen Adoption of Electric Vehicles science, advocacy, facilitation of interventions). The Sustainability Highlights 98 Wipro Sustainability Report Wipro became the first Indian major business to join thoroughly inadequate with many areas left EV 100 initiativea global initiative launched by The uncovered, resulting in garbage piling up on street Climate Group which addresses this alarming concern corners. The informal economy workers have long by bringing together forward looking companies compensated for inadequate waste management committed to accelerating the transition to electric systems in the city by collecting discarded materials vehicles (EVs) and making electric transport the new that have zero value and convert it into a tradable normal by 2030. Our initiative is in line with goods through their labor in extraction, collection, Government of India’s National E-Mobility Programme sorting, grading and transporting. These informal and country’s ambition of ensuring that 30% of all economy waste workers (numbering 1500020000) vehicles on the road are electric by 2030 are also among the most vulnerable populations in the city. According to one CHF survey a significant We are committed to transition our global fleet to number of waste pickers are women who belong to electrical vehicles by 2030. Our interim goal is to scale socially marginalized populations, including backward up use of EV to 500 in next three years and 1000 by castes (conducted by Global Communities (formerly 2023. We have already leased around 50 EVs in CHF International) and MSSS (Mythri Sarva Seva Hyderabad and the National Capital Territory of Delhi. Samithi) in 2010). The survey found a significant In the current year (since July 2018), 2.0 Million Kms number of young (18 to 40 years), illiterate, and across 33,000 trips have been covered in Hyderabad. economically & socially disadvantaged people We are also encouraging our employees to use EVs engaged in waste picking in the city. In addition to and have launched corporate vehicle ownership, traditional waste pickers, a significant proportion of the lease programs and installed charging points across migrant population in the city is working with waste. all our major facilities in India. We hope our The waste pickers’ access to water, sanitation and commitment to enhance and promote the use of housing facilities in the city still remains inadequate electric vehicles, which offer a cleaner alternative to with the situation being worse among migrant waste the use of fossil fuels, will contribute to increased pickers living in temporary accommodation and adoption of these vehicles and help improve the lacking basic identity cards, no services to collect quality of the air we breathe in our cities waste, etc. The working conditions of waste pickers are also deplorable. Safety gear is not a priority for Waste formal economy waste workers and in the informal • Access to social security and benefits for city’s economy; it is not even a possibility. Armed only with informal waste pickers old shoes and clothes picked out from waste heaps • Facilitated sessions on waste segregation and and a stick to sort through trash, the working composting for employees and their families conditions of informal waste pickers leaves a lot to be desired • Working on an e-waste program for the Electronics City Industrial Township Authority The Hasiru Dala Project aims to organize waste (ELCITA) cluster workers, i.e. waste-pickers in Bengaluru to enhance Urban Waste Management and Welfare of and upgrade their skills for innovation in waste Waste Pickers management services leading to their increase in Bangalore with a population of 95 lakh and spread income by 10-40%, their formal inclusion in the waste over 800 sq. kilometers produces between 4000-6000 management market approved by Bruhat Bengaluru tons of waste per day. The responsibility for the proper Mahanagar Pallike (BBMP) and increased access to handling, collection, transportation and disposal of social, nutrition and environmental security measures waste in the city lies with the Bruhat Bengaluru provided by state and other institutions. Hasiru Dala’s Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The predominant significant achievement in its first year of inception has method of disposal is dumping in open landfills, which been its ability to integrate informal waste workers in has tremendously detrimental impacts on the quality operating 27 Dry Waste Cleaning Centers (DWCC). of air, water and soil. The BBMP has a sanctioned The city administration directly signed a memorandum staff of 12,000 for waste management in the city, but of understanding with the waste pickers to operate dry only 7000 are on the rolls. The citizen to staff ratio is waste collection centers known as Kartavya because a paltry 401:1. (The Times of India May 2012). The of organization’s consistent advocacy with the present formal system of waste collection is municipal body. The given space has the potential to be transformed into a cooperative fair trade scrap Sustainability Highlights 99 Wipro Sustainability Report store and a place where public citizens, officers of the BBMP and waste pickers can interact and share ideas Bengaluru Sustainability Forum This forum was set up in early 2018 and convened by Wipro along with the National Center for Biological Sciences. BSF brings together civil society, academia, research institutions and government with the broad goals of fostering curated interactions between different stakeholders on issues of urban sustainability. Over the past year, the forum has curated three retreats on the themes of Urban Water, Biodiversity and Climate Change. Complementing the network building has been the small grants program for collaborative projects nine proposals from the first two themes of urban water and biodiversity were selected Sustainability Highlights 100 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 101 Wipro Sustainability Report Customer Stewardship Digital, Cloud, Engineering Services and Cyber Security Overview Information and communication technologies now • On the digital front, Wipro Digital, while only four play a central role in driving efficiency and productivity years old, continues to impress industry analysts improvements through dematerialization and and clients. Digital revenue grew from 27% in FY automation for most businesses. This trend is being 2018 to 35% in FY 2019 further strengthened with the continuing influence and • Our Data Discovery Platform and AI-First adoption of new disruptive technologies like Big Data, strategy are being well received in the market Analytics, Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence and which is reflected in the double digital growth of Data, Analytics and Ai (DAAI)-10% YoY in Mobility. The trend of disintermediation is changing constant currency the way customer and business interactions takes place. Disintermediation gives consumers direct • Cyber security as a service offering which forms access to information that otherwise would require a 4% of the revenues grew at 16% YoY (in constant currency) in FY 2019. We are scaling mediator. As a result, new business models are being assets such as our Cyber Defense Assurance created and e-commerce is gaining wide acceptance. Platform and working with security ecosystem Unique opportunities for product innovation made partners and governing bodies possible by IT is resulting in democratization of ICT • Wipro HOLMESTM, our proprietary platform for making technology more accessible and affordable to automation is now deployed across350+ customers. All these trends contribute to IT becoming customers to hyper-automate processes and ubiquitous in everyday life addressing different needs offload specific cognitive tasks to the artificial of end users intelligence (“AI”) platform to gain cost efficiencies, agility and enhanced user However, technology is not without its associated risks experience and challenges. The pervasive nature of technology • Our open innovation ecosystem framework also raises concerns related to data mismanagement, comprises of M&A, Ventures, Partner increase in surveillance, loss of privacy, and possible Ecosystem, Horizon program, Topcoder, Expert abuse. WEF Global Risks Report 2019 lists largeNetworks & Academia. In FY 2019, we invested scale cyber-attacks and major data fraud/theft among in Syfte an Australian design agency which uses human-centered design thinking to solve the top 10 in terms of likelihood. Emerging compelling client challenges. Through Topcoder, technologies like Artificial Intelligence enabling our customers are accessing are accessing and organizations in making rapid and fast decisions and executing with incredible digital talent faster, predictability, transparency, trust becomes critical for including specialized talent driving projects use of such technologies utilizing AI, Blockchain, Computer Vision, Machine Learning, Precision Medicine, and even Customer stewardship hinges on meeting customer Quantum Computing expectations by being responsive to the emerging trends and offering portfolio of products and services Customer Engagement which integrate resource efficiency, dematerialization, In FY 2019, our Net Promoter Scores (NPS), improved organizational transparency, connectedness and by 511 basis points from previous year. Our top ten collaboration. Engaging with customers is critical to customers grew by 9.6% form previous year and we meet customer expectations and it is the foundation added 2 clients in the >$ 50 million bucket on which stewardship rests Number of new customers acquired by Wipro in FY Highlights of our customer centric 2019 is 271. Total number of active customers during the same year is 1,115 growth over the last year are below: We have sharpened our strategy into four pillars Sustainability Expectations from based on what our customers need i.e. Business Customers Transformation, Modernization, Connected Intelligence and Trust. We have been investing Apart from technology driven value creation, our significantly in the four areas of big bet which are global customers also expect transparency and compliance on different sustainability aspects within Sustainability Highlights 102 Wipro Sustainability Report our operations and in our extended value chain CDP supply chain with information on our GHG Human Rights, Labour Practices and Diversity being emissions attributable to the work we do for specific key dimensions among them. Many customers require customers and as a corollary, on collaboration acceptance and alignment with their supplier code of opportunities with those customers on GHG mitigation conduct. We have 150+ customers who are part of independent raters like Ecovadis , Verego and Strategic Approach and Policy industry led consortiums like the JAC (Joint Audit Wipro’s strategy is based on customer needs and Consortium), Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative divided into four pillars Business Transformation, (PSCI) and Quest Forum (Focusing on Quality and Modernization, Connected Intelligence and Trust. We Sustainability in ICT community). We also respond to provide solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class delivery processes Approach to Customer Centricity Our unique Customer Centricity framework is used in all key accounts to drive appropriate actions that continually help customer satisfaction. The key objectives of our framework are detailed below Sustainability Highlights 103 Wipro Sustainability Report Voice of Customer These are conducted formally and at appropriate intervals to capture customer feedback on Wipro. The The Voice of the Customer is heard at various levels Strategic Marketing Group conducts surveys on brand i.e., at project level, program level, account level and perception where they also understand customer’s through direct feedback, informal meetings, expectations of Wipro and Wipro’s position relative to governance meetings and senior management its competitors. Regular visits by senior leaders to interaction with the client. The processes include customers are another key source of information. We Program CSAT, Quarterly Pulse Surveys and the also conduct webinars with our alliance partners to Annual CSAT conducted through third party surveys. capture the customer voice Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSAT) The Customer Connect Process document and system maintenance technical Wipro communicates and connects with its customers document for each engagement ensures that all through a matrix framework. Every key account has a customer needs are documented and agreed between dedicated Client Partner to own and manage the the two parties relationship. The Client Partner profiles the account and proposes/ offers solutions that are strategically relevant to customers. An execution process Sustainability Highlights 104 Wipro Sustainability Report Business Unit heads interact and engage with crucial to ensure access to systems and data. Any customers via monthly governance meetings, service disruptions or suboptimal system performance quarterly business review meetings, and client-visits can lead to businesses incurring higher costs and every quarter. Service Line heads visit and attend all suffering reputational damage. It can even become a the important meetings. In addition, the CEO visits key business continuity issue, especially for organizations accounts regularly. Executive sponsors are assigned whose business models are technology centric. Such for all mega accounts to maintain and build the systemic failures can negatively impact industrial relationship production, public services and communications ‘Customer Centricity’ is also a key leadership quality The breakdown of IT infrastructure could be triggered on which Wipro leaders receive 360-degree feedback, by technical failures, weather events, natural disasters every year. Quantitative and qualitative feedback from or terrorist attacks. The Risk report identifies large peers, managers and direct reports is analyzed and scale state-sponsored, state-affiliated, criminal or shared with employees. The feedback is also terrorist cyberattacks as a significant risk which can integrated with the performance appraisal process to cause an infrastructure breakdown and/or loss of trust ensure that right actions are put in place to improve in the Internet customer satisfaction The magnitude of data to be handled by today’s Understanding material aspects for stakeholdersorganization is gigantic. This abundance of data Customers opens the door to many opportunities in all spheres of lifeeconomic, social, and political. But with ‘big data’ Our internal materiality assessment and stakeholder which can create ‘big impacts’ comes big feedback have identified cyber security, data privacy, responsibilities. The globalized nature of the internet customer satisfaction, innovation and open source as as well as the intensive virtual interactions and material issues to our business. This is further extensive data storage makes this a significant risk to reinforced by feedback from our customers which corporate organizations. Any leakage or misuse or clearly indicates Customer Privacy, Data Security, unauthorized access of information could expose Customer Satisfaction, Innovation and Open Source companies to legal and reputational risks. Insufficient as the most material issues to their business protection of database and network, unclear management of personal information and vague Our report-map on these dimensions is shown below database access rules are the main reasons behind any data breach GRI Aspects/Topics Sections Customer Satisfaction Approach to The nature of the IT services industry does not require Customer Centricity Wipro to store any customer proprietary data in its systems and networks. In rare circumstances where, Customer Privacy Data Privacy & IT Security as part of project requirement, it is needed to view customer data, it is accessed remotely with the data Innovation Innovation being stored and hosted in the customer’s systems. Open Source Innovation This avoids the risk of customer information vulnerability in Wipro's systems Data Privacy & IT Security Privacy statement for Data The Global Risk Report 2019 of the World Economic Protection Forum includes (a) breakdown of critical information 'Protecting Customer Information' is a key section of infrastructure and networks and (b) massive incidents Code of Business Conduct of Wipro and of data fraud/theft among the top risks faced by the communicates our stand on the protection of personal world information of our employees, customers and relevant stakeholders. Wipro mandates compliance to this With cloud services such as SaaS, PaaS and IaaS code through periodical certification and companybecoming increasingly important to the way wide awareness and testing of the code every year. In businesses operate, the resilience of critical addition to the section in Code of Conduct, Wipro has information infrastructure becomes critical. It is always Sustainability Highlights 105 Wipro Sustainability Report also defined Privacy statement and this is published in monitored and assessed for their impact on the the website https://www.wipro.com/privacyenterprise from Information Security/ Business statement/. This statement communicates Wipro’s Continuity perspective. Necessary inputs are sought approach to protection of personal information from the Legal team to assess the impact for any legal collected electronically. There is an internal Data risks involved while undertaking key enterprise level Protection and Privacy statement defined under initiatives Information Security Management System (ISMS) with the objective – ‘to define collection, protection and Automated monitoring tools and detective controls usage of personal data & company confidential have been implemented for detecting leakages of information as per applicable laws and regulations’. confidential data from Wipro. The data breach We have also established and implemented Security notification procedure template, which is deployed Incident Management policy that covers procedures specifically for each customer for reporting and handling policy violations & data account/program/project, is also provided. A security breaches. Our policies are in compliance with globally incident notification form is also designed for notifying accepted data protection principles the data breach incidents and published on the intranet portal accessible for all employees Wipro’s ISMS is published on an intranet portal ISMS which provides applicable IT security and privacy Data privacy specific training programs are designed policies for different target segments (Employees, and imparted to employees of customer accounts on Third Party Contractors, Leadership Team, System all applicable privacy regulations. In addition, Administrators and Sales Teams) and contains all innovative methods are employed to spread relevant details on policies, standards, procedures Information security and privacy awareness amongst and guidelines related to information security all Wipro users such as e-mailers, blogs, and theme based awareness campaigns Policy in Action through the Wipro's technology infrastructure in various locations Information Security Management of operation ensures adequate resilience in the basic System IT infrastructure, which helps critical business To ensure effective implementation of privacy policy operations run during disaster situations. Technology within Wipro, a comprehensive and mature framework disaster recovery planning includes physical of systems and processes have been evolved. infrastructure, computing infrastructure and Applicable statutory regulations are identified and communication infrastructure. Wipro’s corporate (i.e. documented with supporting compliance procedures non-customer data) data assets residing in our and policies to manage the entire process of legal and enterprise information systems and applications are regulatory compliances. For example, generally backed up on a regular basis and the backup integrity accepted Data Protection (DP) principles pertaining to tests are periodically performed as per Wipro fair and lawful purpose, adequacy, accuracy, retention Information Security Policy of data, safeguards for processing and data transfers are mapped to the processes and practices of Wipro's Governance Information Security Management System (ISMS) The Security Organization in Wipro is established with clear roles and responsibilities for implementing Privacy risk assessments are undertaken with the information security and business continuity in the objective of identifying potential areas of risks relating organization. The General Counsel of Wipro is the to privacy of employee data collected, processed and authority to review the effectiveness and progress of stored within Wipro’s internal Information Systems information security and business continuity within various geographies. The mitigation measures programs. Information Risk Management & Policy in-line with ISMS practices are implemented to Compliance Group (IRMC) headed by the designated address the risks. Compliance verifications are CISO (Chief Information Security Officer), a group that performed through regular internal and external holds the overall responsibility of governing the audits. (ISO27001:2013 for Information Security and Information Security risk and compliance practices other Business Continuity framework principles). within Wipro. Further, on the Risk Management Changes to applicable privacy laws, regulations, and initiatives, IRMC works closely with Enterprise Risk policies space across various geographies are Management (ERM) team headed by Chief Risk Sustainability Highlights 106 Wipro Sustainability Report Officer (CRO), which holds the responsibility for data process, a customer is notified in the event of any privacy and reports to General Counsel as well as breach of data privacy as per notification procedure Wipro Board of Directors. It is generally understood agreed in the contract. In Wipro’s BPS (Business and accepted internally that information security and Process Services) business, technical help-desk and privacy is a joint responsibility of multiple stakeholders process outsourcing in areas like human resources, from various departments/functions such as finance accounting, procurement and retail are Information Risk Management, Legal, Human provided. Like in IT services, all customer data is Resources, Enterprise Risk Management Office, stored in customer systems and there are multiple Senior Leadership, Global Delivery Organization and process layers before the data is presented to the the internal Information Systems teams customer support executive, with appropriate controls and auditing mechanisms Performance on Data Privacy and In April 2019, we became aware that our system was Information Security subject to a cyber-attack by a coordinated and Wipro is certified under the ISO 27001 standard which advanced phishing campaign, which was reportedly provides assurance in the areas of information directed against several major companies, including security, physical security and business continuity. We Wipro. Upon learning of this incident, we collaborated benchmark our processes to meet the EU’s General with forensic firms to investigate and have worked Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and SOX IT closely with our anti-virus provider and our information compliance requirements. We closely monitor IT security team to counter the threat found in our system infrastructure availability incidents based on severity, and implemented a series of additional precautionary outage duration and users impacted. Most of the incidents are related to telecommunications and Innovation network links. We have maintained SLA with vendors Human experience in interacting with machines is on IT and telecom infrastructure availability close to rapidly evolving. Breakthroughs in Man-Machine 99.99% in the reporting year Interfaces (MMI) using acoustics, gestures, Being a B2B business, Wipro does not collect, store biometrics, body movement and virtual reality coupled or monetize information pertaining to our customers’ with context-aware applications are introducing higher attributes or actions, including but not limited to, levels of user engagement. Such interactions are records of communications, content of dynamic, flexible, personalized, responsive, real-time communications, demographic data, behavioral data, and data driven. Growing project complexities, location data, or any other personally identifiable competitive pressures, operational challenges and the information. Therefore, our company does not receive need to maintain and grow margins is driving requests for customer information from government or companies to adopt technologies that will help them law enforcement agencies. Wipro does not store any run business as usual, improve operational customer proprietary data in its systems and efficiencies and provide competitive differentiation. networks. In rare circumstances where, as part of Essentially, this will prepare organizations to project requirement, it is needed to view customer fundamentally change the way they do business data, it is accessed remotely with the data being stored and hosted on the customer’s systems. This Research and development helps in meeting data privacy compliance Initiatives requirements from a contractual & operational Wipro’s Research and Development initiatives perspective since it is Wipro’s customers that are in continue to focus on strengthening and extending our control of their own data, even while outsourcing portfolio of IT services across multiple new and project work to Wipro. Wipro signs Master Services emerging technology areas as well as in the Agreements with its customers that have clauses intersection of these technologies. We are investing covering confidentiality of the customer’s information. extensively in developing solutions and services in a Wherever applicable, Wipro also executes Business host of advanced technology areas (e.g. ADAS Associate Agreements with its customers who are Autonomous Driver Assistance Systems/ autonomous governed by sectoral privacy regulations such as vehicles, commercial wearables, machine vision, HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and human machine interfaces, smart assistants, natural Accountability Act) of 1996. As a matter of due language processing and understanding, augmented Sustainability Highlights 107 Wipro Sustainability Report & virtual reality, blockchain tech, quantum computing, smart machines, among others). We continue to invest in working on new ways of software development and deployment for edge-based IoT and always-on architectures. Next generation digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Big Data Analytics and emerging collaborative development methodologies like Open Source are driving this change. These emerging technological innovations can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization. For example Some of the use cases we have built that are showcased in our innovation centers are shopper robot, vision assisted machine tending operation, inventory & inspection, segregation of hazardous materials, game playing robot We are also collaborating with agricultural university, startups and research institutions to develop early detection of pest infestation in crops with the use of these APIs. We have reached a reasonable accuracy in detection and are working with one of the processing industries to deploy the same Strategic Approach to Innovation Wipro has a two-pronged approach to innovation – external and internal. Externally, we work jointly with our customers and with various academic institutes, research organizations both from a recruitment perspective as well as from a partnership perspective. For joint innovation with customers, Wipro has primarily four models: Each model has specific use situations depending on the amount of investment and the nature of the innovation problems that are addressed. We also assess maturity levels of participating stakeholders while proposing these different engagement models Wipro understands the necessity of having a strong Open Innovation Network and invests into building, supporting and participating in various such networks and forums. The bulk of the company's Open Innovation activity is aligned to the focus themes driven by the CTO Office and the strategic areas as identified by the respective individual business units Sustainability Highlights 108 Wipro Sustainability Report On the Internal Innovation side, a number of initiatives have been started that are designed on concepts of Open Innovation to inculcate a culture of innovation in people. They span the lifecycle of Idea Management from Ideation to Development. Some of them are Directed Idea Campaigns sponsored by business units (BU) which may want to crowdsource ideas around a defined Use Case or Problem Statement. Ideas coming in as part of these are further taken up by the Sponsoring Business Units or the Idea Author is given a chance to develop it wherein the CTO Office support is in the form of infrastructure and mentoring. Technology training and enablement initiatives like CodeStorm enable people to learn and become proficient in new and emerging technology and languages by participating in Coding Contests and Hackathons Technology Themes for Innovation Wipro Ventures, the strategic investment arm of Wipro, is a $100 million fund that invests in early to mid-stage enterprise software startups. As of March 31, 2019, Wipro Ventures has active investments in and partnered with 13 startups in the following areas – AI (Avaamo, Inc., Vicarious FPC, Inc.), Business Commerce (Tradeshift, Inc.), Cybersecurity (IntSights Cyber Intelligence Ltd., Vectra Networks, Inc. CyCognito), Data Management (Imanis Data, Inc.), Industrial IoT (Altizon Systems Private Ltd.), Fraud & Risk Mitigation (Emailage Corp.), Testing Automation (Headspin, Inc., Tricentis GmbH) and Cloud Infrastructure (Cloudgenix, Moogsoft). In addition to direct investments in emerging startups, Wipro Ventures has invested in four enterprise-focused venture funds: TLV Partners, WorkBench Ventures, Glilot Capital Partners and Boldstart Ventures. During year ended March 31, 2019, one of our portfolio companies, Demisto, was acquired Partner Ecosystem: We have a dedicated unit to drive and deepen our partner ecosystem to drive creation of new markets and solutions, expand in key verticals and geographies, drive innovation in our offerings and drive go-to-market outcomes. We have subdivided the partner ecosystem into three categoriesStrategic Partners, Growth Partners and Niche Partners Horizon Program: The goal of the horizon program is to drive organic incubation in emerging areas covering products, platforms, solutions and capabilities. In order to achieve this objective, we are investing in key areas such as AI, AR/VR, IoT, cloud computing, software define everything, autonomous vehicle, cybersecurity, digital experience, digital marketing and commerce and Industry 4.0. During the year ended March 31, 2019 we funded 16 themes/areas as part of this program Crowdsourcing – Topcoder is a community and crowdsourcing platform with of over 1.5 million developers, designers, data scientists, and testers. Topcoder provides focused enterprise offerings around AI/ML and Analytics, Digital Experience (DX), Quality as a Service (QaaS), Workforce Transformation, Talent as a Service (TaaS), and Hybrid (Certified) Communities Academia: Collaboration with academic institutions and associations in the United States, Europe, Israel and India in the fields of computer and electrical engineering to promote innovative technology research and capability Governance Wipro follows a federated model for innovation with innovation being driven through multiple structures. The CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) and his group invests in long term solution building and aids the investment efforts of the Business Units /Service Lines by supporting some selected seeding initiatives that are designed to create new business services for Wipr The CTO (Chief Technology Officer) and his group drive innovation through investing in a set of technology themes that can be applied to create services in different industry verticals. The CTO Office also anchors innovation crowdsourcing and open execution processes within and outside the organization through internal innovation programs and by driving an external program that connects with the ecosystem of startups, academia and research institutions. Sustainability Highlights 109 Wipro Sustainability Report Business units (BU's) and Service Lines (SLs) also drive innovation within their respective industry or technology domain develop solutions and service products within their remits. The internal process transformation group invests in tools and frameworks that help improve costs and productivity of our delivery processes for both infrastructure and application management services Intellectual Property and Patents in Wipro Our considerable R&D efforts have helped build our Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio substantially. As of FY 2019, we have a total of 2,236 patents filed in various Patent Jurisdictions across the world, of which 558 have been granted. Recognition of our work in IP creation has come in the form of the prestigious Enterprise Trophy presented to us by the World Intellectual Property Organization, as well as the National IP Award from the Government of India Sustainability Inspired Solutions Wipro, over the past few years, has built a portfolio of leading IT enabled sustainability solutions for our customers. The strengths of our positioning come from decades of working with partners and customers to understand stakeholder needs and placing it in the context of a larger common purpose of providing ‘sustainability’ inspired solutions Industry Focus Example of industries where we provide sustainability inspired solutions are listed below: Automotive: Combining traditional solutions with the potential of Industry 4.0 technologies to deliver vehicles that are safer and more enjoyable to drive. Example of our services include Connected Cars, Smart Manufacturing, etc. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/automotive/ for more information Healthcare & Medical Devices: Non-invasive wearable sensors, for real-time health monitoring and patientcentric healthcare. We deliver cost-effective, high-quality care though robust systems, products and commercial models. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/healthcare/ for more information Natural resources: Real-time monitoring of mine equipment, management of assets, worker health and safety. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/natural-resources/ for more information Utilities, Oil & Gas: Reliable, integrated energy and asset management to improve energy efficiency. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/oil-and-gas/ and https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/utilities/ for more information Retail: Supply chain optimization, along with real-time situational awareness to improve customer experience and returns management. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/retail/ for more information Travel and Transportation: Optimizing costs and providing a differentiated user experience by combining a host of new technologies with strong governance frameworks to achieve sustainable and predictable outcomes. Refer to https://www.wipro.com/en-IN/travel-and-transportation/ for more information Sustainability Highlights 110 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 111 Wipro Sustainability Report Financial Stewardship and Investors The history of financial disclosures through annual and financial reports can be largely attributed to the voluntary disclosures of business performance from a few companies in the U.S. and U.K. to their providers of financial capital in the 19th century. Over the subsequent decades, accounting and reporting methods were refined and institutionalized. In the last couple of decades, progressive calls for transparency and accountability have led stock exchanges to enforce a number of requirements for corporate disclosures The King Report on Corporate Governance (1994, 2002, and 2009) is widely regarded as the first integrated reporting framework on corporate governance and performance, covering both finance and non-financial disclosures. Compliance with the Kings framework is required by companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Similarly, in India, the National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs have been adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for listed companies to publish a Business Responsibility Report (BRR) as part of their annual financial report. In 2018, NVGs updated to National Guideline for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, India The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard bodies, the accounting profession and NGOs, is facilitating adoption of integrated reporting framework <IR> as the new corporate reporting norm. One of the core elements of the framework is accountability and stewardship of the stocks and flows of the six forms of capital: financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and natural. The first two forms of capital are covered in almost all annual reports while the others are covered to varying degrees by some organizations depending on their context and understanding of impacts to significant stakeholders. In 2018, we joined the IR business network – where we participate in deliberations on integrated thinking, strategy and technology and data informed reporting. In 2017 we released our first annual report aligned with the principles of <IR> Framework. Since then our annual Integrated Report is aligned with GRI Standard and BRR requirements of SEBI and also incorporates the recommendation set out by Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and CDSB (Climate Disclosures Standards Board) framework In 2017, Wipro signed the commitment to move towards using the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in our annual financial reporting. TCFD is spearheaded by The Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), which is an international consortium of business and environmental NGOs. By signing this, Wipro commits to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in our Annual Reports The increasing recognition that social and environmental risks can affect a company’s operational strength and continuity has prompted active engagement from investors, regulators and government. Investors are increasingly incorporating ESG criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment decision frameworks. Over the last decade, this has manifested in at least four different ways as shown below • Stock Exchange (DJSI, MSCI, FTSE4Good, BSE Listin requirement) • ESG Assessment by Investors (CDP, Vigeo, Oekom) • Subscription to Principles (Responsible Investing (PRI) and <IR>) • Custom Assessment and studies (Natural Capital Accounting and Social Risk Assessment) Understanding the Stakeholder Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile Sustainability Highlights 112 Wipro Sustainability Report Profile of Wipro Shareholders 400,000 350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 No. of Shareholders ADR Holders Total Shareholders 2015-16 227,368 16,120 227,369 2016-17 241,153 1 241,154 2017-18 269,693 14,152 284,115 2018-19 330075 14,000 344075 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 For overall shareholding pattern refer to table given on Page 106 of our Annual Report FY 2018-19. Our investors are increasingly getting aligned with ‘The Principles of Responsible Investment’ (PRI). PRI was developed by an international group of institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate governance issues to investment practices. UNEP Finance Initiative and UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. The total number of PRI signatories in FY 19 are 2,370 (1,905 in FY 18) and 30% of all investors in Wipro are PRI signatories Engagement with Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. We have multiple channels of communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Communication through proactive disclosures in our financial statement has been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ Sustainability Highlights 113 Wipro Sustainability Report Engagement Approach The Figure below reflects the breadth of our engagement with Investors Details of Engagement The following table details the different types of engagement exercise undertaken by the company in 2018-19 140 119 120 100 Number of Engagements 80 60 39 40 30 27 23 20 9 4 3 5 4 0 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 Investors meetings and Conference Road Show Conducted Earning Conference calls Calls Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY19 Sustainability Highlights 114 Wipro Sustainability Report Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end of a period. The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Complains Complains Complains Complains Complains Complains received resolved Complains Complains SEBI/Stock SEBI/Stock received on resolved on received on resolved on onCorrectio onCorrectio SEBI/Stock Others Others received on resolved on exchange exchange Non receipt Non receipt Non receipt Non receipt n/revalidati n/revalidati exchange Complains Complains Non receipt Non receipt complaints complaints on annual on annual on dividend on dividend on of on of complaints received resolved of securities of securities received resolved report report warrant warrant dividend dividend warrants warrants Q1 71 71 78 78 8 8 6 6 Q2 60 60 48 44 5 5 6 4 Q3 9 9 30 34 4 4 3 5 Q4 4 4 96 96 42 42 Total 144 144 252 252 0 0 59 59 15 15 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Identified material Aspects Our engagement with investors help us understand issues material to them. A report map of material issues and their coverage in this report is given below Material Issues Sections Cyber Security Customer Stewardship Section Data Privacy Information Security and Business opportunity Intellectual Property Service Delivery Economic Performance Financial performance Accounting for externalities Workplace Environment and Culture Workplace sustainability Regulatory Compliance Organization profile Corporate behavior and governance Anti-corruption Ethical Business Conduct Anti-competitive behavior Sustainability Highlights 115 Wipro Sustainability Report Economic performance We are one of the leading providers of IT services globally. We combine the business knowledge and industry expertise of our domain specialists and the technical knowledge and implementation skills of our delivery team leveraging our products, platforms, partnerships and solutions in our development centers located around the world. We develop and integrate innovative solutions that enable our clients to leverage IT to achieve their business objectives at competitive costs. We use our quality processes and global talent pool to deliver ‘time to development’ advantages, cost savings and productivity improvements Our IT Services business provides a range of IT and IT-enabled services which include digital strategy advisory, customer centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application design, development, reengineering and maintenance, systems integration, package implementation, global infrastructure services, analytics services, business process services, research and development and hardware and software design to leading enterprises worldwide. Our vision is “To earn our Clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. The markets we serve are undergoing rapid changes due to the pace of developments in technology, innovation in business models and changes in the sourcing strategies of clients. Pressures on cost-competitiveness and an uncertain economic environment are causing clients to develop newer business models. On the technology front, digital business has changed the nature of demand for IT services. Development of advanced technologies such as cloud based offerings, big data analytics, mobile applications and the emergence of social media are shifting the point of decision-making on IT sourcing within clients’ organization from the traditional Chief Information Officer to newer stakeholders such as Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer, Chief Risk Officer etc. These trends on newer business models, emerging technologies and sourcing patterns provide us with significant growth opportunities. Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system integration services. These products include computing, Platforms and Storage, Networking Solutions, Enterprise Information Security, and software products, including databases and operating systems. We have a diverse range of clients, primarily in the India and Middle East markets from small and medium enterprises (“SMEs”) to large enterprises in all major industries Business Strategy The vision for our business is “To earn our clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. In doing business we seek to emphasize our core values of being passionate about our client’s success, treating each person with respect, being global and responsible, and maintaining unyielding integrity in everything we do Our strategy is about driving a “Digital first” approach through four foundational pillars i.e. Business Transformation, Modernization, Connected Intelligence and Trust. As part of these, we are prioritizing and disproportionately investing to drive growth in key strategic fields such as digital, cloud, cybersecurity and industrial and engineering services through our “Big Bet” program. For example, our “Big Bet” in each of Digital and Cloud are at the heart of our Business Transformation and Modernization pillars, while our “Big Bet” in Industrial and Engineering services is central to our Connected Intelligence pillar and our “Big Bet” in cybersecurity is central to our Trust pillar. Talent, IPs/ Platforms & Open Innovation are underlying strategies that support the four pillars. Refer to pages 19 of Wipro Annual Report for FY 2018-19 for detailed Business Strategy Assessment of Financial and Economic Risks Our annual financial report and the Form 20-F filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission for the reporting year lists a number of external factors or risks that may impact our business. These externalities are assessed regularly and inform business strategy. We present here a summary of the key external risks identified and our approach towards them. The engagement is informed by three primary factors (i) the different timescales in which they play out, (ii) the relative influence business has and (iii) meeting the concurrent and diverse needs of its various stakeholders Sustainability Highlights 116 Wipro Sustainability Report • Currency Fluctuation: A significant portion of our revenue is in US Dollars, United Kingdom Pound Sterling, Euros, Australian Dollars and Canadian Dollars while a large portion of our costs are in Indian Rupees. The exchange rates between the Indian Rupee and these currencies have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Appreciation of the Indian Rupee against these currencies can adversely affect our results of operations. Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving payment for sales and services in foreign currencies, and making purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. The exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted cash flows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings. As of March 31, 2019, a `1 (Rupees one) increase/decrease in the spot exchange rate of the Indian rupee with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately ` 2,002 million decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative instruments • Global Economic and Geo Political Risks: We derive approximately 57% of our IT Services revenue from the Americas (including the United States) and 25% of our IT Services revenue from Europe. If the economy in the Americas or Europe continues to be volatile or conditions in the global financial market deteriorate, pricing for our services may become less attractive and our clients located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. Reduction in spending on IT services may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our clients are concentrated in certain key industries. Any significant decrease in the growth of any one of these industries, or widespread changes in any such industry, may reduce or alter the demand for our services and adversely affect our revenue and profitability • Taxation Risks: Our profits for the period earned from providing services at client premises outside India are subject to tax in the country where we perform the work Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to the extent that the same income is subject to taxation in India. Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under Indian tax laws. These tax incentives include a tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our businesses operating from specially designated Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”). Changes to these incentives and other exemptions we receive due to government policies can impact our financial performance • Wage Pressure: Our wage costs in emerging markets have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the developed markets for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in emerging markets may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees over the long term, wage increases may reduce our profit margins. Inability to provide adequate wage increase may result in attrition and impact competitiveness • Disruptions in telecommunications: The offshore development center model necessitates maintaining a resilient and active voice and data communication infrastructure between our offices in India, our clients’ offices, and our software development and support facilities overseas. Redundancy and business continuity measures are critical in the event of a telecom disruption • Restrictive Mobility Legislations: Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived connection between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. With high domestic unemployment levels in many countries and increasing political and media attention on the outsourcing of services internationally by domestic corporations, there have been concerted efforts in many countries to enact new legislations to restrict offshore outsourcing or impose restrictions on companies that outsource • IP Rights: Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require employees, independent contractors and, whenever possible, vendors to enter into confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These confidentiality agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary information being developed by us or on our behalf be kept confidential. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed to third parties in the course of our business be kept confidential by such third parties. However, our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software we develop for them Sustainability Highlights 117 Wipro Sustainability Report Financial Performance Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly consistent in FY 18-19 when compared with the previous year Consolidated Results FY 2018 FY 2019 YoY Change Revenue 546,359 589,060 7.8% Cost of revenue (385,575) (413,033) 7.1% Gross profit 160,784 176,027 9.5% Selling and marketing (42,349) (44,510) 5.1% expenses General and (34,141) (35,951) 5.3% administrative expenses Other Operating 4,344 100.0% Income Operating Income 84,294 99,910 18.5% Finance Expenses (5,830) (7,375) 26.5% Finance and Other 23,999 22,923 (4.5%) Income Income Taxes 22,390 25,242 12.7% Profit attributable to 80,081 90,031 12.4% equity holders As a Percentage of Revenue Gross Margin2 29.4% 29.7% 0.2% Selling and marketing 7.8% 7.6% (0.2%) expenses General and 6.2% 6.1% (0.1%) administrative expenses Operating Margin2 15.4% 16.8% 1.4% Earnings per share12.64 14.99 18.6% Basic (`)3 Earnings per share12.62 14.95 18.5% Diluted (`)3 • For segment reporting, we have included the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in revenue. Excluding the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, revenue as reported in our statements of income, is ` 544,871 million and ` 585,845 million for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 respectively. Further, Sustainability Highlights 118 Wipro Sustainability Report • finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi-year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts is included in the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items • 2. Gross margin and operating margin as a percentage of revenue for year ended March 31, 2019 have been calculated by including Other Operating Income with Revenue • 3. Earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2018, has been proportionately adjusted for the bonus issue in the ratio of 1:3 as approved by the shareholders on February 22, 2019 Ethical Business Conduct A Fundamental Expectation from Investors Investors expect ethical conduct from businesses. They are concerned about loss of management time and resources dealing with such issues, legal liability and damage to reputation due to unethical practices like bribery, corruption, anti-competition and anti-trust. Even though large businesses have formal systems to ensure compliance and avoid unethical businesses, they are exposed to such risks from their supply chains. Corruption and bribery are significant risks to businesses, and they are more pervasive in the supply chain. This makes business functions dealing with suppliers and business partners vulnerable to such risks Policy Our corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) provides the broad direction for all business transactions. The COBC is Wipro’s central and comprehensive compliance policy document that provides the framework and a common language for ethical conduct for all employees as well as all our stakeholders. The COBC applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Company, as also to all individuals who serve the Company on contract, subcontract, retainer, consultant or any other such basis. Suppliers, service providers, external professionals, agents, channel partners (dealers, distributors and others) serve as an extension of the Company and their conduct and behavior while carrying out business dealings with Wipro or on behalf of Wipro can have an impact on Wipro and its reputation. Other than COBC, we also have other policies like the abridged Policy on Related Party Transactions, Wipro Supplier Code of Conduct, Code of Independent Directors and Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, which contextualize the communication for relevant stakeholders Approach From an anti-bribery compliance perspective, Wipro has the following processes internally to ensure an ethical culture across our businesses • A payment due diligence process where payments made by and on behalf of Wipro are reviewed to ensure adherence to anti-corruption and anti-bribery • A Standard Operating Procedure to enable employees understand and comply with the requirements for specific purposes like business courtesies, gifts, entertaining, charitable contribution, sponsorship, etc. Employees are advised to avoid transactions which might give the appearance of offering or accepting an improper payment, bribe or kickback • Due diligence mechanisms, internal controls and assessments on its third parties such as channel partners, dealers, collection agents, lead finders/hunters etcetera which includes a specific undertaking from identified vendors, service providers, consultants to affirm compliance to our Code of Business Conduct and more specifically to our anti-bribery policies • An Ombuds process for receiving and redressing employees’ complaints, through which employees are encouraged to report any fraudulent financial or other information to the stakeholders, any conduct that results in violation of the Company’s COBC (on an anonymous basis, if employees so desire). For more information, refer to Organization Profile section of this report As part of COBC training, Wipro conducts entry-level training to all its employees across levels worldwide on corporate policies pertaining to Business Relationship, Gifts and Entertainment, Business Courtesies and Conflict of Interest. Compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, the Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, are included as part of leadership training programs and of focused training programs. In addition to annual test and certification of Code of Business Conduct, a certification process is enabled for Sustainability Highlights 119 Wipro Sustainability Report employees travelling to High Risk Countries and employees working in certain functions. Also, communication of COBC and their significance to Wipro are being done through emails, posters, etc Compliance Wipro has a continuing good track of ethical conduct and we comply with relevant legislations. There has been no significant instances related to bribery, corruption, anti-competitive or anti-trust practices in the reporting period across our business divisions Natural Capital Valuation Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. They depend on natural nonrenewable resources (for example, fossil fuels and minerals) as well as natural renewable ecosystem goods and services (for example, freshwater and pollination). Businesses also rely on natural capital for its ability to absorb by-products of production such as pollution and water. Business extraction and production activities can damage natural capital with long-term economic and social consequences These economic and social consequences manifest themselves as physical, regulatory and reputational risks for companies. One of the most useful ways for companies to account for these risks is to quantify and value the environmental impacts generated across their value chains in monetary terms Traditional ‘single parameter’ environmental metrics such as cubic meters of water or hectares of land provide an indication of the scale of dependency on ecosystem goods and services or environmental impacts. However, they often fail to identify optimization opportunities for business. Natural capital valuation, on the other hand, provides a deeper insight because it also factors critical environmental parameters such as regional water scarcity and the ecosystem services provided by land. Natural capital valuation quantify the environmental impact of the risks associated across value chain in monetary terms Wipro, in association with Trucost initiated its first natural capital valuation exercise for the financial year 201314. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and, land use change, business travel, employee commute – as well as the embedded natural capital in all goods and services that we procure from our supply chain. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which incorporates spending across different sub-categories of procurement. Monetization of impacts is based on emerging models and a selection of global and local factors hence certain assumptions and accounting rules are inherent to the exercise Value Chain Split (INR Million) 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 GHG Air Pollution Water Water Pollution Land Use Waste -1000 Consumption Change 2016-17 Valuation (INR Mn) % Contribution 2017-18 Valuation (INR Mn) % Contribution Sustainability Highlights 120 Wipro Sustainability Report Environmental Indicator 2016-17 Valuation (INR Mn) 2017-18 Valuation (INR Mn) GHG 5250 5,096 Air Pollution 2,201 1,764 Water Consumption 2,824 2,840 Water Pollution 697 634 Land Use Change 264 289 Waste 240 218 Total 11,476 10,841 In the 2017-18 financial year, the natural capital valuation of the environmental impacts relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to INR 10,841 million (2% of Wipro’s revenue in the same period). The largest contributions came from GHG emissions (47%), water consumption (26%) and air pollution (16%) In terms of GHG emissions, although Scope 3 emissions increased in some areas (specifically, 12% in the case of purchased goods and services), this was offset by a decrease in Scope 1 & 2 emissions, leading to a decline of 3% year on year (this follows a 10% reduction in 2016-17) Water consumption meanwhile showed a small increase year on year (1%) with most of this attributable to supply chain water consumption. Air pollution saw a steep decline of 20%, driven by operational changes The overall natural capital valuation was down 6% from the 2016 -17 financial year and up 13% since 2014-15 the reasons for this are explored in the sections that follow Value Chain 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 % Change % Change Valuation Valuation Valuation since 2016since 2015(INR (INR (INR 17 16 Million) Million) Million) Operational 3,050 3,226 3,815 -6% -25% Supply Chain; Purchased 2,491 2,159 1,428 12% 41% goods and services Supply Chain: Fuel and 3,176 3,443 3,320 -8% -5% energy related activities Supply Chain: Business 1,103 1,285 1,595 -16% -45% Travel Supply Chain: Employee 1,092 1,363 1,319 -25% -21% Commute Total 10,841 11,476 10,075 -6% 7% Sustainability Highlights 121 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 122 Wipro Sustainability Report Supply Chain Sustainability The impacts or externalities of businesses are frequently influenced by their supply chain processes. Managing the environmental and social impacts of supply chain are interlinked to economic outputs over the long term – they can help businesses avoid disruptions, meet evolving customer and business partner requirements, foster innovation and protect the company’s reputation and brand value. It can also help further the business imperatives of efficiency, cost effectiveness and resilience in the supply chain. However, the fundamental and compelling reason for sustainability engagement in our value chain stems from our belief that it is the right thing to do in the larger interests of both, the suppliers as well as of society The context, scale and complexity of modern supply chains pose challenges for business to identify, influence and control these impacts. Our supply chain management program is influenced by our understanding of the multiple drivers as well as the challenges associated with it Understanding the Stakeholder-Supply Chain The supplier ecosystem of Wipro can be broadly categorized into two broad heads. One category can be called as our ‘primary supply chain’ which comprises of our contract employees involved in core delivery of IT Services and Solutions. Such employees typically have gone through a minimum graduate degree qualification and are experienced in specialized technology and consulting skills aided by an intensive in house capability building program. We considered them as part of our supply chain as they not engaged directly/employed by Wipro. Our workforce currently includes more than 20,000 contract employees The second component of our supply chain is ‘product or services supply chain’ or ‘secondary supply chain’ which comprises of suppliers who provide products, business support services and utility management services for our operations. The list of categories of procurement which form the ‘secondary supply chain’ is given below 0.643035566 14.02632679 5.49730748 0 19.72436606 7.020541574 6.549931842 0.369113589 10.02788003 19.27903831 73.74416359 6.732202135 Business Support Services, Insurance and Finance and Legal Services Business Support Services Non Technical contracting and other HR services Business Support Servicesrecruitment and Training Business Support Services-Services Marketing Business Support Servicestechnical Contracting IT-IT Service Telecom IT-IT Software IT-IT Hardware Facility Management Transportation and Logistics Services Facility ManagementFacility Management including Maintenance and Repair Facility Management-Direct Material Civil-New Infrastructure and Civil Services Sustainability Highlights 123 Wipro Sustainability Report Facility management requires a diverse set of support services ranging from hospitality, housekeeping, catering, equipment maintenance among others and for this we have moved to an IFMA arrangement (Integrated Facility Management Services). A significant number of contract manpower is employed as part of these facilities Wipro is an Equal Opportunity employer and strongly advocates the same through its supply chain by encouraging supplier diversity. Qualified enterprises owned by persons with disability, women or member of minority communities are proactively identified and engaged with. We are restructuring our vendor empanelment process to help strengthen our supplier diversity process Suppliers Segmentations Wipro has a formal process to identify suppliers who are strategic to its sustained business performance. The suppliers are classified into two categories: Strategic suppliers and Tactical suppliers. The Global Procurement Group finalizes the supplier categorization based on annual performance evaluation. Strategic Suppliers are suppliers which are essential for the success of strategic business outcomes for Wipro. Sustainability or other serious issues with such suppliers may seriously dent Wipro’s ability to meet its’ objectives. Tactical Suppliers account for only a small part of the overall spend of Wipro Understanding Material Aspects Supply Chain Risk Assessment In determining material issues of a stakeholder, a structured risk assessment exercise is very useful. Wipro's approach to identifying sustainability risks in the supply chain includes cross functional analysis of the risks pertaining to different organizational functions. The Enterprise Risk Management function owns the supplier economic risk assessment process and their focus is on ensuring continuous and non interrupted supply of services/goods. Vendor Risk Assessment comprises a formal evaluation of a vendor company’s financial health which is determined by many factors including operational efficiency, susceptibility to corruption etcetera The Group Sustainability Function partners with Central Procurement Organization, Facilities Management Group and other relevant stakeholders in identifying environmental and social risks in Wipro's supply chain through independent studies conducted periodically. Trucost quantifies the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s operations and its supply chain using primary activity data and accepted valuation methodologies. Vendor compliance management audits were conducted for 330 vendors over FY 2017 and FY 2018 and key issues were identified in supply chain The Ombuds process is also available for suppliers through a 24X7 hotline and on the internet. The concerns raised through the Ombuds process are another source of identification of risks in the supply chain Impact Identified in Supply Chain Supplier Category for whom the impacts are significant Economic • Probability of Default All Supplier Categories • Bankruptcy • Corruption Risk Environmental* • High Carbon Footprint • Commercial and Industry Machinery and equipment repair and maintenance • High Water Footprint • Architectural, engineering related services • High Waste Footprint • Hardware manufacturing • Architectural, engineering, and related services • Business support services Sustainability Highlights 124 Wipro Sustainability Report • Telecommunications • Architectural, engineering, and related services • Telecommunications • Business support services Social** • Human Rights & labor Practice • Office Services (Security, Casual labor, food (Women’s safety at workplace suppliers) & Benefits-Leave, • Facility Services Compensation, Working Hours) • Travel * Based on Trucost’s ‘Natural Capital Valuation’ which studied Stakeholder Feedback ** Based on Social Audit conducted for manpower service providers The second phase of Vendor Compliance Management Audit covering FY 2017 and FY 2018 concluded in June 2018. Employee Benefits provided and Women’s Safety at workplace were identified as key issues for workers in supply chain. A total of 330 vendors were covered within its scope Feedback from our various stakeholders indicated the following issues as relevant to our supply chain Influencing Stakeholders Emerging Concerns Customers • Global customers requesting information and assessing our supply chain • Business impact due to operations impact Employees • Demand for comfortable and safe working environment Investors • Investors requesting information on our supply chain program Business • Competency gaps in the IT Services people supply chain • Financial prudence Society & Community • Externalities due to operations • Employment • Diversity Identified Material Aspects The understanding of risks in supply chain and our stakeholders’ concerns informed the outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Based on the identified risks, we have identified the following aspects as material from a sustainability perspective Sustainability Highlights 125 Wipro Sustainability Report GRI Aspects/Topics Section Supplier Environmental Assessment Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Supplier Engagement Program Supplier Human Rights assessment Supplier assessment for impacts on society (Corruption, Anti-competition) Procurement Practices (We refer to our high proportion of contract staff both, people involved in core delivery as well as skilled or unskilled support staff who work in campus operations as ‘people supply chain’. In this section, we will Primarily address the secondary supply chain as the ‘people supply chain’ aspect has been covered in detail in ‘Workplace Sustainability’ section of our report.) Strategic Approach Based on our understanding of risks in our supply chain, our supply-chain approach is based on the principles of ethics and integrity, ecological sustainability and workplace responsibility • Ethics Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere to similar standards of ethics and integrity as its own standards • Ecological Sustainability We expect suppliers to supply products and services that exceed environmental standards and to establish a program of ecological sustainability in their own operations • Workplace Responsibility Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere to principles of human rights, employee welfare, health and safety, minimum wages and fair working hours. We encourage sourcing from the local economy and supplier diversity The Global Procurement Group The responsibility of managing procurement related activities of Wipro rests with the Global Procurement Group. The goal of the Procurement Group is to provide high quality products and services on a timely basis, consistent with organizational objectives and policies and at the same time by adhering to the highest ethical standards. The responsibility is divided among multiple buyer groups who handle different procurement categories. The Procurement Group works along with Enterprise Risk Management, Internal Audit and Legal teams to ensure compliance and to proactively address risks in the supply chain Suppliers Engagement Program At Wipro, we believe that a supply chain program should consider the socio-economic realities in the geographies where we operate. The supply chain sustainability charter should go beyond legal compliance and take into consideration emergent debates and issues. Fundamentally, our supply chain program is driven more by responsible engagement and commitment as informed by our values, rather than a compliance mindset Policy & Guiding Principles Our Code of Business Conduct which provides the ethical guidelines and expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro also directs Wipro’s relationship with its suppliers and is applicable to all suppliers, agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers, distributors and vendors (“Suppliers”). In addition to the COBC, the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) of Wipro further strengthens and augments the COBC with respect to environmental and social aspects of business practices, expected of our supply chain The SCOC covers key risks in the supply chain like forced or compulsory labor, prohibition on child labor, equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination/ no harassment, minimum wages, environment, health and safety, and compliance with anti-bribery laws. The code is aligned with the requirements of the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and the UK anti-bribery act. The document also gives an overview of the process followed Sustainability Highlights 126 Wipro Sustainability Report by Wipro so that it provides a ready reference template for its suppliers. The SCOC is communicated to all suppliers and it is mandatory for suppliers to accept and sign it Wipro also has a procurement policy which acts as an internal decision-making guide related to procurement. This policy details the procurement principles that the Global Procurement Group is expected to adhere to as well as other aspects of procurement like supplier selection, supplier diversity etcetera Our supply chain governance program is informed by four guiding principles • Understanding Socio-economic context: We are mindful of the fact that while one may have ambitious policies, commitments and codes of conduct in place, it must take into account the complex socioeconomic realities in which it has to be operationalized. For example, in developing economies, supplier staff may not be aware of the nuances of human and labor rights. In certain cases, the practice may be due to livelihood issues – for example, excessive working hours in some cases may be the norm to secure additional income. Children in family owned or sole proprietorship could sometimes be employed (or “helping”) in the business. Enforcement of unilateral actions in such cases, does not change the practice on the ground but only diverts attention from the problem at hand • Ability to monitor, influence and control: The ‘secondary supply chain’ in many categories of procurement extends across multiple branches/levels/tiers. Due to the factors mentioned in the first principle, it would be naïve of us to claim compliance across all the tiers. In many cases, our visibility is limited to the first one or two tiers. For supply chain entities not critical or strategic to us – where suppliers are not a core part of our business or where spend does not contribute to either a reasonable proportion of the suppliers’ revenue or the available market supply. Our ability to influence supplier practices is that much more limited. Industry bodies and large government procurement programs have a larger role in influencing change • Regulatory Compliance: Given the spread of the supply chain across different geographies as well as sectors, the compliance landscape can be quite complex. The impact of the supply chain on different stakeholders is dependent on the nature of business and operational context. As a result, the compliance requirements of one supplier category can vary from another. However, it is often found compliance is not reflective of the ground reality. At Wipro, we try to uphold all the regulations and wherever there is a conflict, our best efforts are to minimize any dissonance • Integrating best practices in supply chain engagement: Managing supply chain externalities is of key interest to business due to the deepening of complexities in the supply chain and the resultant risks. Customers and investors are looking at compliance levels and ethics of organizations as a key differentiator in their decision process. Industry forums like Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, Sedex, Ecovadis etcetera are working towards indirectly driving continuous change in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. Industry ratings such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP are increasingly giving importance to the supply chain performance of organizations. There are many emerging standards and frameworks dedicated to this cause. We intend to adopt and integrate best practices from all these sources to drive sustainability in our supply chain Suppliers Engagement Approach Our Supply Chain engagement has been a journey where sustainability has increasingly become central. Our engagement approach is multi-pronged with the focus on improving the capabilities of suppliers in managing their sustainability performance. Manpower service providers in civil, operations and support services is a category identified as being significant in terms of social impacts. Similarly, suppliers who provide utility products and services (electricity, water, waste management) and ICT equipment have large environmental footprints and are therefore material to our strategy to reduce our environmental impact Sustainability Highlights 127 Wipro Sustainability Report A significant feature of our engagement is how we align our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible. This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand our bridge program in education for children of migrant laborers for our new infrastructure projects, urban water programs in cities where we operate and access to social benefits for city municipal solid waste workers are some examples Programs & Process Our supplier engagement program integrates a process of continuous evaluation, capacity building and risk management. We expect these steps to encourage responsible behavior from our partners. Environment and social aspects are important factors in our supplier engagement and Wipro supplier code of conduct (SCOC) must be mandatorily singed by all suppliers at the time of onboarding We have identified material issues across main procurement categories through desk-based study as well as a few internal and external audits with a focus on human rights, labor practices and regulatory compliance A dedicated vendor helpdesk handles supplier queries on payment issues, policy clarifications and provides the initial contact for grievance redressal. Helpdesk had a two day SLA resolution percentage of 99.99% with respect to vendor queries in the reporting year The feedback from our vendors received through this initiative helped us improve our processes and initiate new steps like automation of sharing payment advices, periodical validation of vendor credentials in our database as well as self-service payment status intranet link for internal stakeholders to update partners/vendors • Ombuds Process: Our organization wide multi-lingual Ombuds process is available 24x7 (phone and internet enabled) for our Suppliers and Contractors. Wipro’s Ombuds process allows and encourages any affected stakeholder including suppliers and contractors to report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombudsman. While a good proportion of Ombuds process cases are anonymous, based on self-disclosure, we know that there were 34 complaints reported by suppliers during the year (previous FY 36) • Supplier Diversity Program for facilities management services at our campuses A sensitization program was conducted and expectations have been conveyed formally through our contracting process. The gender diversity ratio for supplier staff deployed at our facilities is 25.6% • It is compulsory for all our vendors to submit a signed copy of Wipro Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC). High Risk Vendors (HRV) identified based on geography, nature of service and other criteria go through additional checks and balances during processing for key words like government payments, miscellaneous expenses, bribe, commission, facilitation fee, gift, reward, out of pocket expense, etc. All HRV vendors are required to submit an anti-bribery anticorruption questionnaire. We also have requirements of stricter negotiating threshold, clear break up of costs and multiple quote regardless of the value Sustainability Highlights 128 Wipro Sustainability Report • Green initiatives in ICT Hardware: • Green Procurement: Wipro adopted the EPEAT standard from Green Electronic Council in 2016 for its IT hardware procurement – across categories such as laptops, desktops, printers, mobiles and servers. In 2018, we purchased more than 6,344 EPEAT Gold and over 140 EPEAT Silver and Bronze category products across desktops, laptops, displays, imaging equipment and mobiles. In tangible terms, our procurement of EPEAT certified hardware translates into a saving of 2.6 million KwW of energy, reduction of 598 tons eq. • Enhancing Virtualization Platform: Till date we have migrated 6300 users from traditional physical desktop to Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI). This has led to reduction in energy consumption, easier operations and cost saving • Asset re-utilization: Through proactive maintenance and upgrades, we have been able to reutilize 16% of the assets post their scheduled end of life • Managed Print Services: This outcome-based model, where Wipro’s printing services are managed through an independent third party helps generate higher operational efficiency through better controls and analytics as well as reduced resource consumption (paper, toner) and planned asset refresh. Consumables and printer issues are tracked remotely and managed by MPS vendor. During the reporting year, we optimized MPS through asset reuse and printer removal, leading to cost saving of 1.1 million. We have also reduced unwanted printouts by a provision to scan and send documents to respective user mailboxes and are currently planning to implement ‘authentication service’-access before print to further bring down print and paper volumes Sustainability Highlights 129 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 130 Wipro Sustainability Report Partnering for Social Change At Wipro, we think it is critical for business to engage with the social and ecological challenges that humanity faces. We engage with communities on issues that matters most to them in a deep and meaningful manner with long-term commitment; for that is the only way by which real change can happen on the ground. Our social initiatives center on the following dimensionsEducation, Community Care and Ecology. The programs on ecology are covered in the ‘Ecological Sustainability’ section Understanding the stakeholder In the social space, our stakeholders are multiple and can be differentiated on the basis of domains and the overarching objectives of engagement. For example, in ‘Education’, some of the work that we do has direct impact on students from disadvantaged communities while our other programs are targeted at partners and teachers in the education ecosystem. Our primary stakeholders are as follows • Communities: An important stakeholder for us is disadvantaged sections of communities, living in the proximity to our operations. Our operations and facilities are situated in both urban and rural areas. Our domains of engagement with the community are in the fields of Education, Primary Healthcare, Disability and Disaster Rehabilitation. Within these domains, we choose to focus on those areas that have direct impact on the community. The geographies of community engagement span India, the U.S.A, South Africa, Latin America, Australia and select countries of Europe and South Asia • NGO & Community Organization: Non-governmental organizations and civil society networks are important implementation partners for our different community initiatives. We engage with them at different stages of the Planning-Implementation-Review cycle • Employees: Employees play a significant role in our community initiatives by way of monetary contribution and voluntary participation Our social transformation initiatives are now nearly sixteen years old. We decided to focus on Education and Communities when we started then. How did we choose these domains over others? Education is probably the most important catalyst of social development as it can bring about change that is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; our focus on our communities stems from the fundamental responsibility and tenet of corporate citizenship that every business should engage deeply with its proximate communities. Over the years, partnering with our stakeholders has given insights into their concerns and requirements. This has also helped us to engage in critical social issues with sensitivity, rigor and responsibility Understanding Stakeholders Priorities Rural Communities Healthcare, Livelihood, Primary education, water and sanitation, environment Urban Communities Mobility, waste, pollution, education, health Future generation Environmental sustainability education Engagement partners Capacity building, institution development Policy & Strategy Our approach to social responsibility and sustainability rests on three important pillars Sustainability Highlights 131 Wipro Sustainability Report • The Strategic: We choose domains and issues to engage with that are force multipliers for social change and sustainable development. Social responsibility is as much about being a sustainable organization as it is about external initiatives. Therefore, some of our areas of engagement lie at the convergence of business goals and social purpose • The Systemic: Within the chosen domains, we choose to engage on systemic issues that require deep, meaningful and challenging work. Given the nature of social change, this implies commitment over the long term, typically for several decades because real, genuine change takes long to happen • The Deliberative: Our emphasis on depth and on long term commitment implies a deliberative approach that precludes spreading ourselves thin or engaging in ‘cheque book philanthropy’. By implication, this also means that we are wary of expanding and growing our social programs as ends in themselves Domains of Engagement Wipro’s social initiatives center on the following dimensions Sustainability Highlights 132 Wipro Sustainability Report SDG mapping with Social Initiatives Program Wipro Divisions SDG’s PRIMARY HEALTHCARE Primary healthcare services for the remote inaccessible villages of Nagaland where Wipro cares 3 availability of primary healthcare services has been weak or inconsistence Healthcare programs in the remote tribal district of Gadchiroli in Maharashtra Nagaland, Northeast India and Gadchiroli in Maharashtra India Wipro cares 32 Nagaland, Northeast India and Gadchiroli in Maharashtra, India EDUCATION Inclusive educationProgram for disabled Wipro cares 14 children in disadvantage sections 14 projects across 6 states 10 Education for underprivileged children 22 projects in 8 states Wipro cares 1 4 8 10 Sustainability education Wipro earthian 4 11 29 states in India Develop capacity in civil society organizations to work on issues of education reform in a Wipro education systematic manner 4 10 163 projects across 29 states Encourage new/young start ups working in school education 29 Fellows in 14 Organizations Wipro education 4 10 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Programs (SEF) Three new sites added Wipro education 4 10 Wipro Siyapha-Initiatives span the areas of education, skill development and employment generation Wipro Education South Africa 1 4 8 10 DISASTER REHABILITATION 2 programs in 2 locations Wipro cares 12 Cuddlore and Uttarkashi, India Sustainability Highlights 133 Wipro Sustainability Report URBAN RESILIENCE Urban waste management and welfare of Wipro cares 10 11 waste pickers-Organize waste workers, i.e. waste pickers to enhance and upgrade their skills for innovation in waste management services Bangalore, India Wipro eco-eye 6 11 Participatory Ground Water Management (PGWM)A three year a community centered participatory approach to management of ground water EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING During 2017-18 +11500 Wipro employees Wipro cares 17 engaged with Wipro cares either through volunteering or by the way of monetary contribution or both Working through partners and communities is at the core of all the 17 programs Social Program Expenditure The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenditure / CSR Spend as disclosed in the Director’s Report of the Annual Report 2018-19 is Rs. 1,853 Mn. Refer to pages 92-94 of our Annual Report FY 2018-19 for program wise information on spend Governance Wipro Foundation is a public charitable trust created in 2017 to manage corporate citizenship and CSR activities of Wipro. The foundation have a robust governance process led by a 5-member board of trustees which reviews plans and progress against goals on a quarterly basis. Over the last 12 months, there has been an intensive focus on improving and streamlining operational practices along with people and talent development Our work with organizations is usually in the nature of programmatic support. They typically span a period of three years and may be extended further, if needed. We work closely with our partners and review the progress and participate in important decisions along with them during the lifecycle of the project. However, our fundamental philosophy is to leave it to our partners to design and run their programs as they deem appropriate since they know best Our Programs Community Care Wipro has a presence in 50+ countries around the world with 160,000+ employees from 125+ nationalities. We think it is crucial to engage with proximate communities wherever we have significant presence. This is a reaffirmation of our belief that at its core, social responsibility and sustainability must transcend and should not be restricted to India for a global company like ours. In the context of rural communities, seeing the larger integrated picture is important when executing programs in individual domains. Issues of healthcare, education, access to energy, water and sanitation and livelihoods are often closely inter-linked. If executed well, the outcomes in individual domains can impact the larger canvas of community development. For example, the Sustainability Highlights 134 Wipro Sustainability Report work that we do for primary health care services in Nagaland, Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra covered more than 77,000 people from extremely disadvantage communities Focus Areas Programs Inputs, outputs and Outcomes Wipro Cares partners with not-for-profit organizations for implementation of projects in our chosen domains. Our engagement with organizations by way of inputs include: • Financial support to focus on their key objectives • Regular engagement through meetings, field visits and planning and review at important stages In the narrative below, we outline some of the key outputs and outcomes for 2018-19 at a domain level Primary Health Care Access to primary health care is a key determinant of an individual’s future trajectory in life, including the ability to engage in productive livelihoods and responsible citizenship. Wipro Cares works with partners who provide good quality primary health care services to underserved communities covering more than 77,000 people belonging to extremely disadvantaged communities in Nagaland, Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra. Our work in these states is in remote, inaccessible villages where health care access has been weak or non-existent till now. Our operating approach is driven by the primary goals of building the capacity of the local community in managing their health needs, of augmenting government infrastructure and in training health workers to address the unique needs of the communities Sustainability Highlights 135 Wipro Sustainability Report Output Outcome Established two new partnerships in Maharashtra and Around 77,000people provided with access to Delhi and continued support to existing partners in affordable primary health care services. Nagaland, Maharashtra and Karnataka Education for underprivileged children Under Wipro Cares, we have a large education program that is designed for more direct impact on underprivileged children. In 2018-19 the program reached out to nearly 41000 children across eight states. The projects address a gamut of critical issues faced by disadvantaged communities when it comes to school education – starting from enrolment in schools to nutrition for children, counseling services for parents, remedial education, just to name a few. These children are from some of the most vulnerable groups in our society – urban slums, HIV-affected families, migrant labor families, street children Output Outcome Established two new partnerships and continued support to More than 41,000 children belonging existing partners, thereby reaching out to eight states across the to underprivileged communities in country through twenty-four projects targeting communities like cities across India now have access migrant labor, urban slum children, orphan/institutionalized to education children Education for Children with disability Started focusing on children with disability in 2014, we continue to strengthen our program which supports the educational and rehabilitative needs of children with disabilities from underprivileged backgrounds through 17 projects across six states that works with around 2,200 children. Going beyond just schooling, our approach tries to integrate enabling factors like availability of nutrition, community support, specially trained teachers, assistive technology, access to healthcare etc. Our work in this space covers multiple categories of disability and focuses on early intervention and inclusive education Sustainability Highlights 136 Wipro Sustainability Report Output Outcome Established two new partnerships and continued Educational and rehabilitative needs of 2200 children support to existing partners, thereby reaching out with disabilities from socio-economically to six states through sixteen projects underprivileged backgrounds met Community Ecology Effective management of urban solid waste continues to be a pressing challenge for our cities. While the use of right technology, good governance and the active participation of civil society are important determinants of success, the work of the informal sector is often unrecognized. In this regard, Wipro Cares continues to strengthen a project, initiated in 2014-15, which focuses on providing social, nutritional and health security to workers in the informal sector in Bangalore’s solid waste management domain. In addition, the program also provides a comprehensive skills upgradation program for such workers Sustainability Highlights 137 Wipro Sustainability Report Output Outcome Established new 40,000 trees were planted in agricultural fields by working with 100 farmers. partnership in Tamil Nadu 8000 waste pickers benefitted with access to social and health security in the area of agroforestry. measures Continuation of project and partnership working towards welfare of waste Skill up-gradation of around 100 informal waste pickers to engage in pickers. organic waste management, organic terrace gardening etc Disaster rehabilitation Natural disasters like earthquakes, floods and cyclonic storms are an unfortunate fact of life, especially in a climatically and geologically diverse country like India. Whenever these happen, the disadvantaged sections get affected the most as the already fragile basis of their livelihoods gets further disrupted. Starting with the Gujarat earthquake in 2001, we have responded to several natural calamities wherein Wipro’s employees have also risen to the occasion and played a sterling role. By design, we focus on the more difficult challenge of longterm rehabilitation of the affected communities ‘Unnati’, the rehabilitation project that we initiated in 2014-15 in Uttarakhand, aftermath its 2013 floods, has progressed well on multiple fronts. Our program seeks to strengthen local livelihoods of communities in 27 villages in Uttarkashi district through improved farming practices in organic agriculture. A farmers’ cooperative has been set up to strengthen market linkages, a crucial element in the whole value chain. While we think there is a long way to go in this regard, our assessment is that the program is at a stage now where the basic institutional scaffolding is in place and it can be built up effectively, going forward. In response to the Kerala floods in Aug 2018, as part of our rehabilitation program we initiated two projects: • To restore running of 8 craft-based livelihood centres which have been dysfunctional as a result of the Kerala floods and to train and provide employment for 150 women with a special focus on 30 persons with disabilities • To strengthen the existing livelihood of 149 flood affected fishermen community with restoration of damaged fishing equipment and gear Sustainability Highlights 138 Wipro Sustainability Report Output Outcome Established two new Restoring the livelihood of 150 fishermen and 150 women artisans. partnerships in the area of Set up 12 Micro-Enterprise groups and protect livelihood and disaster rehabilitation as part sustenance of income of 1000 women fish-workers in Cuddalore, Tamil of Kerala Floods 2018. Nadu Continuation of project and Farmers’ cooperative functional at Uttarkashi with all the regulatory and partnership working towards compliance requirements to manufacture and sell value added products rehabilitation of communities from farm produce of 22 villages in Uttarkashi affected by 2013 Uttarkashi floods and 2015 Tamil Nadu floods International Chapters Our employees across the world are keen and enthusiastic participants in local community initiatives. Through Sprit of Wipro (SoW) Run, more than six thousand Wipro employees from across the globe contributed for their local charities. Beyond the SoW, in North America, First Book continues to be the anchor community program. More than 400 Wipro employees volunteered hundreds of hours and distributed more than 109,000 books impacting more than 50,000 at risk and rural students throughout North America. Including First Book activities, Wipro employees volunteered more than 5089 hours in the US. Beyond the US, Wipro Cares chapters in Philippines, UK, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Japan have also been very active in engaging with local communities on a range of initiatives that include disaster rehabilitation (i.e. Australia), biodiversity conservation (i.e. Spain), health care (i.e. Europe & US), food drives (i.e. Brazil & US) and education for disadvantaged children, particularly children with disabilities (i.e. Philippines). All programs remained consistent with the Wipro Cares Charter The power of engaged employees Employees are integral to many of our social programs in many ways. Providing them a platform to engage develops a sense of citizenship and larger responsibility towards society. From our experience, employees also see this as a workplace differentiator, The Wipro Cares trust is built on a model of employee contribution that is matched by Wipro. More than 30,000 Wipro employees are currently engaged with Wipro Cares either through volunteering or by way of monetary contributions or both. During FY 2019, more than 12,500 employees from nearly 40 chapters in India and overseas collectively spent around 33,000 hours in voluntary engagement on a wide range of community and environmental initiatives. One of our prime goals is to further increase the scale and scope of employee engagement Wipro Education Context The challenges in school education in India could be broadly classified as issues of access and quality, with equity being a crosscutting concern. There have been significant strides made in the matter of access. While there are still pockets in many parts of the country where schools are not available, the majority of the population today has access to public schools. However, inadequate staffing and other resources in the schools remains an area of concern. A large number of children continue to stay out of school dropping out after enrollment. Rote learning is still a predominant feature of our education system. While on the one hand, classrooms and lessons disconnected from the child’s life and context alienate the child from learning with understanding, the focus on attaining higher grades pushes out holistic development of the child as an educational aim. Affluent parents invest significant amount of personal resources to provide education for their children. Inadequate resources and capacities in public schools (and low fee paying private schools), where a large majority of the children study, add to a growing inequity in the educational system. These and our other concerns in School Education are articulated in a document titled “Our Concerns on School Education”. The multitude and Sustainability Highlights 139 Wipro Sustainability Report complexity of these issues make for slow progress in education being an effective instrument of human development and social change There have been many efforts at the Centre and the States in the areas of policy, legislation and curricular and examination reforms in education. Civil society organizations have been working consistently on the ground to improve access and quality. All these efforts have led to many changes and improvement in education. The National Curricular Framework 2005 recognizes holistic development of the child, learning with understanding and connecting the learning to the lives and contexts of the children as some of the key tenets of education. Right to Education Act 2009 made elementary education a right of all children up to the age of 14. However, effective implementation of these policies and reforms requires systemic capacities across all levels in the education system. Overview of Our Work Wipro education was setup in early 2000s to work towards addressing these issues in education. These issues are complex and systemic and require deliberate, long term and sustained efforts. We believe that civil society organizations have an important role to play in bringing about such an educational transformation. Our core strategy has therefore been to develop capacities in civil society organizations to work towards education reform in a systemic manner In 2015-16, drawing on the lessons learnt over the past decade of working on issues in education, we decided to significantly increase the number of organizations that we support in the coming years, with a specific focus on new and early stage organizations. As part of our strategy, in addition to the Grants program, we initiated a Seeding Program for Educational CSOs in 2016. The program focuses on new and young start-ups in school education through a structured program of fellowships for the founders. Cumulatively, we have supported 72 new organizations as part of the expansion strategy of supporting 100 new organizations by 2020 In 2018-19, we supported 16 new organizations (14 through the seeding fellowship program and 2 through the grants program) across the country working across a myriad of educational domains Approach We work in partnership with civil society organizations in the following ways: • Providing financial support to organizations so that they gain experience and practical understanding in school education and they are able to build greater capacities to work across different contexts and geographies in the country • Supporting organizational learning and development by facilitating a reflective learning network of educational organizations, and by nurturing early stage organizations with the support of established ones Our support to organizations typically spans a period of three years, which may be extended further, based on the need and potential. We involve closely in the work by staying in touch with our partners and the field, through visits, review meetings and calls, and by participating in key decisions. At the end of the support period, a comprehensive review is carried out along with the partner where the need and potential is assessed and a decision is taken about further support Program inputs, outputs and outcomes The issues and challenges in education are deep-rooted and complex, sustained work is required at all levels of the education system to address these issues. We have chosen capacity building of civil society organizations who do such sustained and systemic work as our lever of change. Such an approach does not produce immediate visible results. The impact of our work in education is in many ways, indirect, non-linear and manifests only in the longer-term and often in unforeseeable ways. This is important because it represents strengthening of institutional capacity for reforms in education Sustainability Highlights 140 Wipro Sustainability Report The outcome we aim for through our program is the growth in the capacity of our partner organizations. Many of our partners have grown significantly in their impact in education at the state and national levels. They enhanced their capabilities and effectiveness in areas and domains they have been working in and developed new capabilities over the years Another important outcome has been our partner network itself. Our Annual Partners' Forum has emerged as a unique annual gathering of educational community, where practitioners get together to engage in reflective discussions and exchanges. New possibilities emerge, key educational issues are discussed and learnings and experiences from different contexts cross-leveraged in these gatherings Understanding Impact IOOI (Input, Output, Outcome and Impact) is a framework often used for Impact Assessment in social interventions. Since the intended long-term impact of our work is educational change at the systemic level and our strategy operates in a non-linear fashion, impact in education is not something that can be easily assessed. Instead, we focus on outcomes at the level of capability building and growth of our partners. The outcomes as we report them are based on our interactions with our partner organizations, field visits, review meetings and reports from partner organizations. They have not been verified through independent assessments Input, Output & Outcome at Program level The financial outlay for our work in 2018-19 was INR 80.24 million. The below table lays out some of the key outputs and outcomes this year at a program level Outcome Output • 16 new organizations have been supported this year; of these • Through our grant and 14 organizations (25 fellows) were supported through seeding fellowship support, fellowships and 2 through organization support grants organizations are able to set-up educational teams to • Cumulatively, 72 organizations supported towards 100 work on improving quality of organizations by 2020 education in a sustained • Continued support to 4 older partnerships manner through work on the ground • 18th Partners’ Forum held from 21st to 23rd Nov 2018; ~140 participants attended. • Our structured capacity building programs have • Orientation workshops were done for cohort 5 and 6 fellows enabled organizations to deepen their capacities • Annual fellows meet was held in July 2018; two regional meets in subject areas like science, (East and West) for fellows were held in Nov and Dec 2018 language, library education, • Second round of capacity building workshops conducted for primary education and so on partners on primary mathematics (Jodo Gyan) and early • Organizational capacities literacy and language (Vikramshila) are also being developed • New programs initiated on the foundations of education through stronger leadership (Digantar); libraries (Bookworm); teacher education, design and and improved systems and facilitation, language and early childhood education (Azim processes Premji Foundation) Sustainability Highlights 141 Wipro Sustainability Report Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program W-SEF in the U.S.A. The Wipro Science Education Fellowship is a multi-year program started in 2012, which aims to nurture excellence in science education in public school systems through teacher training. It aims to train educators to build leadership skills and teaching excellence within science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines by leveraging research-validated expertise from participating universities and designing transformative instructional experiences for under-funded K-12 school districts in the surrounding areas. The three-year program, funded entirely by Wipro, consists of a rigorous selection process that will identify 20 experienced science teachers from grades K-12 within local school districts, each year, to participate in each university’s program Professional development for fellows is led by a partner university in collaboration with the local school district. The entire program has been developed at the Center of Science and Mathematics in Context (COSMIC) at UMass Boston, led by Prof. Arthur Eisenkraft. We now have 7 university partners University of Massachusetts, Boston; Montclair State University, New Jersey; Mercy College, New York; Stanford University, California; University of Missouri, Jefferson City; University of South Florida, Tampa; University of North Texas, Dallasworking with 500 teachers across 35 school districts in 7 states. The latter four partnerships were finalized in 2017 as part of our revised strategy for the next four years to expand our reach to key geographies in the US. Through this program, the capacities of the partner universities to work on teacher professional development in a sustained manner have also been developed There has been tremendous support for the SEF program from teacher unions, school administration etc. from across the country since there are no other such programs that work on sustained teacher professional development. The participation of the school district in this process has been a critical factor in ensuring that the impact of the program is not only limited to the selected teachers alone, but also extended through the fellows to schools and teachers across the district, thus increasing the impact several times Wipro has supported these programs with over USD 8.2 million since inception, with a further commitment of over USD 2 million. This scale of funding and execution is one of the largest such commitments made by a business organization and highlights Wipro’s commitment to improving science and math in school education in the US. W-SEF in the UK We launched the Wipro Science Education Fellowship program in the UK in FY 2019 in partnership with Kings College, London and Sheffield Hallam University. A three year agreement was finalized with King’s College London, to develop and offer UK’s first Master’s program in STEM education, targeted at in-service teachers from ‘social mobility cold-spots’. The program was launched successfully in February 2019 and will admit its first cohort in the coming academic year. Sheffield Hallam University initiated the ‘Wipro Teacher Fellowship’ and ‘Wipro Teacher Mentor’ programs to provide rigorous continuous professional development to STEM teachers working in government designated ‘opportunity areas’, which by definition have a high proportion of failing-schools. About 25 teachers representing 20 schools in/around Sheffield have joined the first cohort in January 2019. The recruitment of the second cohort will begin in Q1’20 Sustainability education-Wipro earthian Wipro-earthian is Wipro’s Sustainability Education Initiative which seeks to support and drive sustainability thinking and action through the learning process in schools and colleges across India. This initiative covers two inter-linked programs the Wipro earthian Awards program and the Continuous Engagement Program (CEP) program. The Awards program aims at expanding outreach to schools across the country, especially in remote, rural areas. The participatory nature of the program encourages as many students as possible to engage with issues of sustainability in depth over a period of four months. It provides school students with exposure to multiple perspectives on biodiversity and water, and encourage college students with critical thinking on urban Sustainability Highlights 142 Wipro Sustainability Report sustainability issues related to Water, Mobility and Waste. On the other hand, the CEP is intended to promote integrated sustainability education in schools and colleges and to co-create educational practices within institutions that eventually leads to an enhanced sustainability footprint in the learning process Our cumulative outreach has been more than 10,000 educational institutes via social media and other digital channels. Geographically, our reach is in 29 states and 3 Union Territories. We continue to offer the program in five languages (Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and English) for schools and our total submissions for FY 2018-19 was more than 1250 from Schools and Colleges. Ten college and Twelve school teams were selected as winners for 2018 by an independent jury and felicitated by Mr. Azim Premji at the annual Wipro-earthian awards Program outputs and outcomes Output Outcome Awards Program Partnered with CEE and CPREEC and state 10 colleges and 12 schools selected as winners. governments for mass school outreach and schoolteacher orientation workshops across India School Program translation to 5 regional More than 1196 school submissions on Biodiversity languages and Water from all over India. Entries received after rigorous, year on year activities with schools, through partners. Over 50 workshops conducted for schools across Submissions from 170 colleges across India on issues 29 states and 3 Union Territories through our of urban Mobility, Waste and Water partners 2666 teachers from 2258 schools attended the Cumulative submissions of 1350+ are the highest in 8 workshops years of the program Continuous Engagement Program SCHOOLS • 9 schools with participation from 40 students The field experiential workshops helped teachers and and teachers have completed 2 day students understand human-nature and other experiential field workshops in: interconnections across water, biodiversity, agriculture, • Yelagiri, Karnataka climate change etc. better. • Katerniaghat Widlife Sanctuary, UP Sustainability Learning Corners set up for winning Positive feedback from schools on sustainability schools learning corners indicate that it serves an effective long term repository on sustainability issues, that most of • 8 Wipro earthian ‘Sustainability Learning these schools would otherwise have limited or no Corners’ set up in 8 schools across India with a diverse collection of audio, video and print access to. mediums on the theme of sustainability Sustainability Highlights 143 Wipro Sustainability Report COLLEGES Sustainability Internships • Over the years, College Sustainability Internships have exposed students from various backgrounds • All time high of 19 students from 5 winning to interesting paradigms, schools of thought, colleges have completed their sustainability innovations and specializations in the internships with SELCO foundation, CSTEP, sustainability arena WRI, BIOME • The feedback from both our partners and students have indicated that the experience has been unique and valuable Wipro earthian Sustainability Quiz • The Wipro earthian sustainability quizzes have gained tremendous momentum and have become • Completed 7 Wipro earthian sustainability a standard feature in many top college festivals. It quizzes at IIMB, IIM Kozhikode, NIT Trichy has served as a good mass learning tool for and IIT Delhi and Goa Institute of sustainability issues, but also drives Wipro’s brand Management, XUB, Manipal Institute of position as a thought leader in sustainability for Technology with participation from 710 teams higher education and 1420 participants • National finals held in the Wipro Corporate office in Bangalore with Team from Annamalai Uinviersity and IISC as winners Collaboration with XSOS, Xavier University • Increased participation from regional colleges in Bhubaneshwar Orissa • XUB developing into a regional hub for • SALT workshop facilitated at XUB with sustainability education as well as for the Wipro participation from 10 regional institutes earthian program • Renewed support for the SDP program with 6 • Additional exposure for XUB students students placed with NGO partners in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Nagaland IIMA Sustainability case study compendium • The workshop saw multiple presentations from case contributors, panel discussions and healthy • The IIMA case study dvpt workshop was debate and feedback from external reviewers conducted on the 8th and 9th of December with 23 participants including the top sustainability academics from B-schools across India CEPT Urban Planning case study compendium • Presentations on individual cases, feedback, pedagogy, case structure, format and content • The Wipro -CEPT case study workshop for were finalized at the workshop planning schools successfully hosted on 4-5 Aug with participation from 17 faculty from top planning schools CSTEP paper publication • Paper themes will be on core sustainability topics and published in the International Journal of • Have signed a 3 year MOU with CSTEP to Energy Economics. support the journal publication of 2 scientific papers each year co -authored by earthian interns at CSTEP. Paper themes will be on core sustainability topics and published in the International Journal of Energy Economics Sustainability Highlights 144 Wipro Sustainability Report IIMB collaboration • Have renewed support for Sustainability Fellowships for up to 2 doctoral students at Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) • Renewed support for the Faculty Research grant on the topics of Business & Human Rights and Sustainability Risks • Signed a new MOU with IIMB to support a Faculty Development Program on designing sustainability MMOCS for business schools IITB Advocacy for sustainability education • We are collaborating with CTARA to develop a field work compendium a selection of rural development development projects/areas over the last 10 years that has been undertaken by students at CTARA which will serve as template for other engineering colleges • A “Genesis of CTARA” book documenting their journey and “workshop for faculty” is under planning Sustainability Highlights 145 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 146 Wipro Sustainability Report Assurance Statement Scope and Approach Responsibilities of the DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited has been commissioned by the management of Wipro Management of Wipro and of the Limited (‘Wipro’ or ‘the Company’, Corporate Identity Assurance Provider Number L32102KA1945PLC020800) to carry out an The Management of Wipro has the sole responsibility independent assurance engagement on the nonfor the preparation of the Report and are responsible financial qualitative and quantitative information for all information disclosed in the Report as well as (sustainability performance) in its Annual Report the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting 2018-19 (‘the Report’) in printed format and the information presented in both the printed and webreferences to the Company’s website, for the financial based versions of the Report. Wipro is also year ending 31st March 2019 responsible for the maintenance and integrity of its website. In performing this assurance work, our The sustainability performance is presented based on responsibility is to the Management; however, this the materiality determination exercise carried out by statement represents our independent opinion and is the Company covering Wipro’s Information intended to inform the outcome of the assurance to the Technology business operations in India and other stakeholders of the Company geolocations, and considering the key requirements of: We provide a range of other services to Wipro, none of which in our opinion, constitute a conflict of interest • The International Integrated Reporting Council’s with this assurance work. Our assurance (IIRC’s) <IR> Framework; engagements are based on the assumption that the • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) data and information provided by the client to us as Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI part of our review have been provided in good faith. Standards’) We were not involved in the preparation of any • The principles of the National Voluntary statements or data included in the Report except for Guidelines (NVG) and Securities and Exchange this Assurance Statement. We expressly disclaim any Board of India’s (SEBI’s) requirements with liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person respect to Business Responsibility Reporting or an entity may make based on this Assurance (BRR) vide circular No. CIR/ CFD/DIL/8/2012 dated August 13, 2012 Statement We performed a limited level of assurance based on Basis of our Opinion our assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is We planned and performed our work to obtain the based on our professional experience, international evidence considered necessary to provide a basis for assurance best practices including International our assurance opinion, and as part of the assurance,a Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and 3000) Revised* and the GRI Principles for Defining assurance specialists performed work at Wipro’s Report Content and Quality. Our assurance Corporate Office and sample operations and supply engagement was planned and carried out during April chain partners in India 2019 June 2019 We undertook the following activities: • Review of Wipro’s approach to identification of key capitals, the processes of stakeholder engagement and materiality determination, and its outcome as brought out in this Report. We did Sustainability Highlights 147 Wipro Sustainability Report not have any direct engagement with external as set out by SEBI for Business Responsibility stakeholders Reporting through the following GRI Standards: • Interviews with selected senior managers responsible for management of sustainability • GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1, issues and review of selected evidence to 201-2, 201-3, 201-4 support issues disclosed in the Report. We were • GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility to deliver the • GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1, 205-2, Company’s sustainability objectives 205-3 • Visited Corporate office at Sarjapur Road, • GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, Bengaluru and carried out site visits to sample 302-4, 302-5 locations of the Company: (i) Kolkata • GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 Development Centre;(ii) Kochi Development Centre; (iii) Wipro Airoli, Mumbai,(iv) Divyasree • GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Chambers, Bengaluru and (v) Sarita Vihar, New 305-4, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 Delhi, to review processes and systems for • GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1, 306preparing site level sustainability data and 2, 306-3 implementation of sustain abilitystrategy. We were free to choose sites for conducting • GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307assessments 1 • Reviewed the sustainability performance of three • GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment suppliers as part of supply chain assessment 2016 308-1, 308-2 • Review of supporting evidence for key claims • GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1, 401-2, 401and data in the Report 3 • Review of the processes for gathering and • GRI 403: OccupationalHealth and Safety 2016 consolidating the performance data related to the 4031, 403-2, 403-4 chosen GRI Standards • GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 • Verification of the data consolidation of reported • GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective performance disclosures in context to the Bargaining 407-1 Principle of Completeness as per Veri Sustain for a limited level of verification • GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1, 413-2 • An independent review of Wipro’s reporting • GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 against its Business Responsibility Report for the 414-1; − GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418year 2018-19 covering requirements under 1 Section ‘a’ to ‘e’ • GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 During the assurance process, we did not come 419-1 across limitations to the scope of the agreed • Observations assurance engagement. The reported data on • Without affecting our assurance opinion, we economic performance, expenditure towards provide the following observations against the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and other principles of Verisustain: financial data are based on audited financial statements issued by the Company’s statutory auditors Materiality The process of determining the issues that is most Opinion relevant to an organization and its stakeholders On the basis of the verification undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report The Report brings out identified material topics on the does not bring out the sustainability performance basis of an internal materiality determination exercise, disclosures for the identified material topics and as well as through benchmarking with peers, related capitals i.e. Financial, Intellectual, Human, sustainability rating agencies and applicable Social and Relationship, and Natural (hereafter sustainability reporting frameworks and key concerns referred to as ‘Capitals’) and disclosure requirements of identified stakeholders. On the basis of review of the non-financial disclosures in this Report, nothing Sustainability Highlights 148 Wipro Sustainability Report has come to our attention to suggest that the Report process of sustainability disclosure does not meet the does not meet the requirements related to the requirements related to the Principle of Reliability Principle of Materiality Completeness Stakeholder Inclusiveness How much of all the information that has been The participation of stakeholders in developing and identified as material to the organisation and its achieving an accountable and strategic response to stakeholders is reported? Sustainability The reporting scope covers disclosures related to Wipro has formal and informal processes in place for chosen guidelines for sustainability reporting i.e. stakeholder identification and engagement, and Wipro’s Economic, Environmental and Social responses to key concerns are brought out in the performance through topics it has identified as Report out through descriptions of appropriate material, based on appropriate GRI Standards and strategies, policies and management approach. On requirements of the <IR> framework and National the basis of review of the non-financial disclosures in Voluntary Guidelines, within the identified reporting this Report, nothing has come to our attention to boundary. On the basis of review of the nonfinancial suggest that the Report does not meet the requiredisclosures in this Report, nothing has come to our ments related to the Principle of Stakeholder attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the Inclusiveness Principle of Completeness with respect to scope, boundary and time Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to Neutrality stakeholder issues The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an organization’s performance, delivered in The Report brings out Wipro’s responses on key a neutral tone concerns, expectations and issues raised by its key stakeholders, identified as material topics for value The disclosures related to sustainability performance creation,through its policies, strategies, management and issues are presented in a neutral tone, in terms of systems and governance mechanisms, further, the content and presentation, along with key concerns Report also brings out Wipro’s approach towards and challenges faced during the period. On the basis value creation across identified Capitals in a coherent of review of the non-financial disclosures in this manner. On the basis of review of the nonfinancial Report, nothing has come to our attention to suggest disclosures in this Report, nothing has come to our that the Report does not meet the Principle of attention to suggest that the responses related to Neutrality identified material topics are not adequately represented in the Report Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems The majority of data and information verified at Corporate Office and at sample locations visited by us were found to be fairly accurate and reliable. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected. On the basis of review of the nonfinancial disclosures in this Report, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the existing Sustainability Highlights 149 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 150 Wipro Sustainability Report Sustainability Highlights 151 Wipro Sustainability Report Feedback and Communication We welcome our readers' feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro's Sustainability Report 2018-19 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Details Wipro Sustainability Team Sustain.report@wipro.com Mr.P.S.Narayan Wipro Limited Vice President & Head Sustainability Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. Abhishek K. Jain Wipro Limited Senior Manager Investor Relations Senior Manager, Investor Relations Wipro Limited 300 N. Patrick Blvd, Suite 150 Brookfield, WI USA 53045 Tel: +1 978 826 4700 abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Sustainability Highlights 152 Wipro Sustainability Report
