Annual Report 2019 NOTES TO THE READER Unrounded figures Amounts in the annual report may not add up due to being rounded up or down. The total amounts may therefore deviate from the sum of the parts. Percentage changes are based on the unrounded figures. Changes to comparative figures Some amounts differ from previously published reports, reflecting changes that result from the accounting changes related to provisions for pensions. Disclosure of Non-financial Information Act The Disclosure of Non-financial Information Act is a Dutch regulation that made reporting on a number of non-financial themes compulsory for companies that qualify as large public-interest entities (grote organisatie van openbaar belang) with more than 500 employees. These themes comprise environmental, social and employee issues, as well as anti-corruption, bribery and human rights. For each of these themes, companies are obliged to report on the relevant policies, results, risks (including management of these risks) and non-financial key performance indicators. The regulation also requires companies to describe their business models in their annual reports. We provide all of the information required in the relevant parts of this annual report. For transparency purposes only, the reference table in Our value creation story provides additional guidance on where to find this information. Global Reporting Initiative Communicating transparently on our policies and results is an important element of CSR. To ensure this, our annual report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option . See the GRI content index on our website for further details: vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/external-assessment. External assessment Van Lanschot Kempen’s CSR performance is assessed by a variety of external organisations. For more information, see vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/external-assessment. Contents 4 Chairman’s message 6 2019 highlights About Van Lanschot Kempen 7 Who we are and what we do 9 How we create value in the long term 11 Our strategy 12 Trends and developments 15 Stakeholders’ expectations 17 Our ambitions Our business themes 21 Our economic and regulatory environment 22 Our clients 23 Our contribution to the environment and society 26 Our people Progress report 30 Performance 42 Van Lanschot Private Banking 45 Evi van Lanschot 48 Kempen Asset Management 53 Kempen Merchant Banking 56 Private equity investments 59 Risk and capital management 68 Van Lanschot Kempen shares 72 Remuneration report 82 Report of the Supervisory Board 89 Corporate governance Our Executive and Supervisory Boards 96 Personal details of members of the Executive Board 99 Personal details of members of the Supervisory Board 102 Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting Financial statements 104 Consolidated statement of financial position 105 Consolidated statement of income 106 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 108 Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes 110 Summary of significant accounting principles 113 Basis of consolidation 114 Summary of significant accounting policies 122 Risk management 151 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position and income 184 Related parties 186 Disclosure of interests in other entities 192 Commitments 193 Segment information 196 Profit appropriation 197 Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 200 Events after the reporting period Company statement of financial position and income 202 Company statement of financial position 202 Company statement of income 203 Notes to the company statement of financial position and income Other information 205 Independent auditor’s report 213 Assurance report on the sustainability information 215 Articles of association on profit appropriation 216 Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 218 Stichting Preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen 219 Glossary 224 Ten-year figures CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear shareholders and other stakeholders, I would like to begin by thanking you for your support during the course of 2019. My colleagues and I are very grateful. Like most years, 2019 had its own set of challenges but on the whole we have fared reasonably well financially and in the execution of our strategy. The numbers speak for themselves so I am not going to dwell on it for too long except to express my gratitude to our clients and my colleagues who made it possible. While we have achieved a great deal in the transformation of the firm from a universal bank to a wealth management house over the last seven years – including a total return of more than two times shareholders’ investment – challenges remain. I would, if I may, like to focus on our strategy, our obligations to our stakeholders and the challenges we face in that context – not just in 2020 but in the years ahead. Economic environment From our perspective, the continuing trade wars and mercantilism by certain nation states does not bode well for the global economy, and in particular for trading nations such as the Netherlands. Further, we expect the economic impact of the coronavirus on China and the rest of the world to be meaningful. While the exact nature and the extent of the impact is unclear, I would like to reassure our clients and shareholders that we will take all necessary measures to minimise potential negative impact. Furthermore, I would like to draw your attention to the impact of a low-yield environment and negative interest rates on our business model and inherent profitability. We are of the view that the low-yield environment will remain for a while, driven in part by the glut in savings and the lack of reasonable investment opportunities. Several respected wealth management houses have observed the same challenge and many have suggested a recourse to credits to offset the negative carry aspect of a long liability model. We are exploring it ourselves, and indeed we have used it opportunistically to support our entrepreneurial client segment, albeit within our risk appetite and strategy. Needless to say, we will be careful in our deployment of capital to avoid the trap of credit risks. We ran down our business banking credit book for a reason: in short, we are well aware of the risks and the potential pitfalls. But the current environment behoves us to look for credible opportunities in credit assets to meet the objectives of reducing and/or minimising the impact of negative rates. Managing costs Over the last six or seven years we have reduced costs substantially, yet our cost line has remained largely flat. In truth, all our cost savings were consumed by incremental regulatory costs and compensation for our staff. Indeed, this is both a managerial and a strategic challenge. We believe that the best and the most sustainable way to absorb and reduce our cost base is through redesigning processes, automation and increased usage of technology in all our activities. Although we initiated this process several years ago, you may expect that we will accelerate this process further in 2020 and beyond. Notwithstanding the above, our cost base has an element of size; to this end, we will continue to focus on organic and inorganic AuM growth. No change of policy here but simply to reconfirm our approach towards acquisition of assets in the future. As in the past, we weigh several factors, including capital and our capacity to absorb without taking undue operational risks. Shareholder rights We would also like to draw your attention to a developing challenge with respect to how shareholders exercise their votes. The portfolio managers and ESG teams at institutional investors are often not aligned – reflecting the complexity of the world we live in with various interests and several stakeholders. We, of course, live in the hope that the dilemmas will be resolved to the benefit of all concerned. We sincerely value our ability to have a direct dialogue with our shareholders and we hope that this will continue in the future. Sustainability We see the issue of climate change as an existential threat to the world, and consequently doing something about it is a moral imperative for us all. With respect to ESG, specifically climate and sustainability, we will continue to broaden and deepen our engagement as a firm. In practical terms, this implies continuing towards carbon neutrality with respect to our carbon footprint as a firm, but also in our investment policies and in our product offering. We are convinced that the wealth we create or preserve for our clients will only retain its real value in a sustainable future world. We have taken several steps in this regard but it would be reasonable to expect that we will accelerate this process further. Needless to say, we will work with our clients (within the confines of the regulations) to seek opportunities for a sustainable future. We also expect considerable regulation and regulatory pressure in the coming months and in the years to come. It is not clear yet what shape and form these will take; we have therefore prudentially initiated our own steps and measures. We will follow the law and our own moral compass to guide us through the process. Gatekeepers I would like to address the subject of money laundering and tax evasion. This topic has emerged as a key topic for our industry given our role as poortwachters (gatekeepers). As a house, we believe that wealth creation, stable societies and taxation are interlinked. Therefore, it is in our individual and collective interests that taxes are paid on wealth generated. The entire concept of samenleven (living together) rests on this basic principle. We, as a firm and a member of our industry, are vested by the government and society at large to act as poortwachters. We recognise and understand the importance of this role. Accordingly, we have done everything that we reasonably can to ensure that taxes are paid. Please know that we will never aid nor abet money laundering in the carriage of our responsibility, but it is virtually impossible for us to guarantee that someone will not try to abuse our systems. Having said that, I want to be clear that we have done and will continue to do what is necessary to perform our responsibilities. Transformation of the workforce Finally, I would like to address the subject of Human Resources and people. In 2019, we achieved two important milestones in the strategic transformation of the firm: simplification of the organisational structure through a legal merger of the various legal entities, and harmonisation of employee conditions across the entire firm. The next step in the transformation of the workforce involves retraining and streamlining the workforce to meet the future needs of our clients and other stakeholders. It is noteworthy that we are moving in a direction that involves considerable usage of data and advanced analytics to drive, and indeed underpin, our decisions. In the end, this must be visible in a tangible form in our work environment, assessed through our engagement survey, client satisfaction and eventually in our income statement. My colleagues and I would like to thank you again for your support in driving the firm forward. ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 Karl Guha Chairman of the Statutory Board 2019 highlights 6 2019 HIGHLIGHTS In 2019, we focused on new solutions for our clients, digitalisation and advanced analytics, and our transition from a responsible to a sustainable wealth manager. An overview of Van Lanschot Kempen’s highlights in 2019 is presented below. 2019 JANUARY Launch of European Private Equity Fund FEBRUARY The European Private Equity Fund offers private clients the opportunity to invest in Sale of AIO II and VLC & Partners private equity, an in-demand asset class Van Lanschot Kempen sold its stakes in given current markets. The fund was AIO II (Medsen) and in insurance intermediary created exclusively for clients of VLC & Partners, in keeping with our strategic Van Lanschot Kempen. focus on wealth management. Total book profits amounted to €53 million. APRIL Launch of online payment platform and JUNE outsourcing of payment services Our new payments platform and Sustainable AuM payments app were launched for our Our Private Banking clients’ interest in Private Banking clients. We started sustainability is rising. The assets outsourcing our payment services to under management invested German fintech company Fidor. sustainably in Private Banking exceeded €1.5 billion halfway through JUNE the reporting year. Launch of Groenhypotheek JULY This special “green mortgage”, offered at a discounted interest rate, aims to Climate Agreement encourage our Private Banking clients to Together with banks, pension funds, insurers make their homes more sustainable. and asset managers, Van Lanschot Kempen signed the financial sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement to support the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions SEPTEMBER by 49% by 2030 compared with 1990. New mandate in the UK NOVEMBER Kempen Asset Management won the mandate for a UK pension fund, which Capital raise of €150 million for Arima underlines our commitment to the UK as Kempen Merchant Banking supported Arima a second home market and helps build Real Estate SOCIMI SA for the third time in a momentum for further growth. row over the course of a year. In November, we introduced an anchor investor, who allowed us to raise €150 million, thereby taking the total NOVEMBER raised capital to approximately €300 million. Infrastructure for advanced analytics DECEMBER We laid the foundation for a modern, cloud-based infrastructure for advanced Capital return analytics to enable faster development. €1.50 per share, totalling over €60 million, was returned to shareholders. Since 2016, a total of over €330 million has been paid out to our shareholders. 2020 About Van Lanschot Kempen 7 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Van Lanschot Kempen is the oldest Entrepreneurial spirit independent financial institution in the – We look for opportunities, even when there appear to Netherlands. Our history is deeply intertwined be none – We believe in and pursue our goals with the history of the Low Countries and the – We accept failure as part of the process and are not defeated by it people that represent them. Founded originally – We are able to connect the dots and make things work in Antwerp in the 17th century, Van Lanschot Kempen has brought several entities together Specialisation – We accept that one cannot be good at everything over time; the common thread that links us all – Specialisation helps us to make choices and to focus is trade. – We believe in expertise – We appreciate each other’s specialist knowledge and employ this optimally Our purpose is the preservation and creation of wealth, in a sustainable way, for our clients and the societies we serve. Craftsmanship We believe that wealth is not just about financial assets; – We believe in the pursuit of excellence essential as these may be, wealth is about all the things that – We have the tenacity and relentlessness to get things we value in life. In a broader sense, wealth represents the right collective wisdom of a society and the cultural norms and – We strive to be true professionals – knowing our craft values that sustain it. Although our primary objective is to inside out help our clients with the financial aspects of wealth, we – We do not accept second best as the outcome in our endeavour to serve their broader objectives as well. We do search for excellence this through our Foundation, our sponsorships and our work on sustainability issues. Dedication As a company, we believe that the generation of wealth – – We believe in the conscious act of committing one’s and its re-distribution through taxation – are critical to the emotional, intellectual and physical capabilities to one’s process of creating and maintaining stable, successful objectives societies. Given that societal cohesion necessitates that – We are intrinsically motivated to work hard in providing wealth creation, we believe that wealth management our services in order to exceed clients’ expectations cannot be the preserve of a few but is a necessity for all. – We believe genuine dedication enables us to create value for the long term This view is reflected in our approach to our clients. As a company, we serve clients across the social spectrum and in several segments – private, institutional and corporate – Discretion with a singular purpose: to be a trusted partner and to – We understand that notions of privacy are changing in assist them in preserving and creating wealth sustainably. this era of social media and digital transformation We believe that serving the long-term interests of our – We believe in the importance of privacy at an individual, clients helps create a platform for responsible investing and institutional and societal level societal stability. – We do our utmost to protect and secure our clients’ sensitive information in order to truly be their trusted Our values partner Values are essential to any successful enterprise. We are no exception. These values drive our decision-making process These values define what we do, and help us to serve our and our code of conduct. In turn, they define who we are and clients best. what we stand for. As a company, we believe in the following core values: About Van Lanschot Kempen 8 Key reasons for clients, employees and Sound financial and risk management investors to choose Van Lanschot Kempen – Strong capital position and balance sheet As a wealth manager, Van Lanschot Kempen builds on the – Strong track record in transformation processes and experience of its core activities, operating under the strong de-risking of the company brand names Van Lanschot, Evi van Lanschot and Kempen. – Increased focus on core activities, creating opportunities for further growth Reliable reputation and rich history – Clear choice for wealth management, targeting private, Key figures 2019 2018 institutional and corporate clients – Tailored, personal and professional service Net result (€ million) 98.4 80.3 – Mutually reinforcing core activities, each with its own Underlying net result1 (€ million) 108.8 103.0 distinct culture and positioning as a niche player – High level of interaction between business lines to 2 Dividend per share (€) 1.45 1.45 create innovative solutions for clients Efficiency ratio, excluding special items (%) 75.5 79.4 CET 1 ratio (%) 23.8 21.1 True specialist – In-house, specialist asset manager with multiple Return on average CET 1 based on underlying differentiating investment strategies and fiduciary net result (%) 10.5 9.8 expertise Balance sheet total (€ billion) 14.3 14.0 – Conviction-based, active investor, focusing on the long term with the aim to achieve significant impact via Total loan portfolio (€ billion) 8.6 8.6 clients’ assets Client assets (€ billion) 102.0 81.2 – Relatively small-scale organisation and high level of Total assets under management (€ billion) 87.7 67.0 executive involvement – Strong focus on corporate social responsibility and Employees (FTEs at year-end) 1,560 1,621 ambition to move from responsible to sustainable investing – Inspiring and professional work environment Van Lanschot Private Evi van Lanschot Kempen Asset Kempen Merchant Banking Banking – Online wealth management Management – Equities research and – Tailored, proactive and services for the mass affluent – Comprehensive fiduciary trading, capital market transparent personal wealth and Millennials wealth management services transactions, corporate management services – Online wealth management – Long-term focused niche finance and debt advisory – For entrepreneurs, family solutions, discretionary asset investment strategies: high services for corporate and businesses, high net-worth management, savings and dividend equities, smallinstitutional clients individuals, business pension solutions caps, real estate, – Focus on European professionals and executives, – Assets under management: infrastructure, credits, corporates and worldwide healthcare professionals, €1.0 billion government bonds, institutional clients; sectors foundations and associations – Assets under management sustainable value creation, covered are real estate, life – Discretionary asset client base c. 17,000 funds of hedge funds and sciences & healthcare, management, investment – Savings: €0.5 billion private markets financial institutions & advice, financial planning, – 2 3 FTEs – Focus on European clients: fintech, infrastructure, savings and deposits, – Focus on the Netherlands institutional, wholesale maritime & offshore, as well structured products and and Belgium distribution, family offices as our local alpha coverage lending and endowments – 127 FTEs – Assets under management: – Assets under management: – Offices in the Netherlands, €24.7 billion €62.0 billion Belgium, the UK and the US – Savings and deposits: – Assets under monitoring and €8.9 billion; loans: guidance: €3.1 billion €8.1 billion – 264 FTEs – 655 FTEs – Offices in the Netherlands, – Offices in the Netherlands, the UK and France Belgium and Switzerland 1 The underlying net result is the net profit adjusted for one-off charges related to the costs incurred for the Strategy 2020 investment programme and restructuring. 2 Proposed dividend per share for 2019. About Van Lanschot Kempen 9 HOW WE CREATE VALUE IN THE LONG TERM Wealth enables our clients to achieve their Our positive outcomes can also be defined according to the various forms of capital: business, personal and social goals. Wealth – Financial capital is our biggest output. We invest client generation is essential to create and maintain assets in companies and other organisations (e.g. governments), assist entrepreneurs when raising funds, stability in our society. This requires a longprovide investment returns to our own clients and investors, pay salaries to our employees and pay taxes term focus in which economic, social, to society. environmental and governance factors all need – We contribute to human capital via the training and development of our employees. to be taken into account. – We preserve and create wealth, growth and job opportunities for society (social capital) by passing on financial capital to companies and other organisations. Our value creation – We increase natural and social capital by investing client Our value creation model on page 10 provides an overview assets in sustainable and impact funds. of our impact and the value we create in the long term. As a wealth manager Van Lanschot Kempen attracts various Our negative outcomes in terms of types of capital comprise types of capital: the following: – Financial capital: Our clients entrust us with their – Financial capital: Potential negative returns on our investments, savings and deposits, while our capital assets under management and poor share performance. providers invest in our shares and bonds. – Human and intellectual capital: Work-related illness and –  Human and intellectual capital: Our employees and possible redundancies of our employees. external parties bring in their knowledge and – Social and natural capital: Remaining negative impacts experience. on labour rights, human rights and nature in our supply –  Social capital: The network we have as an organisation chains, resulting from investment of client assets and and the trust that other stakeholders place in us – our our lending activities. licence to operate. –  Manufactured capital: Our physical inputs, such as We can already partly quantify our impact on financial offices, energy, IT and transport. capital. For the other forms of capital, we still lack solid methodologies and data. In the short-term future, we will Our purpose strive to develop these, together with our stakeholders. We are convinced that our purpose – to preserve and create wealth in a sustainable way – can only be fulfilled in a Our contribution to the UN Sustainable sustainable world. We also believe that, via the generation Development Goals of wealth and its re-distribution through taxation, we can A long-term focus on a sustainable society is what the contribute to creating and maintaining a stable and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are all about. As a successful society. wealth manager with a focus on the long term, we support and encourage all these goals. Of the 17 SDGs, there are Our management approach six to which we contribute specifically via our core activities: In line with our purpose, we proactively strive to: –  S DG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for – Embed our core values – entrepreneurial spirit, all at all ages. specialisation, craftsmanship, dedication and discretion –  S DG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable – in everything we do. and modern energy for all. – Operate as a trusted adviser for our clients and – S DG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable cooperate with other stakeholders. economic growth, full and productive employment and – Contribute to a stable society. We create wealth, decent work for all. economic growth, jobs and tax income via our services –  S DG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and to entrepreneurs, as well as contributing to the production patterns. realisation of societal goals via the preservation and –  S DG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for creation of wealth for asset owners, including pension sustainable development, provide access to justice funds. for all, and build effective, accountable and inclusive – Prevent and mitigate negative impacts for all institutions at all levels. stakeholders, wherever we can – for example, via our –  S DG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and responsible and sustainable investment policies, our revitalise the global partnerships for sustainable CSR lending policy and our carbon reduction policy. development. – Increase positive long-term financial and non-financial value by developing new solutions – such as the Kempen For more details on value creation, see Our value creation Global Impact Pool and Van Lanschot Groenhypotheek story . Information about our contributions to the SDGs can – in close cooperation with our stakeholders. be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible. OUR VALUE CREATION INPUT BUSINESS MODEL OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES* OUR SDG CONTRIBUTION €101,515 €107,432 — — Financial capital Financial capital AuM €87,700 + Loans provided to clients €8,700 Savings and deposits €9,500 + Funding arranged for Merchant Banking clients €7,000 Funding by bondholders €2,600 + Capital for investees (companies, government) €87,700 Capital of shareholders €1,200 + Investment return for clients, 3-year average €3,600 Paid fees and interest €515 + Interest paid to clients (savings and deposits) €26 + Salaries €251 Purpose + Coupons for bondholders €20 Creation and preservation of wealth + Total shareholders' return, 3-year average €115 in a sustainable way (market performance, dividend, capital return) + Taxes paid €21 €To be determined — Human and intellectual capital Internal employees (FTEs) 1,560 External employees (FTEs) 201 Knowledge, experience €To be determined and diversity — Consultancy and information G VI Human and intellectual capital AD INVES providers’ fees €30 Advance through + Engaged, healthy employees (via Vitality Programme) Accelerate S IN digitalisation + Skilled employees and interns (via training and development) TI N growth and analytics + Investment in career starters and people at a disadvantage in the G labour market Work-related illness, redundancies due to technological changes €To be determined — Activate Social capital our full Adapt the Reputation and trust potential workforce Stakeholders’ expectations €To be determined — Social capital SA G + Good relations with clients and other stakeholders V IN DI N + Contribution to a stable society G AND LEN • Our services to entrepreneurs contribute to economic €To be determined growth, jobs, tax income and wealth creation — • By preserving and creating wealth for asset owners Manufactured capital (including pension funds) we help to realise societal goals Energy, water, offices, IT, transport + Positive contribution via sustainable and impact investing Negative human rights and labour impact (via lending and investing activities) Approach to sustainability + Reduced negative impacts via active ownership Prevent and mitigate negative impacts Increase positive impacts €To be determined — Values Natural capital Entrepreneurial spirit – Specialisation + Positive contribution via sustainable and impact investing Craftsmanship – Dedication – Discretion Negative climate impact via lending and investing activities + Reduced negative impacts via active ownership Amounts are in € millions unless otherwise stated * For various stakeholder groups + Increase in capital Decrease in capital 2019 figures Our strategy 11 OUR STRATEGY Trends and p. 12 Stakeholders’ p. 15 developments expectations In light of our purpose – to preserve and create Economic and regulatory Clients environment Shareholders wealth in a sustainable way – we have defined Contribution to the Employees our wealth management strategy. Taking into environment and society Government/regulators Evolving client needs account trends and developments as well as Other stakeholders Competitive environment the expectations of our clients and other stakeholders, we have set our ambitions. We've defined four strategic pillars that enable us to deliver on our ambitions. And in order to monitor Our ambitions p. 17 our progress, we've defined a number of financial Continue our wealth management strategy and non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs) that are grouped into five value creation Be a leading player in our markets themes. Shift from responsible to sustainable investing Meet our 2023 targets Strategic pillars p. 17 Accelerate growth Advance through organically and digitalisation and inorganically analytics Activate our full potential Adapt the workforce How we steer our business p. 18 Targets on five themes that all contribute to our purpose Financial and risk management Client-centricity Ethics and integrity Sustainability Employees Our strategy 12 TRENDS AND DEVELOPMENTS Market trends, new technologies and services rs are reshaping our society, our economy and the lato Cli gu en financial sector. We highlight the most relevant re t d developments in our operating environment n ne ya ed below. We take these developments into om s account when executing our strategy. Econ Van Lanschot Kempen’s E  conomic and regulatory operating t environment environment men i Pos Economic environment v ir Despite considerable uncertainties, economic sentiment in tiv on 2019 was more positive than anticipated. And in general, econ en we were able to generate high returns for our clients on tri bu iti ve their investment portfolios. However, while the fear of a t io n pet recession still looms, clients are reluctant to invest. This Com economic uncertainty, combined with the low interest rate environment and increasing tax on personal wealth, presents a challenge for many of our clients. Regulatory environment For more details on these developments and their impact A large number of regulations are expected to come into on Van Lanschot Kempen, see “Our contribution to the force between now and 2022, and we've been preparing environment and society” on page 23. for these in 2019. Regulators are increasingly focusing on the challenges of new technology, the impact of the transition to renewable energy on the financial sector, and the role of financial institutions in the prevention of financial Evolving client needs crime such as money laundering. At the same time, the number of requests for data, as well as the level of detail of Digital savviness those requests, is increasing rapidly and continues to pose At the same rapid pace that digitalisation and technology a challenge for our organisation. Basel IV, benchmark are developing, our clients’ abilities to handle these changes regulations and so on all represent major challenges for us are also evolving. However, they are not all developing their going forward. skills at the same rate and do not all share the same digital preferences, which creates challenges in designing the For more details on these developments and their impact on perfect client experience. This experience therefore needs Van Lanschot Kempen, see “Our economic and regulatory to be made up of various complementary parts, each of environment” on page 21. which can be selected by the individual client. A similar shift is occurring in the institutional sector, in Contribution to the environment which the services needed by individual institutional clients and society also vary. Asset managers are required to move towards a more flexible service model, in which they are able to offer Climate change each client the set of services they require. As the number As awareness of climate change grows, organisations are of institutional clients is limited, this creates a challenge expected to significantly reduce their environmental for asset managers, who have to reach a certain level of footprints. To achieve this, they need to be able to efficiency to remain profitable. determine what their negative contribution is per activity. Unfortunately, this data is not all readily available. Within Insights into the future the financial sector, joint initiatives have already led to Both prospective and existing clients, in every demographic, improved data availability and quality, as well as the ability are looking for confirmation that they are making the right to benchmark products based on carbon emissions. choices regarding their financial future. To enable datadriven decision-making, financial organisations are providing Impact on society and the environment their clients with online, easy-to-access tools to give them Organisations are increasingly expected to generate insight into the expected growth of their wealth over time, positive value for society and the environment. Positive as well as educating clients about wealth management. value is hard to define as it is a broad concept that can take various forms. However, since the launch of the Sustainable For more details on these developments and their impact on Development Goals by the United Nations in 2015, we've Van Lanschot Kempen, see “Our clients” on page 22. seen an increase in organisations committing to, and reporting on, the generation of positive impact. Our strategy 13 Competitive environment KEY RISK THEMES FOR VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN In addition to the trends and developments that Competition for client assets impact our operating environment, as a wealth As regulatory pressure increases and margins are squeezed manager we face specific risks associated with our by low-cost propositions, the consolidation within the sector. In 2019, we identified the following key risk financial and wealth management sector continues. In themes: addition, the overall growth of wealth in Western Europe – Rising geopolitical and economic uncertainty is expected to be moderate, resulting in continued strong – Low interest rate environment competition for client assets among new and established – Technological transition and cybercrime players. As the current global business cycle is past its See the “Risk and capital management” section peak, an important part of new assets originates from (page 59) for more details. entrepreneurs selling their businesses. For more details on our approach to this, see “Our ambitions” on page 17. Competition for talent All professional services companies rely on the knowledge, experience and professionalism of their employees. Attracting, developing and retaining a high-quality workforce is essential. As the financial sector adapts to the rapid changes in digitalisation and technology, new skills are required, which are also in high demand within other sectors. Competition for talent is therefore fierce. For more details on these developments and their impact on Van Lanschot Kempen, see “Our people” on page 26. Annual Report 14 PUSHING THE DEBATE FORWARD Since 2010, I’ve been 100% focused on sustainability at expectations into our internal policies and products to ensure Van Lanschot Kempen. For the first few years I was pretty what we’re doing is both sustainable and profitable. We’ve much “alone”. But the world (and our company) has changed a made a lot of progress over recent years, but the debate is lot in the last decade. Today, it’s no longer just me pushing for complicated and change can take time. more sustainability. The number of colleagues engaged in the debate has risen dramatically. But I still believe we can be more I personally believe that a lot of sustainability is just common ambitious. sense, and it’s in people’s best interests to take steps towards it. Governments seem to have a similar view nowadays, and That’s why we’ve been holding stakeholder events annually they stepped up further in 2019: a lot of regulations will come since 2011: to bring our diverse stakeholders together in the our way in the years ahead, driven especially by the EU. same room with our own people to really listen to the This will definitely push us all further in the right direction. discussion. I spend a lot of time talking to external parties – clients, environmental groups, human rights groups, ratings Sander Boleij – Manager Corporate Social Responsibility and benchmarking agencies, and so on – translating their Our strategy 15 STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS We work with consideration for future Topics that are material to our stakeholders To determine which topics are valued most by our stakeholders, generations, the environment, and the financial we conduct a survey among stakeholders every two years. Our most recent survey was conducted in 2019. For 25 topics requirements of clients and shareholders. An relevant to our business, stakeholders were asked to assess essential part of this approach is an active, the extent to which each topic influences the decisions they make regarding Van Lanschot Kempen. continuous dialogue with our stakeholders. In addition, our Executive Board and a panel of external sustainability experts determined the significance of the We identify five main stakeholder groups: clients, shareholders, impact Van Lanschot Kempen has via each of the 25 topics. employees, government/regulators and other stakeholders, Impact refers to positive impact and prevention of negative including all those who might be affected by the decisions impact, and may be economic, environmental or social in and activities of Van Lanschot Kempen (e.g. society at large, nature. suppliers and competitors). The interests and expectations of the different stakeholder groups vary, and may lead to The table below and the matrix overleaf show the eight most potential conflicts of interest. Van Lanschot Kempen weighs material topics (out of the 25 in total), based on those topics up its stakeholders’ interests, and incorporates these into rated as “significantly important” by our stakeholders, and decision-making processes and the development of on which Van Lanschot Kempen has “significant impact”. strategic targets. Further details on the materiality matrix can be found in the document Our value creation story . Our various stakeholder groups have different expectations regarding Van Lanschot Kempen. The overview below1 Topic Material topic Description outlines our assessment of these expectations. number 1 Profitability and Return on equity, efficiency ratio, and Clients cost effectiveness ability to keep costs under control Excellent client experience, strong personal relationships, holistic 9 Impact via client Maximisation of positive environmental advice, tailored solutions and risk-rewarding returns assets and social impact, and elimination of (investments) negative impact, by investing the assets of our clients in a responsible and sustainable manner Shareholders 14 Superior client Relevant, easy-to-access, seamless Solid performance, attractive returns and sustainable – preferably experience customer journeys via various channels growing – dividend (e.g. app, face-to-face, phone) and providing clients with relevant solutions at the right time Employees 15 High-quality, Development of innovative solutions that Inspiring and professional work environment, competitive salary, tailored solutions answer evolving, individual client needs. development and growth opportunities, and personal autonomy Added value of our advisory services (quality, suitability and execution power) 17 Contribution to Positive contribution to the wealth of our Government/regulators clients’ wealth via clients via our investment solutions Practices within the letter and the spirit of the law (e.g. duty of care, investments (financial performance) anti-money laundering, client due diligence and privacy regulation) 21 High-quality Attraction and retention of talented and positive contribution to society and environment workforce employees who have the relevant expertise and the required skillset Other stakeholders 23 Development and Opportunities for employees to training of staff develop themselves to increase their Fair business opportunities and positive contribution to society and employability and extend their skillset environment 24 Ethics and Company culture and moral compass integrity by which employees are encouraged to behave ethically and with integrity 1 See Our value creation story for further details. Our strategy 16 Our materiality matrix High Eight material A Financial and risk management 1. Profitability and cost effectiveness topics 2. Growth and market position 3. Risk management 4. Capital position 5. Dividend and capital return B Licence to operate 6. Regulatory compliance 24 7. Transparent reporting 14 8. IT systems and platforms 1 21 C Sustainability Relevance for our stakeholders 17 9. Impact via client assets (investments) 10. Impact via lending activities 3 15 11. Impact via our own organisation 6 12. Impact via partnerships and cooperation 23 9 8 7 13. Stakeholder involvement 4 25 16 2 13 D Client-centricity 20 14. Superior client experience 11 19 22 15. High-quality, tailored solutions 16. Access to a broad range of solutions 5 18 12 17. Contribution to clients' wealth via investments 10 18. Contribution to clients' wealth via lending activities E Employees 19. Balanced reward policy 20. Healthy staff 21. High-quality workforce 22. Diverse and inclusive workforce 23. Development and training of staff F Ethics and integrity 24. Ethics and integrity Low 25. Discretion Low Significance of Van Lanschot Kempen's impact High Our strategy 17 OUR AMBITIONS Van Lanschot Kempen is a well-capitalised, leaving room for potential acquisitions. In addition, we'll consider paying out excess capital to our shareholders. profitable wealth manager with a strong Since 2016, we have returned around €330 million to our specialist position in the market. We believe shareholders. that our knowledge and experience, our Strategic pillars Economic and regulatory changes, evolving client needs, personal, client-focused approach, our unique societal change, advanced technology and increased combination of activities and our track record competition all impact our operating environment. We need to respond to these changes in order to deliver on our ambitions. set us apart from the competition in our For this purpose, we have defined four strategic pillars that are interlinked and that mutually reinforce each other: selected market segments, while offering growth opportunities. Accelerate growth Advance through organically and digitalisation and inorganically analytics Supported by our strong client relationships, we aim to be a leading player in our relevant markets and geographies. This means being: – A leading wealth manager in the Benelux region; – The number one online wealth management alternative for the mass affluent in selected markets; – A prominent, active investment manager that delivers alpha in illiquid markets, as well as in income-generating strategies and ESG across Europe; – The leading fiduciary manager in the Netherlands, and a challenger in the UK fiduciary market; – The preferred trusted adviser in selected niches in Activate our full merchant banking across Europe. potential Adapt the workforce With our history as a principled, active investor, focusing on the long term, we want to move – together with our clients Accelerate growth organically and inorganically – from responsible investing towards sustainable investing. To remain relevant for our clients and accelerate our organic In addition to our focus on preventing negative impacts for growth, we believe that we have to truly understand our all stakeholders, this means that we will also aim to create clients, anticipate their needs and help them to fulfil these positive long-term financial and non-financial value. Our needs in a sustainable manner. Instead of searching for a prevention of negative impacts will focus, at a minimum, on single product or a specific brand, which entails a productthe four UN Global Compact themes: human rights, labour led approach, clients are looking for solutions that fulfil rights, the environment (including climate) and antimultiple needs. corruption. In addition, controversial weapons and tobacco production are taken into account. When aiming for positive In recent years, we've successfully expanded our activities impact, we follow the UN Sustainable Development Goals through selective bolt-on acquisitions, partnerships and (SDGs), especially SDG 3 (good health and well-being), hiring teams. Our high post-acquisition client retention rates SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy), SDG 8 (decent work show that clients value our proposition. We aim to engage and economic growth), SDG 12 (responsible production and in further bolt-on acquisitions and larger acquisitions in order consumption), SDG 16 (peace, justice and strong institutions) to accelerate our growth, increase our scale and benefit and SDG 17 (partnerships for the goals). Although we from revenue, cost and/or funding synergies. We will focus expect to achieve the most significant social and environon acquisition opportunities that support our positioning as mental impact via our clients’ investments, we also take our a specialist player, and will consider acquisitions in existing balance sheet and our own organisation into account. and contiguous markets. We have set our financial targets for 2023: Activate our full potential – CET 1 ratio: 15-17%; In order to unlock the full potential of our solutions-led – Return on CET 1: 10-12%; organisation for our clients, we must be able to offer solutions – Efficiency ratio: 70-72%; that build on the knowledge and expertise of the entire – Dividend policy: 50-70% of underlying net result group as well as our open architecture platform. We believe attributable to shareholders. that by providing clients access to the full range of services and products across our business lines, we'll be able to We will maintain our solid risk profile with a moderate risk meet client needs in a sustainable manner. Acting as one appetite. Over the years, we've developed a strong capital allows us to benefit from knowledge sharing, to make base. Our CET 1 ratio currently stands at 23.8%, well above optimum use of resources across the organisation, and to our target level. We aim to optimise our capital base, while reduce overlap. Our strategy 18 Advance through digitalisation and analytics For 2019, our performance on these themes and our Changes in clients’ needs and economic developments purpose is measured via 59 financial and non-financial KPIs, require us to react quickly. Technology and digitalisation will of which 15 are reported externally. These 15 KPIs have allow us to improve our productivity and service, by speeding been selected for external reporting as they represent our up processes, reducing operational errors and improving material topics well. Moreover, our other KPIs are used for the availability and quality of data. Digital interaction is key our internal management information and steering. Some of as it offers both clients and employees increased flexibility these internal KPIs reflect sensitive information from a in terms of means of communication and the time needed to competition perspective. communicate. To grasp the full potential of patterns in internal and external data, tooling is being developed that Adjustments in our KPIs and targets compared to 2019 helps end-users to interpret data and use it for data-driven As mentioned on page 15, a new materiality matrix was decision-making in commercial processes, investment developed in 2019. The results of the materiality matrix processes and operational processes. have been used to review and adjust our financial and non-financial KPIs for 2020 and 2021. Adapt the workforce – Two new KPIs have been added to the Client-centricity Our people’s knowledge, experience and professionalism theme, focusing on our Merchant Banking clients: are key to the way we operate. Investing in our people will N  umber of repeat Corporate Finance clients, enable them to embrace new technology and adopt a more measured over a three-year period (target: 60-70%); data-driven way of working and decision-making. We will B  undled commission paid by repeat Securities clients facilitate and encourage development and training of our (target: > 80%). existing workforce. Together, we need to optimise the use – Under the Ethics and integrity theme, the wording of the of advanced analytics, to embrace new technology and to KPI has been improved and now reads: “Percentage of work in a more agile manner. We will also hire new people employees who positively evaluate our culture regarding with the requisite skills and capabilities to help drive our ethical behaviour and integrity”. The underlying input development and the changes needed to adapt. and approach have not changed. – To underline our commitment to move from responsible How we steer our business to sustainable investing, two new KPIs have been added In order to monitor whether we're on track to deliver on our under the Sustainability theme: ambitions and create long-term value, we define financial Percentage of internal and external fund managers and non-financial KPIs and targets. These are based on on the approved list that meet the sustainability industry trends and developments, stakeholder criteria (target: > last year); expectations, client needs and strategic relevance. Our KPIs Engagement for change trajectories for which at can be grouped into five themes, which all contribute to our least one milestone has been reached in the past purpose: year (target: 10-15 trajectories). –  Financial and risk management: These are key to our These KPIs replace one of the 2019 KPIs: organisation, as all stakeholders benefit from a solid Asset Management: Percentage increase in (internal capital position and sustainable performance. and external) fund managers on our approved list –  Client-centricity: We differentiate ourselves from our that are scored on their overall sustainability profile. competitors through our personal approach, in which we – To monitor the development and training of our staff in focus on long-term client relationships and on aspiring terms of new skills, a new KPI has been added under the to be a trusted guide for our clients. We aim to improve Employees theme: our client experience by further digitalising our Percentage of the total number of training courses operations, processes and communication channels. followed to develop new skills in order to adapt the –  E thics and integrity: We operate in an ethical manner, workforce (e.g. technical, digital, adaptability) and encourage our employees to behave ethically and (target: > 25%). with integrity. –  Sustainability: We see clear opportunities to create positive economic, environmental and social impact by investing the wealth of our clients responsibly and sustainably. Clients are increasingly looking for these types of investments, and we will expand our range of sustainable investment solutions accordingly. – Employees: We aim to be an attractive employer. As our employees are key to the success of our organisation, we invest in their inspiration, training, development and health. All themes contribute to our purpose: –  Preservation and creation of wealth: We preserve and create wealth for our clients and society, in a sustainable way, which requires our wealth management solutions to deliver positive, long-term performance. Our strategy 19 Themes KPIs Target Material topics covered Financial and risk 1. CET 1 ratio 15-17% 1. P rofitability and cost management effectiveness 2. Return on equity (CET 1) 10-12% 3. Efficiency ratio 70-72% Client-centricity 4. Net Promoter Score (NPS) 14. S  uperior client a. Private Banking a. 10 experience b. Evi b. 10 c. Asset Management c. 20 5. M erchant Banking: number of repeat Corporate Finance clients (three-year 60-70% period) 6. Merchant Banking: bundled commission paid by repeat Securities clients > 80% 7. A  sset Management: average Morningstar rating of investment strategies > 3.5 15. H igh-quality, (institutional share class) tailored solutions 17. C  ontribution to 8. Three-year relative performance of discretionary management mandates clients’ wealth via a. Private Banking a. > benchmark investments b. Evi b. > benchmark Ethics and 9. P  ercentage of employees who positively evaluate our culture regarding > industry average 24. Ethics and integrity integrity ethical behaviour and integrity2 Sustainability 10. Private Banking sustainability ambition 9. Impact via client A  uM invested in sustainable and/or impact investment wealth last year +10% assets (investments) management solutions 11. Asset Management sustainability ambition a. Percentage of internal and external fund managers on the approved list a. > last year that meet the sustainability criteria b. Engagement cases with companies that our funds invest in per year b. 80-100 cases c. E  ngagement for change trajectories for which at least one milestone 3 c. 1 0-15 trajectories has been reached in the past year 12. Decrease in carbon emissions n/a a. Direct emissions of our own organisation a. –2.5%/FTE per year b. Indirect emissions via our balance sheet (mortgage portfolio) b. CO2 /€ < last year Employees 13. Employee engagement score > 80% 21. H igh-quality workforce 14. Employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS) > 10 15. Gender balance in management positions > 30% male > 30% female 16. Percentage of total number of training courses followed to develop new > 25% 23. D evelopment and skills in order to adapt the workforce (e.g. technical, digital, adaptability) training of staff 2 The score for this KPI is based on responses to the following statements in the employee engagement survey: In my experience, all employees are held to the same standards of ethical behaviour; This organisation operates with integrity in its internal dealings (i.e. with employees); I think I could report instances of dishonest or unethical practices to the appropriate level of authority without fear of reprisal. 3 An engagement trajectory consists of four stages. If an engagement moves to the next stage, a milestone has been achieved. Annual Report 20 INVESTING FOR IMPACT Together with my co-portfolio manager, Narina Mnatsakanian, around responsible production and consumption, so we launched the Kempen Global Impact Pool in 2018 after we’ve invested in a manufacturer of biodegradable two years of research. It came about because we wanted plastics. Another target works towards affordable, to offer impact investing solutions to meet demand from good-quality healthcare, so one of our funds has invested clients – not only our institutional clients but also our in a pharmacy chain in Kenya that offers access to highPrivate Banking clients. So we suggested our clients pool quality, affordable medicines to low-income, undertheir capital to create more impact – after all, together served people there. we’re stronger. Essentially, the Kempen Global Impact Pool creates a The fund has grown from €25 million in AuM in January bridge between social and environmental problems that 2018 to €100 million by the end of 2019 – this huge need solving and the capital contributions available. I’m increase in less than two years shows the sheer demand extremely proud of our clients for wanting to do this, and from our clients wanting to invest for impact. And it’s a of my colleagues for all their expertise in setting it up. no-brainer: impact investing means contributing something to the world and making a difference at the same time as Marjoleine van der Peet – Senior Portfolio Manager, investing financially. For example, one of our targets is Kempen Asset Management Our business themes 21 OUR BUSINESS THEMES Our business is impacted by our economic for equity markets. However, with interest rates historically low, it’s a very challenging environment for savers, such as environment, as well as by social and our Private Banking and Evi clients. On the flip side, these environmental factors. In turn, our operations low interest rates represent a positive opportunity for real estate markets in general. For Dutch pension funds, though, have an impact on our clients, our employees, liabilities went up more than assets, while solvency ratios have declined. our society and the world around us. Our responses to the most relevant developments All of this means that the demand for high-yield products in the Netherlands is high. Investment-grade credit are covered by our business themes. For more strategies are doing well, as are alternative and illiquid strategies. Real estate, infrastructure, private equity, hedge details on the external trends that shape our funds and so on offer favourable returns for our clients in strategy, see “Trends and developments” on the current environment. For more details on the markets and how these have impacted each of our client groups in page 12. 2019, please read the sections about each business line on pages 42-55. Our economic and regulatory Regulatory environment environment The process of transitioning from a principles-based system to a rules-based system is continuing apace in Europe, coupled with a shift towards more intense and data-driven Financial markets are heavily influenced by the economic and supervision. The attention of regulators is moving towards regulatory environments at any given period, and these shift the challenges of new technology, the impact of the constantly. All our business lines are significantly affected by transition to renewable energy on the financial sector, and the economy – both in Europe and globally. And we’re obliged banks’ role in the prevention of financial crime such as to comply with a set of rules and principles that govern the money laundering. At the same time, the number of requests financial services industry. for data, as well as the level of detail of those requests, is increasing rapidly. Overall, the efforts required to operate in Economic trends compliance with regulatory requirements continue to grow From an investment perspective, the economy in 2019 was and are putting a strain on financial and human resources more positive than many people expected given the situation – especially in smaller organisations like ours. at the end of 2018. However, the global economy started to cool down as 2019 progressed – especially in the As a financial services company, complying with laws and manufacturing sector. Towards the end of the year, we regulations is a priority for Van Lanschot Kempen. During started to see signs of the service sector slowing down, 2019, many further requirements and regulatory and Chinese growth was also slower than previously. expectations were formulated, such as in the guidelines Meanwhile, there has still been no inflationary pressure in from the European regulators EBA and ESMA. We also either Europe or the US, with bond yields collapsing and spent much of the year preparing for the implementation of central banks lowering interest rates in the second half of large numbers of regulations that will come into force the year. between now and 2022. At present, we are preparing for the Basel IV package of reforms, compliance with the Politically, the situation remains tumultuous. Escalating Capital Requirements Directives V (CRD V) and Capital trade wars between China and the US mask an underlying Requirements Regulation II (CRR II), and applying the technology war. This has been disruptive to the economy as principles of the targeted review of internal models (TRIM) a whole – not just to import and export tariffs. And the guidelines as a bank that follows the internal ratings-based impact of this is already being felt in Europe. Meanwhile, (IRB) approach. In addition to financial regulation, new uncertainty caused by Brexit is having an impact as well: legislation on sustainability is currently being prepared by German export volumes to the UK have already fallen the European Commission: the approach is broad in scope, substantially as a result. and the thousands of pages of regulatory proposals will make an impact on – and present an opportunity for – our Impact on our clients business when turned into law in the coming two years. In After the sharp correction in equity markets during the last 2020, our focus will be on continuing to prepare for this quarter of 2018, financial markets went up across the board new raft of regulations to ensure that they have all been in 2019 – meaning generally high returns for our clients. implemented by 2022. For more information, please see the Some of our Private Banking and Evi clients were hesitant “Risk and capital management” section on page 59. to invest because of economic uncertainty. And in many cases, we’re seeing a shift in focus from the creation of Brexit preparations and impact wealth to the preservation of wealth. But many of our All of Van Lanschot Kempen’s business lines are prepared Private Banking and Asset Management clients had a year for Brexit. We have contracts and procedures in place to that was perhaps better than they might have anticipated in ensure that the business impact will be manageable and the final quarter of 2018. Although the earnings growth of limited. We’ve also created the possibility to move our most companies declined during 2019, so too did the cost derivatives trading activities from London to hubs in other of capital – which meant the net result turned out positive European countries. However, Brexit is still a risk: at national Our business themes 22 level, the UK is a large trading partner for the Netherlands life sciences & healthcare, financial institutions & fintech, so there is significant potential for indirect fallout. infrastructure, maritime & offshore, as well as in our local Depending on further political and regulatory developments, alpha coverage. Although we count many target groups as it remains to be seen what the actual impact will be, our clients, we are first and foremost specialists. Our particularly on our business activities in the UK. knowledge and experience, our track record and our personal approach enable us to best serve these clients Financial crime prevention in selected market segments. Van Lanschot Kempen is a Financial institutions are indispensable parties in protecting specialist wealth manager, dedicated to offering our clients and supporting healthy and strong financial markets. And expertise and solutions tailored to their needs. And of they have been mandated by society to play an important course, these needs change over time. It’s our job to role in the prevention and detection of money laundering, anticipate these developments and ensure we’re there for terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Banks’ roles as our clients as a guide in all phases of their journey with us. so-called gatekeepers are codified in anti-money laundering legislation that addresses detailed organisational and Wealth management solutions operational requirements that need to be fulfilled. We fully Under the current economic circumstances, many of our understand our role in preventing financial crime, and clients are more focused on the preservation of wealth than undertake continuous efforts to further develop and on creating wealth, due to recent developments in taxation optimise our control arrangements. and persistently low interest rates. This is a crucial way in which we can help our clients, by providing advice and by Private Banking has clearly defined processes in place, offering new products and services to fulfil their needs. For including client due diligence, client acceptance, transaction example, our Private Markets Fund (launched in 2018) and monitoring and sanction screening processes to ensure our European Private Equity Fund (launched in 2019) offer compliance. In 2019, we initiated a project to improve the clients opportunities to invest in illiquid, alternative general level of control for the whole organisation by investment classes such as private equity, infrastructure, implementing the best practices of Private Banking in the land and private real estate. existing processes of the other business units. In the reporting year, the Dutch Authority for the Financial Many of our clients are also looking for sustainable Markets (AFM) started an investigation regarding specific investment solutions. That’s why our sustainable assets parts of Kempen & Co. The investigation focuses on under management at Private Banking reached a new compliance with the Money Laundering and Terrorist milestone of over €2 billion by the end of 2019. It’s also why Financing (Prevention) Act (Wwft). We expect to receive we started offering the Van Lanschot Groenhypotheek: a more information from the AFM concerning the potential “green mortgage” that helps clients finance renovations to consequences of the investigation in the course of 2020. make their homes more sustainable at a lower interest rate. And finally, that’s why environmental, social and Privacy and discretion governance (ESG) criteria are integrated into the services One of Van Lanschot Kempen’s core values is discretion. This we offer our fiduciary clients as well as in our investment means that acting in accordance with privacy regulations strategies at Kempen Asset Management. comes naturally to us – it’s not just a regulatory requirement but an integral part of the way we do business. We therefore Digital technology handle all client data extremely carefully. Together with our Digital technologies continue to develop rapidly. Many of Privacy Committee and in accordance with our privacy our clients expect to be able to access their portfolios and framework, our Privacy Officer operates a programme get personal advice at any time, on any device. We’ve designed to monitor compliance of the processing and therefore invested heavily in multiple initiatives that support protection of personal data with applicable rules and this personalised service. Our strategic investment programme regulations. The Privacy Officer regularly reports to the at Van Lanschot Private Banking was completed in 2019 Privacy Committee and to the Compliance and Operational – the results of which included the launch of a new payments Risk Committee. We have procedures in place to handle and platform and payments app for our clients, a new online record complaints, information requests and any breaches of portal and a sophisticated investment app. client data. We have not registered any material complaints from clients or regulators relating to this in 2019. By activating our full potential, we are able to improve efficiency and service between our different business lines. For example, the digital tools developed for our Private Our clients Banking clients can be adapted for our Evi clients, while Evi’s online marketing capabilities can be deployed at Our clients are our most important group of stakeholders – Van Lanschot. These synergies allow us to better serve without them, we cannot operate. At Van Lanschot Private both sets of clients. In addition, Kempen Asset Management Banking, our clients are high net-worth individuals, and Kempen Merchant Banking are using data-driven entrepreneurs, family businesses, business professionals analytics to improve our products and services to clients as and executives, healthcare professionals, and foundations well as to increase efficiency. and associations. At Evi, our clients include first-time investors and Millennials, with an increasing focus on Customer loyalty mass-affluent individuals. At Kempen Asset Management, We are privileged that so many of our clients are loyal to we serve institutional clients such as pension funds and Van Lanschot Kempen, year after year. We measure insurance companies, as well as providing investment customer loyalty on a regular basis – including via the Net strategies for Van Lanschot Private Banking clients. And at Promoter Score (NPS) – and use the results to improve our Kempen Merchant Banking, we serve corporate and wealth management solutions and service to clients. institutional clients across our focus sectors – real estate, Our business themes 23 For more information on the many and varied ways in which Making Private Banking more sustainable we served our clients in 2019, as well as on the NPS they At Van Lanschot Private Banking, assets under management awarded us, please see the sections on each of our invested in sustainable and/or impact investment wealth business lines in the “Progress report” on pages 42-55. management solutions grew to over €2 billion in 2019 (2018: €1.3 billion). Our plan to make wealth management Priorities for 2020 entirely sustainable by 2023 is showing good progress. The In 2020, we will continue to look for solutions that serve all plan aims to make sustainable investing the default option our client groups. This means collaborating even more (meaning that clients no longer need to “opt in” to being closely between business lines to activate our full potential, sustainable) as well as to gradually raise the sustainability and offering our clients seamless service, however they bar across all our investment propositions (meaning that choose to interact with us. funds will have to apply more sustainability criteria to be part of our investment offering). Our contribution to the In 2019, 33% of new clients’ AuM was already invested in environment and society Van Lanschot Private Banking's sustainable discretionary management proposition, Duurzaam+. In 2019, we started to report on ESG factors in our sustainable discretionary Climate change has taken on even greater importance in portfolio management proposition and in our advisory 2019, with mass protests dominating the global media. investment proposition for our Private Banking clients. In We see society at large – including a proportion of our addition to investment solutions, we also offer other clients – becoming increasingly focused on the environment sustainable products – such as the Van Lanschot and the effects of global warming. Human rights issues, Groenhypotheek, launched in 2019. This “green mortgage” especially labour conditions in supply chains, also continue helps clients finance renovations to make their properties to be a focus within our society. Investing for the long term more sustainable at a lower interest rate. is no longer just about looking for the greatest returns by a future date; it’s also about ensuring the liveability of the planet by the time that future date arrives. We are convinced DUURZAAM+ we can achieve social and environmental impact by advising We've been offering our clients a sustainable our clients on sustainable investment decisions. Our aim is discretionary management solution, Duurzaam+, thereby to move from responsible investing to sustainable since 2017. Duurzaam+ is based on a list of exclusion investing. criteria (tobacco, conventional and controversial weapons, alcohol, gambling, nuclear energy, adult Demand from clients and regulators entertainment and so on), a best-in-class approach Many of our clients, whether private individuals or institutional (selecting the most sustainable companies per investors, find sustainable investment more and more sector), and an environmental focus (selecting important. Equally, governments and regulators are stepping companies with below-average carbon footprints). up their sustainability requirements. For instance, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises require us to have specific due diligence processes in place in order to identify, prevent and mitigate negative social and environmental Making Asset Management more sustainable impacts. For more information on these guidelines and our All Kempen Asset Management’s clients are investing in compliance with them, visit vanlanschotkempen.com/ responsible funds by default, and we have several responsible. Another key regulation is the European sustainable fund options across different investment Commission Action Plan on Sustainable Finance that was strategies: Small-caps, Value Creation and Credits. launched in 2018, and which aims to encourage financial Available to both institutional and Private Banking clients, markets to re-orient capital towards sustainable economic the Kempen Global Impact Pool targets positive impact activities and growth, thereby contributing to the goals of the across four themes that relate to the SDGs, and invests Paris Agreement and the SDGs. One result of this Action across listed and non-listed asset classes. The fund reached Plan is that we will be required to discuss sustainability €100 million in AuM in 2019. priorities with all our clients (suitability assessments) and to base our investments on their behalf on these priorities. The Screening and engagement plan will also result in a European standard (“taxonomy”) for We have an extensive responsible investment policy sustainable activities and climate transition benchmarks. It’s (in line with the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI) our job to be prepared for these regulations and implement that translates international guidelines into ESG criteria, on the them in our client solutions. basis of which we screen our investments. Via our engagements and voting, we aim to improve the ESG practices In July 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen – along with many of companies and investment funds in which we invest. organisations in the financial sector, including banks, Companies that do not show improvement may be excluded. pension funds and insurers – signed the financial sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement. This requires In 2019, we screened 84 funds against ESG criteria (2018: financial services companies to measure, report on and 53 funds), accounting for 21% of our AuM. We also execute action plans to meet the goals of the Paris engaged with 264 companies on ESG issues (2018: 299 Agreement, including carbon reduction targets for companies). Of those engagements, 84 were directly with investments and loans. Some years ago, we started to companies, 180 were collaborative engagements with improve our carbon measuring processes year on year, so companies, and 25 were dialogues with external fund that we’re ultimately able to meet the goals of the Paris managers. In addition, we voted at 414 meetings, or 92% Agreement with our investments and loans. of all votable meetings (2018: 461 meetings, 93%). Our business themes 24 Responsible investment dashboard Screening Engagement Voting 84 companies engaged funds meetings voted at with collaboratively 414 180 21% of AuM 45% 84 Exclusion and avoidance 25 6 fund managers engaged AGMs attended in of meetings with with 44 at least one vote person companies engaged Against, Withheld or with directly companies excluded 25 Abstained companies on the avoidance list (plus 108 tobacco-related companies) Visibility In the reporting year, we made further improvements in For further information, see our disclosure on our external communications about sustainability as well vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/environment in as in our internal engagement on the topic. We launched line with the recommendations of the Taskforce on new, dedicated ESG landing pages on our websites, and Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). held several client events and webinars relating to sustainable and responsible investing. We also published Awards and rankings quarterly thought leadership newsletters, monthly articles We were recognised with several awards, rankings and relating to sustainability, and various white papers on active labels during the reporting year for our contribution to the management and impact investing. environment and society: – Platform Living Wage Financials, of which Kempen Carbon footprint Asset Management is an active member, won the PRI As carbon emissions are considered to be the biggest driver Active Ownership Award. of climate change, we report on our carbon footprint – Kempen Asset Management’s responsible investment annually. Due to the small size of our company relative to process was rated A+ by PRI for strategy and governance, the magnitude of the assets we manage, our biggest as well as ESG integration in manager selection and contribution is via our client investments. monitoring. The other modules received an A rating. – Four of Kempen Asset Management’s funds were In 2019, the aggregate carbon footprint of our clients' awarded the Belgian Febelfin sustainability label, and managed assets was 4.7 million tonnes (2018: 3.8 million one of them – Kempen (Lux) Euro Sustainable Credit tonnes). We carried out a climate scenario analysis on one Fund – was awarded the ISR sustainability label, of our strategies to assess the impact on our investment meaning they meet certain stringent criteria for portfolios. We are further investigating how we can best sustainable investment. integrate the results of this analysis into our portfolios. – Van Lanschot Kempen kept its high ratings in several other rankings, such as those from Sustainalytics, The total carbon footprint of the assets on our balance ISS Oekom, Transparency Benchmark and CDP. sheet amounted to 37,747 tonnes in 2019 (2018: 43,344 tonnes1). In our own organisation, our absolute carbon Priorities for 2020 emissions totalled 4,220 tonnes, or 2.40 tonnes per FTE Sustainability will remain a priority in 2020. High on our (2018: 4,680 tonnes, or 2.54 tonnes per FTE), which means agenda will be the further execution of our 2023 plan for we are on track to meet our reduction target of 2.5% per Van Lanschot Private Banking, our continued ESG focus at FTE per year. As of 2019, we have also committed to offset Kempen Asset Management, and extensive preparations all the carbon emissions from our own organisation. for the upcoming new regulations. Carbon footprint of our assets under management2 CO2 assets under Absolute footprint Relative footprint Carbon intensity Coverage management (in million tCO2) (tCO2 /€ m invested) (tCO2 /€ m sales) (CO2 based on % AuM) Private Banking (incl. Evi) 1.3 114.5 – 45% Asset Management 3.4 124.9 180.4 44% Total 4.7 121.8 – 44% 1 The 2018 figure has been revised. 2 CO2 figures based on 2017 data (scope 1 and 2); the coverage in 2018 was 50%. Annual Report 25 GOING ENERGY-EFFICIENT I’ve worked in testing and quality management for 15 years, When I’m not working on testing our software, my wife and starting at Van Lanschot Kempen in 2016. My team – the I are busy building our own sustainable house. It’s designed Service Centre Data Management (SCDM) department – is to be very energy-efficient, with no gas, no (or very few) responsible for loading data from various sources into our thermal bridges, thick insulation, triple-glazed windows, and data warehouse. From there, we extract data and create very high-quality window frames and doors. In addition, reports for our clients. There’s a lot to do in a short we’re installing a heat pump to heat and cool the house as timeframe: internal and external reporting, dealing with needed, solar panels to generate the energy that we do rapidly changing regulations, and incorporating new sources need to use, and a balanced ventilation system that brings of data. And the only way to deliver more software at a fresh air into the house and removes stale air. We’re aiming higher quality is to get it right first time. Automating for our new home to be finished in March 2020, and we’re processes, testing early in the development phase, and already very excited about moving in! eliminating any mistakes as soon as possible are essential to this. Gijs Kuiper – Test Manager, Service Centre Data Management Our business themes 26 Our people It is interesting to note that health and well-being scored well in the 2019 survey: 58% of respondents felt the Rapidly evolving client needs and ever-changing company is effective at encouraging employees to improve technologies present challenges that our workforce needs their health and well-being – an increase of 11 percentage to meet proactively by adding to their skillset to maintain points on 2017. Our focus on the Vitality Programme over our competitive advantage. While Van Lanschot Kempen’s the last couple of years is clearly appreciated by our positive results in 2019 have mostly led to high employee employees, and we intend to continue with the activities engagement, there have been several large restructurings offered. as part of our strategy. To attract, develop and retain the right people to execute that strategy, our own HR practices Attracting and developing talent need to stay agile, resilient and competitive in the labour Working at Van Lanschot Kempen means not being a small market as a whole so that our businesses continue to win. cog in a big wheel, but getting a broader and deeper level of responsibility straight away. In September 2019, we Integrated HR practices launched a revamped, streamlined version of our recruitment Our aim is to ensure that our employment processes and website (workingatvanlanschotkempen.com) that covers all policies are fit for purpose – both now and in the future. Our areas of our business. Instead of looking for individual talent strategy to activate our full potential needs to be reflected on a case-by-case basis, our aim is to create a continuous in all aspects of the business – including our HR practices. flow of new talent. Our strategy is to be an attractive Where previously each business line had its own HR employer for all talent sources available in the labour market. policies, procedures and ways of working, in 2019 we We continue to recruit from university campuses to fill our transitioned to one harmonised HR process for all our talent pool. people. The goals of this major integration project were threefold: to remain competitive in our labour markets; to In April 2019, we launched the Private Banking Academy: reduce complexity and make our processes more efficient; an externally accredited organisation run by professionals and to achieve greater equality and transparency through both within and outside the company, whose aim is to train harmonisation. and educate the private bankers of the future. The Academy’s ambition is for Van Lanschot’s private bankers, specialists Some highlights of the project include: and relationship managers to be seen as the best there are –  Job and career framework: We have identified nine in the market. We therefore want to offer everyone from different job families that each reflects the skills and junior employees to high-level executives the opportunity competencies that are crucial to the company’s future. for continuous development. The framework gives employees insights about what they need to do to develop into future roles, as well as Diversity and inclusion clarity on accountability. Globally, diversity and inclusion have become an –  Salary framework: To remain competitive and attractive increasingly critical element of workforce culture to deliver as an employer, we have aligned our salary structure business strategy on a sustainable basis. A highly inclusive with the three (external) labour markets in which we and diverse workforce helps to drive business performance operate: financial services, asset management, and and innovation, workforce agility and resilience, as well as investment banking and capital markets. positive social and environmental impact. Diversity at –  Modernisation based on employee preference scan: Van Lanschot Kempen is not just about filling quotas: our We asked all our employees what they valued about ambition is for the inflow of each department to be more their current employment conditions and what they diverse than the outflow. For example, if an employee missed. Listening to their responses, we gave them a leaves or more headcount becomes available, we aim to flexibility budget based on their preferences as of 2020. increase diversity by hiring someone who brings something These include benefits such as care leave, opportunities new to the team. Whether that’s gender, age, nationality, to take a sabbatical and flexible working hours. background or anything else – we want to recruit people –  Pension plan: We transitioned to a single pension plan from all talent pools to create a more diverse company in that’s both competitive and fully aligned with the Dutch the longer term. pension agreement. Key talent metrics Employee engagement Shortly after our preference scan, we also carried out our Key staff data 2019 2018 bi-annual employee engagement survey. This received a response rate of 71% (2017: 82%) and showed a sustainable Employees (FTEs at year-end) 1,560 1,621 engagement score of 82% (2017: 81%), which is fully in line Absenteeism (%) 3.0 2.7 with industry benchmarks. While we were pleased with the results, there is still room for improvement. In general, we Investment in training (€ million) 2.8 4.5 see the need to continue translating our vision and purpose Training hours (total number of hours, into concrete action plans. We also need to further improve individually and collectively) 80,026 125,361 our internal processes and conditions in the workplace to Male/female ratio (%) 65/35 64/36 ultimately better serve our clients. Perhaps unsurprisingly, survey results differed across the different business lines, and each department is responsible for its own follow-up priorities; communication and monitoring will be crucial. Our business themes 27 Staff per business line at year-end 2019 2018 ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR Number FTEs Number FTEs The financial sector is built on trust, and a healthy culture and ethical behaviour are needed to sustain Private Banking 698 655 804 754 this trust with all our stakeholders. Van Lanschot Evi 23 23 28 28 Kempen has various policies in place to encourage an ethical culture and to ensure that we act with Asset Management 274 264 228 221 integrity. We also have various measures to help to Merchant Banking 129 127 111 110 prevent unethical behaviour that could result in Other (support functions) 521 491 536 508 significant reputational damage and/or financial losses. Total 1,645 1,560 1,707 1,621 BANKING CODE, CODE OF CONDUCT AND BANKER’S OATH The Banking Code, with which we comply, sets out The total number of FTEs has decreased by approximately principles for sound and controlled business 60. There are a few reasons for this: Private Banking has operations, corporate governance, risk management seen restructuring in the fields of digital and innovation, policies, and audit and remuneration policies. Its investment office and marketing, resulting in fewer employees. scope includes the integrity of the organisation (for In addition, the number of FTEs at Private Banking has more information, see page 91). As stated in the decreased due to the outsourcing of payments. Asset Banking Code, the Statutory and Supervisory Boards Management has increased its workforce, mainly as a result are responsible for developing and maintaining of inflow from Private Banking employees in client standards of integrity and ethical behaviour. Our Code solutions. of Conduct, to which every employee must adhere, goes further than complying with relevant legislation. Education and training It includes guidelines on how employees should act We facilitate and encourage the development and training with integrity and balance the interests of all of our existing workforce. In 2019, we invested €2.8 million stakeholders. Our Code also includes the Banker’s (2018: €4.5 million) in education and training programmes, Oath, which all our employees are required to sign. with an increased focus on developing the digital and For more information, see vanlanschotkempen.com/ analytical skills of our employees in line with our strategy to en/governance. There were no ethical incidents adapt the workforce. In 2018, the higher spend was driven in 2019. by the one-off costs of setting up the Private Banking Academy and the rollout of the Advanced Leadership MECHANISMS FOR ADVICE AND CONCERNS ABOUT Programme. Whereas in 2019, the focus was on launching ETHICS a revamped learning management system – Train Your Brain Employees have various avenues for seeking advice or – and promoting customised programmes, such as our raising concerns about ethical issues – for example, Young Professionals Programme, Experienced Professionals via their managers and the Compliance department. and Joint Graduate Programme. We also created freely We have a whistleblower policy and a complaints available content in-house, such as presentation skills procedure in place; we have also appointed a training, Agile Scrum Foundation workshops, the Finance confidential adviser who employees can turn to. Academy and our corporate Van Lanschot Kempen workshop. The number and quality of training programmes available to our employees continues to be a key priority in adapting our workforce for the future. Priorities for 2020 In 2020, we will continue to refine our HR practices to support our strategic objective: to attract, develop, retain and reward talent. Specifically, we will work on our employer branding, strategic workforce management, and job and career framework. This will enable us to better analyse equal pay per job level, better define the roles we need in the future, and better identify how to fill them through recruitment of new talent and development of our existing talent. We will work on updating our performance management system and leadership programme to bring these further into line with our strategy. Plus, we will actively encourage our workforce to focus on developing new skills. Our business themes 28 VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN FOUNDATION SPONSSPONSORSHIP We aim to support community projects that Arts sponsorship is an integral part of our help create a better world for future generations. The market positioning as a wealth manager. The support Foundation saw a good third year in 2019. An we give to the arts, artists and museums helps to important feature of our Foundation activities is that both preserve and expand our cultural heritage. we always seek to combine a financial donation with Sports are also an important driver of well-being in the – pro bono – deployment of Van Lanschot Kempen society, and as such are a secondary focus of our staff. By doing so, we hope to make a positive impact support. Our main sponsorship activities in 2019 on society as well as on our employees. Participation in were as follows: Foundation activities connects our staff to new people – Van Lanschot Kempen is the main sponsor and unfamiliar situations, resulting in new experiences of The Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. This and energy. Over the year, 248 employees participated five-year partnership fits with our focus on in 19 different projects. preserving and creating wealth in the broadest sense of the word. The activities of the Foundation focus on four themes: – The Van Lanschot Kempen Art Prize is presented financial education and talent development, health, art annually to a mid-career contemporary artist and culture, and social cohesion via sport. The aim is to whose work best conveys the spirit of the age to make the largest possible positive impact on people future generations. who need our support. To ensure these activities are – Van Lanschot Private Banking will become the carried out professionally, we prefer to cooperate with main partner of the Van Gogh Museum starting specialist partners, such as JINC, Hartstichting, in 2020. This new three-year partnership is the Humanitas, De Zonnebloem, Amsterdam Cares, IMC result of successful collaboration between the Weekendschool, Scholenstrijd and many others. museum and our company over the last five-anda-half years. The Foundation has a board, comprising six employees, – Evi has sponsored the women’s beach volleyball as well as a large group of ambassadors throughout the duo Madelein Meppelink and Sanne Keizer since organisation. In 2019, Godfried van Lanschot, who was 2017. a member of the Supervisory Board until 2018, – Kempen is the principal sponsor of the Nereus succeeded Richard Bruens as chairman of the student rowing club in Amsterdam. Foundation. For further details on the Foundation and its annual report, see vanlanschotkempen.com/en/vlkf. After reviewing all our sponsorships and to leverage those of Van Lanschot Kempen as a whole, we have decided to end our partnerships with the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam, Holland Festival and Justdiggit. Annual Report 29 BIOLOGY MEETS FINANCE While my background is in biology, my interest in finance It’s been a gratifying year, as we’ve become the one-stop shop brought me to Kempen as a management trainee in 2013. I for investors when it comes to brokerage services in European wanted to work in several departments and learn about how all life sciences. In 2019, we also completed a record number of the different stakeholders are involved in the financial industry. capital raises for companies to help them reach the next stage But in the end, life sciences within Merchant Banking is the in their future development. And the healthcare sector of the perfect combination for me – it’s where biology and finance future goes hand in hand with sustainability – society needs come together. And I work with a great team of people – many affordable healthcare so that people can get the treatments of whom are also scientists, and who come from all over the they need. Investing in companies in this sector delivers not world. The healthcare sector often has a high risk-reward ratio: only investment returns but also funds research into new we see abrupt changes in share prices, frequent capital raises, therapies and medicines to bring to patients. It’s a win-win. big pharmaceutical companies acquiring small biotech firms – it’s very dynamic. There’s always something happening, which Suzanne van Voorthuizen – Securities Head of Life Sciences, makes every day exciting. Kempen Merchant Banking Progress report 30 PERFORMANCE Financial and non-financial KPIs Our financial and non-financial KPIs reflect both the interests of our stakeholders and our ambitions as a wealth manager. Please refer to pages 31-32 for additional background information on our KPIs. An overview of our performance on the KPIs that we report externally is shown in the table below. Themes and mission KPIs Target Score 2019 Score 2018 Financial and risk 1. CET 1 ratio 15-17% 23.8% 21.1% management 2. Return on equity (CET 1) 10-12% 10.5% 9.8% 3. Efficiency ratio 70-72% 75.5% 79.4% Ethics and integrity 4. Percentage of employees who feel the responsibility > industry 1 to act and behave ethically average: 81% 77% n/a Client relations 5. N et Promoter Score (NPS) a. Private Banking 10 23 2 b. Evi 10 10 –20 2 c. Asset Management 20 31 44 Responsibility and 6. Private Banking: AuM invested in sustainable and/or > last year 2019: €2,046m 2018: €1,318m sustainability impact investment wealth management solutions + €728m + €180m 7. Engaging with companies in which our funds invest 80-100 engagements 84 91 8. A sset Management: percentage of (internal and external) fund managers on our approved list that are scored on their overall sustainability profile > last year 2019: 98% 2018: 37% 9. Decrease in carbon emissions: a . Direct emissions of our own organisation –2.5%/FTE per year –5.6% –8.1% b. Indirect emissions via our balance sheet (mortgage portfolio) CO 2 /€ < last year –2.0% –11.3% 3 2 Employees 10. Employee engagement score > 80% 82% 81% 11 a. Employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS)4 > 10 n/a n/a n/a b. Employees who recommend Van Lanschot Kempen 2 as a good place to work > 80% 83% 82% 12. Gender balance in management positions > 30% female 21% female 20% female > 30% male 79% male 80% male Mission: 13. Private Banking: 3–year relative performance of Preservation and discretionary management mandates > benchmark –0.4% –0.1% creation of wealth 14. E  vi: 3–year relative performance of discretionary management mandates > benchmark –0.9% –0.4% 15. A  sset Management: average Morningstar rating of investment strategies (institutional share class) > 3.5 3.9 4.0 KPI more than achieved KPI achieved KPI almost achieved KPI not achieved KPI far from achieved 1 An employee engagement survey is conducted once every two years. In 2017 these questions were not included. 2 Measured once every two years, score for 2017. 3 A method of data cleaning has been applied retroactively to ensure that figures are comparable. This led to an adjustment of the 2018 score. 4 In 2019 and 2017, no official eNPS was measured. Instead, the employee engagement survey included a comparable question. Please refer to KPI 11b. Progress report 31 Financial and risk management years, as the relationships with – and solutions provided to Financial performance and risk management are key to our – institutional clients do not change as quickly as can be the organisation, as all direct stakeholders benefit from a solid case with private clients. The NPS of 31 awarded by clients capital position and sustainable performance. In 2019, our of Asset Management in 2019 is above our target of 20, CET 1 ratio increased to 23.8% and our return on CET 1 although lower than the 44 scored in 2017. The decrease is rose to 10.5%. Our efficiency ratio amounted to 75.5%. As due to more clients being passively satisfied rather than of 2019, we have adjusted our target for the efficiency ratio being promoters. Improved performance, more proactivity to 70-72%. We believe this target aligns with our profile as and more tailor-made communication that fits the client's a wealth manager and with the economic environment in background and needs would lead to more active which we operate. More information on the developments recommendations. underlying these ratios is provided on pages 35 and 39. Responsibility and sustainability Ethics and integrity We can achieve the most significant economic, environmental We strive to operate in an ethical manner and we encourage and social impact by investing the wealth of our clients in a our employees to behave ethically and with integrity. We responsible and sustainable manner. Private Banking assets monitor the ethical behaviour of our employees by focusing under management invested in sustainable (Duurzaam+) and on this in our employee engagement survey. In 2019, an impact investment (Impact Investing) rose to €2,046 million in employee engagement survey was conducted with 2019, from €1,318 million in 2018. In 2019, we undertook 84 questions on standards of ethical behaviour, operating with engagements for change and awareness, which means we integrity in internal dealings, and reporting dishonest or met our annual target of 80–100 cases. In 2018, we started unethical practices without fear of reprisal. The outcome rating internal and external fund managers on our approved was benchmarked against other financial services firms and list, with the ultimate aim to rate them all. In 2019, we ended shows a marginal negative deviation from the industry up with 91 rated fund managers on our approved list, which average (81%), which was primarily caused by the response means that 98% of the funds in scope6 on the approved list on standards of ethical behaviour. We have initiated several have been scored, compared with 37% at year-end 2018. actions to do better. In 2019, we harmonised our policies on In addition, we reduced the carbon emissions caused by our performance and reward practices, providing greater mortgage portfolio by 2.0%, reflecting the fact that the transparency on the standards we set ourselves. To help us Netherlands is moving towards making its homes more close the gap, we are stressing the importance of each sustainable. The score for 2018 has been retroactively activity within our value chain to achieve our goals. In adjusted as a result of data cleaning, to ensure that figures are addition, we are organising sessions to elaborate on our core comparable. The method of data cleaning concerns removing values and engage in an active dialogue with our employees mortgages without CO2 data in a certain year, so that it will not on these topics. As we conduct our employee engagement lead to an increase or decrease of CO2 emissions, if the data is survey every two years, we plan on doing an extra “pulse available in another year. The 5.6% fall in emissions per FTE check” on this important topic during 2020 to keep track of caused by our own organisation is mainly the result of less our development. business air travel and the decision to increase our green gas use in the Netherlands to 100%. Client relations The relationship with our clients is one of our most Employees important assets. To measure their satisfaction and loyalty, As a wealth manager, Van Lanschot Kempen depends on we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which gives insight hiring and retaining knowledgeable, experienced and into client loyalty and the number of promoters of the professional staff. That means we are highly motivated to organisation. The score lies within a range of -100 to create an attractive work environment for our workforce 100 points, the higher the better. The formula is as follows: and to invest in our people. In 2019, an employee NPS = % promoters % detractors. Promoters give the engagement survey was conducted that showed an organisation a score of 9 or 10, whereas detractors award a employee engagement score of 82%. This survey did not score of between 0 and 6. The NPS that we measure is also measure an official eNPS. Instead, there was a question on known as Relationship NPS.5 We measure this two times a recommending Van Lanschot Kempen as a good place to year for Private Banking, once a year for Evi, and once every work, with a target of > 80%, on which we scored 83%. In two years for Asset Management. 2019, the percentage of female employees in management positions marginally increased, to 21%. Internally, we have In 2019, our Private Banking clients awarded us an NPS of developed and are monitoring KPIs that reflect our ambition 23, well above our target of 10 and the 2 scored in 2018. to encourage aspects of diversity within our organisation This significant uptick can be attributed to better investment that go beyond gender alone (including nationality, for returns as well as our proactive approach to client contact example). – be it in person, by phone/email or via our apps. Clients indicated that they appreciate our personal contact and the Mission: preservation and creation of wealth level of expertise they receive from us. NPS for Evi As our mission is to preserve and create wealth for our increased to 10, which is on target, compared with -20 in clients in a sustainable way, our wealth management 2018. Clients at Evi value the improved app, better market solutions should deliver positive performance in the long performance and the webinars offered to them since 2019. term, and our investment strategies should perform well For Asset Management, we measure NPS once every two against their benchmarks. In 2019, the three-year 5 Relationship NPS differs from Transactional NPS, which is also commonly used. Transactional NPS measures client satisfaction after a single transaction and tends to lead to a higher score than Relationship NPS. 6 Asset classes covered by our ESG scorecard are listed equities, government bonds (developed and developing), corporate bonds (investment grade and high yield) and listed real estate. Funds with no material asset allocation are not in scope for rating. Progress report 32 performances of Private Banking and Evi discretionary share. Excluding exceptional items, the effects of the sale management mandates relative to their benchmarks stood of our stake in AIO II and VLC & Partners and an impairment at -0.4% and -0.9% respectively. At Asset Management, of goodwill, net profit rose 22%, mainly due to lower the average Morningstar rating of our investment strategies operating expenses and higher securities commission. is 3.9, well above our target of 3.5. At the same time, persistently low interest rates are putting pressure on our interest result. Client assets grew Results to €102.0 billion from €81.2 billion, while our assets under Net profit increased by €18.1 million to €98.4 million. management were up 31% to €87.7 billion. This growth This net result, coupled with an underlying net result of was driven by a net inflow of €9.9 billion and positive €108.8 million, allows us to propose a dividend of €1.45 per market performance. Results (€ million) 2019 2018 Commission 290.4 293.2 –1% – Of which securities commissions 241.8 238.5 1% – Of which other commissions 48.6 54.7 –11% Interest 175.3 175.6 0% Income from securities and associates 50.5 31.1 62% Result on financial transactions –7.4 –0.8 – Income from operating activities 508.7 499.2 2% Staff costs 238.5 244.4 –2% Other administrative expenses 127.9 146.8 –13% – Of which regulatory levies and charges 11.6 10.5 10% Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 5.2 – Operating expenses 384.1 396.4 –3% Gross result 124.7 102.8 21% Addition to loan loss provision –12.1 –12.7 –5% Other impairments 34.9 –0.9 – Impairments 22.9 –13.7 – Operating profit before tax of non–strategic investments 37.8 17.8 – Operating profit before special items and tax 139.6 134.3 4% Strategic investment programme 11.1 22.0 –50% Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 6.2 8.3 –25% Restructuring charges 2.8 8.3 –67% Operating profit before tax 119.5 95.8 25% Income tax 21.1 15.5 37% Net result 98.4 80.3 23% Underlying net result 108.8 103.0 6% Underlying net result (€ million) 2019 2018 Net result 98.4 80.3 23% Strategic investment programme 11.1 22.0 –50% Restructuring charges 2.8 8.3 –67% Tax effects –3.5 –7.6 –54% Underlying net result 108.8 103.0 6% All operating activities made a positive contribution to the underlying net result, with the exception of Evi. The underlying net result for 2019 is the net result adjusted for costs associated with the strategic investment programme and restructuring charges (€11.1 million and €2.8 million gross respectively). Progress report 33 Underlying net result by segment AuM margin – Private Banking AuM margin – Asset Management (€ million) (bps) (bps) 34.3 7.5 15.1 108.8 –2.1 57 53 52 54.0 24 22 18 Private Evi Asset Merchant Other 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Banking ManageBanking total ment As of 2019, we have integrated our remaining Corporate Private Banking’s total commission income rose by €1.2 million Banking activities into our Private Banking segment. The compared with 2018 on the back of the growth in assets underlying net result of the Other segment includes the under management. Private Banking’s margins on assets book profits of AIO II (€36.0 million), VLC & Partners under management are fairly stable. The decrease from 2017 (€17.1 million) and the impairment of goodwill related to to 2018 was caused by relatively high transaction volumes in Merchant Banking activities (€35.0 million). 2017 and by the acquisition in H2 2017 of the Dutch private banking activities of UBS, which had comparatively lower Commission margins. Commission income on payments went down, mainly as a result of the further run-off of our Corporate Banking Commission (€ million) 2019 2018 activities. Securities commissions 241.8 238.5 1% Evi’s commission income went up by €0.6 million to – Management fees 219.7 215.2 2% €5.1 million on the back of growth in assets under – Transaction fees 22.1 23.4 –6% management and less cash incentives for new clients offered Other commissions 48.6 54.7 –11% as part of a marketing campaign as compared to 2018. Commission 290.4 293.2 –1% Asset Management’s 2019 commissions increased by €1.7 million compared with 2018. This growth was mainly Commission income accounted for 57% of our total operating driven by an increase in commissions from new fiduciary income. Securities commissions increased by 1% due to higher mandates. Average margins fell from 22 basis points in 2018 management fees, which grew 9% in H2 2019 compared to 18 basis points in 2019, due to a change in the composition with H1 2019, and which reflect the growth in assets under of assets under management, as inflow was mainly achieved management at Private Banking, Evi and Asset Management in fiduciary management: €9.1 billion out of total inflow of during the year. Other commissions fell, mainly due to lower €9.8 billion. commissions at Merchant Banking. Merchant Banking performed well in 2019, but commission Commission income by segment income declined by €5.7 million to €52.2 million (2018: (€ million) €58.0 million), reflecting the fairly high level of commission income in 2018. 2019 saw a slight decrease in all types of 128.9 130.1 commissions, despite an increase in realised ECM fees. 100.0 101.7 Interest Interest (€ million) 2019 2018 58.0 52.2 Gross interest margin 186.9 186.9 0% Interest income and charges on hedge –2.1 –6.0 –66% derivatives Interest equalisation –16.9 –13.8 22% 4.4 5.1 1.9 1.2 Clean interest margin 167.9 167.0 1% Miscellaneous interest income and Private Evi Asset Merchant Other 4.9 5.9 –16% charges Banking ManageBanking ment Loan commission 2.4 2.6 –7%  2018  2019 Interest 175.3 175.6 0% Progress report 34 Total interest income in 2019 was comparable with that in Result on financial transactions 2018. The gross interest margin includes the one-off effect of a positive revaluation of interest claim to the tune of €3.9 Result on financial transactions million, to be received from DSB Bank NV.7 If this payment is (€ million) 2019 2018 stripped out, the gross interest margin fell by 2%. The current Result on securities trading 3.5 –0.7 – interest rate climate continues to put pressure on our interest Result on currency trading 8.9 8.0 11% income, while the run-off of Corporate Banking loans has also led to lower interest income. The Corporate Banking loan Result on investment portfolio 0.6 1.9 –68% portfolio contracted by €0.2 billion to €0.3 billion. Result on hedges –13.2 –2.6 – Other income –7.3 –7.5 –3% In comparison with year-end 2018, the interest margin8 fell by Result on financial transactions –7.4 –0.8 – two basis points to an average of 119 basis points. The “clean interest margin” also declined by two basis points compared with its level at the end of 2018, to 113 basis points at the end Result on financial transactions decreased by €6.6 million. of 2019. The €3.5 million result recorded on securities trading reflects a positive performance of the trading book. The balance of interest income and charges on hedge Trading activities are the result of client facilitation only, derivatives improved from a negative €6.0 million in 2018 to a mainly providing liquidity to clients. negative €2.1 million in 2019. As of Q4 2018, some previously discontinued interest rate hedges have been fully amortised. The result on currency trading was relatively stable compared with 2018. In 2019, a couple of bonds from the Miscellaneous interest income and charges went down from hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio were sold, with a positive €5.9 million to €4.9 million. Implementation of IFRS 16 Leases result that is reflected in the result on investment portfolio. has impacted interest income in 2019, by −€0.9 million, as it requires recognising finance costs in profit and loss due to the Result on hedges fell in comparison with 2018, by unwinding of the discount on lease liabilities. €10.6 million, mainly due to adverse results on futures – which hedge the positions in our own investment funds Income from securities and associates (the income from which is reported in income from securities and associates) – and on the hedge of our Kempen Dutch Income from securities and Inflation Fund. This is an alternative fund that invests in associates (€ million) 2019 2018 Dutch leasehold contracts, primarily in connection with Dividend 7.7 3.2 – residential real estate, to create an investment in long-term inflation-linked cash flows. We have also chosen to apply a Capital gains 24.0 15.5 55% more prudent valuation to one of the commercial contracts in Valuation gains and losses 18.9 12.5 51% this fund, resulting in a charge of €2.1 million in H1 2019. Income from securities and associates 50.5 31.1 62% In H1 2019, our valuation model for structured products was found to contain an inaccuracy, with H1 2019 seeing Income from securities and associates relates to investments a negative adjustment of €2.7 million, recognised under of our equity investment company Van Lanschot Participaties Other income. The interest charges on medium-term notes and our investment in Bolster Investments Coöperatief UA. are also included in Other income. We also take positions in our own investment funds, for instance by providing seed capital or in order to be aligned Operating expenses with our clients’ interests. Operating expenses (€ million) 2019 2018 The 2019 capital gains of €24.0 million were related to the Staff costs 238.5 244.4 –2% sale of our 49% stake in VLC & Partners and the sale of our stake in Marfo Food Group. The sale of our stake in VLC & Other administrative expenses 127.9 146.8 –13% Partners generated a book profit of €17.1 million, which – Of which regulatory levies and charges 11.6 10.5 10% includes the expected value of the agreed earn-out. The Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 5.2 – capital gain from the Marfo Food Group sale amounted to Operating expenses 384.1 396.4 –3% €6.5 million. Dividend income rose to €7.7 million, from €3.2 million in Total operating expenses were down 3% to €384.1 million 2018. Valuation gains and losses rose, with positions in our (2018: €396.4 million) and stayed within our target of own investment funds in positive territory. around €390 million in 2019. Despite the regulatory costs in the first half-year, total expenses in H2 2019 increased in 2019 saw particularly high income from securities and comparison with H1 2019 as a result of redundancy costs associates. Over the last decade, this income has, on average, and IT project costs. With the completion of the investment amounted to €25-€30 million a year. programme, more capacity went to regular IT projects. Costs are expected to increase in 2020 due to a new pension agreement and harmonisation and modernisation of employment conditions. 7 DSB Bank NV was a Dutch bank that failed in 2009. All Dutch banks contributed to the deposit guarantee scheme to indemnify DSB savers. 8 The interest and clean interest margin are calculated on the basis of a 12-month moving average and exclude the one-off DSB Bank NV effect. Progress report 35 Operating expenses Impairments (€ million) 1.1 Impairments (€ million) 2019 2018 –2.2 –2.3 Private Banking –11.2 –13.8 –19% –6.3 2.0 – Of which Corporate Banking loans –4.3 –10.6 –60% –4.6 Other –0.9 1.0 – 396.4 Addition to loan loss provision –12.1 –12.7 –5% 384.1 Impairment on investments and participating interests 34.9 –0.9 – Other impairments 34.9 –0.9 – Impairments 22.9 –13.7 – 2018 Staff costs IT costs Regulatory ConsulMarketing Other 2019 excl IFRS costs tancy fees costs 16 effect Addition to loan loss provision Staff costs A total of €12.1 million was released from loan loss At €238.5 million, staff costs were 2% down on 2018. provisions in 2019. Private Banking loans accounted for a As well as a 4% staff reduction, this also reflected a higher release of €6.9 million. As in 2018, the favourable economic level of training costs in 2018, driven by the one-off costs climate contributed to the release from loan loss provisions, of setting up the Private Banking Academy and the rollout while a few large files have developed positively. of the Advanced Leadership Programme. Pension costs also decreased as a result of a plan amendment to Kempen In 2019, the release from loan loss provisions relative to pensions, which compensated for higher redundancy costs. average risk-weighted assets worked out at 27 basis points, The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases for car leases led to equal to the figure for 2018. €3.6 million being shifted from staff costs to depreciation. Other impairments At the end of 2019, we employed 1,560 full-time equivalent The impairment on investments and participating interests staff (FTEs), excluding employees at our non-strategic relates to the write-down of goodwill involved in the investments. This was 61 FTEs fewer than at year-end acquisition of Kempen & Co in 2007, and more specifically 2018 (1,621) and was largely the result of staff reductions to its Merchant Banking activities, and is prompted by an at Private Banking, partly due to the outsourcing of adjustment in the discount rate and flattening growth payments. expectations for these activities (€35 million). Other administrative expenses Non-strategic investments Other administrative expenses amounted to €127.9 million After disposal of AIO II, we currently have majority stakes in in 2019, 13% below the figure for 2018 (€146.8 million). two non-strategic financial investments, Holonite (Holowell Implementation of IFRS 16 Leases for rental property led BV) and Allshare. Our aim is to divest our shareholdings in to €9.1 million being shifted from other administrative these non-strategic investments over time. Our stake in AIO expenses to depreciation. The decrease was also related II was sold in the first quarter of 2019, and generated a book to lower consultancy fees, as well as marketing costs and profit of €36.0 million. The operating profit (before tax) from IT project costs. IT project expenses, excluding our strategic non-strategic investments amounted to €37.8 million in investment programme, amounted to €19.8 million (2018: 2019, up from €17.8 million in 2018 (of which €16.3 million €21.8 million). related to AIO II). Excluding the book profit and operating result of AIO II, the non-strategic investments in 2019 Depreciation and amortisation contributed to €1.8 million against €1.5 million in 2018. Depreciation and amortisation was up by €12.5 million, mainly as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Special items Costs shifted to this item from staff costs (€3.6 million) We recognised €20.1 million in special items in 2019 and other administrative expenses (€9.1 million). compared with €38.5 million in 2018, due to lower costs of the strategic investment programme and lower restructuring Efficiency ratio charges. The efficiency ratio, i.e. the ratio of operating expenses (excluding costs incurred for our strategic investment Special items (€ million) 2019 2018 programme, amortisation of intangible assets arising from Strategic investment programme 11.1 22.0 –50% acquisitions and restructuring charges) to income from operating activities, improved to 75.5% in 2019 from Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 6.2 8.3 –25% 79.4% in 2018. This improvement was partly driven by a book profit from the sale of our stake in VLC & Partners and Restructuring charges 2.8 8.3 –67% lower costs. Excluding the book profit from this sale, the Special items 20.1 38.5 –48% efficiency ratio would work out at 78.1%. Progress report 36 Strategic investment programme The line item Share of holders AT1 capital securities relates As part of our strategy update, we launched our strategic to the coupon of the €100 million Additional Tier 1 bond investment programme in April 2016. Between mid-2016 and we issued in March 2019. The coupon on this bond is 6.75%. the end of 2019, we planned to invest €60 million in These securities count as Tier 1 qualifying capital when developing an omni-channel Private Banking model, determining capital adequacy. Profit attributable to nonoutsourcing our mortgage servicing and payment services, controlling interests of €0.4 million in 2019 largely relates and completing the transformation of our IT landscape. At the to the management investment plan for selected staff end of 2019, we finished the programme with a total spend of at Kempen (Kempen MIP). As a result of the merger of €61.8 million. A total of €11.1 million was invested in 2019. Van Lanschot NV and Kempen & Co NV into Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV, Kempen MIP has been Good progress has been made on the development of our discontinued as of 2020. The decrease relative to 2018 is omni-channel service for our clients: we have continued to due to the sale of our 72% stake in AIO II. expand client functionality in the client portal and investment apps, merged two investment apps into one, launched a We will propose to pay a 2019 cash dividend to significant upgrade of our log-in app and rolled out digital Van Lanschot Kempen shareholders of €1.45 per share, tooling to a wider audience within Private Banking. with a result of a pay-out ratio of 57% based on the In addition, we have launched our new payments platform underlying net result attributable to shareholders and all clients can now use our new payments app. With (2018: €1.45, pay-out ratio of 61%). The pay-out ratio the introduction of the new platform, we were able to based on the net result attributable to shareholders switch off the mainframe. The outsourcing of our mortgage amounts to 64% (2018: 80%). administration to Stater also formed part of the strategic investment programme and was completed on schedule in Client assets September 2017. Total client assets had risen by 26% to €102.0 billion at year-end 2019, driven by growth in assets under Our investment programme was completed at year-end management of €20.7 billion, mainly at Asset Management. 2019. As of 2020, IT investments, including further development of our omni-channel service, will be included in our regular operational cost base. Client assets (€ billion) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Client assets 102.0 81.2 26% Other special items Assets under management 87.7 67.0 31% Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions came down by €2.0 million, as a proportion of this is now Savings and deposits 9.5 9.1 5% fully amortised. Assets under monitoring and guidance 3.1 3.4 –8% In the course of 2018, management took several costsaving measures. These led to a restructuring charge in Assets under administration 1.6 1.7 –6% 2018 and an additional restructuring charge of €2.8 million Client assets 102.0 81.2 26% in 2019 due to higher than expected costs for the 2018 restructuring. Private Banking 34.5 30.6 13% Evi 1.5 1.4 8% Income tax Income tax for 2019 amounted to €21.1 million (2018: Asset Management 65.2 48.2 35% €15.5 million), which translates to an effective tax rate of Other 0.8 0.9 –20% 17.7% compared with 16.1% in 2018. Our effective tax rate is lower than the general Dutch tax rate of 25% due to income covered by equity exemption rules, for example on the sale of our stakes in VLC & Partners and AIO II. The impairment on goodwill is not deductible. Earnings per share Earnings per share (€ million) 2019 2018 Net result 98.4 80.3 Share of non–controlling interests –0.4 –5.7 Share of holders AT1 capital securities –5.1 – Net result for calculation of earnings per 92.9 74.6 ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.27 1.82 Underlying net result for calculation of earnings per ordinary share 103.3 97.3 Underlying earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.52 2.37 Weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares (x 1,000) 40,974 41,005 Progress report 37 Private Asset Client assets (€ billion) Banking Evi Management Other Total Client assets at 31/12/2018 30.6 1.4 48.2 0.9 81.2 Assets under management in/outflow 0.1 0.0 9.8 0.0 9.9 Savings and deposits in/outflow 0.4 0.0 0.1 – 0.5 Market performance of assets under management 3.3 0.1 7.3 0.0 10.8 Change in assets under monitoring and guidance – – –0.3 – –0.3 Change in assets under administration 0.1 – – –0.2 –0.1 Client assets at 31/12/2019 34.5 1.5 65.2 0.8 102.0 Van Lanschot Private Banking Client assets at Evi Client assets at Private Banking grew by 13%, mainly on (€ million) the back of positive market performance and net inflow of 1,540 savings and deposits. 1,422 143 –18 –8 Our Private Banking clients showed some reluctance to 548 540 invest in the wake of the adverse stock market climate in the fourth quarter of 2018, and political and economic uncertainty throughout 2019, while a number of clients also took profits after the steep price rises at the beginning of 2019. As a result, savings and deposits showed a net inflow of €0.4 billion. Net inflow of assets under management 874 1,000 amounted to €0.1 billion, mainly realised in Belgium and Switzerland. At the end of 2019, assets under discretionary management made up 55% of total assets under management (year-end 31/12/2018 Net inflow Net savings Market 31/12/2019 and deposits performance 2018: 56%). Total discretionary assets under management outflow stood at €13.6 billion (year-end 2018: €11.8 billion) and total non-discretionary assets under management  Assets under management  Savings and deposits amounted to €11.2 billion (year-end 2018: €9.4 billion). Kempen Asset Management Client assets at Private Banking Assets under management at Asset Management rose to (€ billion) €62.0 billion, with positive market performance of €7.3 billion. Fiduciary mandates showed a strong inflow, thanks to the 0.1 34.5 €9.0 billion mandate for Stichting Pensioenfonds PostNL. 30.6 0.1 0.4 3.3 We also saw an inflow of €0.7 billion from investment strategies. Total client assets at Asset Management stood at €65.2 billion at year-end (2018: €48.2 billion). 24.7 21.3 AuM Asset Management (€ billion) 0.8 0.8 62.0 8.5 8.9 0.7 7.3 8.0 9.1 8.9 31/12/2018 Net inflow Net savings Market Changes 31/12/2019 44.8 AuM and deposits performance AuA inflow 6.7 7.7  Savings and deposits  Assets under administration  Assets under management 45.2 Evi van Lanschot 30.5 Assets under management grew by €0.1 to €1.0 billion in 2019, on the back of positive market performance. We are currently working on several initiatives to support the next phase of growth for Evi. Our focus is on mass-affluent 31/12/2018 Net Net inflow Market 31/12/2019 inflow investment performance clients and we are leveraging our experience at Private fiduciary strategies Banking to further strengthen the proposition and increase efficiency.  Fiduciary/solutions  Fixed income and passive equity  Active equity and alternatives Progress report 38 In addition to third-party funds, Asset Management also The weighted average loan-to-value (LTV) ratio (based on manages our Private Banking discretionary management foreclosure value) remained stable at 76%. mandates and the Evi Beleggen products, with total assets under management of €11.1 billion at the end of 2019 (this Other Private Banking loans comprise loans to high netamount is not included in Asset Management’s total assets worth individuals as well as business loans that fit into the under management of €62.0 billion). Private Banking relationship model. These other loans increased to €1.9 billion (year-end 2018: €1.8 billion), Statement of financial position driven by an increase in Lombard loans and current accounts, and including credit provided to the family office Statement of financial Reggeborgh for the VolkerWessels transaction. position and capital 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 management (€ million) Van Lanschot Corporate Banking loans Equity attributable to At the end of 2019, Corporate Banking loans totalled shareholders 1,211 1,244 –3% €0.3 billion (year-end 2018: €0.5 billion) and accounted for 4% of our total loan portfolio. Risk-weighted assets came Equity attributable to AT1 down by €0.2 billion and worked out at €0.3 billion. capital securities 102 – – Equity attributable to The collateral assets against which the loans are secured are non-controlling interests 4 12 –67% typically located in the Randstad conurbation, comprising the Savings and deposits 9,545 9,091 5% cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht. Loans and advances to Mortgages distributed by third parties clients 8,598 8,561 0% The portfolio of mortgages distributed by third parties Total assets 14,319 13,983 2% consists of regular Dutch mortgages and is intended to Funding ratio (%) 111.0 106.2 5% supplement our investment portfolio and enable us to generate attractive returns on available liquidity. It accounts Return on assets (%) 0.76 0.74 3% for 6% of our total loan portfolio, with a volume of €0.6 billion. Provisions Loan portfolio We take provisions for the impaired loans in our loan book. Impaired loans totalled €234 million at the end of 2019. The Loan portfolio (€ million) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Stage 3 provisions for these loans amounted to €54 million, working out at a coverage ratio of 23%. Mortgages 5,885 5,756 2% Other loans 1,906 1,793 6% The total impaired ratio improved from 3.8% to 2.7% at the Private Banking loans 7,791 7,550 3% end of 2019 and the total coverage ratio fell from 31% to 23%. The impaired ratio of other Private Banking loans fell Corporate Banking loans 318 523 –39% from 6.2% to 3.8% as a result of our decision to write off €31 million in residual debts. These had been under Mortgages distributed by 553 602 –8% management of our Credit Restructuring & Recovery third parties department for a long time, with virtually no prospect of Total 8,662 8,674 0% recovery, and were fully provisioned. The coverage ratio is Impairments –64 –113 –44% also impacted by this decision. Total 8,598 8,561 0% The coverage ratio for mortgages decreased from 12% to 10%. The impaired ratio for Corporate Banking loans increased to 31.6% (year-end 2018: 29.8%). The coverage Our loan portfolio remained stable at €8.6 billion. The ratio of Corporate Banking loans fell to 13% (year-end run-off of Corporate Banking loans resulted in a decrease of 2018: 15%). The relatively low coverage ratio is explained €0.2 billion in this portfolio, but this was offset by growth in by the sufficiently high quality of the collateral pledged to both Private Banking loan categories. secure these loans. Van Lanschot Private Banking loans The Private Banking loan portfolio breaks down into mortgages and other loans. Private Banking mortgages increased to €5.9 billion (2018: €5.8 million). Part of the mortgages item comprises a value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting, which increased by €73 million. Private Banking mortgages make up 68% of our loan portfolio, primarily to high net-worth individuals. Progress report 39 Provision 31/12/2019 Loan Impaired Provision Impaired Coverage Impaired Coverage (€ million) portfolio loans ratio ratio ratio ratio 31/12/2019 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 Mortgages 5,885 60 6 1.0% 10% 1.1% 12% Other loans 1,906 73 36 3.8% 49% 6.2% 62% Private Banking loans 7,791 133 42 1.7% 31% 2.3% 44% Corporate Banking loans 318 101 13 31.6% 13% 29.8% 15% Mortgages distributed by third parties 553 0 0 0.1% 0% 0.0% 3% Total 8,662 234 54 2.7% 23% 3.8% 31% Provision –64 Total 8,598 54 ECL stage 1 and 2 (IFRS 9) 9 Total ECL (IFRS 9) 64 Capital and liquidity management will influence the relative impact of future regulation, such Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET 1 ratio) recorded a as the relative impact of the minimum risk weights for strong increase to 23.8% from 21.1% in 2018. The robust residential mortgages (as announced by De Nederlandsche capital position enabled us to pay a capital return to Bank – DNB). shareholders of €1.50 per share in December 2019. A total of over €330 million has now been paid out, in the form of In the autumn of 2020, DNB will introduce a minimum both dividends and capital returns since 2016. In the future, risk-weight floor for residential mortgage loan portfolios. we will continue to optimise our capital base, while leaving We currently expect the proposed measure to increase total room for potential acquisitions. When possible, we will also RWA by around 15%. This assessment is based on our consider paying out excess capital to shareholders, subject current balance sheet, estimates and models. The relative to approval by the regulator. impact is slightly higher than previously disclosed due to a current lower level of absolute total RWA and the further rating improvements in our residential mortgages portfolio. Capital and liquidity 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 DNB has indicated that the new measure will not be in management (€ million) addition to the new Basel IV framework, which means Risk-weighted assets 4,205 4,588 –8% we expect early absorption of the Basel IV impact for Van Lanschot Kempen. Taking Basel IV and the proposed Common Equity Tier 1 risk weight floor into account, we expect our CET 1 ratio ratio (%) 9 23.8 21.1 – to remain above our target range of 15-17%. Tier 1 ratio (%) 9 25.0 21.1 – The total capital ratio strengthened to 26.9% (year-end Total capital ratio (%) 9 26.9 23.2 – 2018: 23.2%), mainly due to our successful placement of a Leverage ratio (%) 7.3 6.9 – €100 million additional Tier 1 security in March. Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Capital management (%) Our CET 1 ratio improved again in 2019, to 23.8%. The 0.4 0.9 available CET 1 capital increased by €31 million, despite the 0.5 capital return of €61 million in December, mainly due to 0.6 –0.3 retained earnings (with an impact of 150 basis points on 1.5 the CET 1 ratio). As a result of the sale of our stake in AIO II, –1.5 goodwill will no longer be deducted from CET 1 capital 0.5 (a change that impacts the CET 1 ratio by 48 basis points). 23.8 Risk-weighted assets declined by 8% to €4.2 billion in 2019 21.1 (year-end 2018: €4.6 billion) as a result of changes in market risk, rating improvements and the run-off of Corporate Banking loans. The changes in market risk stem from improved netting of hedges related to structured products. The implementation of IFRS 16 led to a slight increase in 31/12/ Capital Goodwill Retained Market Rating Collateral Impact Other 31/12/ risk-weighted assets. Note that the improvements in RWA 2018 return AIO II earnings risk improveIFRS 16 2019 ments 9 Full-year 2019 and 2018 including retained earnings. Progress report 40 We hold regulatory capital to be able to mitigate Pillar 1 and Funding Pillar 2 risks. Part of this capital consists of Common Equity We aim to retain access to both retail and wholesale Tier 1, which comprises share capital, share premium, retained markets through diversified funding. At the end of 2019, earnings including current year profit, and other reserves less our funding ratio had increased by 4.8 percentage points net long positions in own shares and after other capital to 111.0% (year-end 2018: 106.2%). deductions (e.g. goodwill, deferred tax assets, IRB shortfall). Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based results and Funding mix at 31/12/2019 reserves, as legally required. The other components of our (100% = €14.3 billion) regulatory capital consist of Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments, including subordinated long-term debt. 1% 5% 9% Regulatory capital (€1,000) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Risk-weighted assets 4,204,916 4,588,025 18% Common Equity Tier 1 1,000,439 969,739 Required Common Equity Tier 1 500,385 521,888 67%  Client savings and deposits Tier 1 1,051,642 969,739  Debt securities  Interbank funding Required Tier 1 563,459 521,888  Shareholders' equity Total capital 1,131,729 1,063,950  Other funding Required total capital 647,557 682,469 Ratios The Net Stable Funding Ratio and the Liquidity Coverage IFRS 16 Ratio under the EU's Capital Requirements Regulation IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and replaces (CRR) were as follows: IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. IFRS 16 sets out the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and Ratios 31/12/2019 Require31/12/2018 disclosure of leases and will result in almost all leases being ment recognised on the balance sheet. The ultimate impact of Liquidity coverage ratio (%) 156.9 > 100 140.6 applying IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019 resulted in a 11 decrease of 0.3 percentage points on our CET 1 ratio. Net stable funding ratio (%) 154.4 > 100 129.6 Investment portfolio and cash The total investment portfolio and cash 10 amounted to Events after the reporting period €4.4 billion at the end of 2019 (year-end 2018: €3.9 billion). On 1 January 2020, the legal merger between Cash held with central banks stood at €1.2 billion. Financial Van Lanschot NV and Kempen & Co NV was finalised assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and the company’s name was changed to Van Lanschot increased by €0.6 million to €2.4 million. Kempen Wealth Management NV. This merger has no impact on the 2019 figures. The investment portfolio is primarily held for asset and liability management purposes, and mainly comprises low-risk and highly liquid instruments. Investment portfolio and cash by country at 31/12/2019 (100% = €4.4 billion) 13%  Cash 3% 28%  Netherlands 3%  Belgium 4%  Germany 4%  Canada 4%  Australia  Norway 7% 18%  Luxembourg 7%  United Kingdom 9%  Sweden  Other 10 Investment portfolio and cash comprises the balance of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, other financial assets at amortised cost, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, cash withdrawable on demand from central banks, and highly liquid (cash) investments. 11 2018 figures are based on Basel III rules. Annual Report 41 MAKING CHOICES TO SAVE OUR PLANET Since 2007, I’ve been working for Van Lanschot’s clients in the Over the past year, I’ve noticed awareness of sustainability philanthropic sector. My own personal interests (governance issues rising quickly – not just at business level but also at and sustainability) connect perfectly with those of my clients personal and (inter)national levels. Our planet has limited (foundations). In my team of ten, we offer our clients resources, and we all need to make choices if we want to meet investment solutions to meet their societal goals in a way that the Paris Climate Agreement and protect our planet for our fits both their risk/return profile and their social ambitions. children. I’ve become more conscious of my own carbon footprint, and have been trying to reduce it through the choices Clients in this sector tend to be further ahead when it comes to I make about food, travel and energy. I’m convinced that social responsibility and sustainability; their licence to operate is together we have the obligation and ability to save our planet, closely linked to their societal goals. In future, my ambition is to and that we can manage this without giving up too much. By link their financial assets even more to their own specific goals. promoting and implementing sustainability in my clients’ Recently, pension funds and private clients have been closing investments, I hope to justify my own “licence to operate”. the gap when it comes to sustainability, and more of Van Lanschot’s clients are becoming interested in sustainable Ruud van de Ven – Banker Foundations and Associations, and impact investments. Van Lanschot Private Banking Progress report 42 VAN LANSCHOT PRIVATE BANKING Financial performance Assets under management: by country (€24.7 billion) 5% Private Banking (€ million) 2019 2018 Commission 130.1 128.9 1% 15% Interest 154.0 159.3 –3% Other income 1.2 1.1 16% Income from operating activities 285.3 289.2 –1% Staff costs 92.7 100.0 –7%  Netherlands Other administrative expenses 55.4 48.4 14% 80%  Belgium  Switzerland Indirect costs 69.5 71.5 –3% Depreciation and amortisation 1.6 1.0 65% professionals, and foundations and associations – within Operating expenses 219.1 220.9 –1% our markets in the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland. In 2019, we saw more traction among ultra-high net-worth Gross result 66.2 68.3 –3% clients via our new Family Solutions team. Plus, we are Impairments –11.2 –13.8 19% focusing more on the next generation: attracting our clients’ children to Van Lanschot and Evi. For all our target groups, Operating profit before special we use a structured sales management process that gives items and tax 77.4 82.1 –6% us a high level of insight into our activities and effectiveness. These insights are available to both our Strategic investment programme 11.1 22.0 –50% bankers and management. Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 4.7 4.8 –4% Solutions for clients Restructuring charges 2.3 4.2 –45% With challenging market sentiment, in 2019 it was more important than ever to execute our strategy to provide Operating profit before tax 59.3 51.1 16% solutions to our clients’ needs. Our Private Markets Fund (launched in 2018) and European Private Equity Fund Income tax 15.3 13.0 17% (launched in 2019) are good examples of offering clients opportunities to invest in alternative asset classes. The Net result 44.0 38.1 16% Private Markets Fund covers four sectors – private equity, Underlying net result 54.0 57.7 –6% infrastructure, land and private real estate – giving clients the chance to invest in a well-diversified private markets combination. By year-end, our Private Markets Fund had Van Lanschot Private Banking is an independent private attracted €113 million, while our European Private Equity wealth manager, which aims to be a (financial) guide for our Fund had already reached capacity at €193 million in clients in every phase of their lives. Our 2019 underlying net investments. In 2019, we also saw further growth in result at Private Banking was slightly lower than the mortgages and tailored loans for our Private Banking previous year. Net inflow in assets under management clients. amounted to €0.1 billion (2018: €0.5 billion). Meanwhile, our client assets increased by 13% to €34.5 billion. Although Meanwhile, our sustainable discretionary management we have seen an increase in fee income compared with offering, Duurzaam+, continues to be popular with our 2018, this has not been sufficient to offset the low interest private clients, especially our younger target groups. In rates that have inevitably had a negative impact on our net 2019, assets invested sustainably exceeded €2 billion – a interest income. milestone for Private Banking. We also organised a climate event, which hundreds of clients attended to learn more Despite markets recovering in the first quarter of 2019, it’s about the ways in which we can help them make their been a challenging year for Private Banking. Clients were portfolios, homes and businesses more sustainable. By either hesitant to make investments or switched from AuM 2023, our ambition is for sustainability to be the default to cash, believing that markets are reaching the end of an position in all our investment solutions, and for our clients up-cycle. We were able to generate high returns in absolute to have better insights into the social and environmental terms on our clients’ investment portfolios, while performing impact of their investments. just below the benchmark. Meanwhile, both savers and clients renewing their mortgages are seeing interest rates Another example of how we meet our clients’ needs is our at historically low levels. Family Solutions proposition. Launched at the end of 2018 and designed to serve the wealthiest 50 families in the We continue to serve our defined target groups – high Netherlands and Belgium, Family Solutions works across all net-worth individuals, entrepreneurs, family businesses, our business lines to cater to any financial need of these business professionals and executives, healthcare families. Progress report 43 Family Solutions is deliberately broad in scope, and may Client satisfaction include direct non-listed investments, tailored loans, In 2019, we asked our clients (with at least €500,000 in reporting, asset management and so on. assets under management) how likely they are to recommend Van Lanschot Private Banking to others. Based on their Lastly, Van Lanschot Private Service offers access to a range responses, our Net Promoter Score (NPS) increased from of services: lifestyle, travel, concierge, healthcare and a 2 in 2018 to 23 in 2019. This significant upswing can be wine circle, as well as to our trusted advisers. In 2018, we attributed to better investment returns as well as our started giving our advisory clients access to Private Service, proactive approach to client contact – be it in person, by and in 2019 we rolled this out to all our discretionary phone/email or via our apps. Clients indicated that they portfolio management clients as well. Clients can access appreciate our personal contact and the level of expertise Private Service via our investment app, email or phone. they receive from us. Strategic investment programme Private Banking in Belgium Our €60 million strategic investment programme was In Belgium, our Private Banking business saw strong organic successfully finalised after four years in 2019, meaning that growth in assets under management at 7% – the same as in our Digital XL programme, outsourcing of our mortgage 2018 – driven by new clients and additional investments by administration to Stater and outsourcing of our payment existing clients. Highlights in the reporting year in Belgium services to Fidor are all completed. Going forward, new IT included launching our Family Solutions proposition in projects and innovations will be funded from our regular tandem with the Dutch Private Banking business in change budget. October. In addition, our entire discretionary product offering (which represents almost 60% of our total business Digital tools in Belgium) is now fully sustainable. During the reporting We continued to develop and refine our digital tools for our year, we received sustainability certifications from both clients over the course of the year. A new payments app has Forum Ethibel and Febelfin. One of our internal priorities in been introduced as part of our new payments platform, and 2019 was the migration of our back-office systems to the a new login app allows customers to access their accounts same IT infrastructure as the Dutch Private Banking more easily without a special device. In addition, we’ve business. Unfortunately, this process was more complex launched an identification app that allows us to verify and time-consuming than anticipated, which means we’re clients’ IDs without them physically needing to visit one of now expecting the migration to be finalised in the first half our branches. The Vermogenshorizon (goal monitoring and of 2020. However, once completed it will allow us to offer scenario analysis) tool is now also available in a “light” our Belgian clients a better digital experience, with all the version for clients to use at home. Bankers have a more tools and channels that our Dutch clients value as well. extensive version that they can use with their clients to walk them through various scenarios to plan their future. Priorities for 2020 In 2020, we will continue working on many of the initiatives Migration to Fidor that have already started – including our Family Solutions Our project to outsource our payment services to German proposition, client solutions, digitalisation and advanced fintech company Fidor saw all our clients migrated to the analytics – to build demand and increase uptake. Having new payments platform over the course of 2019. While most developed several apps to better serve our clients, in clients experienced no disruption at all, unfortunately some the coming year we’ll work on paring these down to two encountered migration issues. Functionalities of the platform apps – a daily banking app and an investment/wealth and app will continue to be further developed in 2020. management app – to consolidate and simplify services for our clients. Using data and advanced analytics In 2019, we transitioned from gathering data and insights to using those insights to predict the behaviour and interests of our clients so as to better serve them. With the ambition to be a data-driven company, we are using data more and more in our decision-making process and in improving our internal processes. This requires a different way of working from our employees – something we monitor intensively and offer training on. We will continue to step up our use of data and advanced analytics in 2020. Private Banking Academy In 2019, in line with our ambition to become the preferred private banking employer in the Netherlands, we launched the Private Banking Academy. Its aim is to train and educate employees on three aspects: technical knowledge of private banking, skills such as presentation and communication, and capabilities such as digital proficiency. The Academy works with the universities of Amsterdam and Tilburg, as well as in-house trainers, to ensure that all types and levels of private banking professionals are up to speed. The Academy’s Certified Private Banking Programme is also externally accredited by TIAS School for Business and Society in Tilburg. Annual Report 44 BUILDING LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS NO My career ONE-SIZE-FITS-ALL at Van Lanschot Kempen is perhaps unusual:SOLUTION perhaps someone else on your team will. That’s where from 2002 until 2007 I was a business banker at Van diversity comes in – we need different types of people to Lanschot, but I was offered the opportunity to manage a build relationships with different types of clients. young team at Rabobank and left the company for ten started Iyears. Then at Evi in July 2017, in April 2018 I cameas part backofasanCommercial online marketing And a client has been creating thatwith connection year,your Evi for awith theyclients receiveis easier an email traineeship, Director for Hilversum and then stayed and Larenon in–athatpermanent says a lot.role. I like Mythe job thanking when you’rethemfeeling and asking fit andthem to give healthy too. That’s us feedback why I chose about way is all of about keeping working – everyone our existing works clients with happy whether clients,–from our a health products coachand services. to help me improve In return, mya work-life week laterbalance we send receptionists that’s throughthrough dialogue, to online Board marketing members. or I also events. Forlack like the through them personal the Van Lanschot Kempen investment insights andvitality tipsprogramme. that are of hierarchy instance, I create – it’s email campaigns like a family business through wherea data everyone The coach relevant them atme to helped their goals andphase setparticular motivated of their mejourney. to rolls up their sleeves management platform andthatworks we usetogether. to send tailored, meet them. Sometimes it’s just about the little things – personalised messages to our clients. I also write a monthly like taking We also communicate a walk roundwiththe our block clients and having about sustainability. a chat with I see relationships newsletter to update withthem my on clients news andthat’s colleagues relevantthe to them. same Kempen a colleague. is our asset manager, and they’re continually And way I see organise personal webinars, seasonal relationships: inpromotions order for them andto client work working to make Evi’s investments more sustainable. So events. in the longWhatever term, there I do, has it’s all to be a click. service in the Youofneed building to Susan we Leerkes made a video about how sustainable – Commercial Director of EviHilversum is and how and client communicate, retentionyou through need loyalty. to work at the relationship, and you Laren, Van Lanschot sustainability works in Private the investment Banking world, so that our need to have fun. Building long-term relationships with clients know that we’re serious about it. In clients 2019, also we’ve been means knowing workingyourself: hard on ifclient you don’t journeyclick, orchestration. It’s not a one-size-fits-all solution – it’s an Lynn Hagen – Dialogue Marketeer, Evi individual solution for each client. To give an example: after Progress report 45 EVI VAN LANSCHOT Financial performance Client assets by product (€1.5 billion) Evi (€ million) 2019 2018 Commission 5.1 4.4 14% Interest 3.2 2.5 25% Other income – – – 35% Income from operating activities 8.2 6.9 18% 65% Staff costs 3.5 4.2 –17%  AuM Other administrative expenses 5.4 9.1 –40%  Savings Indirect costs 2.2 2.9 –23% Depreciation and amortisation 0.0 0.0 –60% Operating expenses 11.1 16.1 –31% means that, during the reporting year, we’ve seen a lower number of new clients, but with an average of 26% higher Gross result –2.9 –9.2 68% volumes to invest with Evi. Impairments – 0.0 – Finding synergies with Private Banking Operating profit before special Our additional focus on the mass-affluent market also ties items and tax –2.9 –9.2 69% in with our collaboration with our colleagues at Private Banking: mass-affluent clients at Evi may grow to become Restructuring charges – 0.1 – Private Banking clients, while the children of our Private Operating profit before tax –2.9 –9.3 69% Banking clients may become Evi clients. More importantly, combining the digital tools and online marketing capabilities Income tax –0.8 –2.6 68% that we’ve developed separately for Evi and Van Lanschot Private Banking in the past enables us to serve all target Net result –2.1 –6.7 69% groups better. For example, wealth management tools that we’ve developed for our Private Banking clients can be Underlying net result –2.1 –6.6 69% adapted for our Evi clients, while Evi’s online marketing capabilities can be deployed at Van Lanschot. Evi is Van Lanschot Kempen’s online investment coach in Sharing both a market approach and our complementary the Netherlands and Belgium. Evi’s underlying net result in online and offline skills in this way fulfils a dual purpose: on 2019 was better than the previous year. Assets under the one hand, these synergies allow us to better serve both management grew from €0.9 billion in 2018 to €1.0 billion in sets of clients; on the other, they deliver cost savings in our 2019. While we saw a slight inflow of new clients, some of operations and IT. Activating our full potential to make use our existing clients withdrew their savings and assets from of the tools and capabilities that we already have can deliver Evi due to fears of a market downturn. Overall, this made it a significant advantages at limited additional costs. challenging year to grow in terms of net inflow. Total client assets stood at €1.5 billion at year-end (2018: €1.4 billion). Setting goals In 2019, we introduced an early retirement tool – available Geopolitical developments, including uncertainties caused via our website – to help Evi investors match their specific by trade wars and Brexit, resulted in volatility in the market. future needs to investment solutions. The online tool While 2019 was a strong year economically, smaller enables them to set goals, such as an annual retirement investors, savers and starters were skittish about investing. income, second home or travel plans, and then calculates This is a trend we’re seeing across other areas of the what they need to do now and in the years to come to company as well as at our competitors, although Evi’s target accomplish those goals by a specified future date. So far, segment is particularly sensitive to market movements. We we’ve noticed that the tool is being widely used, especially made it a priority to inform Evi’s clients about the realities of during the orientation phase – and this insight enables us to the strong global stock markets and low interest rates, but help our clients better. We’ve also made it possible for inevitably there was some attrition among our clients. clients to speak directly to one of the Evi coaches via the tool. Focusing on the mass-affluent market Since the start of 2019, we have been increasing our focus Client satisfaction on mass-affluent individuals. Market developments such as In November 2019, we measured client satisfaction as well low interest rates and pension changes are expected to as our Net Promoter Score (NPS). Our clients gave Evi an drive increasing demand for wealth management solutions average rating of 7.9, up from 7.3 in 2018. Our NPS was from this group of clients. Evi is able to offer these solutions 10 in 2019, a steep rise from –20 in 2018. These increases online and in an easily accessible way. This shift in focus can be attributed to improvements in the client experience Progress report 46 as well as the good performance of clients’ investment portfolios in 2019. Evi also maintained its five-star review on comparison website Finner. Priorities for 2020 In 2020, we will work on further extending our offering to mass-affluent individuals by collaborating with our colleagues at Private Banking. Much of the reporting year was spent on improving the client experience by making the customer journey simpler and more intuitive, and this will continue to be a focus in the coming year. And last but not least, we will continue to work on improving our cost-income ratio. Annual Report 47 THE THREE Ps Together with two colleagues, I joined the company back in good governance is all about people. We also engage 2006. At the time, we transformed an existing fund into with the companies we work with, raising awareness of the Kempen European High Dividend Fund, and in 2007 ESG issues and using our influence in a smart way to we launched the Kempen Global High Dividend Fund. In encourage change. layman’s terms, we talk about the three Ps: participation, protection and pickup. That means that when markets go On a personal note, I turned 50 in 2019 – a milestone up, we want to participate; when markets go down, we try worth celebrating. Through the Vitality Programme, I’ve to protect our clients’ capital; and every quarter, we’ve paid been setting (and meeting) goals to make sure I’m as a dividend of at least 1% for our clients. healthy and active for the next 25 years of my life as I have been for the past 25 years. And speaking of But of course there are another three Ps that are more longevity, our team has now been working together for widely known: people, planet and profit. And when it over 12 years. There’s something pretty sustainable comes to social and environmental sustainability, ensuring about that! good governance is the bedrock. My role is to organise the team’s way of working so we take individual responsibility Jorik van den Bos – Head of Dividend Team, Kempen as well as adding to the results of the team as a whole – Asset Management Progress report 48 KEMPEN ASSET MANAGEMENT Financial performance AuM breakdown by asset class (€62.0 billion) Asset Management (€ million) 2019 2018 Commission 101.7 100.0 2% 13% Interest 0.1 –0.0 – Other income –0.7 –0.2 – 14% Income from operating activities 101.1 99.8 1% Staff costs 49.9 43.6 15% Other administrative expenses 16.3 23.5 –31% 73%  F iduciary/solutions  Fixed income and passive equity Indirect costs 13.3 12.8 3%  Active equity and alternatives Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 0.1 –19% Operating expenses 79.6 80.1 –1% the €9.0 billion mandate in 2018, as well as the onGross result 21.5 19.7 9% boarding of PNO Media (won in 2018). The reporting year Impairments – – – also saw a new UK fiduciary mandate come in. And via Het nederlandse pensioenfonds, we won a new mandate from Operating profit before special Pensioenfonds OWASE and were re-appointed as fiduciary items and tax 21.5 19.7 9% manager for Pensioenfonds Randstad. Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 0.8 0.8 –5% Our investment strategies Our investment strategies produced inflow across our core Restructuring charges – 0.1 2.5 – markets in 2019. Our Euro Credit strategy was successful during the reporting year, to the point that we have almost Operating profit before tax 20.8 16.3 27% reached capacity. We’ve also seen healthy wins and a strong Income tax 5.6 4.4 28% pipeline in our Global Small-caps strategy, with AuM up to €779 million by year-end. As a follow-up to our successful Net result 15.2 11.9 27% Private Markets strategy, we launched the European Private Equity Fund, and 2019 also saw the start of the Global Underlying net result 15.1 13.8 9% Listed Infrastructure Fund. The former had its fourth closing in the last quarter of the year, with committed capital up to €193 million. The latter is leveraging both our knowledge of the infrastructure sector at Kempen Merchant Banking and Kempen Asset Management, trading as Kempen Capital the big-data approach of our Global Listed Property team. Management (KCM), is a high-quality boutique asset manager focusing on niche investment strategies and Our distribution strategies fiduciary management solutions. In 2019, our assets under The reporting year has seen a breakthrough in our management grew to €62.0 billion (2018: €44.8 billion) international distribution. While we’re still going strong in thanks to net inflows of €9.8 billion in the reporting year on our home region of the Benelux, we’ve been focusing our the back of several new mandates and net inflows in our attention elsewhere in Europe as well: the UK, France, the investment strategies. Nordics, Switzerland and Germany. And we’re starting to see these efforts pay off. In the UK, following the review by Markets were positive for the asset management industry in the Competition Market Agency (CMA) in 2018, the pipeline 2019, which also helped us increase revenues. For our has opened up and enabled us to win a new mandate as a institutional clients, such as pension funds and insurance result. In France, we’re in the process of signing distribution companies, funding ratios are under pressure and demand partners, and have seen strong inflows from our Sustainable for yield and illiquid/private strategies has risen. From a and Euro Credit strategies. In the Nordics, Germany and fiduciary perspective, we’re seeing the same trend. On both Switzerland, we’re already starting to see new inflow and sides of our business, clients are looking for asset categories are initiating collaboration with distribution partners. such as credit, structured credit, private equity, real estate and land. Moreover, we have been investing in databases to generate flows enabling clients to find us (rather than only vice versa). Our fiduciary management business Data infrastructure – including data-driven distribution In 2019, we on-boarded several new clients that we’d won systems – is a key part of our strategy; in Europe, we use in 2018, as well as making some significant new wins. This databases such as Evestment and Murano. Our Morningstar resulted in strong growth for Kempen Asset Management, ratings of four or five stars for the majority of our investment both as a direct fiduciary manager and via Het nederlandse funds, plus our two Gold ratings, also put us in an excellent pensioenfonds. Highlights included the on-boarding of position when it comes to distribution – which benefits from Stichting Pensioenfonds PostNL as a client, after winning our highly active investment approach. Progress report 49 Kempen Asset Management’s added value management teams on long-term dialogue to make Kempen Asset Management’s four-pronged approach has improvements to our portfolio companies’ sustainability resulted in continued strong growth momentum in 2019. standards. Investment performance We’re also seeing a lot of demand for our Kempen Global Our investment performance was solid in 2019, with very Impact Pool, which we co-created in 2018 with our clients strong results in investment grade credits, high-yield and – in 2019, AuM invested in the fund reached €100 million. structured credit. Two of our strategies, Global Small-caps For more information, read Our contribution to the and Global Listed Property, reached their five-year track environment and society on page 23. records. Both teams delivered very strong investment performance over those five years, leading to top-quartile Service results within their peer groups. Performance was more Through Van Lanschot Kempen’s unique combination of dispersed in our Large-cap strategies: our Sustainable Value business lines, Kempen Asset Management is able to funds performed very well, while the Dividend strategies create and maintain very close relationships with our had a more difficult year because of their value investment institutional clients, wholesale clients and Van Lanschot style, which underperformed growth stocks during 2019. Private Banking clients. Uniquely, we can offer the latter Although 2019 was a good year for Sustainable European direct access to our portfolio management teams, enabling Small-caps, the three-year track record has not yet improved. entrepreneurial clients to literally co-create their own Our newly launched Global Listed Infrastructure Fund had a investment strategies with our portfolio managers. In very strong first year. 2019, more than 100 clients engaged with these teams to invest in the strategies that are most interesting to them. Meanwhile, our fiduciary clients can look back on a year with very high returns due to a sharp rise in share prices and a Client satisfaction sharp fall in interest rates. On the back of these lower interest Satisfaction levels among Kempen Asset Management’s rates, however, the funding ratios of our pension fund clients clients are high. In 2019, 95% of clients were satisfied with are under pressure. Returns for institutional fiduciary clients in the service they received, giving us an even higher average general are reasonably in line with the benchmark. score than in 2017: up from 8 to 8.3. Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) decreased from 44 in 2017 to 31 in 2019. Innovation However, the results still reflect a high client retention rate: Our Private Markets Fund and European Private Equity 36% of clients are active promoters of Kempen Asset Fund, now together worth €305 million and funded almost Management (48% in 2017), while the number of passive exclusively by our Private Banking clients, are successful promoters has risen from 49% in 2017 to 59% in 2019. examples of innovative investment solutions that provide access to illiquid strategies for our clients. Awards and rankings During the reporting year, Kempen Asset Management In 2012, our Property team started building a global was again recognised with several awards and high database of all underlying properties. We now have all the rankings. In addition to those relating to sustainability data we need to determine the value of these 300,000 (see page 24), these included the following: buildings, enabling us to successfully run a global portfolio – We won five Lipper awards: Kempen Oranje Participaties, from one location in Amsterdam. In 2018, we started Kempen Global High Dividend Fund, Kempen European expanding this to all the other portfolio management teams. High Dividend Fund and Kempen (Lux) Global Small-cap In every team, data science and advanced analytics are Fund were all named best investment funds, calculated being used to find inefficiencies in the markets. We’re using over a period of three years. The Kempen Global High artificial intelligence in our investment and distribution Dividend Fund also came out on top when calculated processes, as well as in product development. The longover a period of ten years. term challenge is to find the right balance between human – Kempen Asset Management was nominated as one of talent and artificial intelligence. We are therefore investing the three outstanding investment houses in Europe by significantly in recruiting, retaining and developing talent at Morningstar, and the Kempen (Lux) Euro Credit Fund both junior and senior levels so that we can nurture the received the prestigious Morningstar Gold rating. financial analysts of the future. – Kempen Asset Management was awarded Best Multi-Strategy No Bias Fund in three categories by the Sustainability BANCO Swiss Hedge Fund Awards. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities are – Kempen (Lux) Euro Credit Fund won the award by becoming increasingly important to clients, and they newspapers De Tijd and L'Echo for Best Fund on the represent opportunities not just to “do good” but also to Belgian market in the credits category for the fifth time. generate returns. For this reason, these criteria are fully – Kempen Asset Management was awarded “Best Fiduciary integrated into the services we offer for our fiduciary clients Manager of the Year” by Financial News in the UK. as well as our investment strategies. Because of our highconviction strategies and our relatively limited investment universe – we work with only around 400 companies – we take a very personal approach to selecting and engaging with the management teams of these companies. While we do exclude companies on the basis of their ESG standards, in general we seek to make a positive impact by engaging with our portfolio companies. And our portfolio managers are directly involved in this engagement – we work with Annual Report 50 Priorities for 2020 In 2020, we will continue to work on customised and tailored solutions, in particular to meet the needs of our Private Banking clients, including highly active and private markets strategies. We will also take the next steps in developing our distribution network in Europe. In response to the trend towards individualisation and consolidation of pension-related platforms in the Netherlands and the UK, we will look for additional platform partners. We will invest in technology and data, transforming to an agile way of working, and will keep up our focus on ESG as the investment priority of the longterm future. Responding to increasing demand for transparency from both clients and regulators, we will endeavour to increase the speed with which we can deliver data. And finally, we will work on inclusive leadership – including through our mentorship programme, which already has a high level of participation – as well as other development programmes for our employees. Progress report 51 Selection of Kempen investment strategies AuM overview (€ million) Performance overview1 vs. benchmark (3-year horizon, %) 12.6 Dutch Small-caps 346 13.4 12.7 European Participations2 758 10.0 6.7 Sustainable European Small-caps 669 9.6 11.5 Global Small-caps 779 7.8 7.1 European Dividend 580 7.5 8.6 Global Dividend 2,275 10.3 12.2 Global Sustainable Equity 21.0 95 10.3 21.0 21.0 3.2 33.4 Euro Credit 21.0 4,761 2.4 13.7 33.4 3.4 Euro Credit Plus 15.1 488 2.4 13.7 12.6 15.1 3.0 Euro Sustainable Credit 15.1 638 2.4 12.6 17.7 15.1 2.6 11.6 Euro Government Bonds 17.7 2,388 2,388 2.4 7.9 11.6 7.0 12.2 European 7.9 Real Estate 11.9 796 9.8 7.0 9.5 8.9 Global Real 9.5 Estate 11.9 9.3 444 6.1 9.5 9.3 0.5 Global 3.0 Diversified Hedge Fund Solutions2 9.5 434 –1.2 2.1 3.0 1.8 2.8 2.1Global Non-Directional Hedge Fund Solutions2 450 –1.2 2.1 2.8 3.4 2.1 2.1 3.4 1.7 2.1 1.3 1.7 10.8 1.3 7.9 Kempen 10.8strategy 8.5 7.9 4.7 Benchmark 8.5 2.7 4.7 –0.1 2.7 3.2 –0.1 –0.1 3.2 –0.1 1 Annualised performance based on a representative account gross of fees until end of December 2019. 2 Performance figures net of fees. Annual Report 52 SUSTAINABILITY IS HERE TO STAY I started my career as a corporate finance analyst in company has debt – it’s been an interesting new challenge Barcelona, working for a year at a small boutique firm. for me to help companies raise capital to fund their I came to the Netherlands in 2016 to study for a Master’s operations or finance acquisitions. in Finance & Investments at Rotterdam School of Management. Afterwards, I got in touch with Kempen In the loan and bond market, we’re seeing that investors are Merchant Banking and instantly felt a click: it’s not too small increasingly interested in investing in products that offer and not too big, with plenty of opportunities to learn, as well sustainability as well as making financial returns. We’re as big international transactions to work on. Plus, there are talking to a lot of our clients about sustainable alternatives lots of young people with a very entrepreneurial spirit – it’s that help make the world a better place but also have competitive but everyone is willing to help each other out. economic benefits, such as cheaper rates or access to a diversified pool of investors. And it’s a trend that’s here to I started in the Real Estate team in 2017, but in 2019 I stay. moved to the Debt Advisory team – I was eager for an opportunity to work with lots of different companies in Albert Marsal – Corporate Finance Associate, Kempen different sectors. At Kempen Merchant Banking, we’re Merchant Banking typically very focused on the equity side, but almost every Progress report 53 KEMPEN MERCHANT BANKING Financial performance Commission income by type of transaction (€52.2 million) Merchant Banking (€ million) 2019 2018 3% Commission 52.2 58.0 –10% 5% Interest –0.1 –0.0 – Other income 2.6 1.0 – 25% 40% Income from operating activities 54.7 58.9 –7%  M&A Staff costs 25.3 26.2 –3%  ECM  Brokerage and research Other administrative expenses 8.8 9.1 –4% 27%  Structured Products Indirect costs 10.2 9.9 4%  Other Depreciation and amortisation 0.0 0.0 10% Operating expenses 44.4 45.2 –2% Within the infrastructure sector, we are increasingly focusing on renewable energy – such as wind and solar Gross result 10.4 13.7 –24% power – as a niche. Renewables present an opportunity for Impairments – –0.0 – Kempen Merchant Banking: there is both a growing need for them, and they are a natural fit with our focus on Operating profit before special sustainability. Developments in this industry enable us to items and tax 10.4 13.7 –24% capitalise in both our Securities and Corporate Finance businesses. Restructuring charges – 0.1 – Operating profit before tax 10.4 13.6 –24% We also announced some high-profile deals in the fintech sector in the reporting year. We have been acting as Income tax 2.9 3.1 –5% financial adviser to Switzerland-based dacadoo, a leading insurtech and health-tech company, on its Series C capital Net result 7.5 10.5 –29% increase. Underlying net result 7.5 10.6 –30% Geographical markets In 2019, we continued to focus on the markets we’ve entered more recently, including the US, UK, Spain and Kempen Merchant Banking is a specialist boutique investment Scandinavia. The latter is a particular target for us because bank that combines Corporate Finance and Equity Capital both investors and corporates in Scandinavia show appetite Markets (ECM) with a Securities franchise. Our business is for more European access. Companies there are becoming particularly sensitive to volatile economic markets. After the increasingly interested in a sector-based approach, which significant dip in the final quarter of 2018, business picked offers us a good opportunity to provide our services to up across all sectors to deliver a solid year for Kempen companies operating in our sectors. Two examples in the Merchant Banking. Despite Brexit uncertainty, trade wars region are healthcare companies for which we were joint and the looming threat of economic slowdown, we were bookrunner in 2019: Nordic Nanovector in Norway and able to achieve fairly good results overall due to our strong Oncopeptides in Sweden. focus on our selected sectors and markets. In 2019, our commission income decreased to €52.2 million compared In the US, we worked on seven transactions, including three with €58.0 million in a very strong 2018. In Corporate initial public offerings (IPOs) during the reporting year. One Finance and ECM, we successfully completed €7 billion in was the US IPO of Danish company Genmab for which we M&A, debt advisory and ECM transactions for our clients in were co-manager, raising $582 million. Genmab is the largest 12 countries (2018: €37 billion in ten countries). independent biotech company in Europe, and the deal was the largest IPO of any Europe-based biotech firm in the last Focus sectors 20 years. We made good progress across all our focus sectors – real estate, life sciences & healthcare, financial institutions & Key Corporate Finance and ECM fintech, infrastructure, maritime & offshore, as well as in our transactions local alpha coverage – during the reporting year. To support We completed 37 Corporate Finance and ECM transactions this, we continued to invest in our employees at all levels in in 2019 (2018: 38), a few of which are highlighted above. In the organisation, including a development programme for addition, we were particularly proud of our role as the sole senior members of staff. We were particularly successful in financial adviser in the sale of the large Dutch residential the real estate and life sciences sectors – for examples, see portfolio owned by Round Hill Capital to housing company the transactions mentioned in the following two sections. Heimstaden for €1.4 billion in the first quarter of the year. Progress report 54 In the healthcare sector, we were also the lead manager for the $557 million global accelerated bookbuild offering of argenx shares listed on Nasdaq. Lastly, we are advising Reggeborgh on its proposed de-listing of Koninklijke VolkerWessels. This transaction, which is expected to close in the first half of 2020, is a good example of our strategy to activate our full potential, as Van Lanschot Kempen has provided Reggeborgh with debt financing for this transaction. For full details of Kempen Merchant Banking’s transactions in 2019, see page 55. Digitalisation Digitalisation and data-driven analytics are an ongoing focus area for us, and 2019 saw these efforts start to pay off. Implementing and making use of the possibilities that data and digitalisation have to offer creates opportunities for both Corporate Finance/ECM and Securities to improve not only productivity but also our service to our clients. To give one example, we have built and introduced a tool that makes optimum use of the client data we have within Kempen Merchant Banking in order to better serve our clients. In 2020 and beyond, we will continue to integrate this and other tools better into our daily work. Structured Products In our Structured Products business in 2019, we closed a total of 103 deals worth €327 million in new notional (2018: 143 deals worth €181 million). In line with equity markets, structured notes showed strong positive returns for investors in 2019. Demand for structured investments remained strong in the reporting year as private investors were searching for alternatives to earn a positive yield in the current low interest rate environment. Our Structured Products desk further optimised capabilities to issue notes on third-party paper to adapt to the lower funding needs of Van Lanschot Kempen. And we further diversified our client base in the Netherlands and Belgium for both securitised and non-securitised structured business. In our Structured Products platform, we made significant improvements to our risk framework, as well as to the digitalisation of the information flow to and from the platform. The Structured Products desk invested heavily in hardware and dashboards to gain a better view of our exposures so as to manage our risks more effectively. In the first half of 2019, a valuation model used by Structured Products was found to contain an inaccuracy. We corrected the model, but saw a negative adjustment of the Structured Products P&L of €2.7 million as a result in the first half of the year. Priorities for 2020 In 2020, we anticipate a continuation and further improvement of our current activities. Particular areas of focus include the implementation of our digital tools and data analytics, as well as keeping up to date with the new regulations that are in the pipeline. We aim to expand further in Scandinavia, attracting clients across all our focus sectors. And last but not least, attracting, retaining and developing talented people will continue to be an important focus going forward. Progress report 55 Successfully Kempen Merchant closed transactions Banking 2019 in 2019 transactions Capital Increase Rights Issue Secondary offering of Rights Issue Accelerated Sale to Accelerated Public takeover Global Accelerated Accelerated shares in Bookbuild Offering Bookbuild Offering financing Bookbuild Offering Bookbuild Offering Undisclosed SEK 1.5 billion €79.7 million €113 million €69.0 million Undisclosed €150 million €400 million $557 million €200 million Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Sole Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner Sole Financial Adviser Joint Global Coordinator Mandated Lead Manager Joint Global Coordinator Joint Bookrunner Lead Arranger Joint Bookrunner December December December December December November November November November November 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 US Public Offering Rights Issue US Public Offering Initial Public Offering Sale of Berlin Accelerated Global Offering on Initial Public Offering Secondary Placing of Rights Issue Residential Portfolio Bookbuild Offering Nasdaq and Euronext on NASDAQ Fagron shares Paris, Brussels $79.2 million €206 million $57.5 million $158 million €920 million €9.0 million $20.0 million $582 million €116 million €48.7 million Co-Manager Co-Lead Manager Co-Manager Co-Manager Sole Financial Adviser Sole Bookrunner Co-Manager Co-Manager Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner November October October October September September September July July July 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 Sale of German DIY Accelerated Accelerated Capital Increase Rights Issue Initial Public Offering Accelerated Block trade in argenx Acquisition of Sale of German retail portfolio to REDOS Bookbuild Offering Bookbuild Offering on NASDAQ Bookbuild Offering shares portfolio to a real estate acting on behalf of Union private equity firm Investment €129 million SEK 727 million €56.7 million €135 million €418 million $84.0 million €40.0 million $130 million Undisclosed €175 million Sole Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner Joint Global Coordinator Co-Lead Manager Co-Manager Co-Lead Manager Sole Block Placing Financial Adviser Sole Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Agent June June June May May April April April April March 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 Sale of Dutch Sale to Increase of stake in Initial Public Offering Secondary Offering via Accelerated Accelerated residential portfolio to ABB in Deutsche Bookbuild Offering Bookbuild Offering Wohnen shares (4.7%) €1.4 billion Undisclosed Undisclosed €27.5 million €698 million NOK 222 million €55.5 million Sole Financial Adviser Sole Financial Adviser Financial Adviser Joint Global Coordinator Co-Lead Manager Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner March February February February January January January 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 CORPORATE FINANCE \ 0 Progress report 56 PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENTS Over the years, Van Lanschot Kempen has been MARKET VALUE active in private equity in three different ways: At year-end 2019, our total portfolio of private equity acquiring and managing minority holdings, investments reflected a market value of circa €90 million (2018: over €170 million). The decrease mainly reflects the managing non-strategic investments, and sales of our 72% stake in AIO II and our 37.5% stake in Marfo Food Group. managing interests in private equity funds. Acquiring and managing minority holdings Van Lanschot Kempen has built a portfolio of direct minority Van Lanschot Kempen holds a number of minority holdings, holdings over the years, focusing on entrepreneurs and both indirectly via Bolster Investments Coöperatief U.A. owner-directors: both existing Van Lanschot Private since 2017, and directly via our Van Lanschot Participaties Banking clients and entrepreneurs who are potential clients. portfolio that was built up over the years prior to 2016. We have provided growth capital, facilitated management buy-outs, and acquired shareholdings from existing shareholders. Our portfolio of direct minority holdings comprised six companies on 31 December 2019. In July 2019, we sold our stake in Marfo Food Group for a book profit of around €6 million. In August 2019, we sold our stake in Kraan Bouwcomputing. No new holdings will be added to this portfolio, but we may Bolster lnvestment Partners invests in well-managed Dutch make follow-on investments in existing minority holdings. companies with strong market positions and compelling We maintain our long-term investment horizon, and growth strategies. Bolster can take both majority and potential divestments will be driven mostly by the strategic minority shareholdings in private companies, and it pursues a development of the companies. This portfolio continues to flexible, long-term investment horizon. An integral part of the be managed by Bolster lnvestment Partners. due diligence Bolster undertakes before acquiring an interest in a company involves assessing whether that company In February 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen sold its 49% stake meets specific environmental, social and governance criteria. in VLC & Partners to De Goudse Verzekeringen (VLCMP), generating a net book profit of around €17.1 million. VLC & The fund, Bolster Investments Coöperatief U.A., manages Partners is a Dutch intermediary in the fields of risk €160 million in committed capital. In addition to management, absenteeism, pensions and private insurance, Van Lanschot Kempen, which holds a significant minority and also provides insurance solutions to our Private Banking interest, other investors mainly comprise Van Lanschot clients. Van Lanschot Kempen and VLC & Partners will Private Banking clients. In 2019, one new investment was continue to collaborate on the services provided to Private added to the fund: Giesen Coffee Roasters. In the coming Banking clients. years, Bolster Investment Partners will strive to put the capital raised to work by making additional investments. Direct minority holdings1 1 For more information on our investments in associates using the equity method, see page 189. Progress report 57 Managing non-strategic investments We hold a number of companies classified as non-strategic investments; these are typically majority interests arising from debt-for-equity swaps we agreed in the past. Our aim is to divest our shareholdings in such non-strategic investments over time. We currently hold two non-strategic interests: Holonite and Allshare. Holonite, in which we hold a 93% stake, makes high-quality composite stone products and finishing elements. Allshare, in which we hold a 99.8% stake2, develops software for the financial sector and is a key supplier to Van Lanschot Kempen. In February 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen effectuated the sale of its non-strategic stake in AIO II (Medsen) to funds under management of Bencis, locking in a net book profit of €36 million. AIO II is the holding company of pharmacy chain Medsen and wholesale chemist Ceban. Van Lanschot Kempen had held an equity stake in AIO II since 2009, when it acquired an interest through a debt-for-equity swap. Managing interests in private equity funds We built a portfolio of interests in private equity funds before 2010. As most of these funds are being liquidated, these interests are gradually being wound down. In line with our ambition to move from responsible to sustainable investing, we've made commitments to invest in funds that aim to make a positive contribution to the environment and society. At the end of 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen made a commitment to the newly launched Borski Fund that aims to provide growth capital to companies that are founded and/or managed by female entrepreneurs or are focused on gender innovations. In March 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen also made a commitment to the Healthy Ecosystems Impact Fund (HEIF) of the “Put Your Money Where Your Meaning Is Community” (Pymwymic). The Pymwymic is a community of wealthy families, philanthropists and private investors. The HEIF invests in companies that aim to solve problems related to environmental pollution, climate change and poor living conditions. 2 Over the course of 2019, we bought out a number of shareholders who had a small stake in Allshare, increasing our stake from 97.1% to 99.8%. Annual Report 58 BRINGING PEOPLE TOGETHER Although I’ve been working at Van Lanschot Kempen for addressing poverty, the treatment of women… it depends over 20 years, the Family Solutions team was just formed on their family values. But they all have one thing in in 2019. The team works out of our Amsterdam office and common: a desire to do something worthwhile with the it serves one of the most interesting client groups – a wealth that’s transferred from one generation to the next. perfect fit for me. I love being creative and connecting More and more of our families are creating charitable people, so bringing together private banking, asset foundations, for example. management and merchant banking services under one family-focused team was the ideal combination. Over the This ties in with my role as Board member of the last year, I’ve learned a lot about what all my colleagues in Van Lanschot Kempen Foundation. Many of our clients different departments can offer to the top 50 families in and employees are looking to take part in charitable the Netherlands and Belgium. activities or volunteer work. I focus on our external and internal communications for the Foundation, so it’s my Sustainability is of course something we discuss with the role to bring people together to create the most impact. families we serve – but it carries a different meaning for each of them. It could be about climate change, Jacobine Gratama – Wealth Manager, Family Solutions Progress report 59 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Key risk themes for Van Lanschot Kempen Rising geopolitical and economic uncertainty Actions The 2019 financial year was characterised by growing geopolitical and We continued to give investment advice to our clients – incorporating the economic uncertainties. As a business, we were affected in three ways. difficult, sometimes contradictory, signals from financial markets and the Firstly, geopolitical uncertainty influenced clients’ investment decisions, real economy. We also continued to offer (new) investment solutions, in which impacted our asset management activities. Some investors used response to the changing economic climate, for example. During the the strong rebound of equity markets in Q1 2019 to take profits, and kept second half of 2019, we saw significant interest in our niche investment higher portions of their assets in cash. Secondly, the ongoing trade war strategies. between the United States and China, as well as other economic developments, caused a slowdown in the global economy, with the One of the main risks for a financial institution is providing loans late in growth rate of the German economy around zero for part of the year. The the economic cycle. The winding down of our Corporate Banking loan Dutch economy was not significantly affected in 2019, while service book resulted in much lower exposure to loans that are significantly activities and consumer confidence remained high. But forward-looking influenced by the economic cycle. Moreover, we have strict credit indicators point to somewhat lower levels of economic growth in the acceptance and monitoring procedures, which have been proven to work Netherlands as well, which could present a potential risk for a financial in more ominous economic environments as well. We are therefore institution providing loans. Lastly, Brexit has a potential direct effect on continuing to provide new loans to our target groups, provided they fulfil Van Lanschot Kempen: we have some activities in the UK (Kempen Asset the acceptance criteria. Management and Kempen Merchant Banking) and use services provided by financial institutions in London. All of Van Lanschot Kempen’s business units are prepared for the impact of Brexit. We have contracts and procedures in place to ensure that the impact of our business will be both manageable and limited. We have made arrangements for our activities in the UK; (back-up) contracts have been closed with UK financial institution subsidiaries in mainland Europe; and the impact on the offering of funds and instruments to our clients has been assessed. Alternative routes, bypassing the UK, have also been implemented for settlement activities. We believe that we have taken – and continue to take – the necessary steps to mitigate risks for our organisation and for our clients. Low interest rate environment Actions Monetary authorities have reacted to the economic uncertainty by Our interest rate risk oversight and steering is carried out by the Asset & expanding their already loose monetary policies (ECB) or by reversing Liability Committee (ALCO), which monitors and discusses balance sheet their paths of increasing interest rates back to initial rate cuts (FOMC in risks and financial market developments on a monthly basis. We are the United States). As a result, the already low interest rates declined continuously balancing the risks and benefits of our interest rate even further. In general, longer-term interest rates have decreased more mismatch position, with a keen eye on potential changes in client than short-term rates, causing yield curves to flatten. Euro swap rates are behaviour. In doing so, we analyse a variety of scenarios, such as the now in negative territories for most maturities. And expectations are that impact of the implicit 0% client rate floor for most of our savings and the current situation will persist for longer than previously anticipated. current accounts, recalibration of interest rate sensitivities for savings and current accounts, and potential pick-up improvements in the event of The current interest rate environment has consequences for our net steepening yield curves. interest income, mainly due to the implicit 0% floor in client interest rates for savings and current accounts, although we do charge negative interest rates for significant savings balances. In addition, the flat yield curve limits the pick-up that can be earned from the interest rate mismatch position in our balance sheet. In 2019, margins on new and repricing mortgages showed a positive trend initially. However, in the second half of the year, mortgage margins decreased somewhat, particularly after the ECB’s announcement in September that it would resume its asset purchasing programme. Yields and credit spreads on new investments in our liquidity portfolio remained low, predominantly driven by the same ECB asset purchasing programme. Technological transition and cybercrime Actions The technological shift within the financial sector continues at a rapid In 2019, we outsourced our payments system for Van Lanschot Private pace. Clients expect real-time information about their accounts, transfers, Banking and provided our clients with useful new insights into their investment opportunities and the performance of their portfolios. financial situation and transactions via our mobile apps. We further Moreover, technological innovation results in increasing productivity by improved the analytics functionality of our investment app. Many automating tasks and production processes, and providing better and departments moved to advanced dashboards for better management and faster insight into client activities. Technological developments such as risk information. Extra attention was paid to end-user computing and cloud computing and the internationalisation of internet crime make it managing complex transition projects. increasingly complex to monitor and manage these risks. The deep embedding of social media into people’s lives adds another layer of Several steps were taken to further enhance the level of sophistication of vulnerability. Protective measures evidently need to keep pace with the Van Lanschot Kempen’s cyber defence. Our countermeasures taken increasing threats, and we put an emphasis on security awareness and on during the phishing fraud incidents proved to be adequate, and the preparing the organisation to act quickly to any incidents. financial damage to our clients was very limited. Van Lanschot Kempen has strengthened its governance on IT security, and continued its security In 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen was a target for only a small number of awareness and staff training. phishing attacks, and there were no other serious cybercrime issues in 2019. However, risk in this area is considered to be permanently high, while developments are moving very fast, and the impact of DDOS attacks, payment fraud and identity fraud can be significant. Progress report 60 Risk management We operate our risk framework in accordance with the “three lines of defence” model. The management teams at Risk profile and risk appetite individual departments and units (the first line) are Historically, we have sought to achieve a solid risk profile – responsible for managing their specific risks. The Group expressed in transparent risk levels coupled with a robust Risk Management department (the second line) supports liquidity and capital position. The risks we face are outlined management by facilitating risk assessments, writing risk in the following sections. More detailed descriptions can be policies, providing expertise for the formulation of controls found in the financial statements, where these risks are also and mitigating actions, providing reports, and challenging quantified, wherever possible, in terms of their impact on the first line on the management of their risks. Group Audit Van Lanschot Kempen. (the third line) monitors whether the activities of the first and second line are effectively mitigating the risks identified. We evaluate our risk appetite annually, and this is then Lastly, we use insurance to cover certain remaining risks. communicated in a risk appetite statement containing both qualitative and quantitative elements. Our risk appetite Strategic risk represents our willingness to accept the risk of particular Strategic risk is defined as the risk to Van Lanschot losses or decreasing buffers, and as such sets our operating Kempen’s performance, resulting from failure to respond boundaries. We use the loss absorption capacity (maximum adequately to changes in external factors or from poor acceptable level of losses) for the calibration of these strategic decisions. External factors include the actions of boundaries. The statement is prepared by the Statutory competitors, clients, potential market entrants and public Board and is subject to the Supervisory Board’s approval. authorities, as well as public opinion. Keeping up with technological developments and fintech is also a key topic Targets and risk limits are more dynamic and may occasionally on our strategic agenda. Furthermore, a prolonged period of be reviewed, at least annually. That said, we do not change low interest rates puts pressure on our net interest income. the key principles that underlie our risk appetite and that Other important elements are the capacity to meet all create the framework within which we operate: specific regulatory and client demands, consequences of – We only take risks that we understand and can explain; operating in specific niche markets, and risks associated – We only take risks that – directly or indirectly – serve our with a relatively small-scale organisation. We use a range of strategic objectives; performance indicators – such as growth in assets under – The sum of all risks taken should not exceed our management, net result, efficiency ratio and FTE trends – risk-bearing capacity; together with a qualitative assessment to monitor and – When taking risks, we take the requirements and control strategic risk. Due to the challenging environment expectations of all stakeholders into account; both economically and in terms of technological – We do not take any risks that could materially harm our developments, our strategic risk remains at a medium level. reputation; – Our risk appetite should be considered in all business Credit risk decisions at every level of the organisation; Credit risk is still one of our most significant financial risk – We avoid risks that could lead to legal or regulatory types but, as a result of the strong economy and the breaches. run-down of our corporate loan book, it has been at a relatively low level for some years now. Our loan portfolio A risk dashboard and progress report is discussed by the amounts to €8.6 billion and has manageable risks; 68% of Group Risk Committee every quarter, as well as periodically the loan portfolio consists of mortgage loans. We aim to by the Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board. Risk-taking keep the size of exposure to the Private Banking residential is in the nature of banks; low risks are not a means to an end. mortgage portfolio at least constant by generating enough For a number of reasons, it may be appropriate to accept a new business to offset prepayments and redemptions. New higher risk – either temporarily or for a prolonged period. mortgages are primarily provided to Private Banking clients We always consider both gross and net – i.e. after mitigating who also hold assets under management with measures – risk positions, paying extra attention to high risks. Van Lanschot Kempen. The scores and risk appetite for each individual risk type at Credit quality in general further improved in 2019, year-end 2019 are shown in this simplified version of the reflecting the healthy state of the Dutch economy and risk dashboard below. underlying positive developments, such as low unemployment figures and strong house prices. These Risk dashboard Low Medium High effects, in combination with a prudent risk policy, continue Strategic risk to feed through to our loan portfolio with a slight lag. Credit risk In 2019, loan losses continued to reach historically low Market risk levels. In order to monitor and measure credit risks for most of our loan portfolios, we use sophisticated risk models Liquidity risk (internal ratings-based approach). As observed in 2018, we Interest rate risk see positive rating migration in nearly all portfolios as an additional indicator of improved credit quality. Our loan Operational risk portfolio and credit risks are concentrated in the Information risk Netherlands (95%); lending in Belgium and Switzerland is limited, and mainly concerns Lombard loans with low risk Risk score Risk appetite profiles. Progress report 61 Loan portfolio, excluding provision Mortgage loans (100% = €8.7 billion) At year-end, 68% of our loan portfolio consisted of mortgages. Our portfolio differs from that of other Dutch mortgage lenders in that the average loan is higher (approximately €488,000), making the portfolio a little 6% 4% more sensitive to a fall in underlying house prices. In 2019, the portfolio’s weighted average loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, based on foreclosure value, was stable at 76% at year-end, the same as year-end 2018. House prices in the 22% Netherlands increased significantly across the country, causing LTVs in the current portfolio to decline. LTVs for 68%   Private Banking – Mortgage loans Van Lanschot Kempen’s total portfolio remained constant,   Private Banking – Other loans while new mortgage issuance in 2019 was the highest in  Corporate Banking loans the last 20 years. New issuances are in general issued for  M ortgage loans – Distributed by third parties LTVs above 76%. In 2015, we started to provide mortgages through a Although our exposure to the Dutch housing market is fairly network of intermediaries, branded as Hypotrust and with significant, the concentration risk on single line items in the Quion as our service provider for our white-label overall loan portfolio is relatively limited. The ten largest mortgages. Since then, we have built up a successful whiteloans to individual counterparties, other than financial label portfolio with good risk characteristics and with very institutions, totalled €280 million at year-end 2019, few loan losses. Our white-label mortgages are subject to compared to €220 million in 2018. 96% of all borrowers strict acceptance criteria, and the size of this portfolio held loans of less than €10 million at year-end 2019 amounted to €553 million by year-end 2019 (year-end (year-end 2018: 96%). Our policy is to keep credit-risk limits 2018: €602 million). This portfolio is relatively stable at on a single debtor at an acceptable level in order to contain approximately 6% of the total Van Lanschot mortgage concentration risk and to mitigate its potential impact on portfolio. Van Lanschot Kempen’s results (see page 130 in the financial statements for more information). Clients with potentially declining incomes (e.g. due to retirement), and who are exposed to the risk of interest-only Responsible lending policy mortgages that will mature in the next 10–15 years, are We have a responsible lending policy that takes environmental actively assisted by us to limit the risk of not being able to and social impact into consideration. The policy ensures pay off their loans at maturity date. In general, their LTVs periodic sustainability screening (due diligence), via a risk are below 100%, making the credit risk of the loans filter, of all existing and new corporate loans, and includes acceptable. However, if the decline in clients’ income factors such as human rights, social and labour issues, prevents the loan being rolled over at maturity, we enter environment, anti-corruption and bribery. The screening did into early discussions with them. In this way, we increase not identify any new material sustainability issues in the awareness among clients and try to avoid potentially portfolio during 2019. The number of potentially high-risk difficult situations. Around 900 clients with interest-only borrowers totalled 17 by year-end 2019 (2018: 17). We mortgages fall into this target group. We have started continue to talk to these borrowers about specific reaching out to these clients and are providing insight into sustainability risks and how they could be mitigated. For their financial situation as well as possible options to adjust more information on this policy and its results, see our CSR their current mortgage contract. Supplement and vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/ core-banking-activities. Mortgage loans: new production by type (%) A few years ago, a separate policy was created to assess the sustainability of financial institutions with which Van Lanschot Kempen has a banking relationship 100 (vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/core-bankingactivities). This policy aims to prevent the risk that client 80 assets find their way – through interbank loans or investments, for example – to institutions with weak or 60 non-existent CSR policies. Van Lanschot Kempen challenges financial institutions that have not developed 40 sufficiently visible policies. In 2019, one of these institutions improved its policy by becoming a member of UN Global 20 Compact. Following this change, only three financial institutions in our portfolio did not fully meet our policy; by 0 the end of 2019, we decided to divest from one of these. <-’04 ’05-’06 ’07-’08 ’09-’10 ’11-’12 ’13-’14 ’15-’16 ’17-’18 ’19 In 2019, the Belgian sustainability organisation Forum Ethibel carried out its seventh annual audit to verify our responsible use of client assets. We were pleased to once Interest-only Investment Straight-line again receive their annual sustainability certificate. Annuity repayment Life Savings Progress report 62 Private Banking in the Netherlands: mortgage loan-to-value (%) 47% 44% 43% 43% 11% 9% 2% 2% <=75% 75%-100% 100%-125% >125%  31/12/2018  31/12/2019 Mortgage loans: remaining gross business per year (€ million) compared with house price trends 600 140 500 120 100 400 80 300 60 200 40 100 20 497 121 188 221 305 391 429 317 231 190 88 111 66 58 130 341 361 424 490 570 0 0 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 '18 '19  Gross mortgage business (left-hand axis) Price index (right-hand axis, 2010 = 100) Mortgage loans: outstanding volumes (€ million) and number of loans by size 2,500 9,000 8,000 2,000 1,866 1,945 7,000 6,000 1,500 5,000 4,000 1,000 865 3,000 2,000 500 392 393 1,000 113 0 0 €0 €0.5m €0.5 €1m €1 €1.5m €1.5 €2m €2 €4m > €4m  Volumes outstanding (left-hand axis) Number of loans (right-hand axis) Progress report 63 Other Private Banking loans We sold a portfolio of non-performing commercial real estate This part of the loan portfolio comprises loans to high loans to a company affiliated to Cerberus Capital net-worth individuals, in the form of overdraft facilities or Management LP in 2015. The sale concerned loans with a funding for a second home, for example. In the same total nominal amount of approximately €400 million and category are commercial activities that fit into Private around 120 client relationships. A small number of individual Banking’s relationship model, such as funding investments debtors initiated legal proceedings in relation to this sale, for family businesses, business professionals and claiming that the transfer of the debtors’ loans and the rights executives, and healthcare professionals. These kinds of related to these loans were invalid. Legal proceedings in loans are supplementary to our wealth management relation to the transaction are pending but are currently on strategy and typically involve bringing in assets under hold in anticipation of a judgement of the Dutch Supreme management. Our aim is to keep the size of this portfolio Court (in prejudicial proceedings) regarding (inter alia) the stable. The average loan size is approximately €120,000. question of whether the claims of a bank (as a lender) under loans provided to its clients (as borrowers) are assignable Other Private Banking loans by loan type under Dutch law to a third party that is not a bank. (100% = €1.9 billion) Impaired loans Impaired loans are loans for which a provision has been taken. Impaired loans accounted for 2.7% of the loan 12% portfolio at the end of 2019 (year-end 2018: 3.8%). In the reporting year, we decided to write-off €31 million in 12% residual debts. These had been under management of our 37% Credit Restructuring & Recovery department for a long time, with virtually no prospect of recovery, and were fully provisioned. In 2019, a provision equal to 23% of impaired 17%  SME loans loans was taken (2018: 31%), resulting in specific provisions  Current accounts totalling €54 million. In 2019, we achieved a further net Real estate loans 23%  release of €12.1 million in provisions (2018: €12.7 million).  Private loans  Lombard loans Current provisions as well as expected losses have continued to fall significantly over the past few years. The Corporate Banking loans team for preventive management continues to contribute to Since 2019, the remaining part of our Corporate Banking loan the reduced inflow into the Credit Restructuring & Recovery portfolio has been integrated within Private Banking, because department through early intervention. the size, complexity and risks of the portfolio no longer justified a separate department. The winding down of this During 2019, the impact of the migration from IFRS 9 credit portfolio continues. The total portfolio amounted to €318 quality stages one and two to stage three was limited, which million at year-end 2019 (year-end 2018: €523 million). is partly the result of the current phase of the economic cycle. The remaining SME loan portfolio is well diversified, with See page 134 in the financial statements for more detail. no dominant sector. The average loan size amounted to €1.07 million at year-end 2019 (year-end 2018: €1.16 million). For more information about credit risk, please refer to the discussion of risk management in the financial statements, Our portfolio of Corporate Banking real estate loans is well Section 2, “Credit risk”. diversified, and consists of a balanced portfolio of the various object classes – offices, residential property, retail Market risk and commercial real estate. The average loan size of our Van Lanschot Kempen is exposed to market risk to a limited real estate loans amounted to €1.8 million at year-end 2019 extent through client-facilitating transactions. Kempen (year-end 2018: €1.7 million). Average LTV ratios improved Merchant Banking performs equity and structured product to 62% (year-end 2018: 66%). transactions for clients and provides market liquidity, which may result in temporary trading positions. The same applies Our real estate loans are provided primarily on the basis of at Van Lanschot Private Banking regarding transactions in a total quality assessment of the borrowers. We also take interest-related and foreign currency products. Temporary into account the quality and sustainability of the real estate positions may arise from our efforts to facilitate our clients’ object, and the diversification and stability of the rental requests. We invest in our own funds to support Kempen flows. The debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) is calculated Asset Management, in order to align our interests with so that we can determine the extent to which a client will those of our clients. The Risk Management department be able to make interest and principal payments from the monitors market risks on a daily basis. rental income generated by their commercial real estate. At year-end 2019, 82.9% of our real estate loans generated For further information on market risk, see Section 3, sufficient rental income to cover interest and principal “Market risk”, in the financial statements. payments, i.e. had a DSCR of over 1 (year-end 2018: 78.2%). Clients with a DSCR of less than 1 often have other Liquidity and funding risk income-generating assets they can use to service their Our wealth management strategy entails a large client loan obligations. Lastly, the LTV of real estate loans also savings and deposits base, which exceeds the volume of improved due to strong economic growth in the Netherlands, our client loan book. This is reflected in our loan-to-deposit causing prices of most real estate to rise. ratio of 90%. Because of this, our liquidity risk profile is Progress report 64 mostly driven by the potential unanticipated outflows that Funding redemption profile could occur from our deposit base. Although our deposit 1.000 (€ million) base has not resulted from a competitive pricing policy and 800 has proven to be sticky over time, there is always a risk of 800 unexpected outflows, particularly for balances not covered 600 by the deposit guarantee scheme (DGS). The procedures, 600 processes and reporting associated with liquidity risk 400 management are combined in our internal liquidity adequacy 400 assessment process (ILAAP), which is assessed by our 200 supervisor every year. DNB considers our liquidity and 200 funding risk management to be adequate for a company of the size and complexity of Van Lanschot Kempen. 0 0 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ≥2025 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ≥2025 We take a cautious approach to liquidity risk, and aim to  Senior unsecured  Covered bond  Tier 2  AT1 hold solid liquidity buffers that would allow us to absorb Senior unsecured Covered bond Tier 2 AT1 severe unexpected liquidity stress situations. Outcomes of Investment portfolio liquidity stress tests, which cover acute and persistent Our investment portfolio totalled €4.4 billion at year-end liquidity stress, are discussed by the ALCO on a monthly 2019, up from €3.9 billion at year-end 2018. It is basis. Due to our strong liquidity buffer, stress test maintained primarily for liquidity purposes, and consists outcomes and other liquidity indicators (e.g. LCR and NSFR) mainly of liquid, low-risk instruments. The composition of remained well within the limits throughout the year. the portfolio was relatively stable in 2019. There are strict The total liquidity buffer at year-end 2019 amounted to limits on instrument types, counterparties, countries, €4.0 billion (2018: €3.6 billion) with the liquidity coverage ratings and credit spread risk. Despite lower yields and ratio standing at 156.9% (2018: 140.6%). spreads, we maintained a liquid, low-risk investment portfolio in line with our investment policy. Reducing the impact of excess liquidity on net interest income, while maintaining a solid liquidity cushion and We review our investment portfolio annually to ensure it sufficient funding diversification, remains the main funding meets our environmental, social and governance criteria. and liquidity planning objective. Although our loan portfolio Investments in financial services companies are subject to can be entirely funded by client deposits, we aim to keep our CSR policy for financial institutions as outlined under sufficient diversification in our funding mix by supplementing “Responsible lending policy” on page 61; corporates in the the savings and deposits base with secured debt portfolio are assessed for compliance with our responsible instruments that are issued under the Conditional Passinvestment policy (see page 23). We have not encountered through Covered Bond programme (CPTCB). Due to our any material sustainability issues in our investment portfolio structurally high liquidity buffer, we did not issue any new to date. wholesale debt instruments in 2019. Only a €100 million Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instrument was issued for capital Investment portfolio and liquidity by counterparty efficiency purposes. As a result, total outstanding volume (100% = €4.4 billion) under the CPTCB remained at €1.5 billion throughout 2019. We do not have any RMBS or benchmark unsecured debt issuances placed with investors. In September 2019, 6% 5% Van Lanschot Kempen issued the first series (€300 million) 28% of its newly structured retained CPTCB programme, 9% replacing the retained Courtine 2013-I RMBS transaction, which was redeemed at the end of September 2019.  Cash at central banks A retained structure is one in which the note remains on  Covered bonds our balance sheet and is used as a liquidity backstop, since 23%  G overnment and government the note is accepted as collateral by the Eurosystem and guaranteed can be exchanged for cash at very short notice. 29%  RMBS  Banks  Funds and corporates Funding mix (100% = €14.3 billion) Investment portfolio and liquidity by rating (100% = €4.4 billion) 5% 9% 1% 1% 4% 3% 28% 18% 21% 67%  Savings and deposits  Debt securities  Cash at central banks  Interbank funding  A AA  Equity  AA  Other funding  A 43%  BBB  Other Progress report 65 For further information on our liquidity risk profile, see future funding costs rise. This risk is inherent to the banking Section 9, “Liquidity risk”, in the financial statements. business model and more prevalent in the current interest rate environment. Interest rate risk In 2019, interest rates fell further and yield curves became For more information on interest rate risk, see Section 8, even flatter. We maintained a 0% client interest rate for the “Interest rate risk”, in the risk management section of the majority of our deposit base (we charge negative rates for financial statements. balances over €2.5 million), even though the ECB reduced the interest rate we receive on cash holdings to -0.5%. Operational risk and information risk Combined with lower yields on new purchases in our Non-financial risk comprises operational risks, information investment portfolio and the limited pick-up from the risks and business continuity risks. Operational risks are interest rate mismatch position (due to the flat yield curve), potential losses that result from inadequate or failed internal the (implicit) 0% client interest rate floor had a negative processes or systems, inadequate or incorrect human impact on our net interest income. actions, external events and fraud. To identify and manage non-financial risks, we have created a group-wide operational Client preference for long interest rate maturities for risk framework. This allows us to regularly test the mortgages continued, both for newly agreed mortgages and effectiveness of key controls in our processes and systems. for interest rate resets. At year-end 2019, approximately Other instruments that we use for measuring and monitoring 26% of the mortgage portfolio consisted of loans with non-financial risks include incident registration, root cause remaining fixed-rate terms of eight years or more. Unlike analyses, risk self-assessments on both department level most other banks, our share of mortgages with repricing and value-chain level, and key risk indicators. tenors of over ten years is relatively small. This is driven by the fact that our new mortgage clients expect a higher than We have defined a non-financial risk appetite. On a quarterly average future repayment capacity, reducing the need for basis, the current non-financial risk exposure related to the very long repricing tenors. In total, 97% of the mortgage non-financial risk appetite is discussed with senior portfolio had fixed-rate terms at year-end 2019. management in the Compliance and Operational Risk Committee. In 2019, we further strengthened our nonOn the liability side of the balance sheet, clients held their financial risk management competencies through a series balances in variable rate accounts (current accounts, of workshops, for example. The second line of defence savings and securities accounts). Given that these products continues to interact more closely with the businesses, have similar features and offer equal interest rates in the aiming to encourage an increasingly risk-based approach in current environment, we observe that clients are becoming managing non-financial risks. Influencing human behaviour more indifferent as to which product they keep their and our risk culture is a structural way of further mitigating balances in. Appetite for term deposits remained negligible, operational risk. In 2019, we put more emphasis on risks in due to the low interest rates on these products. As of value chains rather than in individual departments, raising December 2019, our term deposit base amounted to only awareness of the operational risk in processes involving €162 million. multiple departments. We manage our exposure to changing market interest rates One of our key focuses is preventing cybercrime, and we (interest rate risk in the banking book) using both a valuehave further invested in technological and process-related based and a scenario-based approach. We address longmeasures. In addition to awareness programmes and staff term interest rate risk mainly via the economic value training, we continue to develop intelligent solutions and to approach, which examines how movements in interest rates work closely with industry partners. In a multi-year impact the value of our assets and liabilities. Given the programme, we are gradually increasing the security current asymmetrical character of our interest rate risk measures to keep pace with the increasing cyber threats. exposure (mostly driven by implicit or contractual rate floors Dedicated teams monitor security events and simulate in products), we have shifted our interest rate risk cyber attacks (for training purposes). management focus to a more scenario-based approach. We apply scenarios to both delta net interest income For the continuation of operational processes during scenarios and economic value changes, and have set risk potential disruptions, threats and incidents, we have appetite limits for these. business continuity measurements in place. These include a policy, a governance structure with a Business Continuity For net interest income at risk, we have set a limit of 15% Committee and Crisis Management Team, and working net interest income loss in the first 12 months, relative to instructions. Moreover, multiple tests are performed during our baseline scenario. All stress scenarios remained within the year to assess whether these measures work in this limit throughout the reporting year. We have kept our practice. duration of equity, which provides an indication of our interest rate mismatch position, within a twoto three-andFor more information about operational risk, please refer to a-half-year range, carefully balancing the risks and returns the discussion of risk management in the financial associated with the low and flat yield curve. statements, Section 4, “Operational risk”. From a risk management perspective, the combination of Climate risk mortgages with long interest rate maturities, funded to a We also periodically assess the risk of climate change on large extent by a variable-rate deposit base, poses our activities. In Van Lanschot Private Banking, the most challenges: there is less room to adjust client loan rates if important lending portfolio is the mortgage portfolio. While Progress report 66 some climate risks to this portfolio exist (e.g. financing (loan-level reporting on corporate loans), RRE (loan-level houses below sea level), we assess that the chances of reporting on residential mortgage loans) and shorter these risks materialising are considerably lower than other timelines for DGS (deposit-holder information to be provided credit risk factors. Therefore, no separate restrictions are to DNB in case of bankruptcy) have all become operational. used when granting new mortgages. We also see limited climate risk in our corporate lending business, mainly In 2019, we started the implementation phase for Basel IV. because of the regional and sectoral characteristics of this The impact of this new regulatory framework on the business portfolio as well as due to our winding down of the is still expected to be relatively limited. Our analysis includes Corporate Banking activities. In Kempen Asset changes to the approaches for credit risk and operational Management, climate risks are taken into account when risk. Together with the Fundamental Review of the Trading investments are made or investment managers are Book (FRTB), these reforms will take effect as of 2022 with selected. For further information, see our disclosure on transitional arrangements. However, since many definition vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/environment in line and reporting requirements have been changed, with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climateimplementing the new regulation will take a lot of work. related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In October 2019, DNB announced its intention to introduce Compliance risk a minimum risk-weight floor for the residential mortgage Following the implementation of MiFID II, GDPR and other loan portfolios of Dutch banks subject to the IRB approach significant regulations, we expected regulatory pressure to in the autumn of 2020. This measure means that Dutch ease off in 2019. However, the growing list of new laws banks will need to hold more capital against their mortgage and regulations relevant to our activities meant that the portfolios. It aims to support the banks’ ability to absorb the reality proved otherwise. In particular, the ever-increasing impact of a potential housing price adjustment, and will requirements to combat money laundering, terrorist come into effect in autumn 2020. The impact on our financing and other financial crimes played a key role in our risk-weighted assets (RWA) is estimated to be around 15% efforts in 2019. The Executive Board initiated a group-wide based on the current size of our portfolios and the current project to strengthen our approach to operate in accordance regulatory capital models. The relative impact is slightly with European and national anti-money laundering and higher due to the current lower level of absolute total RWA anti-terrorist financing legislation, and to harmonise our and the further rating improvements in our residential respective arrangements across all business lines. This mortgages portfolio. DNB has indicated that the new includes further tightening our policies and procedures measure will not be in addition to the new Basel IV around client acceptance and sanction screening, and our framework, which means we expect early absorption of the efforts to control transaction flows. In 2019, the Dutch Basel IV impact for Van Lanschot Kempen. More details Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) started an about the possible impact on our capital position can be investigation regarding specific parts of Kempen & Co. found on the following page. The investigation focuses on compliance with the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act (Wwft). We expect to receive more information from the Capital management AFM concerning the potential consequences of the investigation in the course of 2020. At the end of 2019, our Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 ratio stood at 23.8%. Despite a capital return of €61 million Also in 2019, our Compliance team continued to pay special (€1.50 per share) to our shareholders in December 2019, attention to our duty of care towards our clients. Supporting the CET 1 ratio increased by 270 percentage points. This the development of strong product governance has been was the third capital return to shareholders of the “excess” one of our major initiatives, while all services and products equity capital generated by the winding down of our offered to our clients continue to receive the attention of our cor­porate loan book in recent years. Since 2016, a total Compliance team. Our activities also focused on policies of over €330 million has been paid out to shareholders, and control arrangements regarding privacy, data protection, in the form of both regular dividends and capital returns. bribery, corruption and fraud prevention. The Compliance team remained closely involved in the implementation of Since our CET 1 ratio remains well above our target range procedures and processes to ensure compliance, and to give of 15-17%, we will continue to consider paying out excess advice on control arrangements in the business. Discretion equity capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and is one of our core values, and the protection of our clients’ capital returns, subject to supervisory approval. In addition, privacy has always been a priority. The Privacy Committee we aim to engage in acquisitions, and intend to leave room and our Privacy Officer ensure that we have adequate for these in our capital position as well. policies, procedures and control arrangements in place to secure the sensitive data of our clients. The downward effect on solvency of the equity capital return was offset by regular earnings retention and a €383 million Regulatory impact decrease in our total risk exposure amount (TREA), with the The increase and changes in regulations continued to pose a latter being driven by corporate loan book reduction and challenge for our organisation: Basel IV, targeted review of improved underlying credit quality. Moreover, we successfully internal models (TRIM), benchmark regulations, to mention issued a €100 million AT1 instrument in March 2019, which just a few, all represent major changes for us going forward. improved our Tier 1 ratio by approximately one percentage In addition to new regulations, the number of data requests point. At year-end 2019, our Tier 1 and total capital ratios from regulators has also been increasing – in terms of both stood at 25.0% (2018: 21.1%) and 26.9% (2018: 23.2%) ad-hoc questionnaires and recurring reports. Anacredit respectively. Progress report 67 Following the annual supervisory review evaluation process Minimum required eligible liabilities (MREL) (SREP), DNB informed us about the capital requirements that As part of single resolution mechanism (SRM) regulation, we need to meet from June 2019 onwards. The minimum the National Resolution Authority has set us an indicative capital requirements comprise a CET 1 ratio of 9.4%, a Tier 1 MREL target, which is not likely to become binding before ratio of 10.9%, and a total capital ratio of 12.9%. The SREP 2024. The MREL target has a loss absorption and a requirements cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks. recapitalisation component (both 50%). Our current compliance with the MREL target depends on the MREL eligibility of the structured notes that we have issued to SREP and overall capital requirements for 2019 institutional investors. If structured notes do indeed classify (%) as MREL, we comfortably meet our MREL target. If structured notes do not classify, we will adjust our funding 26.9 1.9 planning in the run-up to 2024 in order to fill the limited 1.2 MREL gap that could arise. Pillar 2 guidance (not disclosed) Capital conservation 12.9 buffer 2.5 4.9 Pillar 2 requirement 4.9 23.8 ] [ 2.0 2.0 1.5 Pillar 1 requirement 1.5 4.5 4.5 Total SREP Overall capital Available capital requirement capital requirement (OCR) December (TSCR) 2019  Common Equity Tier 1 capital  Additional Tier 1 capital  Tier 2 capital In addition to the 9.4% CET 1 SREP requirement, we are subject to overall capital requirements (OCR), which consist of combined buffer requirements and Pillar 2 guidance (P2G). Both elements must be met by CET 1 capital alone. The capital conservation buffer is currently the main element of the combined buffer requirements. It stands at 2.5% and reached its fully phased-in level in January 2019. The countercyclical buffer for the Netherlands is currently set at 0%. The systemic risk buffer does not apply to us. We are expected to comply with P2G by holding CET 1 capital, but P2G does not have binding status and does not automatically restrict dividend distributions in the event of a breach. With a CET 1 ratio of 23.8% and a total capital ratio of 26.9% at year-end 2019, we meet all capital requirements, including P2G. The leverage ratio increased to 7.3% at year-end 2019 (year-end 2018: 6.9%), which is high compared with other Dutch banks and well above the minimum Basel requirement of 3%. Basel IV is an important dimension in our capital planning, as is DNB’s intention to temporarily impose minimum floors for residential mortgage risk weights that are derived from internal ratings-based models. Taking Basel IV and the proposed risk weight floor into account, we expect our CET 1 ratio to remain above our target range of 15-17%. Progress report 68 VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN SHARES Van Lanschot Kempen’s market capitalisation Management and employees jointly owned around 3.6% of our share capital at year-end. In 2017 and 2018, a profitstood at €820 million at year-end 2019. sharing scheme was applied for all Van Lanschot Kempen Depositary receipts for Van Lanschot Kempen’s employees working in the Netherlands. In 2019, the conditions were not met. It was agreed with the Works Councils that the Class A ordinary shares have been traded on profit-sharing scheme will no longer be applied as of 2020, and that the new integrated Works Council will discuss the Euronext Amsterdam stock market since alternatives in 2020 together with the Executive Board. 29 June 1999 (ISIN Code: NL0000302636; Credit ratings ticker: VLK.AS). Our creditworthiness is periodically assessed by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). Van Lanschot Kempen maintains its high creditworthiness by deploying its assets The issued share capital of Van Lanschot Kempen at for the benefit of its clients and by taking on only such risks 31 December 2019 consisted of 41,361,668 Class A as can be understood and controlled. This ensures solid risk ordinary shares (“shares”) each having a nominal value of management processes as well as a strong capital and €1. We held 440,895 treasury shares at year-end 2019. liquidity position. Our current credit ratings reflect our healthy capital and funding position along with our low risk Shareholders and depositary receipt holders profile. Van Lanschot Kempen currently has a BBB+ Van Lanschot Kempen’s shareholder base remained roughly long-term credit rating from both S&P and Fitch. the same during 2019. Pursuant to Chapter 5.3 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the disclosures below have Credit ratings1 Standard & Poor’s Fitch Ratings been entered in the Register of Substantial Holdings as maintained by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets Long-term credit rating BBB+ BBB+ (AFM). The percentages reflect the number of shares or Long-term credit depositary receipts on the register on the disclosure dates rating outlook Stable outlook Stable outlook and our current number of outstanding shares. Disclosure is Short-term credit rating A-2 F2 required once a shareholder’s interest reaches, exceeds or falls below a threshold value. The current interest of a shareDate of latest report 26 September 2019 16 September 2019 holder or holder of depositary receipts may consequently differ from the interest reported on the disclosure date. On 31 December 2019, Stichting Administratiekantoor Research coverage van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen held over Four sell-side analysts – from ABN AMRO, ING, Kepler 99.99% of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. For more Cheuvreux and UBS respectively – actively track information on Stichting Administratiekantoor van Van Lanschot Kempen and regularly publish equity gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen, see the research reports. Their details can be found at “Corporate governance” section on page 91. vanlanschotkempen.com/share-information. Dividend policy and dividend for 2019 Van Lanschot Kempen’s depositary receipt holders Our aim is to distribute between 50% and 70% of our underlying net result attributable to shareholders. The result actually available for distribution is the net result 9.9% adjusted for minority interests, the share of AT1 capital securities holders, and the net effect of selected special 9.7%  APG Asset Management items. In 2019, we adjusted for two special items: costs   LDDM Holding relating to our Strategy 2020 investment programme and 40.9%  Janus Henderson Group 5.6%  Reggeborgh Invest restructuring charges. The underlying net result available 5.0%  FMR for distribution to shareholders amounts to €103.3 million  Wellington Management Group and works out at underlying earnings per share of €2.52.2 5.0%  Management and employees   NN Group 4.9% Our strong results and solid capital position enable us to  CRUX Asset Management  T Rowe Price propose a dividend distribution of €1.45 per share to our 3.6%  Investec Asset Management shareholders (2018: €1.45 per share). The shareholders at 3.0% 3.0% 3.2% 3.2%  Invesco the general meeting to be held on 28 May 2020 will be 3.1%  Other invited to approve the distribution of the dividend. 1 Credit ratings apply to Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV (VLKWM). Van Lanschot Kempen is the holding company of VLKWM. Its only asset is 100% of the shares in VLKWM. 2 Based on the weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares. Progress report 69 Based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December consider other avenues, under the prevailing laws and 2019 (excluding treasury shares), the proposed dividend regulations, to distribute excess capital to our shareholders, payments will total €59.3 million, corresponding to a pay-out including share buybacks or capital returns. These are subject ratio of 57.4% of the underlying net result attributable to to approval by the regulator. shareholders. This percentage amounts to 63.9% of net result attributable to shareholders. The proportion of net In August 2019, we proposed a capital return to our result attributable to shareholders that will not be paid out shareholders of €1.50 per share. This proposal, as well as – i.e. €33.6 million – will be added to reserves. resolutions to amend the Articles of Association to this effect, were approved by our shareholders at the extraordinary Capital management policy general meeting on 9 October 2019. Subsequently, a total of By running down our corporate loan portfolio in recent years, over €60 million was returned to shareholders in December and optimising the use of capital in our other divisions and 2019. The capital return was charged to the share premium departments, we sharply reduced risk-weighted assets and reserve available for distribution and is exempt from Dutch consequently our required capital. However, these actions dividend tax. The total share capital in issue remained have resulted in a less efficient capital structure. By year-end unchanged. 2019, our CET 1 ratio of 23.8% was well ahead of our target range of 15-17%. We aim to engage in acquisitions, and intend Since 2016, we have paid out a total of over €330 million to to leave room for these in our capital position. In addition, we our shareholders in the form of both dividends and capital may choose to pay out excess capital to our shareholders. returns. Including the 2019 dividend, a total of over We consider dividend payment an appropriate and efficient €390 million will have been returned by 2020. way to return capital to our shareholders. In addition, we may Capital returns and dividends (€ million) 59 61 59 390 62 59 41 49 Dividend Capital Dividend Capital Dividend Capital Proposed Total return 2016 return 2017 2017 return 2018 2018 return 2019 dividend 2019 to shareholders Key figures per ordinary share 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Share price (€): High 23.30 28.00 27.38 22.28 25.70 Low 17.28 18.40 19.46 14.73 17.00 Closing 20.05 19.82 26.15 19.98 21.23 Average daily trading volume in depositary receipts 32,920 23,333 46,232 28,505 21,305 Market capitalisation (€ million) (year-end)3 820 813 1,068 817 870 Net asset value per share (€) 29.59 30.32 32.63 32.80 31.72 Price-earnings ratio 4 8.0 8.3 10.0 10.6 16.9 Information on dividend per ordinary share 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Underlying earnings per ordinary share (€)4 2.52 2.37 2.61 1.89 1.26 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 1.45 1.20 0.45 Dividend yield (%) 7.2 7.3 5.5 6.0 2.1 Pay-out ratio (%) 57.4 61.1 55.4 63.5 35.8 Total return for holders of ordinary shares (%) 16 –13 42 –4 24 3 Calculated as: closing price x (issued share capital minus treasury shares). 4 2019 and 2018 adjusted for costs incurred for our Strategy 2020 investment programme and restructuring charges; 2017 and 2016 also adjusted for an additional charge for the derivatives recovery framework; 2015 adjusted for a one-off charge arising from the sale of non-performing real estate loans. Progress report 70 Movements in Van Lanschot Kempen's share price compared with industry indices 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 Dec 2019 Van Lanschot Kempen MSCI World Banks Stoxx Europe 600 Banks Stoxx Europe 600 Financial Services Investor relations policy Our investor relations policy is designed to provide current and potential shareholders and bondholders, rating agencies and research analysts with accurate and timely information on developments within the business. We engage in active dialogue with all our financial stakeholders, by publishing press releases and our annual report, and by organising meetings and one-to-one discussions with existing and potential investors. We observe a “silent” period of three weeks prior to the publication of our annual and half-year results. No meetings are held with shareholders or analysts during this period. We also publish our policies on investor relations at vanlanschotkempen.com/investorrelationspolicy. All documents and other relevant information may be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/en. If you would like to receive Van Lanschot Kempen’s press releases by email, you can subscribe to our news service at vanlanschotkempen.com/ pressreleases. More information Investors and analysts with questions about Van Lanschot Kempen are welcome to contact our Investor Relations department by phone on +31 20 354 45 90 or by emailing investorrelations@vanlanschotkempen.com. KEY DATES 2020 Publication of 2020 Q1 trading update 22 April 2020 2020 annual general meeting 28 May 2020 Ex-dividend date 1 June 2020 Record date 2 June 2020 2019 dividend made payable 9 June 2020 Publication of 2020 half-year results 26 August 2020 Publication of 2020 Q3 trading update 29 October 2020 Annual Report 71 GOING FOR GREEN My work has always been about making improvements We’ve also been preparing for the big switch from petrol cars through change management, and there’s no shortage of to electric cars. We’ve been investing in expanding the changes at Van Lanschot Kempen. I started managing number of electric charging points at our offices. And we’re procurement here in 2013, and two years later facilities coming up with smart ways to direct that energy to where it’s management was added to my remit as well. That means I needed – so that employees who have an electric car will be look after the physical aspects of the company – like the able to leave in time for their client meeting, for example. buildings, lease cars, security and so on – as well as all We’ve also been piloting a car-sharing scheme to encourage supplier-related aspects. people to take the train to work and only use a car when needed. The shared cars are all electric as well, so that people In 2019, we focused on using technology to drive smart can experience driving them and be better prepared to shift facilities solutions. We’ve started programmes to reduce our from petrol to electric. environmental footprint over the coming years – by collecting real-time data we’ll be able to reduce our energy usage, Peter Ligtvoet – Director Service Centre Procurement, improve our services and reduce costs. The smarter our Contract Management & Facilities buildings, the less energy we’ll need. Progress report 72 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee Key objectives Composition To advise on the Statutory Board remuneration policy and its execution, Chair and to prepare the Supervisory Board’s decision-making. Bernadette Langius Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: – Providing advice to the Supervisory Board on: – the determination of the policy on remuneration of the Statutory Board; – the total remuneration packages for the members of the Statutory Board; – the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board; – Preparing the annual remuneration report; – Overseeing remuneration policies and practices, including total variable remuneration paid to Van Lanschot Kempen employees, significant1 individual variable remuneration, and individual variable remuneration to all identified staff. Members Willy Duron Maarten Muller The committee held five meetings in 2019. Frans Blom Jeanine Helthuis Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder, from a small universal bank to a specialist wealth manager. As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I’m pleased to This has resulted in strong performance over recent years. present Van Lanschot Kempen’s remuneration report. This In the future, the company will continue to pursue its wealth is our first report that is guided by requirements originating management strategy, and will use the latest technology from the updated EU Shareholder Rights Directive. and expertise in digitalisation and advanced analytics to Although there is still not full clarity around the specific grow the business and to make the organisation more legal requirements for the report, we aim to draft this report efficient. As a specialist wealth manager, we compete with in line with the spirit of the draft EU guidelines for large (Dutch) financial institutions in our niches. disclosure. We intend to further update our 2020 report when there is more clarity. We strongly believe that our future success requires a strong Statutory Board with a proven track record in wealth This report includes both a summary of our Statutory Board management, while experience in digitalisation and and Supervisory Board remuneration policy as approved by advanced analytics is also key. As a consequence, the shareholders at the 2018 AGM, and our annual report on remuneration of the Statutory Board members should be remuneration, which sets out how our policy was applied such that Van Lanschot Kempen is able to attract and retain during 2019, and how it will be applied for 2020. The the necessary talent, which includes future board members annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory from highly specialist wealth management and technology vote at our AGM on 28 May 2020. We will reflect on the firms. Moreover, the remuneration package of the Statutory feedback we received on our current remuneration policy Board must be structured to fit properly within the Dutch and how we have incorporated that feedback. (regulatory) context. Alignment with our strategic framework Remuneration principles remained unchanged in 2019 Since the announcement of our wealth management We believe in rewarding long-term sustainable performance strategy in 2013, Van Lanschot Kempen has transformed to help achieve our long-term strategy. This is reflected in our 1 More than 50% of fixed remuneration. Progress report 73 Statutory Board remuneration policy. Since 2015, this indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are strongly aligned with KPIs consists of fixed remuneration only (no variable remuneration) for the rest of the organisation, and reflect both the and includes a large proportion in depositary receipts for interests of our stakeholders and our ambitions as a wealth shares (hereinafter: shares), with a five-year lock-up period, manager. In assessing the performance of the Statutory in combination with share ownership guidelines.2 This creates Board, great value is attached to their performance as a a strong focus on long-term value creation. team. This is the starting point of the performance assessment, given the company’s complementary business Total remuneration management lines. If the performance of a Statutory Board member is We review total remuneration for the Statutory Board consistently under par, the Supervisory Board may dismiss periodically, taking into account internal and external the responsible Board member. perspectives. Stakeholder engagement When adopting the Statutory Board remuneration package, We take our stakeholders’ views very seriously, and we consider pay ratios within the company and welcome an open dialogue on all aspects of remuneration. remuneration policies in place across the wider workforce in In 2018, the Supervisory Board initiated an engagement our organisation. Moreover, the Remuneration Committee programme with shareholders, proxy advisers and other takes note of individual Statutory Board members’ views stakeholders. The programme was based on feedback regarding the amount and structure of their own received from investors, as well as the Supervisory Board’s remuneration. For more information about the remuneration evaluation of the process prior to the 2018 AGM. The aim package and pay ratios, see “Remuneration of the Statutory was to further understand stakeholders’ concerns and Board in 2019” on page 76. issues in relation to our 2018 policy, and to broaden the scope of engagement with shareholders. When we assess the remuneration levels of the Statutory Board versus external market levels, we use a wellIn preparation for the 2020 AGM, a delegation from the balanced, focused group of companies based on the Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board again guidelines provided by the Dutch Banking Code. Companies consulted with a large cross-section of our shareholder are included that reflect our talent market for Statutory base, proxy advisers, the Works Council, various client Board positions. Our talent market is much broader than groups and Dutch political parties. During these meetings, that of our direct competitors (evidenced by the previous an explanation was given about the revised Shareholder employers of the current Statutory Board members) and Rights Directive; the Statutory and Supervisory Board includes both financial services companies and nonremuneration policy; the Supervisory Board’s view on financial industry companies, both Dutch and international. rewarding long-term sustainable performance; and the For more information on our reference market, see Dutch context, such as the Dutch law on remuneration of “Remuneration of the Statutory Board in 2019” on page 77. financial undertakings, and the Dutch Corporate Governance and Banking Codes. Performance management As our remuneration policy for the Statutory Board consists The dialogue with our stakeholders was very constructive. of fixed remuneration only, remuneration levels for all Gaining their views on executive pay in general, and Van members of the Statutory Board are equal to remuneration Lanschot Kempen’s remuneration policy in particular, was levels in 2018. The Supervisory Board assesses and very valuable. The topics discussed and the main feedback challenges the performance of the Statutory Board based given are outlined in the table below. on a set of financial and non-financial key performance Topic Feedback from stakeholders3 Explanation by Van Lanschot Kempen No variable The decision by Van Lanschot Kempen We explained the Dutch regulatory and societal context. A ceiling of 20% for variable remuneration to abolish variable remuneration for remuneration, in combination with the obligation to defer a substantial portion over a Statutory Board members in 2015 period of five years, means that performance on an individual KPI results in a relatively needs further explanation, especially for limited payment of variable remuneration to a Statutory Board member. It is therefore investors who adhere to the “pay for expected to have very limited impact on the behaviour of our Statutory Board members. performance” principle. Our 2015 decision has now been met with greater understanding by investors as they see other Dutch financial institutions in this situation. We reiterated our belief in a structure that focuses on long-term sustainable performance, which led to the introduction of fixed remuneration in shares with a five-year lock-up period in combination with the share ownership guidelines.2 Performance Some stakeholders struggle with the We explained that in assessing the performance of the Statutory Board, great value is management concept of KPIs not having an impact attached to their performance as a team. The Supervisory Board evaluates both the (positively or negatively) on the performance of the Statutory Board as a whole and that of the individual Statutory remuneration of Statutory Board Board members, on an annual basis. Performance discussions are held with the members. The main question was what individual members. If an individual Statutory Board member underperforms, they are measures the Supervisory Board can take held accountable. If no improvement is realised, the Statutory Board member may be if targets are not met, or when red flags dismissed by the Supervisory Board at any time. remain in the performance assessment. Our stakeholders see the KPI disclosure itself as positive and very transparent. 2 Statutory Board members must hold Van Lanschot Kempen shares with a value equal to or above the cash portion of two years’ gross salary (for as long as they remain in office). They can gradually meet this requirement over the years. If the share price is not performing, the Statutory Board members must keep increasing their holdings. 3 Shareholders, proxy advisers, various client groups, employees and Dutch society (political parties). Progress report 74 Topic Feedback from stakeholders2 Explanation by Van Lanschot Kempen Indexation The indexation clause that we want to Further to the feedback received, we maximised the (discretionary) indexation possibility include in our remuneration policy is to the general increase granted to the wider workforce in the organisation. The seen as positive by most stakeholders. indexation is also maximised by the derived Consumer Price Index (CPI)4 applicable over They do not favour a large increase in the previous year, but only when it can be justified by the financial performance of Van remuneration at one time, but prefer Lanschot Kempen. small increases over the years. Peer group The peer group that was used for the We explained that the Dutch Banking Code prescribes that the peer group should be market assessment in December 2017 is composed of comparable positions both inside and outside the financial industry, a concern for certain stakeholders. including the relevant international context. Furthermore, we are convinced that market Questions were raised about the capitalisation does not drive talent. Our talent market is much broader than that of our selection criteria of the peer group and direct competitors. The relative size of our company versus our competitors drives the why significantly larger companies have need to attract better people than the competition. Prompted by our business strategy, been selected. we are willing to pay for the best people in the market. Typically, this talent comes from companies that are larger than ours. We also increasingly recruit from outside the banking sector. We explained that we want to keep the companies selected from our peer group consistent over the next few years, and that the selection should be seen in conjunction with the fact that the current remuneration package of our Statutory Board members occupies a position far below the median of the peer group. In fact, they are placed around the first quartile. Following feedback from stakeholders, in 2019 we asked Willis Towers Watson (WTW) to update the market assessment for the Statutory Board. No changes were made in the companies selected, but we asked WTW in particular to benchmark one level deeper in the organisation for the larger firms in the peer group, with a focus on positions at a similar job level. This means that our CEO was compared with positions that report to the CEO (CEO-1 level); for the other Statutory Board positions, divisional heads were taken that report to CEO-1 level (i.e. CEO-2). As these positions do not have formal board responsibilities, a standard board premium (in line with market practice) was applied to the base salary levels. Based on this updated analysis, we found that the CEO and CFO are still placed below median market levels (in the 40th percentile for the CEO and 44th percentile for the CFO), while the other Statutory Board members are placed at median market levels. When we change our remuneration policy in the future, we will also review our peer group, taking into account the feedback that we received. Derogation The derogation clause we initially Based on the feedback received, we decided not to include the derogation clause in the proposed led to discussions with various remuneration policy. stakeholders regarding the correct interpretation and possible working. The Supervisory Board received detailed feedback about We attach great value to the consent of our shareholders. We each of the engagement meetings, and appreciates that it is will therefore put the remuneration policies for the Statutory important for stakeholders to have a clear understanding of and Supervisory Boards to vote at our AGM in 2020. The the decisions made around remuneration. We would like to Works Council has issued a positive recommendation to the thank all the stakeholders for their valuable input. The Supervisory Board with regard to the proposed remuneration feedback was very constructive, and the Supervisory Board policies. The remuneration report will be submitted to the will take it into account going forward. Van Lanschot Kempen 2020 AGM for an advisory vote. will continue this broader scope of stakeholder engagement, and will aim to liaise with stakeholders on sensitive matters well before these items are put on the agenda of the AGM. ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 Looking ahead to 2020 Remuneration Committee In 2020, the Dutch law implementing the revised Shareholder Rights Directive (SRD II) will be applicable. SRD II requires additional context to be included in the remuneration policies for the Statutory and Supervisory Boards. During the engagement programme, we obtained a clear understanding of the views of our stakeholders on the implementation of SRD II and on Van Lanschot Kempen’s remuneration policy ahead of the 2020 AGM. Bernadette Langius, Chair The remuneration structure for the Statutory and Supervisory Boards will remain unchanged in 2020. To be compliant with SRD II, particular textual additions have been made to explain our approach to remuneration. We believe the additional context does not qualify as a material change to our remuneration policy. 4 The Consumer Price Index (CPI), calculated by Statistics Netherlands, measures the average price changes of goods and services purchased by households. The derived CPI excludes the effect of changes in the rates of product-related taxes (e.g. VAT), subsidies and consumption-related taxes. Progress report 75 Our approach to remuneration: rewarding long-term sustainable performance WE BELIEVE IN: Our purpose is the preservation and creation of wealth, in a Focusing on the long term sustainable way, for our clients and the societies we serve. Variable remuneration is scrutinised in Dutch society, especially in the financial sector. The use of variable remuneration can We believe that wealth is not just about financial assets; lead to a focus on short-term performance. As we believe in essential as these may be, wealth is about all the things that rewarding long-term sustainable performance, we ended all we value in life. Although our primary objective is to help variable remuneration for the Statutory Board in 2015. Since our clients with the financial aspects of wealth, we then, we have only paid fixed remuneration to the Statutory endeavour to serve their broader objectives as well. We do Board. this through our Van Lanschot Kempen Foundation, sponsorships and work on sustainability issues. Rewarding sustainable performance We pay out a substantial proportion of the fixed remuneration As a company, we believe that the generation of wealth – in shares to ensure our Board members focus on long-term, and its re-distribution through taxation – are critical to the sustainable performance. To maximise this effect, these process of creating and maintaining stable, successful shares are subject to a five-year lock-up period (during which societies. Given that societal cohesion necessitates that the shares cannot be sold). wealth creation, we believe that wealth management cannot be the preserve of a few but is a necessity for all. Creating a sense of ownership We believe in aligning our interests with those of our This view is reflected in our approach to remuneration. The shareholders through a high level of personal share ownership. remuneration of the Statutory Board consists of fixed Our share ownership guidelines stipulate that Statutory Board remuneration only, and includes a large proportion in Van members must hold Van Lanschot Kempen shares with a value Lanschot Kempen shares (with a five-year lock-up period), equal to or above the cash portion of two years’ of their gross creating a strong focus on the long-term continuity of the salary (for as long as they remain in office). If the share price is company and subsequent strong client relations. not performing, the Board members must keep increasing their holdings. Performance management The Supervisory Board assesses and challenges the performance of the Statutory Board based on a set of financial and non-financial KPIs. In assessing the performance of the Statutory Board, great value is attached to their performance as a team. The Supervisory Board evaluates both the performance of the Statutory Board as a whole and that of the individual Statutory Board members on an annual basis. Performance discussions are held with the individual members. The Statutory Board also annually evaluates its own functioning as a whole and that of its individual members. If an individual Statutory Board member underperforms, they will be held accountable. If no improvement is realised, the Statutory Board member can be dismissed by the Supervisory Board at any time. Van Lanschot Kempen has developed a set of KPIs focusing on long-term value creation. These financial and non-financial KPIs reflect both the interests of stakeholders and our ambitions as a wealth manager. They are in line with the company’s values and will be reassessed from time to time. The KPIs that are relevant from a strategy and stakeholder perspective are disclosed in the “Performance report” on page 30. These KPIs are also applicable to the members of the Statutory Board. Van Lanschot Kempen aims for the KPIs and performance management applicable to the Statutory Board to be fully aligned with the rest of the organisation. Progress report 76 Our remuneration policy at a glance The remuneration policy for members of Van Lanschot Our remuneration policy aims to ensure a balanced, Kempen’s Statutory Board was approved and adopted by sustainable and competitive remuneration package. the AGM on 31 May 2018, and applied from 1 January The key features of our remuneration policy are as follows: 2018. The remuneration policy for the Executive Board is similar to the Statutory Board remuneration policy. Purpose Operation Fixed salary – cash To reflect the scale and complexity of our company, Fixed salary in cash, paid during the year in 12 instalments, taking enabling us to attract and retain the highest calibre into account the following factors: talent needed to continue the company’s transformation – L evel of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities and growth – B usiness performance, scarcity of talent, economic climate and market conditions – D evelopments elsewhere within Van Lanschot Kempen, including pay ratios – D evelopments in our external comparator groups (which are used for reference purposes only) Fixed salary – shares To reflect the scale and complexity of our company, Fixed salary in shares, paid in one instalment: enabling us to attract and retain the highest calibre talent – A lock-up period of five years applies to these shares needed; to align rewards with long-term sustainable performance; and to align the interests of the Statutory Board with shareholders Share ownership To align the interests of the Statutory Board with those Statutory Board members must hold Van Lanschot Kempen shares guidelines of shareholders with a value equal to or above the cash portion of two years’ gross salary (for as long as they remain in office). They can gradually meet this requirement over the years. If the share price is not performing, the Statutory Board members must keep increasing their holdings Pension and To recognise competitive practice – T he members of the Statutory Board are responsible for their own disability insurance pension provision, towards which they receive a fixed cash payment of 30% of their fixed remuneration. This percentage is in line with our reference market – T  hey also receive a payment of 2.59% of their fixed remuneration for taking out disability insurance – T  here are no early retirement schemes for Statutory Board members – W  e monitor external developments regarding alignment between executive pensions and broader employee pension arrangements, and the possible impact that these may have in the Netherlands Remuneration of the Statutory Board in 2019 The remuneration paid to our Statutory Board in 2019 and 2018 was as follows: Total remuneration of the individual members of the Statutory Board in 2019 5 (€1,000) Karl Guha Constant Korthout Arjan Huisman Richard Bruens 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Fixed salary in cash 773 773 438 438 438 438 438 438 Fixed salary in shares6 387 387 312 312 312 312 312 312 Total fixed salary 1,160 1,160 750 750 750 750 750 750 Pension and disability insurance 378 378 244 244 244 244 244 244 Total remuneration7 1,538 1,538 994 994 994 994 994 994 5 To be able to make a comparison between 2019 and 2018, the same definition of total remuneration (total fixed salary plus pension and disability insurance) has been used. Business expenses have not been included. 6 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for Van Lanschot Kempen shares differ due to treatment under IFRS 2. For 2019, expenses under IFRS for Karl Guha amounted to €432 (2018: €404), for Constant Korthout to €346 (2018: €324), for Arjan Huisman to €346 (2018: €324), and for Richard Bruens to €346 (2018: €324). A proportion of fixed salary is paid in the form of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. Karl Guha received 18,953 (2018: 15,165) shares while the other members of the Statutory Board each received 15,273 (2018: 12,168) shares. The number of shares granted is based on the average share price for the first four trading days in a year. For 2019, the average share price amounted to €20.45 (2018: tranche 1 €26.28 and tranche 2 €24.53). IFRS takes the share price at grant date as the basis for recognition. This price also amounted to €20.45 in 2019 (2018: tranche 1 €26.28 and tranche 2 €24.53). 7 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for total remuneration differ due to treatment under IFRS 2. For 2019, expenses under IFRS for Karl Guha amounted to €1,580 (2018: €1,555), for Constant Korthout to €1,028 (2018: €1,006), for Arjan Huisman to €1,028 (2018: €1,006), and for Richard Bruens to €1,028 (2018: €1,006). Progress report 77 Compliance with the remuneration policy Our external reference market consists of the following types We have continued to ensure that decisions on Statutory of companies: Board remuneration are made in accordance with our policy, – Specialist wealth management companies: We are a as approved by our shareholders and in the context of (highly) specialist company, and need to be able to attract developments inside and outside Van Lanschot Kempen. We specialists to further grow the business. As there are no have not made use of any discretion when applying the policy. other standalone specialist wealth management companies of comparable size in the Netherlands, we look Total remuneration management at companies active in Western Europe. We take into We review total remuneration for the Statutory Board account standalone companies, broadly comparable in periodically, taking into account internal and external terms of number of employees. considerations. –  Dutch banks: Although not all of the banks are directly comparable in terms of activities and size, these companies Internal pay ratios, fairness and wider workforce are subject to the same regulatory framework and are part considerations of the same public debate. When adopting the Statutory Board remuneration package, –  Other Dutch companies: Although other banks and we consider pay ratios within the company – attaching specialist wealth management companies are important importance to the need for a sound pay ratio. A comparison from a talent market perspective, our talent pool does not of the remuneration package of the CEO and the average only consist of financial services companies. For example, labour cost 8 of an employee within Van Lanschot Kempen in pursuing our wealth management strategy, experience results in a pay ratio of 10:1 (2018 ratio: 10:1). The in digitalisation and advanced analytics is key. Because of development of the pay ratio is discussed annually with the this, our peer group also consists of other, non-financial Works Council. Dutch companies. These companies are larger than ours, reflecting our experience that talent suitable for our As part of the review of Statutory Board remuneration, we Statutory Board is likely to be attracted (and lost) to larger take into account the remuneration policies in place across companies. the wider workforce. This includes considering the structure of remuneration packages at each level of the business to The proposed peer group is in line with requirements as laid ensure there is a strong rationale for how these evolve across down in the Dutch Banking Code. This code prescribes that the different levels of the organisation. In 2019, we decided the peer group should be composed of comparable positions to abolish the fixed expense allowance for the members of both inside and outside the financial industry, including the the Statutory Board from 2020, in line with the rest of our relevant international context. The composition of the peer employees. Business expenses will be reimbursed on a group is set out in the table below. declaration basis. For more detailed information on Statutory Board Statutory Board peer group remuneration versus remuneration for the wider workforce Specialist wealth Dutch banks Other Dutch (as well as company performance), see “Supplementary management companies disclosure related to Statutory Board remuneration” on companies page 78. BIL ABN AMRO Aegon External considerations Degroof Petercam ING Groep ASML We periodically assess the remuneration levels of the Statutory Board versus external market levels. For this Julius Bär NIBC Bank Boskalis Westminster purpose, we use a well-balanced, focused group of companies, which reflects our talent market for Statutory Board positions. KBL Rabobank DSM This serves as one of many checks in the determination of remuneration levels. Lombard Odier KPN We are convinced that market capitalisation does not drive Vontobel NN Group talent. Our talent market is much broader than that of our Vopak direct competitors. This is evidenced by our current Statutory Board members, who were consistently hired from top-notch larger firms. The relevant market includes both financial services companies and non-financial industry companies, As for the Statutory Board’s overall total remuneration level, both Dutch and international companies, and companies that the objective is to remain competitive and to occupy a are similar to and larger in size than Van Lanschot Kempen. position below the median of the peer group. When The relative size of the company versus our competitors drives establishing more specific positioning against market data, the need to attract better people than the competition. we take into account that some of the companies are Prompted by our business strategy, we are willing to pay for substantially larger than ours. As a result, the current the best people in the market. Typically, this talent comes from remuneration packages of our Statutory Board members companies that are larger than ours. occupy a position far below the median of the peer group. 8 The average labour cost is calculated by dividing total staff costs by the number of FTEs working for Van Lanschot Kempen. Progress report 78 Following feedback from stakeholders, in 2019 we asked found that the CEO and CFO are still placed below median WTW to update the market assessment for the Statutory market levels (in the 40 th percentile for the CEO and 44th Board. No changes were made in the companies selected, percentile for the CFO), while the other Statutory Board but we asked WTW to benchmark one level deeper in the members are placed at median market levels. organisation for the larger firms in the peer group (at similar job levels). This means that our CEO was compared with Statutory Board performance positions that report to the CEO (CEO-1 level); for the other As indicated in our approach to remuneration, the Statutory Board positions, divisional heads were included performance of the Statutory Board is assessed based on that report to CEO-1 level (i.e. CEO-2). As these positions non-financial and financial KPIs. For 2019, the following do not have formal board responsibilities, a standard board KPIs (relevant from a strategic and stakeholder perspective) premium (in line with market practice) was applied to the were included in the Performance report, and were base salary levels. Based on this updated analysis, we specifically included in the KPIs of the Statutory Board: KPI Target 2023 Result 2019 9 Supervisory Board assessment 2019 Financial CET 1 ratio 15-17% 23.8% Excellent Return on equity (CET 1) 10-12% 10.5%10 Below target Efficiency ratio 70-72% 75.5%11 Below target Non-financial Net Promoter Score (NPS) a) Private Banking 10 23 Excellent b) Evi 10 10 On target c) Asset Management 20 31 On target Employee engagement score > 80% 82% On target In addition to these, the members of the Statutory Board and transformation of the workforce. As of 2020, the KPIs had KPIs regarding operating profit, level of operating of the Statutory Board will be further aligned with the KPIs expenses, net inflow of assets under management, risk included in the Performance report (which is externally appetite, diversity and inclusion, activating our full potential, disclosed). Supplementary disclosure related to Statutory Board remuneration Annual change in Statutory Board remuneration versus wider workforce and company performance 201413 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 12 CEO remuneration (€1,000) 1,255 1,193 1,193 1,229 1,538 1,538 Other Statutory Board members’ 865 772 772 795 994 994 remuneration12 (€1,000) Average employee remuneration (€1,000) 126 130 134 138 149 148 Underlying net profit (€ million) 54.2 60.1 81.3 112.3 103.0 108.8 The members of the Supervisory Board only received fixed €127,000 (highest full-time amount in 2019). For more remuneration during the years covered by the table above, information see “Remuneration of the Supervisory Board ranging from €53,000 (lowest full-time amount in 2014) to in 2019” on page 79. 9 Van Lanschot Kempen set its targets for 2023. The 2019 targets differ from the 2023 targets because of the annual development towards these future goals. 10 Including book profit of VLC & Partners, AIO II and impairment of Kempen Merchant Banking. If these one-offs are excluded, the return on equity would be 8.6%. 11 Including book profit of VLC & Partners. Excluding this book profit, the efficiency ratio would be 78.1%. 12 Total remuneration awarded. 13 For 2014, the Statutory Board only accepted 50% of the variable remuneration they were entitled to, given the transformation process of Van Lanschot Kempen and the long-term interests of the company and its stakeholders. The actual total remuneration awarded to the CEO was €1,087, and to the other Statutory Board members €695. Progress report 79 Number of shares held by Statutory Board members in 2019 At 1 January 2019 Bought/awarded Sold/post-employment At 31 December 2019 Karl Guha 52,502 11,220 – 63,722 Constant Korthout 53,001 9,041 – 62,042 Arjan Huisman 32,614 9,041 – 41,655 Richard Bruens 48,936 9,041 – 58,004 Total 187,080 38,343 – 225,423 At 31 December 2019, the members of the Statutory Board directors of Van Lanschot Kempen, subject to the approval held no options for shares. of the Remuneration Committee. Loans to Statutory Board members are only granted within No advances or guarantees have been granted to members the scope of normal operations and in keeping with of the Statutory Board.14 No impairments or write-offs have conditions laid down in the financial services regulations for occurred on loans granted to Statutory Board members. Loans to Statutory Board members at 31 December 2019 (€1,000) At 31 December 2019 Repaid Interest Collateral Karl Guha – – – Constant Korthout – 357 2.30% Mortgage – 150 1.90% Mortgage Arjan Huisman – 80 Floating Mortgage Richard Bruens 600 – 1.90% Mortgage 519 18 1.72% Mortgage 256 8 1.72% Mortgage Total 1,375 613 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019 The remuneration policy for members of the Supervisory Board was adopted by the AGM on 31 May 2018 and applied Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019 (€1,000) from 1 January 2018. The remuneration of the Supervisory 2019 2018 Board is summarised in the tables below. Willy Duron 127 127 Manfred Schepers 95 95 Remuneration Chairman ViceMember Supervisory Board Chairman Frans Blom (from 5 October 2018) 77 19 Supervisory Board €90,000 €70,000 €60,000 Jeanine Helthuis 76 76 Audit and Compliance €15,000 €10,000 Bernadette Langius 80 79 Committee Godfried van Lanschot (until 31 May 2018) – 32 Risk Committee €15,000 €10,000 Maarten Muller (from 31 May 2018) 73 43 Remuneration Committee €10,000 €7,000 Lex van Overmeire 85 85 Selection and €10,000 €6,000 Appointment Committee No share-based remuneration, loans, advances or guarantees have been granted to the members of the Supervisory Board. 14 Arjan Huisman has an ongoing credit facility up to €400,000. At 31 December 2019, there were no withdrawals. Progress report 80 The Supervisory Board peer group is composed of Dutch pool funding) depends on achievement of financial and banks and Dutch listed companies that operate a two-tier non-financial KPIs. The size of the pool is subject to board structure. As a specialist wealth manager in the Supervisory Board approval. Once the size of the variable financial sector, Van Lanschot Kempen wants to be able to remuneration pool has been established, the Statutory and appoint and retain high-quality Supervisory Board members. Executive Boards decide how the pool will be allocated. Variable remuneration allocation Supervisory Board peer group The individual allocation of variable remuneration is dependent on individual performance, market Dutch banks Dutch companies with a two-tier board structure competitiveness and special factors. ABN AMRO Aegon KPN Individual performance is measured by assessing the ING Groep Ahold Delhaize NN Group achievement of KPIs, as set at the beginning of the year. These indicators can be financial and non-financial, with NIBC Bank Akzo Nobel Philips some departments applying only non-financial criteria. For Rabobank ASML Holding Randstad Holding the departments that use both financial and non-financial indicators, at least 50% of the allocation of any variable Boskalis Westminster SBM Offshore remuneration is based on non-financial criteria, such as DSM Vopak showing the desired professional behaviour, improving Heineken Wolters Kluwer client satisfaction, developing new products or solutions for clients, and improving internal processes, policies or systems. The financial performance indicators include nothing that might encourage irresponsible risk-taking. Remuneration of other employees Variable remuneration is only awarded if: We aim to provide a remuneration package for all employees – Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial position allows; that is market-competitive and fair. Our remuneration policy – It is justified by the performance of Van Lanschot for other employees is in line with our strategy and purpose, Kempen, the relevant business line and the individual and contributes to long-term value creation. employee; – Van Lanschot Kempen meets the prevailing buffer Fixed remuneration requirements under the EU’s Capital Requirements Employees’ fixed remuneration reflects their relevant work Regulation (CRR), the Dutch Financial Supervision Act experience and organisational responsibilities. In 2019, (Wft) and its implementing legislation; we implemented a new job and career framework that – The risks taken have been reassessed and no material consistently links the weight of each job to a pay line. risks have occurred that were not expected or factored in; The pay lines are based on external market data, and are – The employee has received a good performance differentiated to ensure we pay market-competitive salaries assessment, has met compliance targets, has not been across the organisation. The new pay lines are fully subject to disciplinary measures, and has not taken any transparent, promote better pay-for-performance focus, risks that fall outside Van Lanschot Kempen’s accepted and have been set up with clear guidelines on pay-related risk appetite. decisions and governance. As part of the new job and career framework, we have substantially reduced the number of Variable remuneration pay-out legacy arrangements within the organisation, and we have Variable remuneration up to €50,000 gross is paid out in modernised and streamlined the benefits package. cash directly. Above this amount, 50% of any variable remuneration is paid out directly, whereas the other 50% is Variable remuneration deferred for a period of three years. Pay-out of the deferral is Our variable remuneration policies cover all employees conditional on Van Lanschot Kempen meeting the prevailing (excluding the members of the Statutory Board). Each buffer requirements (as mentioned before). individual grant is subject to meeting the criteria as described in this section. The Statutory Board may, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, hold or claw back all or part of the Our variable remuneration policies comply with all relevant pay-out if pay-outs have taken place on the basis of incorrect laws and regulations. The average variable remuneration information, or have been made in conflict with the variable of all Van Lanschot Kempen employees who work (largely) remuneration policy and/or applicable legislation and in the Netherlands does not exceed 20% of their fixed regulations: remuneration. However, for a small number of employees, – Deferred, conditional, variable remuneration previously we may grant variable remuneration of up to 100% of fixed awarded to an employee (or former employee), if remuneration. These deviations require separate approval payment of the variable remuneration would be from the Supervisory Board. considered unfair or unreasonable (hold back); – Unconditional variable remuneration previously paid to Variable remuneration funding an employee (or former employee). This might occur if, The Statutory and Executive Boards annually establish a for instance, payment was based on incorrect information variable remuneration pool, from which individual variable about performance or about the conditions on which the remuneration awards are made. The size of the pool (or the variable remuneration depended (claw back). Progress report 81 Remuneration in 2019 Remuneration policy governance Variable remuneration totalling €14.7 million was paid The Statutory Board sets the remuneration policy for to employees (including identified staff) over 2019 employees, based on the advice of the Human Resource (2018: €16.2 million). One person received total annual Management, Finance, Reporting & Control, Group Risk remuneration of over €1 million in 2019. Management and Compliance departments. These, together with Group Audit, have an important part to play in setting Long-term share plan up, adjusting, implementing and reviewing our variable Our 2011 long-term share plan (LTP) allows us to award remuneration policy. They advise the Statutory and variable remuneration in the form of Van Lanschot Kempen Supervisory Boards and report to them on their conclusions. shares to certain key employees (including identified staff). 60% of each award is unconditional, whereas 40% of each The Statutory Board is responsible for implementing the award is deferred for a period of three years. Pay-out of the remuneration policy. The Supervisory Board approves the deferral is conditional on Van Lanschot Kempen meeting the variable remuneration policy, including its general principles, prevailing buffer requirements (as mentioned before). and oversees its implementation. Approval by the Supervisory Board is also required for the variable Profit-sharing scheme remuneration pools, any significant16 individual variable In 2017 and 2018, a profit-sharing scheme was applied for remuneration, and for individual variable remuneration all Van Lanschot Kempen employees working in the proposed for employees designated as identified staff. Netherlands. In 2019, the conditions were not met. It was The Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Committee prepares agreed with the Works Councils that the profit-sharing the Supervisory Board’s decision-making on remuneration scheme will no longer be applied as of 2020, and that the and advises it in this area. More information about the new integrated Works Council will discuss alternatives in remuneration policy for identified staff can be found in our 2020 together with the Executive Board. 2019 Pillar 3 disclosure on remuneration. Pensions Until 2019, there were separate pension plans for Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management (previously Van Lanschot) and for Kempen & Co. As of 2020, all our employees will participate in a new Van Lanschot Kempen defined contribution pension plan. The Statutory Board members do not participate in this plan as they receive an individual pension contribution. We monitor external developments regarding alignment between executive pensions and broader employee pension arrangements, and the possible impact that these may have in the Netherlands. Remuneration policy for identified staff Identified staff are employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the business. For these employees, performance measurement is the same as for other employees, but additional rules for the pay-out of variable remuneration apply. As a general rule, any pay-out to identified staff is made 50% in cash and 50% in Van Lanschot Kempen shares. As an exception15 to this, the variable remuneration of identified staff working at Kempen Capital Management is paid 50% in cash and 50% in a flexible mix of Van Lanschot Kempen shares and investments in funds managed. A lock-up period of one year applies to the shares that have become unconditional. In all cases, 60% of the award is paid out unconditionally (both the cash part and the non-cash part), whereas 40% is conditionally deferred for a period of three years. Pay-out of the deferral is conditional on a re-assessment of the five conditions mentioned for any award of regular variable remuneration. If this re-assessment leads to an adjustment of the deferred remuneration, the hold and/or claw-back system applies. 15 Based on AIFMD and UCITS guidelines on sound remuneration policies. 16 More than 50% of fixed remuneration. Report of the Supervisory Board 82 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD This report gives an overview of the activities ambitions and create long-term value for our stakeholders (see page 30). of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2019. A description of the composition and Structure and functioning of internal risk management Van Lanschot Kempen’s principal risks, as well as the operation of the Supervisory Board is set out in structure and functioning of its risk management and control systems, are discussed by the Risk Committee. the notes on corporate governance (see page 89). In 2019, the committee’s chairman regularly reported its conclusions and recommendations to the Supervisory Board. Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite statement is The report includes the achievement of corporate targets, subject to the Supervisory Board’s annual approval. The the relationship with stakeholders and the relevant aspects statement for 2020 was approved at the Board’s December of corporate and social responsibility. It covers the internal meeting. The 2020-22 capital and funding plan was also organisation as well as the meetings of the Supervisory discussed and approved at the December meeting. Board and its committees. It also covers the annual evaluation of the functioning of the Supervisory Board, Financial reporting its committees and individual members. Financial reporting is discussed regularly at the Audit and Compliance Committee’s meetings, which are also attended Supervision by the external auditors. In 2019, the committee gave special attention to Van Lanschot Kempen’s fiscal policy and Achievement of corporate targets group standard tax principles, compliance with the The Supervisory Board can reflect on a strong year for obligations under anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist Van Lanschot Kempen, as is proven by the strong increase financing legislation, the replacement of IBOR as interbank in client assets, driven by the net inflow of assets under rate, the impact of the new standard IFRS 16 (Leases) on management in both Private Banking and Asset Management. Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial statements and capital With interest rates historically low, it’s a very challenging position, and the 2019 interim financial statements. After environment for our savers and pension funds. These interest each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports on rates also put pressure on our own interest income results. committee discussions to the full Supervisory Board. All members of the Supervisory Board attended the Audit and Various actions by management had an impact on cost levels Compliance Committee’s meetings in 2019 at which the in 2019, and resulted in an improved efficiency ratio. 2018 annual figures and 2019 half-year figures were Advanced analytics and digital technology provided us with discussed. The Supervisory Board approved the financial better insights and delivered efficiencies to drive down costs. statements for 2018 on 20 February 2019. As a financial services company, complying with laws and The Supervisory Board decided to propose to the general regulations is a priority for Van Lanschot Kempen. The meeting held on 22 May 2019 that it reappoint efforts required to operate in compliance with regulatory PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV (PwC) as requirements continue to grow and are putting a strain on external auditors for the 2020 financial year. The general our resources. meeting has reappointed PwC as external auditors for the 2020 financial year. In December 2019, the Supervisory The capital position has been strengthened further, which Board decided to propose the reappointment of PwC for allowed us to provide our shareholders with a capital return the 2021 financial year to the general meeting to be held in December 2019. on 28 May 2020. The structure of Van Lanschot Kempen has been simplified Legal and regulatory compliance through a legal merger of Van Lanschot NV and The quarterly reports of the Compliance department were Kempen & Co NV, in order to achieve further efficiency discussed by the Audit and Compliance Committee. These improvements and process simplification. This legal merger meetings were also attended by the Director of Compliance. is very much in line with our strategy to act and operate as The Supervisory Board is regularly provided with information one group. on developments regarding the compliance framework; further development of the compliance programme; and The company’s ambition to shift from responsible to group-wide projects to strengthen policies and control sustainable investing is gaining traction, as evidenced by arrangements, especially with respect to anti-money our sustainable engagement score that’s in line with laundering and anti-terrorist financing, sanctions and CDD industry benchmarks. processes, and the supervision of the regulatory authorities regarding compliance with regulations. The Supervisory Competition for talent requires modern and attractive Board was also informed periodically about the ongoing employment conditions; we were therefore pleased with the implementation of new legislation and regulations such as transition to new conditions from 2020 onwards, including the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, the EBA and a single pension plan for all employees. ESMA Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of members of the management body and key function A new set of financial and non-financial KPIs was introduced holders, and the Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRD II). during 2018, which allowed us to track progress on our Report of the Supervisory Board 83 Relationship with stakeholders Internal organisation The Supervisory Board regularly discussed Van Lanschot Kempen’s relationship with its shareholders. The most Composition of the Statutory and Executive Boards important topics discussed were the general development The composition of the Statutory Board has not changed of Van Lanschot Kempen, the progress made on executing since 2014. From 2015 onwards, the Statutory Board has, the company’s wealth management strategy, and in principle, been taking its decisions at the Executive Van Lanschot Kempen’s strong capital base, which enabled Board’s meetings. The composition of the Executive Board it to make a capital return payment to its shareholders in also remained the same in 2019, consisting of Karl Guha December 2019. (Chairman), Constant Korthout, Arjan Huisman, Richard Bruens, Leni Boeren and Leonne van der Sar. In January A delegation of the Remuneration Committee of the 2020, Leonne van der Sar informed the Executive and Supervisory Board had engagement meetings with a broad Supervisory Boards that she has decided to pursue other group of Van Lanschot Kempen’s shareholders and other interests and will therefore step down as member of the stakeholders to discuss the consequences of SRD II on the Executive Board in the course of 2020. We greatly company’s remuneration policy for the Statutory and appreciate her work for Kempen Merchant Banking and Supervisory Boards. The structure and content of the thank her for her dedication to Van Lanschot Kempen in remuneration policies remained unchanged. However, recent years, wishing her well in her future endeavours. additional explanatory text was included in the remuneration policy in accordance with the requirements Composition of the Supervisory Board of SRD II. For further information, see page 72. The composition of the Supervisory Board did not change in 2019. According to schedule, Willy Duron’s and Bernadette In December 2019, Jeanine Helthuis and Maarten Muller Langius’s terms of office as members of the Supervisory attended the Works Council’s meeting with the Executive Board expired in May 2019. Willy Duron had been a Board, at which the general course of business at member of the Supervisory Board for 12 years, the last Van Lanschot Kempen was discussed. Willy Duron and three of which as its chairman. Although the recruitment Frans Blom also held a meeting with the chairmen of the and selection process started promptly, the Supervisory Works Councils to discuss the size and composition of the Board concluded that it would take more time to find a Statutory and Supervisory Boards. The process for the suitable successor. The Supervisory Board therefore asked selection of a new member of the Supervisory Board, to be Willy Duron if he was available for reappointment as a appointed on the basis of the enhanced right of member of the Supervisory Board for another term of two recommendation of the Works Council, was discussed and years, to which he agreed. This gives Van Lanschot Kempen agreed with the chairmen of the Works Councils before the more time to find a suitable successor. Willy Duron was start of the selection process. Since January 2020, the reappointed as member of the Supervisory Board by the Works Councils of Van Lanschot and Kempen have merged annual general meeting in May 2019 for a term of two into the integrated Van Lanschot Kempen Works Council. years. Bernadette Langius was reappointed for a term of The Supervisory Board values its constructive relationship four years. with the Works Council. Supervisory Board meetings Relevant aspects of corporate social responsibility The Supervisory Board held nine meetings in 2019. The In December, the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Board attends the formal meetings of the (CSR) and the Director of Impact and Responsible Supervisory Board and prepares detailed supporting Investment informed the Supervisory Board about the main information. Regular items on the agenda of these meetings developments in the field of sustainability. They explained included the company’s strategy, developments within the that, in 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen updated its materiality various business lines, corporate governance, risk matrix, strengthened its CSR strategy (“from responsible to management, IT and operations, results and the annual sustainable”) and harmonised the various ESG and sustainable budget. In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed the investment solutions for clients. The Supervisory Board was simplification of the legal structure of Van Lanschot also informed about the decision to increase Van Lanschot Kempen through a legal merger between Van Lanschot NV Kempen’s offsetting of carbon emissions to 100% as of and Kempen & Co NV, the harmonisation and modernisation 2019. In addition, the Risk Committee was informed about of the group’s employment conditions, external target progress made on applying the responsible lending policy. setting for 2023, the return of capital to shareholders, the Based on the way CSR is integrated in the organisation cloud strategy of Van Lanschot Kempen, the group’s fiscal – e.g. in policies, products and reporting – the Supervisory policy and most important tax developments, and the Board concluded that Van Lanschot Kempen has taken amendments to the regulations of the Supervisory Board significant steps in the area of CSR over the years. In view and its committees, the Statutory Board and the Executive of the continuous developments in this field as well as Board. evolution towards a more purpose-driven and value-based leadership within companies, CSR remains a topic that The Supervisory Board also held nine additional meetings requires ongoing attention from Van Lanschot Kempen with Supervisory Board members only. These closed going forward. meetings give the Supervisory Board the opportunity to reflect on the agenda items and discuss possible concerns in advance of the regular meetings, as well as to discuss matters such as the composition of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards and the evaluation of the functioning of both boards. The Chairman of the Executive Board was invited to attend some of these closed meetings, depending on the topics being discussed. Report of the Supervisory Board 84 The table below shows the composition of Supervisory In addition, the Supervisory Board held a closed meeting to Board committees, and the attendance rate of each member discuss the outcome of the evaluation of the functioning of of the Supervisory Board at the Board and committee the Board itself, its individual members and its committees, meetings. and to allow for more informal discussions between the Supervisory Board members. For further information, see The Supervisory Board received all information needed to page 87. perform its tasks from the Executive Board and the external auditors. Employees from within the organisation regularly Supervisory Board committees attended meetings to provide additional information on specific topics within their respective fields. The agendas Composition of Supervisory Board committees for Supervisory Board meetings were drawn up by the The Supervisory Board has appointed four committees from Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman of among its members. Each committee advises the the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board and prepares decision-making by the Board in its designated area of interest. The Supervisory Board remains fully responsible for all decisions. Composition and Supervisory Board Audit and Risk Committee Selection and Remuneration attendance rate Compliance Appointment Committee Committee Committee Willy Duron 94.4% 100% 100% 100% 60% (Chair) (Chair) Manfred Schepers 94.4% 60% 100% (Chair) Jeanine Helthuis 100% 100% 100% 100%1 Bernadette Langius 94.4% 100% 80% (Chair) Lex van Overmeire 100% 100% 100% (Chair) Maarten Muller 100% 89.9% 80% Frans Blom 100% 100% 100% 1 As of 1 December 2019. Audit and Compliance Committee The Audit and Compliance Committee held five meetings in The Audit and Compliance Committee carried out a detailed 2019. These meetings were attended by a delegation from assessment of the annual figures, half-year figures, and the Statutory Board. The external auditors and the directors information used for the trading updates and the proposal of Group Audit, Compliance, and Finance, Reporting & for a capital return to the shareholders of €1.50 per share. Control were also present at the meetings. The Audit and The committee considered significant financial items in Compliance Committee also met with the internal and relation to the company’s financial statements and external auditors without the members of the Statutory disclosures, which are shown in the table. Board being present to discuss the course of affairs during the financial year. Key items for discussion Audit and Compliance Committee review and conclusion Impairments of loans and advances to the public and private sectors On the basis of periodic management reports and the outcome of the Impairments for individually identifiable loans are based on IFRS 9. audit procedures performed by our auditor, we challenged the Van Lanschot Kempen recognises a loss allowance for expected credit completeness and accuracy of the impairments made. We discussed the losses (ECL) on all loans. The ECL is calculated by using purpose-built changes in loss allowances during the year as well as the loss allowances IFRS 9 models. For credit-impaired loans, the Credit Restructuring & recognised in the profit and loss statement. Recovery department provides input in determining the lifetime of ECL. Based on our discussion and considering the acceptable range in the Determining the appropriateness of the individual items involves context of estimate uncertainty, we agree with the methodology applied elements of judgement and requires management to make assumptions. by management in determining the provisions for impairments of loans and advances to the public and private sectors, and with the corresponding results. The disclosures relating to this item are set out in Note 7 to the financial statements. Report of the Supervisory Board 85 Key items for discussion Audit and Compliance Committee review and conclusion Fair value measurement of financial instruments For financial instruments traded in an active market (Level 1), the We were informed about the methods used for, and the outcome of, valuation is based on quoted prices and market data. There is limited management’s valuations of Level 2 and 3 financial instruments, including judgement involved in the fair value valuation of these instruments. For the governance around model and assumption changes. financial instruments not traded in an active market (Levels 2 and 3), management applies subjective judgement in the fair value valuation of We specifically discussed the adjustment made in the model used to these instruments. The fair value of Level 2 and 3 instruments is value structured products and were informed by management about the determined with the use of net present value models, option models or improvements made in the control framework regarding the structured the net asset value of the underlying investment. products activities. In addition, management informed us about the choice to use more prudent valuation assumptions for one of the In addition, for certain Level 3 instruments, Van Lanschot Kempen uses contracts that is part of the Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund. market and transaction multiples in the valuation. The nature of the instrument determines the model and data used. Based on our discussions and considering the acceptable range in the context of estimation uncertainty, we agree with the estimates applied in the fair valuation of the Level 2 and 3 financial instruments. Valuation of goodwill Van Lanschot Kempen annually conducts a goodwill impairment test We discussed in depth the goodwill impairment test conducted by regarding the valuation of goodwill on its balance sheet. This process is management. We were informed about the analyses made as part of the complex and subjective by nature as it is based on assumptions of future goodwill impairment test as well as their outcome. We made special market and economic conditions. The assumptions used include future cash inquiries into the decision of management to impair part of the goodwill of flow projections and, for each cash-generating unit (CGU), a cost of equity the CGU Merchant Banking and on the size of this impairment. used as a discount rate. We concur with the conclusions from the goodwill impairment test that were drawn by management. Fiscal policy and tax principles In 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen updated its fiscal policy, which is based on We reviewed and discussed the updated fiscal policy, including the tax a number of guiding tax principles. One of these principles is the will to principles and the fiscal objectives of Van Lanschot Kempen, based on comply with laws and regulations. We follow both the letter and the spirit which we approved the revised policy. of these laws and standards, both national and international. The tax principles are published on the corporate website, making them available to all stakeholders. The committee discussed the external auditors’ audit plan, results of reviews of the risk & control framework, the reports and the board report prior to their consideration by implementation and functioning of IT systems, the the full Supervisory Board. During these discussions, the outsourcing of IT (payments) systems, the management of committee discussed the audit scope, materiality and key the loan portfolio, and the impact of the strategy on the audit matters as reported by the auditors. The Audit and organisation. Quarterly reporting from Compliance covered Compliance Committee works closely with the Risk themes such as regulatory developments, compliance risk Committee on some key audit matters such as reliability management and monitoring, and actions to further and continuity of the IT environment and the fair value strengthen the control frameworks. Comprehensive measurement of specific financial instruments. In the information was provided on the harmonisation of policies, December meeting, the functioning of PwC in 2019 was procedures and control arrangements across the evaluated. The committee reviews the external auditors’ Van Lanschot Kempen group to ensure the prevention of independence, communication and fees every year. The money laundering and other financial crimes. The reports outcome of the evaluation resulted in the proposal to included information on the group-wide project to implement reappoint PwC for the 2021 financial year. all adjustments to systems and processes across the various business lines. Reporting on the implementation of, and The committee considered the annual plan and reports from adherence to, all applicable rules and regulations is also Group Audit and from Compliance. During the reporting provided in the reports. year, the structure of the Compliance department shifted towards a more harmonised approach across the Risk Committee Van Lanschot Kempen group. The annual plan for The Risk Committee met three times in 2019. Its meetings Compliance in 2020 is based on the new structure, with were also attended by the CFO/CRO, the Director of Group specific focus on financial crime prevention, company Risk Management and the Director of Credit Risk and Credit culture and awareness, control frameworks and Restructuring & Recovery. The committee paid detailed sustainability. The committee received information about attention to the credit, operational, market and interest rate contact and communication with regulators, and was kept risks to which the organisation is exposed. informed on supervisory actions such as thematic reviews (e.g. on IT risks) and reports conducted by De Nederlandsche The quarterly risk appetite reports were discussed by the Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority for the Financial Risk Committee. On a regular basis, specific attention was Markets (AFM). given to reviewing whether Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk profile was within the limits set in Van Lanschot Kempen’s The Audit and Compliance Committee discussed the risk appetite. In its meetings, the committee discussed quarterly reports of Group Audit and Compliance, as part credit risk, execution risk of specific change projects, data of its evaluation of the quality and effectiveness of management risk, cyber risk and business continuity risk. Van Lanschot Kempen’s governance, risk management and Interest rate and market risk developments were discussed internal control systems. Group Audit reports present the based on factors including duration analyses, the development Report of the Supervisory Board 86 of value at risk, and stress tests. The committee was also risk appetite statement for 2020 were discussed. Both informed about risk mitigation measures and developments documents were submitted to the Supervisory Board with a in several strategic projects, such as the outsourcing of positive recommendation. See vanlanschotkempen.com/en/ payment services to Fidor and the redevelopment of the governance (“Banking Code”) for the principles on which IRB model. Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite is based. At the committee’s December 2019 meeting, the capital In 2019, the Risk Committee gave special attention to the and funding plan for 2020-22 and Van Lanschot Kempen’s topics in the table below. Key items for discussion Risk Committee review and conclusion Non-financial risk With the execution of the wealth management strategy on track, Management informed us about the developments in the risk profile Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial risk profile is generally decreasing, across the organisation and all mitigating measures taken by Risk while its operational risk profile is slowly increasing. This is partly due Management. Attention was also paid to value change assessments. to the higher number of assets under management. Based on this information, we conclude that non-financial risks are being adequately monitored, and several initiatives have been taken to further reduce these risks. Cybercrime Cybercrime is and will remain one of the main threats facing the financial Management informed us about the progress of the ambitious Cyber 5.0 services industry. With our scale and budget, we need to follow a plans. In addition to technological defence measures, emphasis is on risk-based approach and develop intelligent solutions. security awareness and responsiveness. We conclude that sufficient resources and attention are being dedicated to this important topic. Credit risk Developments concerning risks in the overall loan portfolio, including the The Risk Committee received quarterly risk reports, including reporting on non-performing part of the loan portfolio, were thoroughly reviewed and credit risk, and notes an ongoing improvement in both the performing and discussed. the non-performing parts of the loan portfolio. We conclude that credit risk is still decreasing and that developments in the loan portfolio are proceeding according to plan. Moreover, we were informed about the project to upgrade the IRB models in line with the new IRB regulations. Robustness of IT environment Van Lanschot Kempen is dependent on its IT environment for the reliability We were informed about the progress made on the major IT projects within and continuity of its operations and financial reporting. In 2019, the Van Lanschot Kempen and their implementation so far. Management outsourcing of the payment system to Fidor was a major IT project; this informed us that several high-impact projects have been successfully change enables Van Lanschot Kempen to focus more on its core activities. completed and the risk has decreased. We discussed the fact that certain projects, such as the outsourcing of payments and the migration of the Belgian Private Banking infrastructure to the Dutch Private Banking infrastructure, are high risk. Continuous attention from all stakeholders is necessary to mitigate these risks. Selection and Appointment Committee remuneration of Van Lanschot Kempen staff for 2019 was The Selection and Appointment Committee met nine times in among the topics discussed at the December meeting. 2019 to discuss the recruitment and selection process and succession planning for new members of the Supervisory Consequences of SRD II on the company’s remuneration policy Board, as well as the composition of the Statutory Board. The SRD II requires additional context to be included in the composition of the Supervisory and Statutory Boards was also remuneration policies for the Statutory and Supervisory discussed during the closed sessions of the Supervisory Board. Boards. A delegation of the Remuneration Committee held engagement meetings with a broad group of Van Lanschot Remuneration Committee Kempen’s stakeholders. During these meetings, we On 1 December 2019, Jeanine Helthuis became a member of obtained a clear understanding of their views on the the Remuneration Committee. As a result of new legislation to implementation of SRD II and on Van Lanschot Kempen’s implement SRD II, Supervisory Board members who are remuneration policies for the Statutory and Supervisory appointed through the Works Council’s enhanced right of Boards. The remuneration structure for both the Statutory recommendation will automatically become members of the and Supervisory Boards will remain unchanged in 2020. To Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee held be compliant with SRD II, particular additions were included five meetings in 2019. The Chairman of the Executive Board in the remuneration policies to explain our approach to was present at three of the Remuneration Committee’s remuneration. We believe the additional context does not meetings. The HR Director and other experts were invited to qualify as a material change to our remuneration policy. We these meetings when required. At its February meeting, the attach great value to the consent of our shareholders and committee discussed the performance appraisal of the will therefore put the remuneration policies for the Statutory members of the Executive Board in 2018 and their individual and Supervisory Boards to vote at the general meeting on targets for 2019. The 2018 remuneration report was 28 May 2020. Further details on the remuneration policy of discussed, as was the 2018 variable remuneration paid to staff the Statutory Board can be found in the remuneration of Van Lanschot Kempen. The amount available for variable report on page 76. Report of the Supervisory Board 87 In addition, the Remuneration Committee paid specific On-boarding programme attention to the preparation of the remuneration report, which All new members of the Supervisory Board complete an was drawn up in accordance with the new requirements extensive on-boarding programme when appointed. The based on the law under which SRD II must be implemented. programme is tailor-made for each newly appointed The remuneration report will be submitted to the annual member of the Supervisory Board, as their knowledge and general meeting in May 2020 for an advisory vote. experience varies. The aim of the on-boarding programme is to ensure that new members have thorough knowledge Assuring supervision quality of Van Lanschot Kempen and its business activities in order to fulfil their role within the Supervisory Board. Evaluation of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board performs an annual evaluation of Education the functioning of the Supervisory Board, its committees The members of the Supervisory and Executive Boards took and individual members. The evaluation is carried out under part in the continuing education programme. In 2019, two the guidance of an external adviser once every three years. continuing education sessions were organised. Topics The 2019 evaluation process was carried out using a covered included: questionnaire completed by each board member. Included – Digitalisation and advanced analytics; in the evaluation are the participation and contribution of – The evolving landscape of asset management; each member of the Supervisory Board, the knowledge and – Van Lanschot Kempen’s equity investors and their experience of the Supervisory Board collectively, the expectations. interaction and dynamics within the Supervisory Board, the These education sessions were positively rated by the communication and provision of information, the decisionmembers of the Supervisory and Executive Boards. making process and the quality of the information provided for Supervisory Board meetings, the independence of mind Independence of the individual members, and the relationship with the All members of the Supervisory Board perform their duties Executive Board. The outcomes and recommendations from independently and critically. The independence requirements the evaluation were discussed by the Supervisory Board at described in best practice provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the the Supervisory Board meeting in February 2020; Dutch Corporate Governance Code have been fulfilled. recommendations will be implemented as a result. The Currently, there are no dependent members on the Supervisory Board concluded that the Board and its Supervisory Board. Willy Duron also qualifies as an committees are functioning well, and that its composition is independent Supervisory Board member within the in line with the required profile in terms of suitability, meaning of best practice provision 2.1.8 of the Dutch expertise and diversity, and also complies with Principle 2.1 Corporate Governance Code. Both as a member and as the of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The conclusions chairman of the Supervisory Board, he has invariably taken and recommendations relevant to the Executive Board will a highly independent stance in fulfilling his role and be shared with the Executive Board. responsibilities. He will continue to do so for the additional period for which he has been reappointed, giving Evaluation of the Statutory Board and Executive Board Van Lanschot Kempen time to complete the careful In February 2020, the Supervisory Board evaluated the process of selecting his successor. functioning of the Statutory Board and Executive Board as a whole and that of the individual members of both boards In the event of a potential conflict of interest relating to a on the basis of the key performance indicators (KPIs) for particular topic, the Supervisory Board member concerned 2019. The Supervisory Board sets the KPIs for the is not allowed to participate in discussions or decisionExecutive Board every year. The KPIs are divided into 50% making on that topic. Best practice provisions 2.7.3 to 2.7.4 financial KPIs, 40% non-financial KPIs and 10% personal of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code were observed as KPIs. The financial KPIs include the return on CET 1, costs, far as applicable. In 2019, there were no conflicts of interest operating profit before tax, risk appetite and efficiency ratio. of material significance for members of the Supervisory or The non-financial KPIs include employee engagement, Statutory Boards. activating our full potential, diversity and inclusion, and client NPS. For further information on performance against Financial statements these KPIs, see page 30. The assessment of the KPIs is The Supervisory Board has reviewed and approved the included as the basis for the collective assessment of the annual report for 2019 and the 2019 financial statements. Executive Board and the individual assessment of the The 2019 financial statements have been audited by the members of the Executive Board for 2019. The Supervisory external auditors, PwC. The independent auditors’ report Board concluded that the members of the Executive Board can be found on page 205. We invite the annual general both collectively and individually performed well in 2019. meeting to adopt the 2019 financial statements as The conclusions and recommendations relevant to the submitted and to discharge the Statutory Board in respect Statutory and Executive Boards were shared with the of its conduct of Van Lanschot Kempen’s affairs and the members of these boards. The 2020 KPIs for the Executive members of the Supervisory Board in respect of their Board are in line with Van Lanschot Kempen’s new financial supervision. and non-financial KPIs for 2020 (see page 19). The Executive Board evaluates its own functioning and effectiveness on a regular basis during its quarterly off-sites. Board members gave each other feedback on their strengths and points to consider, and reflected on these. Report of the Supervisory Board 88 Acknowledgements The Supervisory Board would like to thank all stakeholders for their continued trust and confidence in Van Lanschot Kempen. We value our cooperative relationship with the Executive Board, and would like to express our gratitude to the Board's members and all staff for their hard work and dedication in 2019. We would also like to compliment the Works Councils and the HR department. Together with the Executive Board, they have co-developed a set of new, modernised employment conditions for all Van Lanschot Kempen employees. These will enable the company to attract and retain talented professionals, while fitting our objectives to encourage internal job rotation and to activate our full potential. We believe the new employment conditions will be a differentiating factor in the labour market, which will safeguard the quality of Van Lanschot Kempen’s workforce now and in the future. ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 Supervisory Board Willy Duron, Chairman Manfred Schepers, Vice-Chairman Frans Blom Jeanine Helthuis Bernadette Langius Maarten Muller Lex van Overmeire Corporate governance 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The key elements of corporate governance at Previous structure Van Lanschot Kempen are set out below. The Articles of Association and various other Van Lanschot regulations and documents relating to Kempen NV corporate governance can be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/en/governance and Van Lanschot Private Banking Van Lanschot NV vanlanschotkempen.com/managementEvi van Lanschot supervision. Kempen & Co NV Kempen Merchant Banking Corporate governance structure Van Lanschot Kempen NV is the holding company of Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV and Kempen Capital Management NV. On 31 December 2019, Kempen & Co NV merged with Van Lanschot, and the name Kempen Capital Kempen Asset Management of Van Lanschot was changed to Van Lanschot Kempen Management NV Wealth Management NV (VLKWM) as a consequence. VLKWM holds all the shares in Kempen Capital Management NV. Van Lanschot Kempen holds all the shares in VLKWM. Structure as of 1 January 2020 The Private Banking, Evi and Merchant Banking activities are now all performed by VLKWM. The Asset Management activities continue to be performed by Kempen Capital Management. Van Lanschot Kempen NV Van Lanschot Kempen is a listed public limited company under Dutch law, governed by a two-tier board. The Statutory Board is responsible for managing the company, Van Lanschot Van Lanschot Private Banking while the Supervisory Board oversees the policies pursued Kempen Wealth Evi van Lanschot by the Statutory Board, and the general conduct of affairs Management NV Kempen Merchant Banking at the company and its associated business. The Supervisory Board advises the Statutory Board on the performance of its duties. Kempen Capital Kempen Asset Management Van Lanschot Kempen is a structuurvennootschap. Under Management NV Dutch corporate law this means that in addition to the tasks already mentioned, the Supervisory Board is responsible for appointing and dismissing the Statutory Board and for approving some of its decisions. Both the Statutory Board and the Supervisory Board report to Van Lanschot Kempen’s general meeting. The Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen is also the Statutory Board of VLKWM. The Supervisory Board notifies Statutory Board the general meeting of any proposed appointment of a The Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen is responsible member of the Statutory Board. A member is appointed by for the continuity of the company. It focuses on long-term the Supervisory Board for a maximum period of four years. value creation for the company, and takes into account The Supervisory Board may dismiss a member of the stakeholders’ interests that are relevant in this context. The Statutory Board at any time, but only after consulting the Statutory Board is responsible for the management of the general meeting. company, and its duties include drawing up and achieving Van Lanschot Kempen’s purpose, its strategy and related In strategic decisions, the Statutory Board takes all material risk profile, its goals and the pattern of its results, while also environmental and social factors into account. Periodically, attending to the social aspects of doing business that are it determines the financial and non-financial key performance relevant to the company. indicators (KPIs) for Van Lanschot Kempen. Corporate governance 90 Executive Board With regard to gender diversity, we strive for a reasonable Van Lanschot Kempen has an Executive Board comprising spread across gender and aim for the composition of the the members of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Supervisory and Executive Boards to be such that at least and the two people who are responsible for the Asset 30% of their respective members are men and at least 30% Management and Merchant Banking business lines. The women. We strive for a reasonable spread across ages and Executive Board oversees the implementation of our nationalities in the composition of the Supervisory and company strategy and manages core activities. This Executive Boards, but we do not believe that age or nationality ensures better alignment between core activities and a are suitable criteria for setting specific diversity targets so more effective decision-making process. we do not set specific objectives for these. With regard to background, experience and expertise, we aim – in keeping In principle, all members of the Executive Board attend with the Supervisory Board’s profile – to ensure that the Supervisory Board meetings. The Executive Board makes combined background, experience and expertise of sure that all the information relevant to the Supervisory Supervisory Board members enables the Board as a Board is provided. Van Lanschot Kempen’s Statutory Board collective to best carry out its range of responsibilities and members have ultimate responsibility for the actions and duties towards Van Lanschot Kempen, taking into account decisions of the Executive Board. the nature of our business and activities. The same applies for the Executive Board. Our diversity policy describes the Supervisory Board relevant areas of background, experience and expertise of In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board focuses on the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board respectively. the interests of the company and its associated business. The Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen is also the In implementing our diversity policy, the individual profiles Supervisory Board of VLKWM. drawn up for vacancies in the Supervisory and Executive Boards take into account the policy’s criteria and objectives. The members of Van Lanschot Kempen’s Supervisory Board These profiles form the basis for the recruitment and are appointed by the general meeting, in accordance with selection of new members of the Supervisory and Executive the provisions set out in Article 23 of Van Lanschot Boards. These criteria and objectives are also taken into Kempen’s Articles of Association. Members of the account when evaluating the functioning of the Supervisory Supervisory Board are appointed for a term of four years and Executive Boards. The results of our diversity policy are and may be reappointed for one further four-year period. described in the section below on the boards’ composition A member of the Supervisory Board may subsequently be and performance. reappointed again for a period of two years, and this appointment may be extended another two years. In the The policy governing recruitment and selection of members event of reappointment after eight years, the reasons for of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards can be found at reappointment should be given in the Report of the vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision, under Supervisory Board. “Policy Recruitment and Selection Van Lanschot Kempen”. A member of the Supervisory Board may only be dismissed Composition and performance of the by the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Statutory and Executive Boards Appeal with due observance of Article 161(2) of Book 2 of The Statutory Board must consist of at least three the Dutch Civil Code. In addition, the general meeting may members, with the actual number set by the Supervisory pass a motion of no confidence in the Supervisory Board as Board. The composition of the Statutory Board did not a whole, in accordance with Article 161(a) of Book 2 of the change in 2019, and consisted of Karl Guha (Chairman), Dutch Civil Code. Such a resolution results in the immediate Constant Korthout, Arjan Huisman and Richard Bruens. The dismissal of all members of the Supervisory Board. composition of the Executive Board did not change either in 2019; it comprised Karl Guha (Chairman), Constant Korthout, Diversity policy Arjan Huisman, Richard Bruens, Leni Boeren and Leonne The Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen has adopted van der Sar. a diversity policy for the composition of the Supervisory and Executive Boards (the policy can be found at The Statutory and Executive Boards evaluate their vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision under functioning as a whole and that of individual Board “Diversity Policy Supervisory Board and Executive Board”). members at least once a year. The Supervisory Board In view of their joint functioning, the diversity policy for discusses, at least once a year, the performance of the the Executive Board includes the Statutory Board of Statutory Board and the Executive Board as a whole and Van Lanschot Kempen. members’ performance individually. The Supervisory Board has concluded that the composition of the Statutory and We are committed to supporting, valuing and leveraging Executive Boards meets the objectives of our diversity inclusiveness and diversity, and aim for a diverse composition policy. The specific target for the Executive Board’s male/ of the Supervisory and Executive Boards in the areas female ratio as set out in our diversity policy was met since relevant to us, such as age, background, experience, gender two of the six members of the Executive Board are female. and nationality. The importance of diversity should not mean setting aside a candidate’s qualifications, the No decisions were taken in 2019 to conclude transactions requirements for the position to be filled or the overriding involving a conflict of interest on the part of members of principle that someone should be recommended, nominated the Statutory Board that were of material significance to and appointed for being “the best person for the job”. Van Lanschot Kempen and/or the Board member in question. Corporate governance 91 Composition and performance of the Netherlands. Where banks that are subject to the Banking Supervisory Board and its committees Code form part of a group, parts of the Banking Code may The Supervisory Board has a minimum of three members be applied at the level of the entity which acts as the head and a maximum of nine. Currently, the Supervisory Board of the group, rather than at the level of individual comprises Willy Duron (Chairman), Manfred Schepers subsidiaries. Certain parts of the Banking Code are (Vice-Chairman), Frans Blom, Jeanine Helthuis, Bernadette therefore applied at the level of Van Lanschot Kempen. Langius, Maarten Muller and Lex van Overmeire. In 2019, VLKWM complied with the Banking Code. An The Supervisory Board has appointed four committees from explanation (in Dutch) of how VLKWM has applied the among its members to prepare the Board’s decisionBanking Code during the reporting year is given on our making: the Audit and Compliance Committee, the Risk website: vanlanschotkempen.com/en/governance. Committee, the Remuneration Committee, and the Selection and Appointment Committee. These committees Capital structure and shares advise the Supervisory Board on matters relating to their Van Lanschot Kempen’s authorised share capital consists of respective areas of interest. More information about the 150 million shares with a nominal value of €1 each, divided committees and their composition can be found on page 84 into 75 million Class A ordinary shares and 75 million Class of the Report of the Supervisory Board. C preference shares. Our outstanding capital consisted entirely of Class A ordinary shares; a total of 41,361,668 The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile1 for its size Class A ordinary shares had been issued at 31 December and composition, taking into account the nature and 2019. There were no outstanding Class C preference shares activities of the business associated with Van Lanschot in 2019. Kempen and its subsidiaries, and the required expertise and background of the members of the Supervisory Board. The Depositary receipts for shares Supervisory Board appraises its own performance, that of Over 99.99% of Class A ordinary shares in issue are held by its committees and that of individual Supervisory Board Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A members, at least once a year without members of the Van Lanschot Kempen (“Stichting Administratiekantoor”), Statutory Board being present. The Supervisory Board which has issued depositary receipts for these shares. appraises its own performance with independent support The receipts have been listed on the official market of the once every three years. More information about the Euronext Amsterdam stock market since 1999. A conclusions of the Supervisory Board’s self-assessment of depositary receipt can be converted into its underlying their functioning in 2019 can be found on page 87 of the share without any restrictions, although administrative Report of the Supervisory Board. costs may be charged. Stichting Administratiekantoor fully complies with Principle 4.4 of the Code, which specifies The Supervisory Board nearly meets the objectives of our that “Depositary receipts for shares can be a means of diversity policy. The Supervisory Board currently has seven preventing a majority (including a chance majority) of members, two of whom are female, which means 28.6% of shareholders from controlling the decision-making process the positions on the Supervisory Board are held by women. as a result of absenteeism at a general meeting. Depositary Given the size of the Supervisory Board, the target for 30% receipts for shares should not be issued as an anti-takeover of the positions to be held by women has nearly been protective measure.” achieved. The Supervisory Board intends to meet this target when nominating a new candidate for appointment to the Stichting Administratiekantoor grants proxies so that Supervisory Board. holders of depositary receipts can always exercise their voting rights. In the case of shares for which Stichting Dutch Corporate Governance Code Administratiekantoor has not granted proxies to the holders The revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code 20162 (the of depositary receipts and for which no voting instructions Code) came into force starting in the 2017 financial year, have been received, Stichting Administratiekantoor’s Board and contains principles and best practice provisions that decides how the votes are to be cast. Stichting regulate relations between the management board, Administratiekantoor exercises the voting rights in the supervisory board and shareholders (including the general interest of the holders of depositary receipts for shares, meeting). The Code aims to define responsibilities for taking into account the interest of Van Lanschot Kempen, long-term value creation, risk control, effective the enterprise associated therewith and all parties management and supervision, remuneration, and concerned. Its Board has three members and is relationships with shareholders and other stakeholders. We independent of Van Lanschot Kempen. It appoints its own fully complied with the Code in 2019. members, without requiring the approval of Van Lanschot Kempen. Before appointing a member, the Board allows the Dutch Banking Code holders of depositary receipts of shares the opportunity to The Dutch Banking Code3 contains principles on sound and recommend candidates for appointment as members of the ethical business operations, governance, risk policy, audit Board. A meeting of holders of depositary receipts takes and remuneration policy. The Banking Code applies to place at least once every two years. At this meeting, the activities performed in, and aimed at, the Netherlands by Board reports on its activities, vacancies in the Board, and banks with registered offices in the Netherlands and which candidates the Board intends to appoint as members of the hold a banking licence issued by De Nederlandsche Bank Board. Once every two years, the Board requests the (DNB). It therefore applies to VLKWM, the subsidiary of holders of depositary receipts at this meeting to confirm Van Lanschot Kempen that holds a banking licence in the their confidence in the Board. At the meeting that was held 1 The profile can be viewed at vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision. 2 The 2016 Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be downloaded from mccg.nl. 3 The Banking Code can be downloaded from nvb.nl. Corporate governance 92 on 13 November 2018, holders of depositary receipts Rights of shareholders confirmed this. The Board reports on its activities annually. Since there are exclusively Class A ordinary shares in issue This report can be found on page 216. at present, this section only describes the rights of holders of Class A ordinary shares and depositary receipts for Class Stichting preferente aandelen C A ordinary shares. Van Lanschot Kempen A call option contract has been agreed between Stichting Dividend preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen (“Stichting The portion of the profit remaining after addition to the preferente aandelen”) and Van Lanschot Kempen, under reserves is at the disposal of the general meeting. In the which Stichting preferente aandelen was granted the right event that a loss is incurred over a year, which cannot be to acquire Class C preference shares up to 100% of the covered by a reserve or by some other means, no profit value of Van Lanschot Kempen’s share capital in issue distribution will occur in subsequent years until such time as before the exercise of the call option, less one share. A this loss has been absorbed. A dividend on ordinary shares general meeting, at which a proposal to redeem the can only be paid out when the dividend proposal has been preference shares will be placed on the agenda, is to be approved by the general meeting. Van Lanschot Kempen convened within 12 months. checks whether the proposed dividend satisfies the European Central Bank’s recommendation on dividend The following circumstances may lead to the issuance of payment policies. Further information on our dividend policy Class C preference shares: can be found on page 68. – A concentration of shares or depositary receipts for shares in Van Lanschot Kempen as a result of purchases Pre-emption rights on the stock market or the purchase of blocks of shares, When ordinary shares are issued, each existing holder of other than as a pure investment; ordinary shares has a pre-emption right proportionate to – Merger talks that do not lead to an agreement; the aggregate nominal amount of the existing holding of – The announcement of a public bid, whether or not in ordinary shares. Class A ordinary shares are issued to combination with the above circumstances; holders of Class A ordinary shares. The same applies to the – A proposal by a shareholder or holder of depositary grant of rights to acquire ordinary shares. Pre-emption receipts of shares to place an item on the agenda that rights can be limited or excluded by resolution of the represents a potential threat to Van Lanschot Kempen’s Statutory Board, any such resolution being subject to the continuity, identity and/or independence. approval of the Supervisory Board. The relevant authority of the Statutory Board ends as soon as its authority to issue Interests in Van Lanschot Kempen shares expires (see “Share issues”). notifiable under Chapter 5.3 of the Financial Supervision Act Shareholders do not have any pre-emption rights on shares Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, issued in exchange for a non-cash contribution. Nor do shareholders and holders of depositary receipts of shareholders have any pre-emption rights on shares or Van Lanschot Kempen are required to provide information depositary receipts for those shares issued to employees of on their holdings once they cross threshold levels of 3%, Van Lanschot Kempen or another group company. 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and 95%. As of the publication date of this report, Special rights of shareholders Van Lanschot Kempen is not aware of any shareholders There are no special statutory control rights attached to or holders of depositary receipts with an interest of 3% shares in Van Lanschot Kempen. or more in Van Lanschot Kempen other than Stichting Administratiekantoor, APG Asset Management NV, LDDM Van Lanschot Kempen signed a shareholder agreement Holding BV, Janus Henderson Group plc, Reggeborgh with LDDM Holding BV in 2011. In it, LDDM Holding Invest BV, FMR LLC, Wellington Management Group LLP, affirms that it will respect Van Lanschot Kempen’s NN Group NV, CRUX Asset Management Limited, T. Rowe independence. LDDM Holding will not cooperate with Price Group, Inc., Investec Asset Management Limited and the acquisition by a third party of a shareholding in Invesco Limited. For more information on Van Lanschot Van Lanschot Kempen exceeding 25% of the issued share Kempen’s shareholders, see the Van Lanschot Kempen capital without the approval of the Statutory and shares section on page 68. Stichting preferente aandelen Supervisory Boards. In the event of any future share issues, has reported a potential interest of 100% in Van Lanschot Van Lanschot Kempen will give LDDM Holding the Kempen under the call option agreement between Stichting opportunity, subject to certain conditions, to keep its preferente aandelen and Van Lanschot Kempen. relative shareholding in Van Lanschot Kempen at the same level. As long as LDDM Holding retains an interest of at In 2019, no transactions took place between Van Lanschot least 7.5% in Van Lanschot Kempen, it has the right to Kempen and any natural person or legal entity holding at recommend one person for appointment as a member of the least 10% of the shares in Van Lanschot Kempen, and Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen. Maarten which would be material to Van Lanschot Kempen and/or Muller currently serves on the Supervisory Board on LDDM the person/entity involved. Holding’s recommendation. Corporate governance 93 Restrictions on voting rights and deadlines Amendment to the Articles of Association for exercising voting rights A resolution to amend the Articles of Association of Van Lanschot Kempen has not imposed any restrictions on Van Lanschot Kempen may only be adopted based on a the exercise of voting rights. In principle, voting rights are proposal by the Statutory Board that has been approved by exercised at the general meeting by the shareholder or the the Supervisory Board. If a proposal to amend the Articles person authorised by the shareholder to that end. A of Association is presented to the general meeting, a copy shareholder is entitled to vote at the general meeting if the of the proposal will be made available to the shareholders shares in question are registered in the shareholder’s name and holders of depositary receipts prior to the meeting. on the registration date (see “General meeting”). Holders of depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares who register General meeting on time to attend the general meeting are granted a proxy Each voting shareholder and depositary receipt holder is by Stichting Administratiekantoor. They can use this proxy authorised, either in person or through a representative at the general meeting to exercise the voting rights on the authorised in writing, to attend the general meeting, to shares held by Stichting Administratiekantoor, and in address the meeting and to exercise their voting rights. A exchange for which depositary receipts were issued. registration date applies to each general meeting, which is Proxies will be provided when the depositary receipt the 28th day prior to that meeting. The registration date holders sign the attendance list prior to the start of the determines who qualifies as a voting shareholder or meeting. If the depositary receipt holder’s right to attend depositary receipt holder for the relevant general meeting. the meeting is to be exercised by a representative The notice convening the meeting states the registration authorised in writing, Stichting Administratiekantoor will date, the way in which shareholders and depositary receipt grant a proxy to the representative. Shareholders and holders can register and how they can exercise their rights, holders of depositary receipts for shares are also offered either in person or through a representative authorised in the opportunity to issue a voting instruction to an writing. independent third party prior to the general meeting. The notice convening the relevant general meeting will state to Shareholders and depositary receipt holders or their whom this voting instruction should be sent and what the representatives are only admitted to the meeting if they deadline is for submission. have informed Van Lanschot Kempen in writing of their intention to attend, and if this has been done in the manner Share issues described in the notice convening the meeting. Access to The extent of the Statutory Board’s authority to decide on a the meeting is only possible if the relevant shares or share issue (subject to the approval of the Supervisory depositary receipts are registered in the name of the Board) is determined by a resolution of the general meeting. shareholder or the depositary receipt holder on the The duration and granting of this authority are also registration date. Representatives must also present a determined by resolution of the general meeting and may written proxy. A written proxy may be sent electronically. not exceed five years. The Statutory Board’s authority to Each share entitles the holder to cast one vote at the issue ordinary shares, including the granting of rights to general meeting. acquire these shares, was extended at the general meeting held on 22 May 2019 for a period of 18 months from the The powers of the general meeting include the following: date of that meeting. The authority to issue these shares is – Approving decisions of the Statutory Board to make limited to 10% of the issued capital. important changes to the identity or nature of the company or the business; Repurchase of shares – Appointing members of the Supervisory Board on the Repurchases of paid-up shares in the company or depositary Supervisory Board’s recommendation; receipts for such shares, other than for no consideration, – Setting the remuneration policy for the Supervisory may take place if the general meeting has authorised the Board; Statutory Board to this effect. This authorisation applies for – Passing a motion of no confidence in the Supervisory up to a maximum of 18 months. Repurchase occurs Board; pursuant to a decision by the Statutory Board, subject to – Setting the remuneration policy for the Statutory Board; Supervisory Board and DNB approval. – Approving schemes in the form of shares and/or rights to acquire shares for the Statutory Board; The Statutory Board was authorised at the general meeting – Adopting the financial statements; held on 22 May 2019 to repurchase paid-up ordinary shares – Disposing of the profit remaining after dividend has in the company or depositary receipts for these shares, by been distributed to any outstanding Class C preference buying such shares on the stock market or otherwise, up to shares, and after the decision has been made to add all a maximum of 10% of the issued capital at the date of or part of the profit to the reserves; authorisation, subject to Supervisory Board approval. This – Discharging the Statutory Board; authority has been granted for a period of 18 months from – Discharging the Supervisory Board; the date of the meeting. – Granting the Statutory Board the authority to issue shares and to limit or exclude pre-emption rights on the Transfer of shares and depositary receipts issue of shares; The Articles of Association and the conditions of – Granting the Statutory Board the authority to administration do not contain any restrictions on the repurchase the company’s own shares; transfer of Class A ordinary shares or depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares. Corporate governance 94 – Resolving to amend the Articles of Association of must be prepared in accordance with generally accepted Van Lanschot Kempen, to dissolve Van Lanschot accounting principles and applicable legislation and Kempen, or to effect a legal merger or demerger of regulations. Van Lanschot Kempen, following a proposal to that effect by the Statutory Board which has been approved Van Lanschot Kempen has tools in place to manage financial by the Supervisory Board. reporting risks: Furthermore, the general meeting has an advisory vote with – Periodic management reports and KPI dashboards, regard to the remuneration report. accompanied by analysis of financial and non-financial figures and trends; Main features of Van Lanschot Kempen’s – A risk & control framework describing processes and management and control system procedures, and setting out primary controls such as Van Lanschot Kempen’s management and control system is authorisations and segregation of duties; designed to manage internal and external risks. This – Evaluation of the functioning of the internal includes the management of financial reporting risks, to management and control system by Group Audit. The ensure reliable financial reporting and financial statements main findings are discussed with the Statutory Board, that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted the Audit and Compliance Committee and the accounting principles, and which comply with the prevailing Supervisory Board; legislation and regulations. – Assessment and approval of the annual report by the Statutory Board, and discussion of the annual report by Van Lanschot Kempen applies the “three lines of defence” the Audit and Compliance Committee and the model for the management of risk. The first line of defence Supervisory Board; is the business, responsible for day-to-day risk – The Accounting Manual, which sets out the principles management. The second line of defence is provided by regarding financial accounting. departments such as Group Risk Management and Compliance, which oversee the first line. Group Audit acts In-control statements are provided by the management of as the third line of defence, providing an independent the relevant departments. These are based on the results of evaluation of the adequacy of the internal management and testing procedures for the risk & control framework, the control systems. risks reported on a quarterly basis, the follow-up of these risks, and the incidents reported. Group Risk Management The three lines of defence model provides the Statutory and Compliance evaluated the 2019 in-control statements. Board with a reasonable degree of certainty as to how the internal management and control system is functioning, The quarterly reports of Group Audit, setting out its main including the efficacy of both the first and second lines. In findings, were discussed with the Executive Board and the 2019, we improved our monitoring of the effectiveness of Audit and Compliance Committee. The conclusions of the key controls (as part of the risk & control framework), and Audit and Compliance Committee were subsequently updated the risk & control framework to reflect changes in shared with the Supervisory Board. the organisational structure. The Supervisory Board was informed about the Statutory Group Audit is responsible for carrying out IT and Board’s internal control of the organisation, and how it operational audits. All of Group Audit’s reports were safeguards the integrity of financial information. The submitted to the Statutory Board. Group Audit, Compliance subjects considered by the Supervisory Board when and Group Risk Management ensure adequate follow-up assessing the financial statements include the board report and prioritisation. Supplementary control measures have and the audit by the external auditors. been defined in the meantime, which should mitigate risk sufficiently. The key audit matters cited in the independent auditors’ report were discussed with the Statutory Board and the The effectiveness of the framework is evaluated annually by Audit and Compliance Committee, and formed part of the Group Risk Management and Compliance, while Group organisation’s management and control. Audit also assesses its quality and effectiveness. The results of these evaluations featured in the respective Statement by the Statutory Board quarterly reports of Group Risk Management, Compliance In accordance with best practice provision 1.4.3 of the and Group Audit. Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Statutory Board states that: For more detailed information on risk management within – The management report provides sufficient insights into Van Lanschot Kempen, see page 59. The financial any failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk statements also include a more detailed explanation of risk management and control systems; management at Van Lanschot Kempen (see “Risk – The aforementioned systems provide reasonable management”, beginning on page 122). assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies; Financial reporting risk – Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that The Statutory Board is responsible for the design and the financial reporting is prepared on a “going concern” operation of an adequate system of internal control for basis; Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial reporting. The system is – The management report states those material risks and designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the uncertainties that are relevant to expectation of the reliability of financial reporting. The financial statements company’s continuity for the period of 12 months after the preparation of this report. Corporate governance 95 External auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV (PwC) were reappointed as Van Lanschot Kempen's external auditors for the 2020 financial year at the general meeting on 22 May 2019. PwC’s audit plan for 2019 and risk analysis were discussed in August 2019 at meetings of the Statutory Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee. PwC issued a board report for 2019 in February 2020. The subjects set out in this board report are in line with the notes included in this annual report with respect to risk management, insofar as these relate to financial reporting risks. The external auditors may be questioned at the annual general meeting in relation to their audit, and will be attending the meeting for this reason. The Statutory Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee evaluated the functioning of PwC in December 2019. STATEMENT BY THE STATUTORY BOARD As required by Article 5:25c (2c) of the Financial Supervision Act, each of the undersigned hereby confirms that to the best of their knowledge: – The 2019 financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Van Lanschot Kempen and its consolidated entities; – The 2019 Report of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen gives a true and fair view of the position of the company and its consolidated entities on balance sheet date, and of the course of their affairs during the 2019 financial year, and describes the material risks that Van Lanschot Kempen faces. ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 Statutory Board Karl Guha, Chairman Constant Korthout Arjan Huisman Richard Bruens Our Executive Board 96 PERSONAL DETAILS OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD From left to right: Constant Korthout, Richard Bruens, Leni Boeren, Karl Guha, Arjan Huisman, Leonne van der Sar Karl Guha Constant Korthout Chairman of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen/ Member of the Statutory Board, Chief Financial Officer/ Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management, Chairman of Chief Risk Officer of Van Lanschot Kempen/Van Lanschot the Executive Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Kempen Wealth Management, Member of the Executive Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Born 1964, male Born 1962, male Nationality Dutch Nationality Dutch Appointed 2 January 2013 Appointed 27 October 2010 Areas of responsibility Advanced Analytics, Communications, Company Areas of responsibility Secretariat/Legal, Compliance, Group Audit, Human Finance, Reporting & Control, Treasury, Group Risk Resource Management, Strategy & Corporate Development, Management, Credit Risk, Credit Restructuring & Recovery Sustainability, Van Lanschot Belgium Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Two Two Background Background 1985 – ABN AMRO: Management trainee, senior account 1989 – ABN AMRO: Various managerial positions in manager corporate clients Structured Finance, Treasury, Capital Management, Investor 1990 – KPMG Management Consultants: financial Relations, Risk Management and Asset & Liability management consultant Management 1992 – Robeco: Group Controller, CFO and member of 2009 – UniCredit Banking Group: CRO and member of the executive board of Weiss, Peck & Greer in New York, and executive management committee, and member of Corporate Development Director supervisory boards of Bank Austria, HVB in Germany and 2002 – Robeco: CFO, including Risk Management, Treasury Zao Bank in Russia and Corporate Development Our Executive Board 97 Arjan Huisman Richard Bruens Member of the Statutory Board, Chief Operating Officer Member of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen/ of Van Lanschot Kempen/Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management, Member of Management, Member of the Executive Board of the Executive Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Van Lanschot Kempen Born Born 1967, male 1971, male Nationality Nationality Dutch Dutch Appointed Appointed 15 May 2014 6 May 2010 Areas of responsibility Areas of responsibility Private Banking, Van Lanschot Switzerland, Evi Digital & Innovation, IT Platforms & Security, Service Centre Securities, Service Centre Data Management, Service Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Centre Procurement, Contract Management & Facilities Four Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) Four positions Feyenoord Rotterdam: Member of supervisory board Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions Background VLC & Partners: Member of supervisory board 1991 – ABN AMRO: Various managerial positions in the Global Markets division, Managing Director of Investor Background Relations 1995 – BCG Amsterdam and Boston offices: Various 2007 – Renaissance Capital: Member of group managing consulting positions, with a strong focus on financial board services 2010 – ABN AMRO: Global Head Products & Solutions and 2004 – BCG Prague office: Partner and Managing Director Global Head Private Wealth Management 2008 – BCG Amsterdam office: Partner and Managing Director Our Executive Board 98 Leni Boeren Leonne van der Sar Member of the Executive Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Member of the Executive Board of Van Lanschot Kempen Born Born 1963, female 1969, female Nationality Nationality Dutch Dutch Appointed Appointed 5 February 2018 1 August 2017 Areas of responsibility Areas of responsibility Asset Management Merchant Banking: Corporate Finance, Equity Capital Markets, Securities Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Four Total number of board and/or supervisory positions None Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions Background Kempen Capital Management: Chair of statutory board 1994 – ABN AMRO: Various positions in Investment Tata Steel Nederland: Member of supervisory board Banking Air France-KLM: Independent member of board of directors, 1998 – ABN AMRO Rothschild: Various positions in member of audit committee, and member of sustainable Investment Banking and Equity Capital Markets development and compliance committee 2004 – ABN AMRO Rothschild: Managing Director and FCLT Global: Member of board of directors Head of ABN AMRO Rothschild Netherlands office 2006 – ABN AMRO: Executive Director Corporate Background Development 1983 – Paribas: Account Manager 2008 – Several interim management assignments in the 1984 – Rabobank: Senior Investment Adviser, Head of financial sector Account Management 2014 – Van Lanschot Kempen: Head of Strategy & 1992 – Robeco Group: Head of Investment Services Corporate Development Strategy, Head of Marketing and Product Management 1997 – Amsterdam Exchanges: Member of board of directors 2000 – Euronext: Member of executive committee 2005 – Robeco Group: Member, Vice-Chair and Chair of group management board and Chair/member of the boards of a number of Robeco Group subsidiaries Our Supervisory Board 99 PERSONAL DETAILS OF MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD From left to right: Frans Blom, Jeanine Helthuis, Manfred Schepers, Willy Duron, Lex van Overmeire, Bernadette Langius, Maarten Muller Willy Duron Manfred Schepers Chairman of the Supervisory Board Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, Risk Remuneration, Risk, Selection and Appointment (Chairman) (Chairman) Born Born 1945, male 1960, male Nationality Nationality Belgian Dutch Appointed Appointed 10 May 2007; fourth term of office expires in 2021 18 May 2017; first term of office expires in 2021 Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or board positions board positions Three Four Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions (board) positions Windvision: Chairman of board of directors NWB Bank: Member of supervisory board Previous positions held Principal other positions held KBC Group: Chairman Amsterdam Institute of Finance: Member of advisory board UWC Atlantic College: Member of board of governors European Fund for Strategic Investments: Member of investment committee Cardano Development: Project manager ILX Previous positions held European Bank for Reconstruction and Development: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Our Supervisory Board 100 Frans Blom Bernadette Langius Member of the Supervisory Board Member of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board committees: Risk, Remuneration Supervisory Board committees: Remuneration (Chair), Risk Born Born 1962, male 1960, female Nationality Nationality Dutch Dutch Appointed Appointed 5 October 2018; first term of office expires in 2023 13 May 2015; second term of office expires in 2023 Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or board positions board positions Two Five Principal other positions or offices held Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Boston Consulting Group The Netherlands: Adviser (board) positions IBM Nederland: Member of supervisory board Previous positions or offices held BDO Nederland: Member of supervisory board Boston Consulting Group The Netherlands: Chairman Ingenico ePayments Nederland: Member of supervisory board Jeanine Helthuis Previous positions held VU Amsterdam: Member of executive board Member of the Supervisory Board ABN AMRO: CEO Commercial Banking NL, CEO Private Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, Banking NL Selection and Appointment, Remuneration Born Maarten Muller 1962, female Member of the Supervisory Board Nationality Supervisory Board committees: Remuneration, Selection Dutch and Appointment Appointed Born 2 July 2013; second term of office expires in 2021 1954, male Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Nationality board positions Dutch Seven Appointed Principal position 31 May 2018; first term of office expires in 2022 PC Uitvaart: Managing Director Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or board positions (board) positions Two Prorail: Vice-Chair of supervisory board Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Previous positions held (board) positions Monuta Holding/Monuta Verzekeringen: Chair of board of Stichting continuïteit TomTom: Chairman of board management Stichting Vopak: Member of board Fortis Bank Nederland: Member of board of directors Previous positions held Allen & Overy LLP: Partner Our Supervisory Board 101 Lex van Overmeire Member of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance (Chairman), Risk Born 1956, male Nationality Dutch Appointed 30 January 2017; first term of office expires in 2021 Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or board positions Three Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions Centrum indicatiestelling zorg (CIZ): Chairman of audit advisory committee Stichting Arq: Member of supervisory board Previous positions held EY Accountants LLP: Audit partner Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting 102 RECONCILIATION OF IFRS AND MANAGEMENT REPORTING Reconciliation of IFRS and management IFRS NonInvestment Amortisation Restructuring Managerial reporting (€ million) strategic programme of intangible charges investments assets arising from acquisitions Commission 290.4 – – – – 290.4 Interest 174.9 0.4 – – – 175.3 Income from securities and associates 86.5 –36.0 – – – 50.5 Result on financial transactions –7.4 – – – – –7.4 Other income 8.8 –8.8 – – – – Income from operating activities 553.2 –44.5 – – – 508.7 Staff costs 250.6 –8.4 –1.0 – –2.8 238.5 Other administrative expenses 135.1 2.9 –10.1 – – 127.9 Depreciation and amortisation 25.2 –1.3 0.0 –6.2 – 17.7 Operating expenses 410.8 –6.7 –11.1 –6.2 –2.8 384.1 Gross result 142.4 –37.8 11.1 6.2 2.8 124.7 Impairments 22.9 – – – – 22.9 Operating profit before tax of non-strategic investments – 37.8 – – – 37.8 Operating result before special items and tax 119.5 – 11.1 6.2 2.8 139.6 Strategic investment programme – – 11.1 – – 11.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions – – – 6.2 – 6.2 Restructuring charges – – – – 2.8 2.8 Operating profit before tax 119.5 – – – – 119.5 Income tax 21.1 – – – 21.1 Net result 98.4 – – – – 98.4 2019 financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 104 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER Before profit appropriation (€1,000) 2019 20181 Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1 1,417,164 1,406,864 Financial assets from trading activities 2 49,263 62,468 Due from banks 3 297,556 539,180 Derivatives 4 367,279 332,719 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 5 321,509 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 6 2,384,261 1,803,584 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 7 8,597,894 8,561,497 Other financial assets at amortised cost 8 425,606 554,209 Investments in associates using the equity method 9 52,452 54,071 Property and equipment 10 102,521 48,238 Goodwill and other intangible assets 11 141,311 183,083 Tax assets 12 18,566 29,118 Assets classified as held for sale 13 – 68,058 Other assets 14 143,469 121,513 Total assets 14,318,853 13,983,184 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 15 2,150 333 Due to banks 16 141,715 334,902 Public and private sector liabilities 17 9,545,095 9,090,939 Derivatives 4 449,826 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 18 907,602 940,361 Issued debt securities 19 1,545,109 1,521,504 Provisions 20 49,597 44,461 Tax liabilities 21 792 5,764 Liabilities classified as held for sale 22 – 20,871 Other liabilities 23 187,306 125,383 Subordinated loans 24 173,090 173,473 Total liabilities 13,002,283 12,727,308 Issued share capital 41,362 41,362 Treasury shares –10,007 –8,678 Share premium reserve 323,719 385,115 Other reserves 762,852 751,233 Undistributed profit attributable to shareholders 92,929 74,631 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,210,853 1,243,663 AT1 capital securities 100,000 – Undistributed profit attributable to holders of AT1 capital securities 1,688 – Equity attributable to AT1 capital securities2 101,688 – Other non-controlling interests 3,606 6,529 Undistributed profit attributable to other non-controlling interests 423 5,684 Equity attributable to other non-controlling interests 4,029 12,213 Total equity 25 1,316,570 1,255,876 Total equity and liabilities 14,318,853 13,983,184 Contingent liabilities 105,706 134,449 Irrevocable commitments 939,156 853,276 Contingent liabilities and irrevocable commitments 26 1,044,862 987,725 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position. 1 Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Disclosure relating to prior period error ). 2 This relates to capital securities issued by Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV. Consolidated statement of income 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (€1,000) 2019 2018 Income from operating activities Interest income calculated using the effective interest method 236,165 251,985 Other interest income 32,116 52,359 Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 49,912 66,518 Other interest expense 43,473 62,612 Net interest income 27 174,897 175,213 Income from associates using the equity method 33,426 28,728 Other income from securities and associates 53,109 2,594 Income from securities and associates 28 86,535 31,323 Commission income 305,622 307,714 Commission expense 15,232 14,467 Net commission income 29 290,390 293,247 Result on financial transactions 30 –7,407 –805 Net sales 13,066 11,020 Cost of sales 4,258 3,716 Other income 31 8,808 7,304 Total income from operating activities 553,222 506,282 Expenses Staff costs 32 250,577 263,724 Other administrative expenses 33 135,062 162,043 Staff costs and other administrative expenses 385,639 425,766 Depreciation and amortisation 34 25,201 14,427 Operating expenses 410,840 440,193 Impairments of financial instruments –12,059 –12,737 Other impairments 34,913 –679 Impairments 35 22,854 –13,416 Total expenses 433,693 426,778 Operating profit before tax 119,529 79,504 Income tax 36 21,114 12,086 Net profit from continuing operations 98,414 67,418 Net profit from discontinued operations 37 – 12,897 Net result 98,414 80,315 Of which attributable to shareholders 92,929 74,631 Of which attributable to holders of AT1 capital securities 5,063 – Of which attributable to other non-controlling interests 423 5,684 Earnings per ordinary share (€) 38 2.27 1.82 Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 38 2.27 1.51 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 39 2.26 1.81 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 39 2.26 1.49 Proposed dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of income. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 106 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (€1,000) 2019 20181 Net result (as per statement of income) 98,414 80,315 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve Revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 6,302 –12,881 Realised return on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –657 –3,764 Impairments of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 402 –86 Income tax effect –1,151 3,985 Total other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve 25 4,895 –12,746 Other comprehensive income from value changes of derivatives (cash flow hedges) Increase in value of derivatives directly added to equity –2,148 –3,892 Income tax effect 437 208 Total other comprehensive income from value changes of derivatives 25 –1,711 –3,684 (cash flow hedges) Other comprehensive income from currency translation differences Other comprehensive income from currency translation differences 768 –1,499 Total other comprehensive income from currency translation differences 25 768 –1,499 Total other comprehensive income to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss 3,952 –17,929 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss Change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 5,755 –2,931 Income tax effect –1,180 733 Total change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 4,575 –2,198 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Remeasurement of defined benefit plans –10,263 765 Income tax effect 2,490 –930 Total remeasurement of defined benefit plans 25 –7,772 –165 Total other comprehensive income not to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss –3,197 –2,363 Total other comprehensive income 755 –20,292 Total comprehensive income 99,169 60,024 Of which attributable to shareholders 93,684 54,339 Of which attributable to holders of AT1 capital securities 5,063 – Of which attributable to other non-controlling interests 423 5,684 Total comprehensive income to shareholders Of which continuing operations 93,684 46,460 Of which discontinued operations – 7,880 93,684 54,339 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position. 1 Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Disclosure relating to prior period error ). Consolidated statement of changes in equity 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY IN 2019 Before profit appropriation (€1,000) Share Treasury Share Other UndistriTotal equity Equity Equity Total equity capital shares premium reserves1 buted attributable attributable attributable reserve1 to to AT1 to other nonsharecapital controlling holders securities interests At 1 January 41,362 –8,678 385,115 751,233 74,631 1,243,663 – 12,213 1,255,876 Net result (as per statement of – – – – 92,929 92,929 5,063 423 98,414 income) Total other comprehensive – – – 755 – 755 – – 755 income Total comprehensive income – – – 755 92,929 93,684 5,063 423 99,169 Share plans – 6,622 – –2,608 – 4,015 – – 4,015 To other reserves – – – 15,194 –15,194 – – – – Repurchased equity instruments – –7,952 – – – –7,952 – – –7,952 Dividends/Capital return –61,396 – – – –59,437 –120,833 –3,375 –309 –124,517 To share capital 61,396 – –61,396 – – – – – – Increase/(decrease) of capital – – – – – – 100,000 – 100,000 Other changes – – – –1,724 – –1,724 – – –1,724 Change in non-controlling – – – – – – – –8,298 –8,298 interests At 31 December 41,362 –10,007 323,719 762,852 92,929 1,210,853 101,688 4,029 1,316,570 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY IN 2018 Before profit appropriation (€1,000) Share Treasury Share Other UndistriTotal equity Equity Equity Total equity capital shares premium reserves1 buted attributable attributable attributable reserve1 to to AT1 to other nonsharecapital controlling holders securities interests At 1 January 41,147 –7,869 441,459 754,234 89,508 1,318,478 – 16,264 1,334,742 Adjustment opening balance 2 – – – –11,861 – -11,861 – – –11,861 Adjusted 1 January opening balance 41,147 –7,869 441,459 742,374 89,508 1,306,617 – 16,264 1,322,881 Net result (as per statement of income) – – – – 74,631 74,631 – 5,684 80,315 Total other comprehensive income – – – –20,292 – –20,292 – – –20,292 Total comprehensive income – – – –20,292 74,631 54,339 – 5,684 60,024 Shares issued 215 –5,397 5,182 – – – – – – Share plans – 14,780 – –445 – 14,334 – – 14,334 To other reserves – – – 30,139 –30,139 – – – – Repurchased equity instruments – –10,192 – – –10,192 – – –10,192 Dividends/Capital return –61,526 – – – –59,369 –120,894 – –895 –121,789 To share capital 61,526 – –61,526 – – – – – – Other changes – – – –542 – –542 – – –542 Change in non-controlling interests – – – – – – – –8,840 –8,840 At 31 December 41,362 –8,678 385,115 751,233 74,631 1,243,663 – 12,213 1,255,876 1 For additional information on the nature and composition of the share premium reserve and other reserves, see Note 25. Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Disclosure relating to prior period error ). 2 See Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Changes in accounting presentation. Consolidated statement of cash flows 108 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (€1,000) 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit before tax 119,529 79,504 Adjustments for – Depreciation and amortisation 34 27,845 16,799 – Costs of share plans 1,996 2,989 – Results on associates using the equity method 9 –13,469 –11,759 – Valuation results on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss –15,305 19,803 – Valuation results on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 57,967 –46,177 – Valuation results on derivatives –7,693 –4,818 – Impairments 35 22,853 –13,416 – Changes in provisions 6,332 8,458 Cash flow from operating activities 200,055 51,383 Net movement in operating assets and liabilities – Financial assets/liabilities from trading activities 15,022 –25,800 – Due from/to banks 14,445 –33,238 – Loans and advances to public and private sectors/Public and private sector liabilities 502,352 506,713 – Derivatives –107,517 129,920 – Withdrawals from restructuring provision and other provisions –11,060 –2,931 – Other assets and liabilities –30,820 –15,640 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities 113 – – Tax assets and liabilities 1,269 1,382 – Income taxes paid –14,858 –9,523 – Dividends received 7,677 3,192 Total net movement in operating assets and liabilities 376,623 554,076 Net cash flow from operating activities 576,679 605,459 Net cash flow from discontinued operations 27,269 –6,027 Cash flow from investing activities Investments and acquisitions – Investments in debt instruments –1,287,393 –1,302,486 – Investments in equity instruments –6,562 –48,331 – Investments in associates using the equity method 9 –4,447 –9,609 – Property and equipment –10,727 –5,016 – Goodwill and other intangible assets –167 –878 Divestments, redemptions and sales – Investments in debt instruments 769,714 1,307,076 – Investments in equity investments –5,996 92,589 – Investments in associates using the equity method 15,311 27,115 – Property and equipment 2,399 4,686 – Goodwill and other intangible assets – 1,873 Dividends received 9 4,516 3,473 Net cash flow from investing activities of continuing operations –523,351 70,492 Net cash flow from investing activities of discontinued operations –154 154 The number beside each item in the statement of cash flows refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position and the Notes to the consolidated statement of income. Consolidated statement of cash flows 109 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED) (€1,000) 2019 2018 Cash flow from financing activities Share plans 2,019 11,345 Repurchased equity instruments1 –7,952 –10,192 AT1 capital securities 100,000 – Change in non-controlling interests –736 –8,133 Redemption of subordinated loans –113 –113 Redemption of issued debt securities –1,232 –907,256 Receipts on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 60,427 129,771 Redemption of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –145,530 –116,872 Dividends paid –124,517 –121,789 Net cash flow from financing activities of continuing operations –117,634 –1,023,239 Net cash flow from financing activities of discontinued operations – – Net change in cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks –37,191 –353,161 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks at 1 January2 1,473,572 1,826,733 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks at 31 December 2 1,436,381 1,473,572 Additional disclosure Cash flows from interest received 265,370 310,702 Cash flows from interest paid 97,456 135,195 The table below provides a reconciliation of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. Reconciliation of liabilities arising from Subordinated Issued debt Financial liabilities Total financing activities in 2019 loans securities at fair value through profit or loss At 1 January 173,473 1,521,504 940,361 2,635,338 Cash flows –113 –1,232 –85,102 –86,448 Non-cash changes – Fair value changes –269 24,837 52,343 76,911 At 31 December 173,090 1,545,109 907,602 2,625,801 Reconciliation of liabilities arising from Subordinated Issued debt Financial liabilities Total financing activities in 2018 loans securities at fair value through profit or loss At 1 January 173,620 2,411,671 971,453 3,556,744 Cash flows –113 –907,256 12,899 –894,470 Non-cash changes – Fair value changes –34 17,089 –43,991 –26,936 At 31 December 173,473 1,521,504 940,361 2,635,338 1 Van Lanschot Kempen grants unconditional and conditional rights to acquire depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares for no consideration. To meet open positions, Van Lanschot Kempen holds depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares. In 2019 and 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen carried out a share buy-back programme. 2 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks also includes amounts due from/to banks available on demand. Summary of significant accounting principles 110 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES General by an amount of €15.5 million, and deferred tax assets Our purpose is the preservation and creation of wealth, by €3.2 million. As a result, Total equity attributable to in a sustainable way, for our clients and the societies we shareholders was overstated by €12.3 million. The serve. Van Lanschot Kempen NV (“Van Lanschot Kempen”) consolidated statement of income was not materially is the holding company of Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth affected in 2018. Management NV (formerly Van Lanschot NV until 31 December 2019) (“VLKWM”). The company has its Changes in accounting policies registered office at Hooge Steenweg 29, 5211 JN The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of our ´s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands. annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended Van Lanschot Kempen is a public limited company 31 December 2019 remain unchanged, except for the incorporated under Dutch law and registered under number adoption of new standards and interpretations effective 16014051 at the Chamber of Commerce. Depositary receipts from 1 January 2019. for Class A ordinary shares are publicly traded on the official market of the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Changes in published IFRS standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot The IFRS standards listed below became effective from Kempen at 31 December 2019 were prepared by the 1 January 2019 and have been applied to our financial Statutory Board on 20 February 2020, were approved by statements for 2019. Unless stated otherwise, application of the Supervisory Board, and will be submitted to the general these standards had no impact on Van Lanschot Kempen’s meeting of shareholders for adoption on 28 May 2020. equity or result. Application of the amended standards generally entails amendment or expansion of notes. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot IFRS 16 Leases Kempen and its subsidiaries have been prepared in IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and replaces accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), and with Part Arrangement Contains a Lease. IFRS 16 sets out the 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Unless stated otherwise, principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and assets and liabilities are measured at historical cost. disclosure of leases and will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet, similar to the accounting Continuity for finance leases under IAS 17. We have applied the The Statutory Board has examined the ability of Van Lanschot standard from its mandatory adoption date of 1 January Kempen to continue its operations and concluded that we 2019 and have opted to use the modified retrospective are able to do so for the foreseeable future. Moreover, the approach. The reclassifications and adjustments arising Board is not aware of any material uncertainties that cast from the new leasing rules are recognised in the opening significant doubt on our ability to continue as a going balance sheet on 1 January 2019. concern. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on this basis. On adoption of IFRS 16, Van Lanschot Kempen recognised lease liabilities. These were measured at the present value Functional and reporting currency of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the The consolidated financial statements are denominated in lessee’s incremental borrowing rate as of 1 January 2019. euros, the functional and reporting currency of Van Lanschot The average lessee’s incremental borrowing rate applied to Kempen. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are given in the lease liabilities on 1 January 2019 was 1.19%, as thousands of euros. The totals may not always match the derived from our Treasury department calculations. We sum of the individual values due to rounding. have used the exemptions proposed by the standard on lease contracts for which the lease terms end within Disclosure relating to prior period error 12 months as of the date of initial application, and lease Provisions for pensions were understated, because not all contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value. future pension guarantee costs were taken into account. In Van Lanschot Kempen has leases of certain office accordance with IAS 8, these amounts were adjusted equipment (i.e. printing and photocopying machines) that retrospectively from 1 January 2018, causing an increase in are considered of low value. provisions for pensions by €15.8 million, an increase in deferred tax assets by €4.0 million and a reduction in Total equity attributable to shareholders by €11.9 million. At 31 December 2018, provisions for pensions were understated Adjustment 01/01/2018 Total Equity attributable to shareholders before adjustment 1,318,478 Increase in provisions for pensions 15,814 Increase in deferred tax assets 3,954 Total Equity attributable to shareholders after adjustment 1,306,617 Summary of significant accounting principles 111 The following table reconciles the future rental commitments for operating lease contracts under IAS 17 to the lease liability under IFRS 16 on transition to IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019: Reconciliation of lease liabilities initially recognised (€ million) Total Operating lease commitments disclosed under IAS 17 at 31 December 2018 71,602 (Less) discounting effect using average incremental borrowing rate of 1.19% at 1 January 2019 –3,942 (Less) recognition exception for low value leases –800 Lease liability recognised under IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019 66,860 The recognised right-of-use assets as at 1 January 2019 relate to the following types of assets: Right-of-use assets – buildings 59,108 Right-of-use assets – transport equipment 7,752 The right-of-use assets are presented under Property and Annual Improvements to 2015-2017 Cycle equipment in the statement of financial position. For Changes to standards concern: information regarding the carrying amount, additions, depreciation and impairments by class of assets see Note IFRS 3 – Definition of a Business 10 (Property and equipment). Lease liabilities are presented The amendments clarify the minimum requirements for a in the statement of financial position under Other liabilities business, remove the assessment of whether market (see Note 23, Other liabilities). Also disclosed here are the participants are capable of replacing any missing elements, expenses relating to payments not included in the add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired measurement of the lease liability. Interest expense on leases process is substantive, narrow the definitions of a business and amortisation on the right-of-use assets during the year and of outputs, and introduce an optional fair value are disclosed within the statement of profit or loss, and are concentration test. New illustrative examples were provided disclosed in, respectively, Note 23 (Other liabilities) and Note along with the amendments. These amendments are 34 (Depreciation and amortisation). The undiscounted effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after maturity analysis of lease liabilities at 31 December 2019 is 1 January 2020. Earlier application is permitted. In case of a incorporated within “Risk management”, Table 9.1.A. business combination, an impact assessment will be made. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 – Interest Rate Benchmark The interpretation clarifies how the recognition and Reform measurement requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes are The amendments provide temporary reliefs that enable applied for income tax treatments. The standard has no hedge accounting to continue during the period of uncertainty material impact on group results. before the replacement of an existing interest rate benchmark with an alternative nearly risk-free interest rate. We have Annual Improvements to 2015-2017 Cycle performed an impact assessment and concluded that this Changes to standards concern: standard will have no material impact on the group. These amendments are effective for annual reporting periods IAS 12 Income Taxes beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier application is The amendments clarify that the income tax consequences permitted. of dividends are linked more directly to past transactions or events that generated distributable profits than to distributions to owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the income tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity according to where the entity originally recognised those past transactions or events. Based on our assessment, we expect no material impact on group results. Published IFRS standards and interpretations not yet effective In addition to the IFRS standards and interpretations referred to above, a number of IFRS standards and interpretations are new or have been amended, and apply to financial statements for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. We have not applied the following standards in the 2019 financial statements. Unless stated otherwise, standards will be applied as soon as they become effective and have been endorsed by the EU. Summary of significant accounting principles 112 IAS 1 and IAS 8 – Definition of material deterioration in credit risk since initial recognition, ECL is The amendments are issued to align the definition of recognised based on a 12-month expected credit loss material across the standards and clarify that materiality (Stage 1). When a significant increase in credit risk has will depend on the nature or magnitude of information, or occurred, ECL is recognised based on a lifetime expected both. These amendments are effective for annual reporting credit loss (Stage 2). For impaired loans (Stage 3), a lifetime periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier ECL is recognised. The impairments of financial assets are application is permitted. At this stage, we expect no impact. determined as a critical estimate. For more information on deterioration in credit risk, see “Risk management”, under 2.8, Significant accounting judgements Loss allowance for expected credit loss. and estimates We have identified those accounting policies which involve Impairments of goodwill the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. To measure the recoverable amounts, we calculate the value in In the process of applying these accounting policies, we use use for each cash-generating unit (CGU). This calculation estimates, assumptions and judgements which can have a reflects an estimate of future cash flows, multiple scenario significant impact on the amounts recognised in the analyses and discount rates. Future cash flow estimates are financial statements. These estimates and assumptions are based on our strategic plans and different types of based on the most recent information available, and the investigation into possible trends. Events and factors that actual amounts may differ in the future. The principal could have a significant impact on these estimates include estimates and assumptions relate to impairments on market expectations, effects of mergers and acquisitions, financial instruments measured at amortised cost and fair competitive conditions, client behaviour and changes in the value through other comprehensive income, investments in client base, cost structure, trends in interest rates and risks, associates using the equity method, property and equipment, and other circumstances specific to the industry and sector. goodwill, intangible assets, and assets acquired through For more information on the discount rates used, see Note 11, foreclosures. Goodwill and other intangible assets. Such estimates and assumptions also relate to the Other accounting estimates determination of the fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax positions, share-based payments, employee Impairments of non-financial assets benefits and provisions. The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of the fair value of the asset less costs to sell and its value in Accounting judgements use. This fair value less costs to sell is the price that would be We have applied critical judgement to determine significant received on sale of an asset or paid on transfer of a liability in influence in companies in which we hold minority interests an orderly transaction between market participants at the smaller than 20%. In our opinion, the influence on the financial valuation date. To determine whether assets are impaired, the and operating policy decisions that we have in some minority individual assets are allocated to the lowest level at which interests is more in line with the expected influence in an cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). Nonassociate. Examples of this influence are veto rights in financial assets that have been subject to impairment, other decisions on issuance of new shares and decisions on than goodwill paid, are reviewed annually to determine amendments of the articles of association. Therefore, we whether the impairment can be reversed. Non-financial classify these minority interests as incorporated in the articles assets, other than goodwill paid, are tested for impairment of association and apply equity accounting instead of IFRS 9 annually by assessing whether there are any indications that fair value accounting. For further information, see the these assets are impaired. disclosure on Investments in associates using the equity method. Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised only if it is probable that Significant accounting estimates taxable profits will be realised in the near future against which The determination of the fair value of financial instruments, these temporary differences can be offset. Estimates are used in so far as available and provided there is an active market, when determining future taxable profits, since these are is based on stock market prices at the reporting date. subject to uncertainty. For financial assets, the bid price is used; for financial liabilities, the selling price. Acquisitions In the case of acquisitions, it is necessary to determine the fair The fair value of financial instruments not traded in an active value of the acquired assets (including any intangible assets market is determined on the basis of cash flow and of option and goodwill acquired), as well as of liabilities and obligations and other valuation models. These models are based on the not recognised in the statement of financial position. Estimates market circumstances prevailing at the reporting date. are used for this, particularly for those items which are not Estimates mainly relate to future cash flows and discount traded on an active market. rates. For more details, see “Risk management”, under 14, Fair value. Actuarial assumptions of provisions The pension liabilities are determined using actuarial Impairments of financial assets calculations. These calculations make assumptions regarding We recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses elements such as the discount rate, future trends in salaries (ECL) on financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair and returns on investments. These assumptions are subject to value through profit or loss, as well as for financial guarantees uncertainty. See Note 20, Provisions. and loan commitments. When there has been no significant Basis of consolidation 113 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Subsidiaries In the case of subsidiaries not fully controlled by Van Lanschot The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen Kempen, the non-controlling interest in equity is presented comprise the financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen separately in the consolidated statement of financial Wealth Management and its subsidiaries. These have been position as a component of total equity. The profit or loss prepared at 31 December 2019 using consistent accounting for the reporting period that can be attributed to the policies and their financial year is concurrent with the calendar non-controlling interest is disclosed separately. year. Acquisitions Subsidiaries (including the consolidated structured entities) Acquisitions are recognised using the acquisition method. are associates in which Van Lanschot Kempen exercises Accordingly, the cost of an acquisition is allocated to the fair decisive control. Van Lanschot Kempen has decisive control value of the acquired assets (inclusive of any intangible over an entity when it has power over that entity and is exposed assets not previously disclosed in the statement of financial to or has rights to variable income from its involvement in the position), liabilities and obligations not disclosed in the entity and is able to use its power over the entity to influence statement of financial position. the entity’s income. The assessment of control is based on the actual relationship between Van Lanschot Kempen and the Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of the entity. Factors taken into account include existing and potential acquisition (including assumed debts) and our interest in voting rights. A right is a material right if its holder is able to the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and obligations exercise that right in practice. not disclosed in the statement of financial position at the acquisition date, is capitalised as an intangible asset. If this Van Lanschot Kempen has power over an entity if its difference is negative (negative goodwill), it is taken directly existing and potential voting rights amount to more to the statement of income. than 50%. If these rights amount to less than 50%, Van Lanschot Kempen determines whether it has power A non-controlling interest in the company acquired is over the entity pursuant to contractual agreements. In recognised at the fair value prevailing on the acquisition making this assessment, a distinction is made between date or at the proportionate share in the identifiable assets substantive and protective rights. Substantive rights are and liabilities of the company acquired. rights which enable the decision-making power of an enterprise to be influenced directly and which give Results of companies acquired are disclosed in the Van Lanschot Kempen decisive control over an entity. statement of income from the date at which control is Examples include the right to appoint and dismiss members obtained. of the board of management, and to set the level of their remuneration. Protective rights are rights which protect Adjustments to the fair value of acquired assets and the interests of an entity in another entity, but which do liabilities at the acquisition date which are identified within not directly confer decision-making powers. Protective 12 months of the acquisition may lead to adjustment of rights do not give Van Lanschot Kempen decisive control goodwill. Adjustments identified after expiry of one year are over an entity. When acquiring non-controlling interests, disclosed in the statement of income. Van Lanschot Kempen in principle includes only protective rights in the contractual agreement. These are rights of On disposal of group companies, the difference between approval which enable Van Lanschot Kempen to protect its the sale proceeds and the acquisition cost (including minority position without acquiring decision-making power. goodwill) is included in the statement of income together Examples of protective rights are rights of approval in with any unrealised gain or loss. respect of the issue of shares and the effecting of significant acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortised. For more information on its valuation, see Note 11, Goodwill and other intangible Intra-group transactions are eliminated in the consolidation assets. process. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of incorporation or acquisition, being the date on which Van Lanschot Kempen acquires control, and are consolidated until the date that such control ceases. We consolidate interests in investment funds if we have power over the investment fund and are exposed to or have rights to variable income stemming from our involvement and are able to use our power over the investment fund to influence the variable income. The assessment of control is based on the actual relationship between Van Lanschot Kempen and the investment fund. Van Lanschot Kempen takes into account its interest for its own account and its own role, or that of one of its group companies, as fund manager. Summary of significant accounting policies 114 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Foreign currencies Recognition of financial assets in the statement of financial position Functional currency Purchases of financial assets designated at fair value Items in the statement of financial position pertaining to through profit or loss whose value is subject to change, or each group company are stated in the currency of the financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive economic environment in which the entity operates (i.e. the income, or other financial assets at amortised costs, which functional currency). are settled according to standard market conventions, are recognised on the transaction date, i.e. the date on which Group companies we undertake to purchase or sell the asset concerned. The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of group Loans and advances are recognised on the settlement date, companies that use a functional currency other than the i.e. the date on which we receive or transfer the asset. reporting currency are translated as follows: – Assets and liabilities are translated using the closing Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities in the exchange rate at the reporting date; statement of financial position – Income and expenses are translated using the rate Financial assets are derecognised when: prevailing on the transaction date, which is – Our rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or approximately equal to the average exchange rate; – We have retained the right to receive the cash flows – Remaining exchange-related gains or losses are from an asset, but have an obligation to pay these in full recognised as a separate component of equity. to a third party under a special agreement; or – We have transferred our rights to the cash flows from Upon consolidation, exchange-related gains or losses the asset and have transferred substantially all the risks arising from monetary items forming part of a net and rewards; or investment in foreign divisions are recognised in equity. – We have not transferred substantially all the risks and Exchange-related gains or losses on borrowings and other rewards but have transferred control over the asset. items designated as hedging instruments for such investments are also recognised in equity. If we have transferred our rights to the cash flows from an asset, but have not transferred substantially all the risks Transactions and line items and rewards of the asset and have not transferred control, On initial recognition, transactions in foreign currencies are the asset is recognised as long as we have continuing translated into the functional currency at the exchange involvement in the asset. rates prevailing on the transaction date. Translation differences arising on the settlement of such transactions A financial liability is derecognised as soon as the obligation or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired. denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss, except where they are recognised in equity as Repo transactions and reverse repo transactions qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements (repos) hedges in foreign divisions. continue to be recognised in the statement of financial position. The related liability is included under the relevant In general, translation differences in the statement of line item (principally Due to banks). income are included in the result on financial transactions. Translation differences on non-monetary items measured at Securities purchased subject to resale agreements (reverse fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the repos) are recognised under the line item Due from banks or fair value gain or loss. Non-monetary items are translated under Loans and advances to the public and private sectors. into the reporting currency at the same time as the The difference between the sale price and the purchase determination of their fair value. By retranslation on price is recognised in the statement of income as interest reporting date, translation differences on non-monetary during the term of the agreement. items measured at fair value through equity are included in the revaluation reserve in equity. Securitisation We have placed parts of our loan portfolio in special Non-monetary items not measured at fair value are purpose entities (SPEs). If we have effective control over an translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the original SPE, it is consolidated. We have control over an entity when transaction date. we have power over that entity and are exposed to or have rights to variable income from our involvement in the entity and are able to use our power over the entity to influence the entity’s income. The accounting principles followed by Van Lanschot Kempen are applied when consolidating SPEs. Summary of significant accounting policies 115 Transfers of financial assets Any change in the fair value of the hedged item is also All or a part of a financial asset is transferred if: recognised in the statement of income, in so far as the – The contractual rights to receive the cash flows from hedging instrument has been effective in the preceding that financial asset are transferred; or period. – The contractual rights to receive the cash flows from that financial asset are retained, but a contractual A hedge relationship ends if the hedging instrument is sold, obligation is assumed to pay the cash flows to one or expires or is exercised, or if the hedging transaction no more recipients under an arrangement. longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, with the remaining value adjustment of the hedged item amortised For more details, see “Disclosure of interest in other through profit or loss until the end of its term. entities”. We apply micro fair value hedge accounting and macro fair We have no other assets meeting the criteria for transfers value hedge accounting. of financial assets. Micro fair value hedges Derivatives A fair value hedge is classified as a micro fair value hedge A derivative is initially recognised at fair value on the effective when the hedged item (or group of items) is a distinctively date of the contract. After initial recognition, the derivative is identifiable asset or liability hedged by one or a few subsequently remeasured at fair value and movements in hedging instruments. Debt securities at fair value through value are taken to the statement of income under Result on other comprehensive income and issued debt securities financial transactions. Fair values are based on stock are hedged for interest rate risk in a micro fair value hedge. exchange prices, cash flow models, and option and other valuation models. Macro fair value hedges We apply macro fair value hedges for fixed rate mortgages. Hedge accounting A portfolio of mortgages is identified comprising We use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, to hedge homogeneous loans based on their contractual interest our exposure to risks. The carrying amount of assets and rates, maturity and other risk characteristics. Mortgages liabilities which are hedged through fair value hedging and within the identified portfolio are allocated into repricing which would otherwise be recognised at cost is adjusted term buckets based on expected repricing dates rather than for movements in the fair value that can be attributed to the contractual repricing dates. The hedging instruments are hedged risks. Any gains or losses arising from changes in designated appropriately to those repricing term buckets. the fair value of derivatives not relating to the hedged risks are taken directly to the statement of income. We have Cash flow hedges chosen to apply hedge accounting based on IAS 39, Cash flow hedges are hedges of the exposure to using the temporary reliefs provided by the applicable fluctuations in the cash flow of an asset, liability or future amendments. transaction arising as a result of interest rate changes and/ or inflation. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging At the inception of a hedge transaction, we formally instrument that has been determined to be an effective designate and document the hedge relationship and the hedge is recognised directly in equity until the hedged item financial risk management objective when entering into the affects the statement of income, while the ineffective hedge transaction. The documentation includes identification portion is recognised in profit or loss. of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how we will assess If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or if it can no the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the longer be designated as a hedge, accumulated gains and exposure to risks. losses remain in equity until the expected future transaction is taken to the statement of income. If the expected future Such hedges are considered to be effective if we may transaction is no longer likely to take place, the accumulated expect, both upon inception and during the term of the result is transferred directly from equity to profit or loss. hedge, that changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item will be almost fully offset by changes in the Embedded derivatives fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument, in so far Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered as they relate to the hedged risk, and the actual outcome is in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows within a range of 80-125%. The effectiveness is assessed are solely payment of principal and interest. and documented on a monthly basis in order to determine that the hedge has been highly effective throughout the If the hybrid contract contains a host that is not an asset, financial reporting periods for which it was intended. We the embedded derivatives are separated from the host apply the EU carve-out on portfolio fair value hedges. contract and treated as separate derivatives when: – The economic characteristics are not closely related to Hedges that qualify for hedge accounting are recognised as those of the host contract; follows: – A separate instrument with the same terms would meet the definition of a derivative; and Fair value hedges – The hybrid contract is not measured at fair value Fair value hedges are hedges of the exposure to changes in through profit or loss. the fair value of an asset or liability arising as a result of interest rate changes. Movements in the value of the hedging instrument are taken to the statement of income. Summary of significant accounting policies 116 Day 1 profit remains within the ranges set, reflects ineffectiveness and Discrepancies between the transaction price and the fair is taken to the statement of income. value may arise if valuation techniques are applied at the time of the transaction. Such a discrepancy is referred to as Derivatives include: a Day 1 profit. Any resulting profit or loss is recognised – The fair value of derivatives held for trading directly in the statement of income if the valuation method Derivatives held for trading are transactions for own is based on observable inputs in an active market. In the account whereby the aim is to actively sell them in the event of unobservable inputs, the gain or loss is amortised short term; over the term of the transaction. – Economic hedges Economic hedges are derivatives used to manage risks Netting of financial assets and liabilities without applying hedge accounting; Financial assets and liabilities are netted and presented in – Structured product derivatives the consolidated financial statements at the net amount Structured product derivatives are options we have when we have a legally enforceable right to offset the acquired in order to hedge structured products sold to recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a clients, without application of hedge accounting; net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability – Client option positions simultaneously. This mainly concerns netting of derivatives. Offsetting market transactions are conducted for all See 2.7, Risk management. option positions held by our clients on a one-on-one basis; Statement of financial position by IFRS accounting policy – Derivatives with application of hedge accounting For the layout of the statement of financial position by IFRS These are derivatives used as hedging instruments in accounting policy, see “Consolidated statement of financial the application of hedge accounting. position by category” in the supplementary notes. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or Statement of financial position fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) are measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks Additionally, any instrument for which the contractual cash Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks flow characteristics are not solely payments of principal and comprise, at nominal value, cash in hand and deposits with interest (SPPI) must be measured at FVPL. No restrictions a term of less than three months, investments readily are set for sales within the fair value through profit or loss convertible into a known amount of cash with an portfolio. These debt instruments are governed by the Asset insignificant risk of value changes, balances at central banks & Liability Committee (ALCO) and sales need to be approved and balances withdrawable on demand at other banks in by ALCO. Interest earned on these assets is recognised as respect of which the risk of value changes is insignificant. interest income. All other realised and unrealised gains and The amount due from DNB arising from the minimum losses on remeasuring debt instruments at fair value are reserve requirement is also included in this item. recognised under Result on financial transactions. All realised and unrealised gains and losses on remeasuring Financial assets from trading activities equity instruments at fair value are recognised under Financial assets from trading activities are transactions for Income from securities and associates. our own account whereby the aim is to actively sell these instruments in the short term. Financial assets from trading Financial assets at fair value through other activities consist of the trading portfolio of both equity comprehensive income instruments and debt instruments. The financial assets A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect and from trading activities are recognised at fair value with sell business model and meets the SPPI test is measured at effect from the trade date and value adjustments are taken fair value, with fair value adjustments recognised in other to the statement of income under the line item Result on comprehensive income unless the asset is designated at fair financial transactions. value through profit or loss. The financial assets in the hold to collect and sell portfolio are governed by ALCO and sales Due from banks need to be approved by ALCO. Sales as a result of managing Amounts due from banks are initially recognised at fair everyday liquidity needs, maintaining a particular interest value and subsequently at amortised cost using the yield profile on the secondary market, or to match the effective interest method. duration and sales required by regulators, are consistent with the objective of the hold to collect and sell portfolio. Derivatives Derivatives are carried at fair value. The positive and Under FVOCI, a financial asset is measured at its fair value negative values of derivatives are shown separately on the and movements in the carrying amount are taken through face of the statement of financial position on the assets side OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or and the liabilities side, respectively. The values of losses, interest revenue, and foreign exchange gains and derivatives with a positive and negative value, concluded losses on the instrument’s amortised cost, which are with the same counterparty, are only netted if the cash recognised in profit or loss. When the financial asset is flows are settled on a net basis and this is permitted under derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously law. Movements in the value of derivatives are taken recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss directly to the line item Result on financial transactions. and recognised in Result on financial transactions. Interest If the hedge is completely effective, the net impact on the income from these financial assets is included in Interest statement of income is nil. The difference, in so far as this income using the effective interest method. Summary of significant accounting policies 117 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors The discounted cash flow method calculates the enterprise Loans and advances to the public and private sectors are value by discounting the forecast operational cash flows at initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs a discount rate for the planning period and a final value directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial based on the extrapolation of the operating profit. The asset, and are subsequently amortised using the effective discount rate is determined on the basis of the discount rate interest rate method less any allowance for impairment. of listed companies with a high degree of similarity and on The impairment is recognised in the statement of income. the specific characteristics of the company. If applicable, the discounted cash flow method takes account of a discount Other financial assets at amortised cost for poor liquidity and minority shareholdings. A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect business model and meets the SPPI test is measured at The company’s net debt is then deducted from the value amortised cost unless the asset is designated at fair value resulting from the capitalisation method and/or discounted through profit or loss. Our ALCO sets restrictions for buying cash flow method and multiplied by the share in the capital and selling in the hold to collect portfolio. Sales are structure in order to derive the shareholder value from the permitted when these are due to an increase in credit risk, enterprise value. take place close to the maturity date, are insignificant in value (both on individual and aggregated level) or are The disclosed net asset value method determines the value infrequent. Under this measurement category, the financial of a company based on the statement of financial position. asset is initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the If our share in the associate’s losses is equal to or exceeds financial asset, and subsequently recognised at amortised our interest in the associate, no further losses are cost less the principal repayments, plus or minus the recognised unless we have assumed obligations or made cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method payments for these associates. of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount and adjusted for any impairment Property and equipment allowance. The impairment is recognised in the statement Property and equipment comprise property, information of income. Interest income from these financial assets is technology, furniture and fixtures, and communication and included in Interest income using the effective interest rate safety equipment. Property and equipment are initially method. carried at cost and subsequently measured at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated Investments in associates using the equity method impairments. The carrying value includes the costs for These investments have been designated by management replacement of part of the existing property as soon as as transactions held indefinitely, and as a result of the these costs are incurred, but excludes day-to-day servicing acquired control can be classified as investments in costs. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis associates using the equity method. These are investments over the useful life of the asset. in entities where we have significant influence but not control. If there is a change in the equity of the associate, Lease contracts which we entered into as a lessee are we recognise our share in this change and include it in the classified as right-of-use assets. Right-of-use assets are statement of changes in equity. This also applies to results presented as part of Property and equipment in the of associates recognised in our statement of income. statement of financial position and are measured at cost, comprising the following: In the first year of investment, investments classified as –  the amount of the initial measurement of the lease investments in associates using the equity method are liability; recognised at cost, and where applicable are adjusted for –  any lease payments made at or before the any changes in the value of the associate’s individual commencement date less any lease incentives received; receivables and payables occurring after the acquisition, –  any initial direct costs; measured using the policies applied by Van Lanschot –  restoration costs. Kempen. Depreciation is applied using the same method as for wholly-owned tangible assets. The recoverable amount of the investments in associates using the equity method is determined each quarter. The The recoverable amount of individual property items is valuation methods applied are the capitalisation method determined every year, irrespective of whether there is any (peer group analysis), the discounted cash flow method and indication of impairment, and more often if market the disclosed net asset value method. An impairment is conditions so dictate. The recoverable amount is the higher recognised if the recoverable amount is lower than the of the fair value less costs or the value in use. The fair value carrying amount. less costs is set by an independent surveyor. If the fair value less costs is below the carrying amount, the value in use is The capitalisation method determines the value of a determined. This value is calculated using the value-in-use business by multiplying the operating profit (EBIT) and the method. If the value in use is also below the carrying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation amount, an impairment is recognised for the difference (EBITDA) by a multiplier factor derived from similar listed between the carrying amount and the higher of the fair companies (the peer group), if applicable also taking value less costs and the value in use. account of a discount for poor liquidity and minority shareholding. EBIT and EBITDA are adjusted for one-off items where applicable. Summary of significant accounting policies 118 Estimated useful life of property and equipment (years) Tax assets and liabilities Land Indefinite Tax assets and liabilities are stated at face value. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they Buildings 40 relate to the same tax authority, the same type of tax and Alterations 10–15 the law permits offsetting of these assets and liabilities. Operating system software and IT 3-5 Deferred taxes are recognised on the face of the statement Communication equipment 5 of financial position if the valuation of an asset or liability Safety equipment 15 temporarily differs from the valuation for tax purposes. Infrastructure 10 Deferred taxes are calculated using the tax rates prevailing Furniture and fixtures 5–10 on the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if they relate to the same tax authority, concern the Right of use assets 1–10 same type of tax, if it is permitted under law to offset these deferrals and if the deferrals are expected to be settled simultaneously. Deferred tax assets are recognised only if it Operating system software development costs are capitalised is probable that taxable profits will be realised in the near if they are identifiable, if there is a likelihood that future future against which these temporary differences can be economic benefits will flow to Van Lanschot Kempen and if offset. costs can be measured reliably. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are assessed at every Property not in own use comprises office buildings no reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer longer in own use. Our policy is focused on selling these probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to assets in due course. Property not in own use is carried at allow all or part of the deferred tax assets and liabilities historical cost less accumulated depreciation and to be used. This reduction will be reversed if it is probable accumulated impairments. This property is considered to be that sufficient taxable profits will be available. impaired if its carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount less the relevant variable Changes in the value of investments classified as available costs to sell is based on the appraisal value as determined for sale and movements in the value of derivatives forming by an independent surveyor. part of a cash flow hedge are recognised in equity net of deferred tax. Deferred tax assets and liabilities cease to be Goodwill and other intangible assets recognised when these movements in value are realised. Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value Current tax is taken to the statement of income on of the acquired assets (including intangible assets) and realisation of the movement in value. liabilities, and the purchase price paid (excluding acquisition costs). Goodwill paid is included in the financial statements Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill The line items Assets and liabilities classified as held for paid is tested for impairment annually or whenever events sale includes a group of assets whose carrying amounts will or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value principally be recovered through a sale transaction. These may be impaired. An impairment is calculated based on the assets and liabilities are measured at the lower of either the difference between the carrying value and the recoverable carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the depreciation. The group of assets and liabilities concerned goodwill relates. A CGU’s recoverable amount is the higher is available for immediate sale in its present condition of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such disposal groups. We plan to sell assets at a price Owing to the absence of a market for separate CGUs, we which is reasonable considering their current fair value, as a are unable to calculate a reliable fair value less costs to sell result of which a sale is highly probable and expected to be for each CGU. The recoverable amount is therefore deemed completed within one year. to be equal to the value in use. The value in use is determined by discounting the future cash flows generated Other assets by a CGU to their net present value. If the recoverable Assets acquired through foreclosures are carried at the amount of a CGU is lower than its carrying amount, lower of cost or the recoverable amount. This recoverable goodwill is impaired. The impairment is first applied in full to amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course the goodwill and then pro rata to the individual assets. of business less the relevant variable costs to sell. The recoverable amount less the relevant variable costs to sell is Other intangible assets with a finite useful life, such as based on the appraisal value as determined by an independent application software, client bases, contractual rights and surveyor. Other assets are initially recognised at fair value the value of acquired funds and loans and advances, are excluding transaction costs. After initial recognition, they capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest over their respective useful lives. method. Financial liabilities from trading activities Estimated useful life of intangible assets (years) Financial liabilities from trading activities are transactions Client bases 5–20 for own account whereby the aim is to repurchase these Third-party distribution channels 12–20 instruments in the short term. These instruments are stated Brand names 20 at fair value, with movements in value recognised in the statement of income under Result on financial transactions. Application software 3–5 Summary of significant accounting policies 119 This line item comprises short positions on the trading staff costs. We have no further payment obligations with portfolio in both equity instruments and debt instruments. respect to defined contribution plans once the contributions Recognition is from the date on which the contract is have been paid. concluded. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines the Due to banks amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Amounts due to banks are initially recognised at fair value retirement. Factors such as age, years of service and salary are excluding transaction costs. After their initial recognition, taken into account when determining the amounts to be paid. they are recognised at amortised cost using the effective The provision for defined benefit plans is the present value of interest method. the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets. Public and private sector liabilities Public and private sector liabilities are initially recognised at The pension obligation is calculated with reference to the fair value excluding transaction costs. After their initial expected return on plan assets. Differences between the recognition, they are recognised at amortised cost using expected and actual return on plan assets and actuarial gains the effective interest method. and losses are recognised directly in equity; net interest is recognised under Interest in the statement of income. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Provisions for long-service benefits comprise financial instruments which management believes Employees receive a bonus to mark a long-service should be recognised at fair value through profit or loss anniversary of 25 and 40 years. In addition, receptions or based on one of the following reasons: dinners with colleagues are organised for employees who – Designation eliminates or significantly reduces have been in service for 25 and 40 years. inconsistencies in measurement and recognition which would otherwise arise as a result of liabilities being Restructuring provision valued or income and expenses being recognised under A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the different accounting policies; or recognition criteria are met. We have a constructive – The contract in which the financial instrument is obligation if we have a detailed formal restructuring plan included contains one or more embedded derivatives identifying at least the business or part of the business and the entire contract is recognised at fair value concerned, the principal locations affected, the number of through profit or loss. This is only permitted if the employees affected, a detailed estimate of the expenditure embedded derivative has significant influence on the to be undertaken and a suitable timeframe. Employees are contractually agreed cash flows. also notified of the main features of the plan. The valuation takes account of our own credit risk. This is Provision for the interest rate derivatives recovery based on the internal funding curve, which is determined by framework spreads on issued debt securities and estimates by A provision for the interest rate derivatives recovery investment banks of interest rates on new issued debt framework is recognised. We have agreed to abide by the securities. Own credit risk is recognised in equity under the Netherlands’ general recovery framework for interest rate line item Own credit risk reserve. The remaining amount of derivatives clients, implying that we have offered payments change in the fair value is recognised in Result on financial as a result of the implementation of the uniform recovery transactions. framework. Issued debt securities Other liabilities Issued debt securities are initially recognised at fair value Other liabilities are initially recognised at fair value excluding transaction costs. After initial recognition, issued excluding transaction costs. After their initial recognition, debt securities are carried at amortised cost using the they are recognised at amortised cost using the effective effective interest method. Repurchase of our own debt interest method. securities is offset in the consolidated financial statements against the liability; the difference between the cost and the Lease liabilities are presented in the statement of financial carrying amount based on the remaining term is taken to position as part of Other liabilities. Interest payments and the statement of income. amortisation in the year are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, Provisions and disclosed separately within the statement of profit or A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount. A loss. provision is included in the statement of financial position if we have an obligation as a result of a past event, it is Lease liabilities consist of interest and lease payments and probable that an outflow of resources will be required to are initially measured at the present value of the remaining settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made. lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s incremental Provisions are discounted if the time value of money for the borrowing rate. liability has a material effect. Subordinated loans Provisions for pensions Subordinated loans are initially recognised at fair value We operate defined benefit plans and defined contribution excluding transaction costs. After initial recognition, they plans. Under defined contribution plans, contributions to are carried at amortised cost. Purchases of our own pension providers are taken to the statement of income as subordinated loans are offset against the liability in the Summary of significant accounting policies 120 consolidated financial statements; the difference between Income from securities and associates cost and the carrying amount based on the remaining term All dividends received from investments in equity is taken to the statement of income. instruments are included under dividends and fees. Dividends are recognised directly in the statement of Equity income when they are made payable. Direct costs of a new share issue are deducted from equity, taking account of taxes. Our share in the results of equity-valued associates is recognised under Income from securities and associates If we purchase treasury shares, the purchase price, using the equity method. Dividends received are deducted including direct transaction costs after tax, is deducted from the carrying amount of the equity-valued associate. from equity. Treasury shares that we purchase do not Due to the fact that these investments in associates using qualify for profit or dividend and are not included in the the equity method are part of our investment strategy, we calculation of earnings per share. present the income as part of our operating activities. Obligations not recognised in the statement of financial Net commission income position This item comprises the income, other than income similar This includes obligations that represent a potential credit to interest, earned on wealth management services risk. For the other obligations not recognised in the provided to third parties. Commission paid to third parties is statement of financial position, see “Commitments” in the accounted for as commission expense. supplementary notes. We receive commission for the wide range of services we Contingent liabilities and irrevocable commitments provide to clients. This can be divided into commission on a Contingent liabilities are carried at the contract value and transaction basis and periodic commission charged to the relate in particular to guarantees and irrevocable letters of client during the year. credit. This item consists of unused overdraft facilities, sale and repurchase commitments, irrevocable payment Commission on a transaction basis commitments for the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) and all Commission income on a transaction basis is recognised in other obligations resulting from irrevocable commitments the periods in which we provide the services. Transaction that could give rise to loans. commission for which we only provide a service on the transaction date (e.g. commission on buying and selling shares) is taken directly to the statement of income. Statement of income Transaction commission for which we have to provide a service in the future (e.g. commission on structured products) General forms part of the amortised cost and is recognised in the Revenue is recognised when it is likely that the economic statement of income over the expected term of the benefits will flow to Van Lanschot Kempen and the revenue instrument. can be measured reliably. Costs are allocated as far as possible to the period in which the services were rendered Periodic commission or to the relevant proceeds. Periodic commission (e.g. management fees) is recognised in the statement of income in the period in which the Net interest income services are provided. This item consists of income earned on lending and costs of borrowing, derivatives, related commission, and other Result on financial transactions income/expense similar to interest. The amortisation of Result on securities trading includes realised and unrealised remaining value adjustments on mortgage portfolios of fair value differences on gains and losses on financial instruments value hedges which expired in the past is disclosed under relating to the securities trading portfolio. Exchange and price Interest income. gains and losses on trading in other financial instruments are recognised under Result on foreign currency trading. Gains Interest income and interest expense are recognised in the and losses due to ineffectiveness in hedge accounting are statement of income on an accrual basis, using the effective recognised under Unrealised gains/losses on derivatives under interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that hedge accounting. Result on economic hedges includes exactly discounts estimated cash flows over the life of the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivatives that financial instrument, or a shorter period when appropriate, are not included in a hedge accounting model. Result on to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss When calculating the effective interest rate, we take into comprises unrealised value differences and interest expenses account all contractual terms of the financial instrument on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. (for example early repayment) but not future losses due to uncollectible amounts. Other income Other income comprises non-banking income resulting from Negative interest on derivatives whereby interest paid is the consolidation of non-banking subsidiaries. recognised under Interest expense and interest received is recognised under Interest income. Negative interest on Staff costs balances at central banks is recognised under Interest Staff costs comprise wages and salaries, pension and early expense. retirement costs, other social security costs and other staff costs such as remuneration in the form of share-based employee benefits. Summary of significant accounting policies 121 Share-based payments Statement of cash flows Employees may be eligible to receive remuneration in The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect the form of share-based payments. The cost of equity method. This statement of cash flows shows the source and instrument-settled transactions with employees is application of cash items. Cash flows are divided into those measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which from operating, investing and financing activities. Cash and they are granted. The fair value is determined based on the cash equivalents comprise, at face value, all cash in hand, share price on the grant date. The cost of equity instrumentbalances at central banks and balances withdrawable on settled transactions is recognised, together with a demand at other banks in respect of which the risk of value corresponding increase in equity, in the period in which changes is insignificant. the employee’s performance criteria are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the employee becomes fully entitled Segment information to the award (the vesting date). The different operating segments form the basis for our primary segmentation. An operating segment is a business Share-based payments: Management Investment Plan unit that can earn revenues and incur expenses and whose The Management Investment Plan (MIP) entails an equity operating results are regularly reviewed by its management instrument-settled transaction. If, at the moment that the or the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete share-based payment is made, the fair market value per financial information is available. Additional information is depositary receipt exceeds the issue price, the costs relating reported geographically based on where the business to this higher fair market value are treated as expenses activities are located. Intra-segment transactions are during the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment conducted on commercial terms and market conditions (at to equity. The total sum to be taken into consideration is arm’s length). determined on the basis of the fair value of the depositary receipts as established on the date on which they are granted. Other administrative expenses Other administrative expenses comprise IT expenses, costs of marketing and communication, accommodation expenses, office expenses and other administrative expenses. Depreciation Depreciation and amortisation are determined on the basis of estimated useful life and charged to the statement of income. Impairments This item comprises the balance of the required impairments and reversals of such impairments. Income tax Tax on operating profit is recognised in the statement of income in accordance with applicable tax law in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax effects of any losses incurred in certain jurisdictions are recognised as assets when it is probable that sufficient future profits will be available in the relevant jurisdiction against which these losses can be offset. Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for possible dilution as a result of, for example, outstanding option rights. Risk management 122 RISK MANAGEMENT 1. Risk and capital management Reporting & Control form the second line of defence for Our front-office functions are essential in delivering financial and non-financial risks. These departments are services to our clients. Risk management supports the front responsible for initiating risk policies and the supervision of office, clients and other stakeholders in ensuring that the risk controls within Van Lanschot Kempen. Group Audit risks incurred by Van Lanschot Kempen are controlled and forms the third line of defence and is responsible for comply with our risk appetite and legal requirements. This performing independent audits on the risk framework. This section describes our risk appetite, the organisational and set-up creates a clear, balanced and appropriate division of governance arrangements that are in place regarding risk tasks, powers and responsibilities, and ensures management, and the three lines of defence principle. After independent and effective execution of the risk discussing these general arrangements, the section management function. continues with credit risk, market risk, operational risk, settlement risk, CVA risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, Group Risk Management stands at the core of capital liquidity risk, securitisation risk, climate risk, compliance management. We actively manage our capital base to cover risk, financial reporting risk and assets at fair value. risks inherent to our business and meet the capital adequacy requirements of De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB). 1.1 Risk appetite The adequacy of our capital is monitored by using the rules Solid capital and liquidity ratios are essential prerequisites and ratios established by the Basel Committee on Banking for a successful proposition to our clients, and this is Supervision as transposed into EU law. This legal reflected in our risk appetite statement. We aim to have a framework also forms the basis for supervision by DNB. simple and transparent balance sheet. Lending activities Over the reporting period, we fully complied with all occur mainly in Private Banking and the corporate loan externally imposed capital requirements. Both external and portfolio is being wound down. internal capital adequacy targets are taken into account, and the central focus is on safeguarding our financial We have a robust risk appetite framework in place. Each solidity and stability. Each year, a capital and funding plan is year, the Statutory Board prepares the risk appetite prepared for capital management purposes. statement, which translates our risk appetite into strategic limits. The risk appetite statement is then submitted to the Supervisory Board for review and approval. In addition, the Supervisory Board reviews the development of the risk profile twice a year. Risk appetite reports serve as important discussion documents for these reviews. The risk appetite statement is based on the following guiding principles: – We only take risks that we understand and can explain; – We only take risks that – directly or indirectly – serve our strategic objectives; – The sum of all risks taken should not exceed our risk-bearing capacity; – When taking risks, we take the requirements and expectations of all stakeholders into account; – We do not take any risks that could seriously harm our reputation; – Our risk appetite should be considered in all business decisions at every level of the organisation; – We avoid risks that could lead to legal or regulatory breaches. 1.2 Organisation of risk and capital management The purpose of our risk management framework is to identify and analyse risks at an early stage, as well as to mitigate and monitor those risks. Adequate internal control procedures and reporting systems, including the application of standards and limits, are key elements of the risk management framework. The organisation of our risk management framework is based on the three lines of defence principle. Day-to-day responsibility for risk control lies with the front office and/or operational departments (the first line of defence); Compliance, Group Risk Management and Finance, Risk management 123 Table 1.2 Risk and capital management framework Supervision Supervisory Board § 1.2.1 – Risk Committee – Audit and Compliance Committee Risk and capital management Statutory Board § 1.2.2 – Group Risk Committee – Credit Risk Committee – Market Risk Committee – Asset & Liability Committee – Compliance & Operational Risk Committee – Credit Committee – Product Board Implementation and review Group Risk Finance, Compliance Group Audit § 1.2.3 Management Reporting & Control Execution Private Evi Asset Merchant Treasury Credit Restructuring § 1.2.4 Banking Management Banking & Recovery 1.2.1 Supervision Group Risk Committee The Supervisory Board oversees the risks and capital The Group Risk Committee, which includes all members of requirements in relation to the group’s operations and the Statutory and Executive Boards, discusses overarching portfolio composition. It has set up two committees risk management themes. In this committee, the various risk specifically for this purpose. types are brought together, discussed and monitored on an integrated level. The committee is involved in setting the The Risk Committee focuses on all identified risks in the annual risk appetite statement, and discusses the risk group’s business activities, as well as the risk management appetite report and emerging trends in the risk profile. framework. The Committee also informs decision-making Other areas covered include recovery and resolution by the Supervisory Board on risk matters. planning, and operational incidents. The Audit and Compliance Committee is tasked with Credit Risk Committee advising the Supervisory Board on financial reporting, The Credit Risk Committee sets and adjusts the group’s internal and external audits, compliance and matters overall credit risk policy and translates this into acceptance regarding duty of care. and portfolio management policies. In executing its tasks, the committee bears in mind our strategic objectives and 1.2.2 Risk and capital management the guiding principles contained in the risk appetite The Statutory Board is responsible for developing and statement. Two members of the Executive Board serve on executing the strategy of the group. This includes the capital this committee (the CFRO and the member of the Executive and funding plan, which is based on a number of risk and Board responsible for Private Banking), along with capital policies. representatives of Group Risk Management, Private Banking, Credit Service Centre, Credit Approval, and The primary objective of our capital management is to ensure Credit Restructuring & Recovery. The committee meets that we comply with external and internal capital requirements on a quarterly basis. in order to support our businesses and to create value for our stakeholders. We manage our capital structure by taking Market Risk Committee into account changes in economic conditions and the risk This committee focuses on all market risks within characteristics of our activities. To maintain and/or manage Van Lanschot Kempen. Market risk is the risk of loss as a our capital structure, we may adjust the amount of dividend result of changes in market variables, including interest payments to shareholders, return capital to shareholders rates (excluding interest rate risk in the banking book), or issue capital securities. These adjustments are under exchange rates and equity prices. It also considers variables constant review by the Statutory Board. not directly observable in the market, such as volatility and correlations, which also influence the value of certain The Statutory Board also bears responsibility for ensuring financial instruments. Market risks at Kempen occur due to the proper operation of the processes that safeguard the trading of securities (mainly equities, equity derivatives, the group’s liquidity and capital position. In addition, it is management book investments and structured products). required to provide information to the Supervisory Board, VLKWM is exposed to a certain amount of market risk which in turn assesses the risk appetite of the group. The (mainly FX risk) through its treasury activities. This risk is decisions of the Statutory Board are taken during meetings limited, as the majority of transactions and positions in the of the Executive Board. To ensure the various risk types statement of financial position are denominated in euros. are managed properly, the Statutory Board has set up the VLKWM is also exposed to market risk as a result of following risk committees: management book investments. The committee meets on a quarterly basis. Risk management 124 Asset & Liability Committee – Proactively and reactively providing advice on managing The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) is responsible for risks; managing risks that result from mismatches between assets – Raising risk awareness among staff in order to improve and liabilities (interest rate and liquidity risks), as well as the their ability to strike a sound balance between risk and capital position of the bank. ALCO’s main tasks are: return. – Overseeing the asset-liability management (ALM) process; Finance, Reporting & Control is jointly responsible with – Monitoring and adjusting the funding profile; Group Risk Management for the financial accounting and – Setting policies on interest rate risk in the banking business control function. Through its various reports, book1, liquidity and funding risk, funds transfer pricing Finance, Reporting & Control fulfils an important role in and capitalisation; challenging the businesses and coordinating supervision of – Monitoring the development of the balance sheet and risk management. balance-sheet projections. Compliance has both an advisory and a monitoring role with ALCO meets once a month and is chaired by the CFRO. As respect to compliance with internal and external laws and well as the CFRO, ALCO’s members comprise: regulations that apply to the Statutory Board, senior – The Chairman of the Statutory Board; management and employees. Compliance operates – The Statutory Board member responsible for Private independently and its director reports directly to the Banking; Chairman of the Statutory Board. In addition, Compliance – Representatives of Treasury, Group Risk Management reports periodically to the Supervisory Board’s Audit and and Finance, Reporting & Control. Compliance Committee. On a quarterly basis, ALCO meets as an expanded group, which includes the COO and representatives of the Group Audit reviews the design and effectiveness of the commercial departments. risk organisation and the execution of our risk and capital management policies. The department reports to the Compliance & Operational Risk Committee Statutory Board. The applicable policies form the starting The Compliance & Operational Risk Committee is responsible point for the independent review by Group Audit. for the implementation and execution of our compliance and Processes, infrastructure, organisation and systems are operational risk management policies. The committee audited based on these policies in order to determine assesses compliance and operational risks, and ensures whether the organisation adequately executes its risk and remedial actions are taken if required. The committee also capital management policies. challenges and approves the annual plans of the NonFinancial Risk Management and Compliance departments. 1.2.4 Execution of risk and capital management policies It meets on a quarterly basis and is chaired by the CFRO. The commercial departments, i.e. the departments shown under “Execution” in Table 1.2 (excluding Treasury and In addition to the committees described above (in which Credit Restructuring & Recovery), are responsible for Group Risk Management takes the lead), we have a number preparing their business plans. On the basis of these plans, of committees that form part of the first line of defence and current and future risks are assessed, including expected that cover specific risk-related topics, such as the Credit capital and liquidity requirements. These assessments Committee and the Product Board. serve as input for ALCO. 1.2.3 Implementation and review of risk and capital 1.3 Capital requirements management policies The standards set by the Basel Committee on Banking Implementation and monitoring of our risk and capital Supervision, and translated into law, apply to all Dutch policies is carried out by: banks. The Basel framework consists of three pillars: – Group Risk Management; – Pillar 1 stipulates capital requirements for credit, market – Finance, Reporting & Control; and operational risk. – Compliance. – Pillar 2 requires banks to have internal processes for risk In addition, Group Audit periodically reviews these policies. management and to calculate the capital requirements needed to address all risks that are not included in Group Risk Management is responsible for: Pillar 1. The Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process – Second-line monitoring and management of all risks (SREP) is also part of Pillar 2. relating to the statement of financial position at group – Pillar 3 sets out requirements for disclosure of level, including modelling, measuring, managing and information about the institution’s risk profile to external reporting on our credit, market, interest rate, liquidity stakeholders. and strategic risks; – Business continuity management; Our website has Pillar 3 information (unaudited) and a – Information security; detailed breakdown of our portfolio of loans to companies – The risk appetite process; and institutions (unaudited), published once a year. Our – Preparing, developing and maintaining policy remuneration policy is explained in the remuneration documents; section and in a Pillar 3 Remuneration disclosure – Preparing ICAAP and ILAAP documentation as well as (unaudited), which can also be found on our website. the recovery plan; – Issuing daily market risk reports; 1 The banking book comprises all assets that are not held for trading purposes under the regulatory definition. Risk management 125 1.4 Individual risks The authority to approve large loans rests, according to The following sections detail the individual risk types to the credit approval authorisation matrix, with the Credit which we are exposed. It therefore covers a combination of Committee, which comprises representatives of the relevant Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements. The risk types divisions as well as members of the Statutory Board. covered are: – Credit risk (Section 2); The midand back-office for nearly all residential mortgage – Market risk (Section 3); loans is carried out by a third party. A service level – Operational risk (Section 4); agreement (SLA) has been signed to ensure adequate – Settlement risk (Section 5); control of the operational risks, including the outsourcing – CVA risk (Section 6); risk. The acceptance process is not outsourced, with the – Strategic risk (Section 7); exception of our white label loans that fall within the – Interest rate risk (Section 8); acceptance framework. – Liquidity risk (Section 9); – Securitisation risk (Section 10); We also offer residential mortgages via a third party under – Climate risk (Section 11); a white label. From a risk management perspective, the – Compliance risk (Section 12); credit and outsourcing risks are of particular relevance. – Financial reporting risk (Section 13). An SLA has been signed to ensure adequate control of the operational risks, including the outsourcing risk. The 2. Credit risk acceptance and management of credit risks have been Credit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty or client outsourced to a third party and these activities are is no longer able to fulfil its obligations to the bank. Our credit monitored using detailed data from the mortgage portfolio, risk policies focus on the counterparty risks associated with provided in accordance with prevailing legal requirements. lending to private and corporate clients. Strict selection criteria This allows for the recognition of any arrears, for example. for new clients and active credit management for existing We also review random samples of mortgage loans. clients are applied to safeguard the quality of the loan portfolio. The lending activities that we conduct are required to be in Limits on financial institutions and countries are determined line with stated objectives, and individual assessments are using a number of hard criteria such as the external rating, used to ascertain this. BIS ratios, capital ratios, country of origin and gross domestic product (for countries). Limits can also be As well as from lending activities, credit risk also arises from: adjusted and withdrawn on a daily basis. – Investment activities; – International payment transactions and cash management; New loan requests are assessed to determine if they are – Foreign exchange (FX) risk; in line with our strategy and we adopt a conservative – Hedging activities; approach to granting them. – Settlement risk. The credit risk concentration mainly lies within our Our investment activities relate to the management of our Private Banking segment in the Netherlands. liquidity buffer and equity investments. For the liquidity buffer, a limit framework is in place to manage and monitor 2.1.2 Credit management – policy and processes associated credit risks. A high-quality loan portfolio requires strict credit management. Credit management is carried out at both Counterparty credit risk with respect to financial institutions individual loan and portfolio level. At the individual loan arises from international payment transactions, cash level, explicit attention is devoted to the management of management, FX and hedging activities. Some of these unauthorised overdrafts and accounts past due. Loans with activities also involve settlement risk. For derivatives an elevated risk profile are subjected to a risk check. In transactions, counterparty credit risk is mitigated by daily addition, a portion of the portfolio is regularly reviewed and margining. as part of this review the credit risk of individual clients is scrutinised. The frequency of the reviews varies according We apply a strict policy when determining and monitoring to the individual borrower’s risk profile, but they take place country and counterparty (financial institutions) limits. The at least annually. In addition to the financial analysis, the country limits serve as a cross limit for financial institutions, review takes account of future developments in the client’s meaning that the counterparty risks in respect of financial situation (partly in the light of relevant macroeconomic institutions in one country are limited by the relevant country trends). limit, as the country limit is usually lower than the aggregate of the individual counterparty limits. A deterioration in a client’s risk profile may lead to closer supervision, an adjusted rating, corrective measures 2.1 Loans and advances (such as requiring additional collateral or increasing the frequency of financial reporting), involvement of the Credit 2.1.1 Credit acceptance Restructuring & Recovery department or a combination of Our loan approval policy focuses on maintaining a highthese measures. It may also lead to a stage transfer under quality loan portfolio. The authority to approve loans and IFRS 9, see Section 2.8. loan reviews is delegated to a limited number of departments, mainly our Credit Approval department. Risk management 126 At portfolio level, credit risks are monitored on a monthly determining the required capital. The credit conversion basis. A detailed credit risk report and any relevant factors for determining the exposure at default (EAD) and developments or expected developments are discussed in the loss given default (LGD) are prescribed. Under A-IRB the Credit Risk Committee on a quarterly basis. Any banks are allowed to use own estimates for PD, EAD and negative trend identified in the risk profile of a particular LGD. The PD is defined as the likelihood that a client will client segment, sector or loan type can lead to the default within one year, the EAD is defined as the bank’s adjustment of the relevant lending policy. Trends in sectors expected exposure at the time a client defaults, and the where there is a concentration risk are monitored LGD is the expected loss percentage in the event that a particularly closely. client defaults. As a result, A-IRB is more risk-sensitive than F-IRB and SA. If the review, risk check, payment arrears or external signals point to an increased risk of discontinuity, the Credit We have approval from DNB to determine and report the Restructuring & Recovery department is involved in the required regulatory capital for a large proportion of our loan credit management process. An estimate is made of the portfolio using internal ratings-based (IRB) methods. For probability of continuity. Depending on the seriousness and these models, we have a model governance framework in magnitude of the problem, either monitoring or intensive place. As part of this, the performance of the models is supervision is applied. If there are objective indicators of periodically monitored, and these models are also periodically impairment as referred to under the line item Impairments, validated against independent models. As mentioned the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department draws above, part of the portfolio is capitalised using the A-IRB up an impairment proposal. The Impairment Committee and F-IRB methods. More specifically, the retail and determines the impairment for the whole credit portfolio. non-retail exposures are capitalised under A-IRB and F-IRB, respectively. Active management of past due loans enables potential problem loans to be identified at an early stage. If an The retail portfolio comprises four sub-portfolios with the individual assessment identifies an increased risk, the following exposures: Credit Restructuring & Recovery department will supervise – Residential mortgage exposures; the client. Increased credit risk occurs in situations including – Qualifying revolving retail exposures up to €40,000; the following: – Other retail exposures up to €2 million; – If clients fail to meet their payment obligations (for – Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with total amounts > €250); exposures up to €1 million. – If clients report difficulties in meeting future payments, e.g. because of a divorce, unemployment etc.; The PD models are mostly based on behavioural aspects of – In the event of a default (see Section 2.1.3.1); the client and the LGD models on the underlying collateral. – For business clients, in the event of a significant For the capital calculations a so-called downturn LGD is decrease in turnover, breach of one or more covenants, applied, i.e. the expected loss at default during an economic a debt service coverage ratio < 1, etc. downturn. Estimation of the EAD is based on the limit and credit utilisation. The primary goal of the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department is to migrate clients back to accounts with The non-retail portfolio comprises four sub-portfolios with regular status (i.e. not under the supervision of Credit the following exposures: Restructuring & Recovery) by reducing their credit risk. – Exposures to corporate clients; The aim is to do this in accordance with the loan – Exposures to private customers exceeding €2 million agreements made with these clients, but forbearance (excluding residential mortgages); measures are applied if necessary. More information on – Commercial real estate exposures; forborne exposures can be found in Section 2.2. – Exposures to holding companies that are clients with non-controlling interests and shareholdings. 2.1.3 Credit risk measurement We have developed internal models for measuring and For the first two sub-portfolios an internal PD model has monitoring credit risk for the majority of the loan portfolio. been developed that uses behavioural and other client These internal models are also used to determine the characteristics to estimate the PD. For commercial real required capital that has to be set aside for absorbing estate exposures and exposures to holding companies the unexpected credit losses. For this reason, the models, the SA method has been used for capital calculations since the use of these models and the model governance have to first half of 2018; prior to this the F-IRB method was used adhere to strict requirements set out in the Capital for these exposures. Requirements Regulation (CRR). IRB equity portfolio The CRR distinguishes three approaches for determining The IRB equity portfolio includes our own positions in the required capital for credit risk: the standardised equities in the investment portfolio, subordinated approach (SA), the foundation internal ratings-based receivables, non-controlling interests and shareholdings (F-IRB) approach, and the advanced internal ratings-based which appear on VLKWM's company statement of financial (A-IRB) approach. position. We use the simple risk-weighted method to calculate the risk-weighted assets for positions in shares. The standardised approach prescribes a set of rules for In this method, a specific risk weighting (190%, 290% or determining the required capital based on various 370%) is assigned to each position, based on a number of characteristics such as client type, loan type, collateral type, characteristics. A risk weighting of 250% is applied for and external rating. Under F-IRB, banks are allowed to use significant investments in financial institutions that are not internal estimates of the probability of default (PD) in deducted from equity because they fall below the Risk management 127 regulatory threshold. Positions taken in shares and Application of forbearance measures is exclusively reserved subordinated loans of wholly owned subsidiaries are for the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department, which excluded from IRB. These are reported using the SA pursues a policy based on general principles that it translates method. to match the specific situation of the individual client. Given the nature of these loans, the Credit Restructuring & Recovery Other loans and advances department carries out intensive credit management. Before The risk-weighted assets of the other portfolios, such as the any new arrangements are agreed, a detailed analysis is made debt securities in our investment portfolio managed by the of the client, their financial situation and the likelihood of Treasury department (i.e. excluding retail, non-retail and income recovery. The outcome of this analysis may have equity), are calculated on the basis of the standardised consequences for the client’s review frequency and the size approach. of any loan loss provision to be made. If the client qualifies for appropriate forbearance measures, a proposal will be drawn 2.1.3.1 Definition of default and credit-impaired assets up and submitted to the competent assessor(s) for approval. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated In practice, forbearance measures do not always have the future cash flows have occurred: desired effect – i.e. the recovery of the client’s payment – A breach of contract such as a 90 days past due event; capacity or an end to the process of declining payment – Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the capacity. This may, for example, be the result of a further borrower and an inability to meet future payments; deterioration in the client’s financial circumstances or the – Concession(s) granted to the borrower that the lender failure of those circumstances to improve as expected. Such would not otherwise consider, relating to the borrower’s cases will be reanalysed and a strategy determined. financial difficulty (forbearance); However, the principle is explicitly maintained that the – A growing likelihood that the borrower will enter forbearance measure must be appropriate, sustainable and bankruptcy or other financial restructuring; effective. Any new arrangements agreed with the borrower – The disappearance of an active market for that financial must also meet these strict criteria. asset because of financial market difficulties; – The purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep A forbearance situation ends when the “non-performing” discount that reflects the incurred credit loss. status has no longer been applied to the loan for a probation period of two years. The non-performing status It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event; must last a minimum of one year starting from the last instead the combined effect of several events may have forbearance measure. The client must moreover have made caused financial assets to become impaired. All impaired significant and regular payments of interest and/or principal assets are also classified as defaulted by Van Lanschot during at least half of the probation period. After expiry of Kempen under CRR rules. Van Lanschot Kempen has the two-year probation period, no payments by the implemented one definition that serves for all the different borrower may be in arrears for more than 30 days. If this purposes. condition is not met, the probation period will start again from the date the client is no longer in arrears for more than 2.2 Forborne exposures 30 days. A loan is regarded as forborne if the borrower is unable to meet its contractual obligations towards the bank and the The recording and monitoring of loans which are subject to bank then decides to make a concession to the client by forbearance is carried out by the Credit Restructuring & modifying the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Recovery department. Each quarter, and where appropriate The objective of this modification is to enable the borrower more frequently for specific loans, an individual assessment to meet the renewed obligations, and it would not have is carried out of forborne exposures which are in default, in been offered if those circumstances had not arisen. relation to any provision made. In addition to this quarterly Forbearance actions may include one or more of the assessment (as part of the provisioning process), these following measures: loans are subject to extensive credit risk management, the – Amendment of the original terms and conditions of the intensity and frequency of which will as far as possible loan agreement with which the client is unable to match the specific circumstances of the loan. comply due to financial difficulties, with a view to restoring the client’s payment capacity; Tables 2.2.A through 2.2.E show the total volume of – Full or partial refinancing of a forborne exposure. forborne exposures. We apply several types of forbearance measures (see Table 2.2.A). Following the decision to apply The purpose of the measures taken in forbearance such a measure, a loan remains under the supervision of the situations is to maximise the chance of restoring the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department until the borrower’s payment capacity and to minimise the risk of forbearance situation has ended. losses due to having to write off all or part of the loan. The measures must offer the client an appropriate and sustainable solution enabling them to comply with the original obligations arising from the credit agreement in due course. Risk management 128 Table 2.2.A Types of forborne exposure 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 55,452 69,731 Repayments/reviews temporarily reduced/suspended 38,091 44,077 Provision of (temporary) additional funding (emergency loan) 11,584 16,269 Temporary reduction in interest rate or loan is made interest-free 5,503 9,087 Conditional and/or partial forgiveness of the loan 274 299 Table 2.2.B Movements in forborne exposures 2019 2018 At 1 January 69,731 98,254 New forborne exposures 12,184 16,074 Additions and repayments –33,286 –52,489 Assets no longer designated as forborne exposures –8,362 –1,099 Impairments 15,184 8,992 At 31 December 55,452 69,731 Additions and repayments are related to clients that have a based on the collateral used under Basel regulations, with forborne exposure in place. the exception of commercial real estate, for which collateral is based on market values. The value in the Total primary Tables 2.2.C and 2.2.D provide an insight into the collateral column is the lower of the subscription value or underlying collateral of forborne loans. This breakdown is the value of the collateral. Table 2.2.C Forborne exposures by collateral at 31/12/2019 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 55,452 2,877 24,380 15,948 43,205 12,247 Mortgage loans 3,010 2,877 – – 2,877 132 Current accounts 20,263 – – 15,948 15,948 4,315 Loans 32,180 – 24,380 – 24,380 7,799 Table 2.2.D Forborne exposures by collateral at 31/12/2018 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 69,731 7,072 24,707 23,020 54,799 14,933 Mortgage loans 3,368 3,368 – – 3,368 – Current accounts 30,049 – – 23,020 23,020 7,029 Loans 36,314 3,703 24,707 – 28,410 7,904 The geographical breakdown in Table 2.2.E is based on client locations. Table 2.2.E Forborne exposures by geographical area 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 55,452 69,731 Netherlands 55,073 69,258 Belgium – 101 Other 379 373 Risk management 129 2.2.1 Write-off policy placed substantial funds with us. The mortgage loans also We write off loans as soon as there is sufficient certainty include Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund, a fund that invests in about the loss after the sale of collateral and after exploring leasehold contracts primarily in connection with Dutch other redress opportunities. residential real estate to create an investment in long-term inflation-linked cash flows. 2.3 Breakdown of the loan portfolio We adopt a cautious approach to granting unsecured loans. New loan requests are assessed to determine if they are in Our loan book mainly consists of loans to Private Banking line with our strategy and we adopt a conservative clients (primarily loans secured by residential real estate), as approach to granting them. well as a number of commercial real estate loans and securities-backed loans. The remainder of the loan portfolio Credit risk concentration mainly lies within our Private comprises consumer loans and private customised financing Banking segment in the Netherlands. (other loans), which are solely intended for clients who have Table 2.3 Breakdown of loan portfolio by 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 entity (excluding impairments) Limit Utilisation Limit Utilisation Total 9,544,548 8,661,663 9,346,945 8,674,307 Van Lanschot 9,063,194 8,255,267 8,927,953 8,306,871 Kempen 219,510 219,510 212,069 212,069 Van Lanschot Kempen other 261,844 186,886 206,923 155,366 2.4 Collateral In general, collateral can be used for all current and future of collateral is not directly linked to a specific financing amounts owed by a debtor. In addition to mortgage arrangement. collateral and guarantees provided by governments and credit institutions, commercial real estate, receivables, and Tables 2.4.A and 2.4.B provide insight into the underlying stocks and inventories may serve as collateral. The majority collateral of the loan portfolio. Table 2.4.A Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by collateral at 31/12/2019 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Guarantees Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 8,597,894 6,216,064 462,358 374,261 4,788 7,057,471 1,540,424 Mortgage loans 6,442,472 6,216,064 – – 876 6,216,940 225,532 Loans 1,322,734 – 462,358 – 3,911 466,269 856,465 Current accounts 518,979 – – 218,746 – 218,746 300,233 Securities-backed loans and settlement 313,130 – – 155,515 – 155,515 157,615 receivables Subordinated loans 579 – – – – – 579 Table 2.4.B Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by collateral at 31/12/2018 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Guarantees Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 8,561,497 6,201,921 619,707 338,974 9,116 7,169,718 1,391,779 Mortgage loans 6,368,870 6,201,921 – – 4,758 6,206,679 162,190 Loans 1,414,789 – 619,707 – 4,358 624,065 790,723 Current accounts 509,107 – – 220,329 – 220,329 288,778 Securities-backed loans and settlement 267,221 – – 118,645 – 118,645 148,576 receivables Subordinated loans 1,510 – – – – – 1,510 Risk management 130 The category Secondary collateral and unsecured loans (see Section 2.8, Loss allowance for expected credit mainly comprises loans for which collateral has been pledged loss). We aim for a diversified loan portfolio and have in the form of operating assets, inventories and receivables, actively sought to reduce the concentration on individual as well as collateral which for technical reasons is not directly counterparties. Reflecting our risk appetite, we have set linked to a specific loan. Tables 2.4.A and 2.4.B have been limits for concentrations in individual sectors. drawn up on the basis of the definitions contained in the Basel regulations, with the exception of commercial real 2.5.1 Individual loan concentrations estate, which is based on the market value. The value under The ten largest loans to individual counterparties other primary collateral is the lower of the subscription value or the than financial institutions totalled €280 million at year-end value of the collateral. The total amount of unsecured loans is 2019, compared with a total loan portfolio of €8.7 billion small. In general, collateral can be used for all current and (2018: €220 million; total loan portfolio €8.7 billion). future amounts owed by a debtor. 2.5.2 Geographical concentrations The average loan-to-value (LTV) of our mortgage loans, In line with our strategy, the majority of lending takes place in based on 100% foreclosure value, is 76% (2018: 76%). the Netherlands and Belgium. The geographical breakdown is based on client locations. A small portion of the Belgian 2.5 Concentration within the loan portfolio market is served from the Dutch branch network. About 82% of our loan portfolio consists of loans to private clients. The credit risk in this portfolio is limited Table 2.5.2 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by geographical area 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 8,597,894 8,561,497 Netherlands 8,097,188 8,048,335 Belgium 256,050 250,206 Other 244,656 262,956 2.6 Encumbered and unencumbered assets Certain items in the statement of financial position are classified as encumbered. Tables 2.6.A and 2.6.B provide insight into the financial assets treated as encumbered. These tables have been drawn up on the basis of carrying value. Encumbered assets Pledged as collateral: – Cash pledged to a counterparty bank or central clearing party as security for obligations stemming from derivatives (CSA contracts); – Investments in debt instruments pledged to DNB or counterparty banks in the context of repo transactions or for securities and derivatives clearing purposes; – Securitised mortgage loans and receivables underlying debt instruments which have been pledged as collateral to DNB for transaction settlements or have been placed with institutional investors in the form of securitisation notes or covered bonds. Other: – Statutory reserve deposits with central banks; – Reserve accounts of the Courtine and Covered Bond entities to which we have no access. Unencumbered assets Eligible as collateral: – Investments in debt instruments which appear on the ECB eligible list of marketable assets but are not classed as encumbered at the reporting date; – Securitised mortgage loans and advances underlying debt instruments which are held by us and which appear on the ECB eligible list of marketable assets but are not classified as encumbered at the reporting date. Risk management 131 Table 2.6.A Encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumbered assets Unencumbered assets 31/12/2019 Pledged as Other Eligible as Not eligible as Total collateral collateral collateral Total 2,123,693 22,063 2,673,157 8,625,077 13,443,990 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 14,425 – 1,402,739 1,417,164 Due from banks 174,338 7,638 – 115,580 297,556 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 142,448 179,061 321,509 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – – 2,029,900 354,361 2,384,261 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,725,446 – 299,112 6,573,336 8,597,894 Other financial assets at amortised cost 223,909 – 201,697 – 425,606 Table 2.6.B Encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumbered assets Unencumbered assets 31/12/2018 Pledged as Other Eligible as Not eligible as Total collateral collateral collateral Total 2,356,409 33,319 1,838,506 8,855,683 13,083,916 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 12,783 – 1,394,080 1,406,863 Due from banks 152,288 20,535 – 366,357 539,180 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 61,391 157,192 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 121,065 – 1,391,945 290,574 1,803,584 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,753,444 – 160,573 6,647,480 8,561,497 Other financial assets at amortised cost 329,612 – 224,597 – 554,209 2.7 Netting of financial assets and liabilities Tables 2.7.A and 2.7.B show the netting of financial assets and liabilities. The right to net derivatives is laid down in a master netting agreement per counterparty. For information about the netting criteria, please see “Summary of significant accounting principles”. Table 2.7.A Netting of financial assets and liabilities 31/12/2019 Related amounts Gross in the Net in the not netted in the statement of statement of statement of Gross financial position financial position financial position Net Derivatives (assets) 414,524 47,245 367,279 5,398 361,881 Derivatives (liabilities) 497,071 47,245 449,826 5,398 444,428 Table 2.7.B Netting of financial assets and liabilities 31/12/2018 Related amounts Gross in the Net in the not netted in the statement of statement of statement of Gross financial position financial position financial position Net Derivatives (assets) 378,730 46,011 332,719 7,279 325,440 Derivatives (liabilities) 515,327 46,011 469,316 7,279 462,037 Risk management 132 2.8 Loss allowance for expected credit loss The key elements of the ECL calculation are the probability Under the IFRS 9 standard, we recognise a loss allowance for of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD), loss given expected credit losses (ECL) on financial assets measured at default (LGD), and loss given non-cure (LGN). The loss given amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss, as well as for non-cure is an estimate of the loss arising in the event of a financial guarantees and loan commitments. When there is no default without cure occurring at a given time. It is based significant deterioration in credit risk since initial recognition, on the difference between the contractual cash flows due ECL is recognised based on a 12-month expected credit loss and those that the lender would expect to receive, including (Stage 1). When a significant increase in credit risk has from the realisation of any collateral. occurred, ECL is recognised based on a lifetime ECL (Stage 2). For impaired loans (Stage 3), a lifetime ECL is recognised. In addition to these four key elements, we incorporate forward-looking information for the sophisticated approach. Expected loss measurement We identify macroeconomic variables and consider three We measure expected credit losses by using a sophisticated macroeconomic scenarios in calculating ECL: approach and an alternative approach. In both these – A base-case scenario; approaches, ECL reflects an unbiased probability-weighted – An upside scenario; amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible – A downside scenario. outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable and These scenarios are associated with different PDs, EADs verifiable information that is available without undue cost and LGNs. In the process of building the PD, cure rate and or effort at the reporting date about past events, current LGN models for IFRS we included several macroeconomic conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. risk drivers in the long list of risk drivers. Those determined Both approaches calculate a 12-month and a lifetime ECL as best-performing during modelling were selected to be for the exposures of all three stages. After the risk stage part of the model. The macroeconomic scenarios are determination in the stage calculation, the relevant ECL generated based on inputs from CBS, DNB and Van is assigned: Lanschot Kempen’s economic experts. The reported ECL – 12-month ECL for Stage 1; (12-month or lifetime, depending on the stage) is a – Lifetime ECL for Stage 2 and Stage 3. weighted average of ECLs per macroeconomic scenario. The table below shows the macroeconomic variables used for the sophisticated approach. Model Macroeconomic variables PD calibration – Gross domestic product (GDP) – Volume of exports (EXP) Cure rate – Total investments (TI) – Private consumption (PC) – Residential real estate price (RREP) – Government consumption (GC) LGN – Gross domestic product (GDP) – Residential real estate price (RREP) Significant deterioration in credit risk We use the following thresholds for the different PD models: To determine the deterioration in credit risk of a financial instrument since initial recognition, we compare the current – Private investments 0.8 risk of default at the reporting date with the risk of default – Small and medium-sized enterprises 0.9 on initial recognition. – Corporates 1.3 – Commercial real estate 0.9 To calculate the lifetime probability of default (LPD) at origination and the LPD at reporting date, we use four PD A backstop is applied and financial instruments that are models: private individuals, small and medium-sized materially overdrawn and more than 30 days past due are enterprises, corporates, and commercial real estate. If the transferred from Stage 1 to Stage 2. If the financial increase in LPD exceeds the designated threshold, the instrument is credit-impaired, it is transferred to Stage 3. exposure is transferred to Stage 2 and the lifetime ECL is calculated. Threshold An exposure will be regarded as significantly deteriorated if the result of the following formula exeeds the limit: [ ] [ ] LPDreporting LPDorigination log –log 1 –LPDreporting 1 –LPDorigination Risk management 133 Financial instruments following sophisticated approach comprehensive income, and loans and security-backed For the majority of financial instruments included in the line loans issued by the Belgian branch and F. van Lanschot item Loans and advances to the public and private sectors, Bankiers (Schweiz) AG. The alternative approach comprises including mortgage loans, loans, current accounts, an investments model and a foreign loan model. subordinated loans and financial guarantees and loan commitments, we apply a sophisticated approach to Investments model calculate ECL. This approach uses an umbrella model that The investments model is applied to calculate the ECL for combines the following submodels: cash and cash equivalents, due from banks, debt instruments – Various models that provide the expected flow of at amortised cost, and debt instruments at fair value through exposures to the default state; other comprehensive income. These financial instruments all – A PD calibration model giving the flow from performing have a low risk profile. All such exposures are assigned to to default; Stage 1 as long as their external rating is investment grade. – A full prepayment model and amortisation model giving We use a simplified model to calculate 12-month ECL, using the outflow from the portfolio of an entire exposure due publicly available data for PD and LGD based on external to prepayment or contract expiration; ratings. If financial assets are downgraded below investment – A migration model providing flows from performing grade, these assets will be sold. rating classes to other performing rating classes; – A cure rate model giving the flow from default to Foreign loans model performing classes and the non-cure state; For the loans and securitised loans issued by the Belgian – Various product-level models that give the expected branch and F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG, we exposure at the moment a client goes into default; have developed a foreign loans model. These two portfolios – An amortisation model showing the contractual fall outside the scope of the IRB models and no payments during the lifetime of a product and the part requirements on historical data have been set. The foreign of the exposure flowing out of the portfolio due to loan model calculates ECL as the sum of future exposure partial prepayments; discounted at the effective interest rate at recognition for – An EAD model giving the exposure as a function of the non-revolving products and the current effective interest limit or outstanding amount just before default; rate for revolving products. – A product-level model evaluating the part of EAD that may be lost – the loss given loss (LGL) model; The loss allowance for ECL on financial instruments and the – A discount factor to discount the loss from the moment macroeconomic variables used are described in the of default to the moment of reporting. following section. Financial instruments following the alternative approach The table below shows the ECL loss allowances and the We apply an alternative approach for cash and cash corresponding book values, categorised by balance sheet equivalents, due from banks, debt instruments at amortised line item and ECL by stage, as at 31 December 2018 and cost, debt instruments at fair value through other 31 December 2019. Table 2.8 Loss allowance for expected 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 credit loss Book value (excluding Expected credit loss Book value (excluding Expected credit loss impairments) impairments) Total 14,231,141 64,423 13,837,572 113,675 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,417,165 1 1,406,864 0 Due from banks 297,557 1 539,180 0 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2,384,261 549 1,803,584 544 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 9,469,589 63,768 9,295,388 112,811 Other financial assets at amortised cost 425,634 28 554,242 34 Financial guarantees and loan commitments 236,935 76 238,313 286 Risk management 134 Loss allowances for ECL change over time for several reasons: the credit risk of financial instruments may significantly increase or decrease, financial instruments may become credit-impaired, or new financial assets may be originated. The following tables explain the changes in the loss allowances during the year and the loss allowance recognised in the statement of income. Movements in impairments of Financial assets at fair value Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total through other comprehensive income At 1 January 2019 544 – – 544 Additions or releases without transfer –23 – – –23 New financial assets originated or purchased 27 – – 27 Total through profit or loss 549 – – 549 At 31 December 2019 549 – – 549 Movements in impairments of Financial assets at fair value Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total through other comprehensive income At 1 January 2018 663 – – 663 Additions or releases without transfer –269 – – –269 New financial assets originated or purchased 150 – – 150 Total through profit or loss 544 – – 544 At 31 December 2018 544 – – 544 Movements in impairments of Loans and advances to the Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total public and private sectors At 1 January 2019 3,691 8,621 100,499 112,811 Additions or releases without transfer –888 –2,905 –12,027 –15,819 Transfer to Stage 1 524 –5,141 –28 –4,644 Transfer to Stage 2 –307 6,400 –4,267 1,826 Transfer to Stage 3 –3,167 –1,429 8,287 3,691 New financial assets originated or purchased 3,812 – – 3,812 Total through profit or loss 3,664 5,546 92,465 101,675 Amounts written off – – –37,907 –37,907 At 31 December 2019 3,664 5,546 54,558 63,768 Movements in impairments of Loans and advances to the Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total public and private sectors At 1 January 2018 4,390 12,186 114,944 131,520 Additions or releases without transfer –1,509 –3,676 –7,753 –12,938 Transfer to Stage 1 435 –5,278 –420 –5,263 Transfer to Stage 2 –607 7,403 –1,480 5,316 Transfer to Stage 3 –27 –2,014 7,503 5,462 New financial assets originated or purchased 1,009 – – 1,009 Total through profit or loss 3,691 8,621 112,794 125,105 Amounts written off – – –12,295 –12,295 At 31 December 2018 3,691 8,621 100,499 112,811 In 2019, there were no material recalibrations of PD, LGD, LGN or EAD. Risk management 135 Movements in impairments of Financial guarantees and loan Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total commitments At 1 January 2019 106 98 82 286 Additions or releases without transfer –93 –170 –74 –337 Transfer to Stage 1 40 –372 – –332 Transfer to Stage 2 –8 450 – 442 New financial assets originated or purchased 16 – – 16 Total through profit or loss 62 6 8 76 At 31 December 2019 62 6 8 76 Movements in impairments of Financial guarantees and loan Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total commitments At 1 January 2018 89 223 888 1,200 Additions or releases without transfer –52 –41 –806 –899 Transfer to Stage 1 35 –140 – –105 Transfer to Stage 2 –2 56 – 55 Transfer to Stage 3 – –0 0 0 New financial assets originated or purchased 36 – – 36 Total through profit or loss 106 98 82 286 At 31 December 2018 106 98 82 286 All financial instruments included in the line items Cash and defined using qualitative (applying experienced credit cash equivalents, Due from banks, and Debt instruments at judgement) and quantitative factors that are indicative of amortised cost are classified in Stage 1, and no transfers risk of default. These factors vary depending on the nature have taken place. of the exposure and the type of borrower. Credit quality We use internally developed rating pools for the line items Van Lanschot Kempen allocates each exposure to a credit Loans and advances to the public and private sectors and risk grade based on a variety of data that are determined to Financial guarantees and loan commitments. be predictive of the risk of default. Credit risk grades are Credit grade Description Investment grade Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are not placed under the supervision of the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pool 1 Standard monitoring Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are not placed under the supervision of the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pools 2 to 4 Special monitoring Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are placed under the supervision of the Credit Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pools 1 to 4 Default Credit-impaired financial assets All financial instruments under the line items Cash and The credit quality of the line items Loans and advances to cash equivalents, Due from banks, Debt instruments at the public and private sectors and Financial guarantees and amortised cost and Debt instruments at fair value through loan commitments is shown in the tables below. other comprehensive income are investment grade, which Assessment of credit quality is based on our internal credit means their external rating is at least BBB-. We use rating system and year-end stage classification. The external ratings for these line items. amounts presented are gross of impairment allowances. Risk management 136 Credit quality of Loans and advances to the public and private Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total sectors 31/12/2019 Credit grade Investment grade (AAA to BBB–) 8,205,162 – – 8,205,162 Standard monitoring (BB+ to B–) – 921,443 – 921,443 Special monitoring (CCC to C) – 100,651 – 100,651 Default (DDD to D) – – 242,334 242,334 Gross carrying amount 8,205,162 1,022,094 242,334 9,469,589 Loss allowance 3,664 5,546 54,558 63,768 Carrying amount 8,201,498 1,016,548 187,776 9,405,821 Credit quality of Loans and advances to the public and private Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total sectors 31/12/2018 Credit grade Investment grade (AAA to BBB–) 7,559,491 – – 7,559,491 Standard monitoring (BB+ to B–) – 1,244,681 – 1,244,681 Special monitoring (CCC to C) – 154,980 – 154,980 Default (DDD to D) – – 336,236 336,236 Gross carrying amount 7,559,491 1,399,661 336,236 9,295,388 Loss allowance 3,691 8,621 100,499 112,811 Carrying amount 7,555,801 1,391,040 235,737 9,182,578 Credit quality of Financial guarantees and loan commitments Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total 31/12/2019 Credit grade Investment grade (AAA to BBB-) 232,573 – – 232,573 Standard monitoring (BB+ to B-) – 3,673 – 3,673 Special monitoring (CCC to C) – 320 – 320 Default (DDD to D) – – 369 369 Gross carrying amount 232,573 3,993 369 236,935 Loss allowance 62 6 8 76 Carrying amount 232,511 3,987 361 236,859 Credit quality of Financial guarantees and loan commitments Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total 31/12/2018 Credit grade Investment grade (AAA to BBB-) 224,716 – – 224,716 Standard monitoring (BB+ to B-) – 9,166 – 9,166 Special monitoring (CCC to C) – 1,160 – 1,160 Default (DDD to D) – – 3,271 3,271 Gross carrying amount 224,716 10,326 3,271 238,313 Loss allowance 106 98 82 286 Carrying amount 224,610 10,227 3,189 238,026 Macroeconomic variables ECL: a base scenario, an upside scenario, and a downside We incorporate forward-looking information for the scenario. The table shows the macroeconomic variables sophisticated approach. We use macroeconomic variables used for the sophisticated approach as at and consider three macroeconomic scenarios in calculating 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019. Risk management 137 Macroeconomic variables As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 2019 2020 2021 2018 2019 2020 Gross domestic product Base-case scenario 1.99% 1.69% 1.39% 2.80% 2.00% 2.00% Upside scenario 3.41% 3.11% 2.81% 4.26% 3.46% 3.46% Downside scenario –0.58% –0.88% –1.18% 0.16% –0.64% –0.64% Volume of export Base-case scenario 2.82% 2.72% 2.32% 2.94% 3.54% 3.84% Upside scenario 4.85% 4.75% 4.35% 4.62% 5.22% 5.52% Downside scenario –0.86% –0.96% –1.36% –0.08% 0.52% 0.82% Total investments Base-case scenario 6.44% 2.94% 2.94% 7.91% 6.11% 6.11% Upside scenario 15.29% 11.79% 11.79% 17.28% 15.48% 15.48% Downside scenario –9.66% –13.16% –13.16% –8.98% –10.78% –10.78% Private consumption Base-case scenario 1.62% 2.22% 2.62% 2.92% 1.92% 1.82% Upside scenario 2.69% 3.29% 3.69% 4.00% 3.00% 2.90% Downside scenario –0.31% 0.29% 0.69% 0.98% –0.02% –0.12% Residential real estate price Base-case scenario 7.23% 3.23% 2.53% 9.63% 6.13% 3.43% Upside scenario 10.29% 6.29% 5.59% 12.70% 9.20% 6.50% Downside scenario 1.68% –2.32% –3.02% 4.09% 0.59% –2.11% Government consumption Base-case scenario 1.90% 2.70% 1.60% 1.20% 2.60% 2.00% Upside scenario 1.89% 2.69% 1.59% 1.19% 2.59% 1.99% Downside scenario 1.91% 2.71% 1.61% 1.22% 2.62% 2.02% For the portfolios that fall under the scope of IFRS 9, total investments (TI), private consumption (PC), residential Van Lanschot Kempen performs a scenario analysis to real estate price (RREP) and government consumption (GC). calculate the sensitivity of the ECL to macroeconomic In the table below, ECLs are shown per stage and per variables. The main economic drivers of the ECL are gross scenario. domestic product (GDP), volume of exports (EXP), Sensitivity analysis as at 31 December 2019 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Change Original situation 4,305 5,552 54,629 64,486 Base-case scenario 4,232 5,512 54,149 63,893 –592 Upside scenario 3,229 4,656 51,701 59,586 –4,899 Downside scenario 5,432 6,480 58,004 69,916 5,430 Collateral credit-impaired financial instruments linked to a specific financing arrangement. For credit-impaired In general, collateral can be used for all current and future financial assets, the Credit Restructuring & Recovery amounts owed by a debtor. In addition to residential department determines the liquidation or recovery value of mortgage collateral and guarantees provided by the available collateral, based on the most recent valuation governments and credit institutions, commercial real estate, reports. The table below shows the collateral for financial financial collateral, receivables, stocks and inventories may assets considered credit-impaired. serve as collateral. The majority of collateral is not directly Collateral for credit-impaired assets as at 31 December 2019 Gross exposure Impairment Carrying amount Value of collateral Loans and advances to public and private sectors 242,334 54,558 187,776 207,359 Financial guarantees and loan commitments 369 8 361 347 No impairment is recognised for credit-impaired financial credit-impaired financial instruments for which there is instruments if the collateral is sufficient to cover the no impairment recognised is €106.0 million outstanding obligation. The total carrying amount of (2018: €135.6 million). Risk management 138 3. Market risk (VaR) limits as well as gross and net limits. Daily stress Market risk is the risk of loss as a result of changes in tests provide information about changes in portfolio values market variables, including interest rates, exchange rates in extreme market conditions and complement the VaR and share prices. Other variables not directly observable in calculation. The VaR for the trading portfolios is computed the market, such as volatility and correlations, can also daily, based on a one-day time horizon with a 97.5% influence the value of financial instruments. The market risk confidence level on one year of historical data. The to which we are exposed can be divided into two continued validity of the assumptions underlying the VaR components: the market risk to which Van Lanschot computation is regularly tested using back-testing. Other Treasury (part of the Other activities operating segment) is risks relating to derivatives are expressed in “the Greeks” exposed in respect of its necessary market maintenance (e.g. Delta, Vega, Rho) and are separately monitored on a and services to clients, and the market risk stemming from daily basis or more frequently if necessary. Separate limits trading activities in institutional securities; this latter risk is are in place for all risk drivers. VaR and other relevant risk concentrated at Kempen, within the Merchant Banking parameters are reported to senior management (including operating segment. two Executive Board members) on a daily basis. Lastly, market risks are also generated by investments in Kempen’s 3.1 Kempen market risk: trading activities in securities management book (€85.6 million; 2018: €69.1 million). Our trading activities in securities, mainly comprising These investments provide seed capital to newly launched equities and equity derivatives, are concentrated at Kempen Kempen Capital Management funds and are held with a (within the operating segment Merchant Banking). A trading intent. Financial markets were relatively calm and governance structure has been created to facilitate effective bullish in 2019, although some temporary volatility increases risk management. The risks are managed using Value at Risk were observed as a result of the US-China trade war. Table 3.1 VaR of Kempen trading activities 2019 2018 Derivatives-related Share-related Derivatives-related Share-related At 31 December 219 158 445 314 Highest VaR 582 475 576 439 Lowest VaR 19 113 169 55 Average VaR 359 238 293 144 3.2 Van Lanschot market risk: treasury transactions and positions in the statement of financial To a limited degree, Van Lanschot Treasury (part of the position are denominated in euros. Exchange rate risk is Other activities operating segment) is also exposed to managed within the required limits and an authorisation market risk. These risks stem from its treasury activities structure applies. Foreign exchange positions are shown in (mainly foreign exchange exposure, comprising client Table 3.2.B and include all cash, forward and option transactions and own positions). The majority of positions of the entities in scope of consolidation. Table 3.2.A Exchange rate risk of treasury trading activities (total gross nominal foreign exchange position translated to € x 1,000) 2019 2018 At 31 December 546 99 Highest position 1,970 1,794 Lowest position 83 59 Average position 462 250 Table 3.2.B Foreign exchange positions (€1,000) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 583 –179 US dollar 344 79 Singapore dollar 57 – New Zealand dollar 50 7 Canadian dollar 30 9 Pound sterling 7 77 Danish krone – –501 Swiss franc –180 –104 Other 275 254 Risk management 139 The capital adequacy requirement for exchange rate risk For Van Lanschot, CSRBB is mainly concentrated in the was €0.06 million at year-end 2019 (2018: €0.05 million). investment and liquidity portfolios. CSRBB limits have been This amounts to 8% of the net open positions in each imposed on these portfolios, which are monitored by ALCO currency (2018: 8%). on a monthly basis. In addition, some market risk exposure results from 3.3 Market risk: interest rate and share-related instruments investments made in Van Lanschot’s management book. We use the maturity method to calculate the capital The current exposure in this portfolio is €32.0 million (2018: adequacy requirement in respect of the general risk on debt €20.2 million). Credit spread risk in the banking book instruments in the trading portfolio. Share-related (CSRBB) is the risk of volatility in earnings and/or equity, instruments are share instruments included under Financial caused by spread movements in the swap curve, for assets from trading activities (see Table 3.3). banking book instruments that are classified at fair value. Table 3.3 Market risk 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Risk weighting Capital adequacy Risk weighting Capital adequacy requirement requirement Total 188,432 15,075 325,017 26,001 Interest-related instruments 139,633 11,171 229,589 18,367 Share-related instruments 48,015 3,841 94,804 7,584 Currency-related instruments 783 63 625 50 Weighting and requirements •  Scenario analyses are used to assess low frequency We use the standardised approach for all types of market but high-impact risks. The results of these analyses risk. The market risk of interest rate derivatives is included are used to provide insight into the adequacy of the under Interest rate-related instruments; the market risk of Pillar 1 capital requirement vis-à-vis the operational share-related derivatives is included under Share-related risk profile. instruments; and the market risk of currency derivatives is –  Risk response: Management is responsible for deciding included under Currency-related instruments. how to treat the risk, and whether to mitigate, accept or transfer (insure) it: 4. Operational risk •  Action tracking: Action tracking is used to track Operational risks are potential losses that result from progress made in the delivery of actions to mitigate inadequate or failed internal processes, systems, identified risks, arising from risk and control selfinadequate or incorrect human actions, external events and assessments, failing controls, analysis of incidents or fraud. Within Van Lanschot Kempen, operational losses are complaints, findings by Group Audit and external classified using operational loss event types as set out in regulators, and other relevant events. the Basel framework. Managing operational risks is the •  Control effectiveness monitoring: To ensure that responsibility of line management (the first line of defence); the most important risks (the key risks) are mitigated this also includes the responsibility for information security sufficiently, key controls have been defined; these and business continuity. are assessed on a regular basis to determine their effectiveness. We have created a range of instruments for identifying, •  Risk insurance: To protect the organisation against evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risks to major operational risk-related losses, we have taken support the bank’s management in their roles as risk out insurance policies that cover claims and losses owners. resulting from the services offered. Broadly, these policies are a combination of fraud and professional –  Operational risk appetite: This appetite defines the liability insurance, directors’ liability insurance and level of – quantitative and qualitative – operational risk various other liability and accident insurance policies. we are willing to accept. Exceeding this appetite In 2016, a cyber risk policy was added to our requires the attention of the Executive Board and will insurance coverage. This policy provides liability and lead to additional mitigation measures as necessary. damage cover for relevant cyber risk events. –  Risk identification and assessment via risk and control •  Risk acceptance: If a risk is assessed to be outside of self-assessments and scenario analysis: the risk appetite and it is not possible or •  Risk and control self-assessment is a tool that economically viable to lower the risk, the risk can be allows line managers to systematically identify and accepted at Executive Board level. assess risks so that steps can be taken to manage –  Risk monitoring: any risks outside the risk appetite. Risk and control •  Incident management: Risks that materialise self-assessments are carried out, at tactical through an incident are registered in our database (department) level, on the most important value via the incident management process. For severe chains of the organisation and on our most important incidents, root cause analyses are carried out. The programmes and projects. These assessments are incidents database allows the systematic recording re-performed periodically in order to reassess and and analysis of losses resulting from operational update the existing operational risk level. risks. It contains information about losses incurred as Risk management 140 a result of operational risks in prior years and forms risk-weighted assets in relation to the “regular” default risk. the foundation of the operational risk management We use the SA method to calculate the capital requirement measurement system for Van Lanschot and Kempen. for CVA. A total of 112 incidents entailing a loss of more than €1,000 were logged in the database in 2019 (2018: 7. Strategic risk 187 incidents). Strategic risk can be defined as the threat to our results •  Risk measurement: This is based on key risk or equity resulting from failure to respond (adequately) indicators (early warnings), which highlight trends to changes in environmental factors, or from incorrect and/or provide prospective information about strategic decisions. Environmental factors include the operational risks. actions of competitors, clients, potential market entrants •  Risk meetings: Periodic meetings with risk owners and public authorities. are held to monitor the development of the risk profile in relation to the risk appetite. 8. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the exposure of the banking book (IRRBB) Information security to adverse market interest rate movements. Adverse interest Information security contributes to the protection of client rate movements may impact a bank’s current and/or future and corporate information. Both automated and manual earnings, capital and market value. Interest rate risks in information processing are carried out. Taking the right non-banking book items are managed as part of market risk. measures on the basis of targeted risk analyses of business and IT processes ensures that both our client data and Our main source of interest rate risk is the interest maturity corporate data are adequately protected. mismatch between mortgages and loans on the one hand and savings and other funding sources on the other. In Business continuity management general, assets have longer fixed-rate terms than liabilities, Business continuity analyses are carried out as part of our especially in the current low interest rate environment, in business continuity management process in order to gain which clients show a distinct preference for long fixed-rate insight into critical processes and the resources that are terms for mortgages. In measuring our interest rate risk needed to ensure continuity of service and address exposure, we model client behaviour with respect to the potential threats. Embedding business continuity prepayment patterns of mortgages and loans and the management in the organisation is essential to give the interest rate risk profiles of savings and current accounts. bank sufficient resilience against the impact of an incident Client behaviour risk is another important source of interest or disaster. Business continuity therefore has universal rate risk, as actually observed client behaviour may deviate scope within the bank; it comprises policies, standards and from assumptions. Differences between assumed and procedures aimed at safeguarding critical processes or actually observed client behaviour could have a material enabling a restart within a specified timeframe in the event adverse impact on future results. of a disaster. The objective is to keep any financial, reputational and/or other material damage to a minimum, Responsibility for IRRBB management has been delegated both for us and for our clients. Procedures are tested on a by the Executive Board to ALCO. We pursue a prudent regular basis, with tests of fallback procedures and crisis interest rate risk policy that aims to mitigate the effect of governance carried out every year. prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the costs of 5. Settlement risk hedging activities on current earnings. We manage interest We are required to hold capital for financial transactions rate risk from both a longand a short-term perspective. The that are not settled within five days of the agreed deadline, short-term interest rate risk is addressed mainly from a net if the difference between the agreed settlement price and interest income perspective (delta net interest income, or the price at the reporting date could lead to a loss. ΔNII). This involves an analysis of the interest income under a number of market interest rate scenarios, relative to the At year-end 2019, financial transactions totalling baseline scenario in which interest rates are expected to €10 million (2018: €171 million) had to be reported in develop based on forward rates. In 2019, all ΔNII scenarios the context of settlement risk. remained within risk appetite limits. By year-end 2019, the most adverse scenario was a non-parallel scenario in which 6. CVA risk short-term market rates fall over the next twelve months, Under the CRR, account must also be taken of the riskwith Van Lanschot Kempen being unable to reduce savings weighted assets in relation to credit valuation adjustment rates sufficiently. This is considered an extreme scenario as (CVA), which must be adequate to cover the risk of a negative (short-term) market rates are already at historically deterioration in the creditworthiness of the counterparty in low levels. The ΔNII for this scenario was -7.6% at the end of an OTC derivatives transaction. This CVA capital adequacy 2019 (end of 2018: -8.2%). Table 8.A shows the interest requirement is additional to requirements applying to the rate risk metrics. Table 8.A Interest rate risk metrics 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Delta net interest income (ΔNII) –7.6% –8.2% Duration of equity (years) 3 2 Delta economic value of equity (ΔEVE) –6.9% –4.0% Risk management 141 We address long-term interest rate risk by means of the To manage liquidity risks, we use a forward-looking liquidity economic value approach, which looks at how movements risk framework that enables the comprehensive measurement, in interest rates impact the value of the bank’s assets and evaluation and calibration of indicators related to liquidity liabilities. The rule-of-thumb metric for economic value risk. The framework consists of the risk appetite statement, analysis is duration of equity, which indicates the net impact the liquidity buffer, monitoring and reporting, forecasting, of parallel interest rate changes on economic value, funding planning and contingency planning. assuming a linear relationship between these parameters. Limits for liquidity risk are revised on an annual basis as In 2019, duration of equity was controlled by ALCO within a part of the risk appetite statement. Limits set include, but bandwidth of two to three and a half years. In the current are not limited to, levels of the liquidity coverage ratio, the interest rate environment, however, the relationship net stable funding ratio and stress test survival periods, between economic value and interest rate changes is less which are reported on a monthly basis to ALCO. The linear due to, among other factors, floors in interest rates on liquidity buffer is the main defensive element against various balance sheet items. For this reason, we focus not liquidity risk, and the quality and size of the buffer are only on duration, but also on the “true” economic value monitored frequently, together with inand outflows in the changes under various scenarios, in which all interest rate client deposit base. Finally, each year we outline our capital cash flows are re-plotted and revalued at shocked interest and funding planning for a two to five-year horizon, both rate curves. In calculating economic values, we use coupon under regular circumstances in the capital and funding plan, rates that are “stripped” from margins. In 2019, all delta and under potential future stress or emergency situations in economic value of equity (ΔEVE) scenarios remained within the liquidity contingency plan, complemented by the risk appetite limits. By year-end 2019, the most adverse recovery plan. scenario was an instant upwards shock of 200 basis points. The ΔEVE for this scenario was -6.9% at the end of 2019 Part of our liquidity and funding planning is scenario analysis, (end of 2018: -4.0%). of which stress testing is a key element. By means of stress testing, we assess our resilience to a variety of adverse We aim to neutralise the impact of differences in accounting liquidity events – Van Lanschot Kempen-specific events, classifications on interest rate steering. Hence, we mostly system-wide events, and a combination of these two. hedge the interest rate risk in fair value items in the banking book on a back-to-back basis, by means of interest rate 9.1 Contractual maturity swaps. By doing so, we make sure that Result on financial Tables 9.1.A and 9.1.B show the assets and liabilities transactions – to the extent that it arises from banking book based on their remaining contractual terms to maturity at items – is only impacted by market changes in credit the reporting date, without taking behavioural aspects into spreads over the swap curve and that there is no net impact account. These amounts correspond with the amounts from changes in the swap curve itself. For this reason, the included in the consolidated statement of financial position. ΔNII scenarios we use to assess our interest rate risk profile Items with no maturity, such as equity instruments, assets do not affect the Result on financial transactions. We use and liabilities classified as held for sale, and provisions are hedge accounting to offset changes in the market value of presented separately. derivatives that are used for hedging portfolios classified at amortised cost. Derivative liabilities are included on a net basis if cash flows are settled net. For other derivative liabilities the contractual 9. Liquidity risk gross cash flow payable is included. As savings and current The main objective of our liquidity risk management is to accounts do not have fixed terms, the balances of nonensure that we are able to maintain or generate sufficient maturity instruments are presented within the withdrawable cash resources to meet our payment obligations in full as on demand category. they come due, on acceptable terms. As materialising liquidity risk could theoretically jeopardise a bank’s continuity, Due from banks and amounts due to banks include collateral our tolerance for liquidity risk is classified as low. One of the delivered and received related to derivative transactions. key elements of our approach towards liquidity risk Allocation of this collateral over the maturity buckets is management is to maintain stakeholder confidence in the conducted in accordance with the maturity classification of bank’s solidity at all times. the derivative contracts. The main source of liquidity risk that we are exposed to relates to the share of client deposits in our funding base. Although client deposits have proven to be relatively price-inelastic and sticky over time, the withdrawable nature of such deposits poses potential outflow risks, especially for those deposits not covered by the deposit guarantee scheme (DGS). The roll-over risk with respect to maturing capital market funding is less substantial for us. This is mainly due to the realised run-off of the Corporate Banking loan book, which has reduced the reliance on funding sources other than our stable base of client deposits. Risk management 142 Table 9.1.A Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities at 31/12/2019 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Sub-total Maturity not Total on demand months 5 years applicable Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,417,164 – – – – 1,417,164 – 1,417,164 Financial assets held for trading – – – – – – 49,263 49,263 Due from banks 75,593 28,194 128 141,180 52,461 297,556 – 297,556 Derivatives – 30,869 103,536 138,279 94,595 367,279 – 367,279 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 87,385 52,648 38,228 98,620 – 276,882 44,627 321,509 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 25,258 261,804 1,863,425 233,775 2,384,261 – 2,384,261 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 760,454 83,625 126,072 368,830 7,258,913 8,597,894 – 8,597,894 Other financial assets at amortised cost – 25,001 25,014 375,591 – 425,606 – 425,606 Investments in associates using the equity method – – – – – – 52,452 52,452 Other assets 1 – 112,621 31,841 17,573 – 162,035 243,832 405,867 Total assets 2,340,597 358,217 586,624 3,003,497 7,639,744 13,928,678 390,174 14,318,853 Total assets excluding derivatives 2,340,597 327,348 483,087 2,865,218 7,545,149 13,561,399 390,174 13,951,573 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities – 2,150 – – – 2,150 – 2,150 Due to banks 56,377 2,270 5,960 24,048 53,060 141,715 – 141,715 Public and private sector liabilities 9,133,688 57,976 53,532 192,568 107,331 9,545,095 – 9,545,095 Derivatives – 35,496 83,220 132,394 198,715 449,826 – 449,826 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 50,318 114,212 608,613 134,459 907,602 – 907,602 Issued debt securities – – – 1,033,154 511,955 1,545,109 – 1,545,109 Lease liabilities – – 945 19,701 39,853 60,499 – 60,499 Other liabilities2 – 48,104 79,495 – – 127,600 49,597 177,196 Subordinated loans – – – 17,274 155,815 173,090 – 173,090 Equity – – – – – – 1,316,570 1,316,570 Total equity and liabilities 9,190,065 196,315 337,365 2,027,753 1,201,188 12,952,685 1,366,167 14,318,853 Total equity and liabilities excluding derivatives 9,190,065 160,818 254,144 1,895,359 1,002,473 12,502,859 1,366,167 13,869,027 On-balance gap –6,849,469 161,903 249,259 975,745 6,438,556 975,994 –975,994 – 1 Includes Property and equipment, Goodwill and other intangible assets, Tax assets and Other assets as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2 Includes Provision, Tax liabilities and Other liabilities as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. Risk management 143 Table 9.1.B Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities at 31/12/2018 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Sub-total Maturity not Total on demand months 5 years applicable Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,406,864 – – – – 1,406,864 – 1,406,864 Financial assets from trading activities – – – – – – 62,468 62,468 Due from banks 104,659 1,881 274,307 90,308 68,025 539,180 – 539,180 Derivatives – 8,593 71,495 194,529 58,102 332,719 – 332,719 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 70,281 – 15,475 92,893 – 178,649 39,934 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 160,596 298,103 946,555 398,330 1,803,584 – 1,803,584 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 847,804 52,108 101,379 314,691 7,245,515 8,561,497 – 8,561,497 Other financial assets at amortised cost – – 122,416 431,792 – 554,209 – 554,209 Investments in associates using the equity method – – – – – – 54,071 54,071 Assets classified as held for sale – – – – – – 68,058 68,058 Other assets1 – 96,189 26,555 27,886 – 150,630 231,321 381,952 Total assets 2,429,609 319,366 909,730 2,098,656 7,769,971 13,527,332 455,852 13,983,184 Total assets excluding derivatives 2,429,609 310,774 838,235 1,904,127 7,711,869 13,194,613 455,852 13,650,465 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities – 333 – – – 333 – 333 Due to banks 37,951 460 250,551 24,420 21,520 334,902 – 334,902 Public and private sector liabilities 8,611,831 75,948 83,702 236,066 83,392 9,090,939 – 9,090,939 Derivatives – 10,183 88,272 252,885 117,975 469,316 – 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 14,285 145,879 599,668 180,530 940,361 – 940,361 Issued debt securities – – – 1,020,635 500,869 1,521,504 – 1,521,504 Liabilities classified as held for sale – – – – – – 20,871 20,871 Other liabilities2 – 60,332 70,055 – – 130,387 45,221 175,608 Subordinated loans – – – – 173,473 173,473 – 173,473 Equity – – – – – – 1,255,876 1,255,876 Total equity and liabilities 8,649,783 161,541 638,458 2,133,675 1,077,759 12,661,215 1,321,968 13,983,184 Total equity and liabilities excluding derivatives 8,649,783 151,358 550,186 1,880,789 959,784 12,191,900 1,321,968 13,513,868 On-balance gap –6,220,174 157,825 271,272 –35,019 6,692,212 866,117 –866,117 – Major differences can be seen in the gaps, because the For each transaction we have guaranteed, the maximum assets comprise many long-term mortgage loans while the guaranteed amount is included in the relevant term bucket liabilities comprise many short-term deposits. Potential under which the bank first has the right to terminate the liquidity risks are addressed by means of monthly stress transaction. For each obligation arising from an irrevocable tests – discussed monthly in ALCO – that test the bank’s commitment, the committed amount is classified in the resilience to a variety of adverse liquidity events, and taking relevant term bucket under which we first have the right to behavioural aspects into account. withdraw the commitment. 1 Includes Property and equipment, Goodwill and other intangible assets, Tax assets and Other assets as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2 Includes Provision, Tax liabilities and Other liabilities as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. Risk management 144 9.2  ontractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of C which are subject to notice are treated as if notice were to financial liabilities be given immediately. However, we expect that many Tables 9.2.A and 9.2.B show liabilities by maturity based on clients will not request repayment at the earliest possible contractual, undiscounted cash flows and including related date, and the tables below do not reflect the expected cash future cash flows, such as interest payments. Repayments flows as indicated by our deposit retention history. Table 9.2.A Contractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of liabilities at 31/12/2019 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Financial liabilities from trading activities – 2,150 – – – 2,150 Due to banks 41,530 17,117 5,960 24,048 53,060 141,715 Public and private sector liabilities 9,172,136 56,435 65,175 193,466 125,260 9,612,472 Derivatives 224,376 14,414 24,836 94,385 91,815 449,826 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 51,454 114,536 613,173 137,821 916,984 Issued debt securities – 5,750 2,797 1,040,859 513,125 1,562,531 Of which covered bond – 5,750 1,864 1,022,403 513,125 1,543,142 Of which floating-rate notes – – 933 18,456 – 19,389 Subordinated loans – 956 8,576 53,167 222,298 284,997 Total undiscounted liabilities 9,438,041 148,276 221,881 2,019,097 1,143,380 12,970,675 Table 9.2.B Contractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of liabilities at 31/12/2018 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Financial liabilities from trading activities – 333 – – – 333 Due to banks 2,153 36,258 250,096 24,420 21,520 334,447 Public and private sector liabilities 8,650,343 63,444 97,941 243,156 102,221 9,157,105 Derivatives 333,349 10,035 15,998 49,842 60,091 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 15,753 147,330 605,548 181,793 950,423 Issued debt securities – 6,250 2,374 1,049,877 517,500 1,576,001 Of which covered bond – 6,250 1,375 1,029,125 517,500 1,554,250 Of which floating-rate notes – – 999 20,752 – 21,751 Subordinated loans – 956 8,954 39,639 253,268 302,818 Total undiscounted liabilities 8,985,845 133,029 522,692 2,012,482 1,136,393 12,790,442 10. Securitisation risk As the investments are part of the liquidity buffer, they can We treat securitisation as an asset class in our investment be used as collateral, in repo transactions, or sold if portfolio as well using it as a potential funding tool. We are necessary. The RMBS portfolio represents a small share of not party to any synthetic securitisations and have no the total investment portfolio. trading position in securitisation transactions. Risk exposures within the investment portfolio Funding The credit risks of the investments are not hedged. Our We do not structure securitisations for other entities and investment portfolio as a whole is monitored by the Treasury have no other role in our own securitisations other than as and Credit Risk Approval departments on a daily basis. seller and servicer. Until 26 September 2019, we used residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) only as a Management source of contingent liquidity in retained transactions. Since Interest rate risk is limited, as RMBS are typically floatingthe redemption of Courtine RMBS 2013-I on 26 September rate notes. Interest rate risk is monitored at balance sheet 2019, we have been using retained covered bonds, issued level and includes the investment portfolio. We used the out of our Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond IRB methodology to calculate the total risk exposure of Programme 2, as a contingent liquidity buffer. RMBS investments. Investments 11. Climate risk Part of our liquidity investment portfolio is invested in RMBS. Climate risk reflects the impact of a change in the climate We invest only in the most senior and AAA tranches of on Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial position and/or RMBS transactions that qualify as high-quality liquid assets reputation. The risk of climate change on our activities is in assessing the liquidity coverage ratio. This means that the periodically assessed. The climate risk to our private credit quality of the investments should have at least two banking activities (the most important lending portfolio ratings from an external credit assessment institution (ECAI). here being the mortgage portfolio) is assessed to be limited Risk management 145 and no separate lending restrictions are made. In Asset The Statutory Board states with reasonable assurance that Management, climate risks are taken into account when the internal risk management and control systems for investments are made or investment managers are financial reporting are performed at an adequate level and selected. that our financial reporting is free of material misstatement. The management teams of the relevant divisions have 12. Compliance risk provided the Statutory Board with in-control statements on Van Lanschot Kempen and its subsidiaries fulfil a role as the extent of internal control, based on the results of testing financial service providers, a role that we can only play to procedures for the risk and control framework, the risks the full if we enjoy the trust of our stakeholders. Our reported on a quarterly basis, the follow-up of these risks, integrity and behaviour, in accordance with our core values, and the incidents reported. Group Risk Management and form the basis for that trust. The Compliance department Compliance have evaluated these statements. has an independent role in both advisory and monitoring, with respect to compliance with all relevant laws and 14. Fair value regulations that apply to Van Lanschot Kempen. The Compliance department supports the business in translating 14.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss those into policies and procedures, and also provides A portion of the financial instruments are measured at fair guidance to the bank’s business lines to enable them to act value in the statement of financial position. Tables 14.1.A and perform in accordance with applicable laws and and 14.1.B provide a breakdown of these instruments into regulations and with the firm's core values and internal three levels. The fair value is based either on quoted prices codes. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices that are Chairman of the Statutory Board and the Compliance observable in the market, or inputs based on data not department is represented in multiple internal committees. observable in the market. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory rules We have developed a policy on the criteria for allocating can lead to significant reputational or financial damage. As financial instruments recognised in the statement of Van Lanschot Kempen is active in a legal and regulatory financial position at fair value to each of the three levels. A environment that exposes it to risk of litigation, it is involved review is carried out at the end of each reporting period to in legal cases and regulatory proceedings. Provisions for determine whether any changes have taken place in the legal claims are recognised for obligations arising as a result hierarchy between the levels. of a past event where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active obligation. market is based on the price at the reporting date (market price). The bid price is applied for financial assets and the Van Lanschot Kempen can also sustain potential future offer price for financial liabilities. Since these instruments losses from legal or regulatory risks where the occurrence are traded in an active market, their prices adequately of a loss may not be probable and for which at balance reflect current and frequent market transactions between sheet date no provisions have been recognised. unrelated parties. 13. Financial reporting risk Level 2: Inputs observable in the markets The Statutory Board is responsible for devising and The fair value of financial instruments not traded in an implementing an adequate system of internal control for our active market (e.g. over-the-counter financial derivatives) is financial reporting. The system is designed to provide established using cash flow and option valuation models. reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial Using estimates, we make assumptions based on the reporting and that the financial statements are prepared in market conditions (observable data) at the reporting date. accordance with generally accepted accounting principles The estimated present value of future cash flows is used to and applicable legislation and regulations. determine the fair value of the other financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the We have the following tools in place to manage financial present value of estimated future cash flows. The discount reporting risks: rate is the same as the market interest rate at the reporting – Periodic management reports and KPI dashboards, date for a similar instrument subject to the same conditions, accompanied by analysis of financial and non-financial taking into account collateral furnished under credit support figures and trends; annexes (CSAs). – A risk and control framework describing processes and procedures, and setting out primary controls such as The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by authorisations and segregation of duties; reference to forward exchange rates at the reporting date. – The findings from the review of the operational effectiveness of the internal control system by Group Estimates and judgements made are based on past Audit, which are discussed with the Executive Board, experience as well as other factors, including expectations the Statutory Board, the Audit and Compliance with respect to future events that could reasonably occur Committee and the Supervisory Board; given current circumstances. Estimates and judgements are – The Van Lanschot Kempen Accounting Manual, which assessed on an ongoing basis. sets out the principles we pursue with respect to financial accounting; Level 3: Significance of unobservable market data – Assessment and approval of the annual report by the The financial instruments in this category are assessed on Statutory Board and discussion of this by the Audit and an individual basis. Their valuation is based on the best Compliance Committee and by the Supervisory Board. estimate of management by reference to the most recent Risk management 146 prices, prices of similar instruments and, to a not on observable market data. A significant effect on the insignificant extent, information not observable in the instrument’s valuation is considered to be present when the market. Unobservable inputs may include volatility, unobservable input accounts for at least 10% of the total correlation, seasonality and credit spreads. A valuation instrument’s fair value and exceeds a threshold of €50,000. technique is used in which at least one input that has a The effect of fair value adjustments on the instrument’s significant effect on the instrument’s valuation is not based valuation is included in the assessment. Table 14.1.A Financial instruments at fair value at 31/12/2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Financial assets from trading activities (FVtPL) 44,648 4,152 463 49,263 Derivatives (FVtPL) 31,224 329,517 6,539 367,279 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 263,740 44,231 13,539 321,509 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2,384,261 – – 2,384,261 Total assets 2,723,873 377,900 20,541 3,122,313 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities (FVtPL) 2,150 – – 2,150 Derivatives (FVtPL) 29,345 417,071 3,410 449,826 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 898,491 9,111 907,602 Total liabilities 31,496 1,315,561 12,521 1,359,578 Table 14.1.B Financial instruments at fair value at 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Financial assets from trading activities (FVtPL) 58,119 3,877 472 62,468 Derivatives (FVtPL) 42,640 279,941 10,138 332,719 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 156,658 40,782 21,143 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,803,584 – – 1,803,584 Total assets 2,061,001 324,600 31,753 2,417,354 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities (FVtPL) 333 – – 333 Derivatives (FVtPL) 39,879 420,796 8,641 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 912,465 27,896 940,361 Total liabilities 40,212 1,333,261 36,537 1,410,010 Transfers of financial assets or liabilities between levels transferred to Level 2 as a result of the input variables’ We have developed a policy document for the fair value correlation and seasonality; the shorter remaining term to hierarchy. This divides the variables used into observable maturity of these financial instruments meant that these and unobservable market inputs. If the unobservable input input variables qualified as non-significant, justifying a variables are significant, the instrument is classified as transfer to Level 2. In the case of Derivatives (assets), this Level 3. An unobservable input variable is significant if entailed a transfer of €0.1 million from Level 2 to Level 3 the change in the fair value due to the application of the and a transfer of €10.5 million from Level 3 to Level 2. In variable is greater than the threshold values. Our policy is to the case of Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or recognise transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels loss, it involved a transfer of €0.1 million from Level 2 to at the end of the reporting period. Level 3. The transfer of Derivatives (liabilities) includes a €6.6 million shift from Level 3 to Level 2. In 2019, our valuation technique remained unchanged, with non-observable input variables being assessed on significance. As a result of this assessment, some financial Breakdown of movements in financial assets and liabilities instruments included in Derivatives (assets and liabilities) classified under Level 3 and in Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Tables 14.1.C and 14.1.D provide a breakdown of the have been transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 and vice movements in all financial assets and liabilities classified as versa. The Derivatives receivables and payables and Level 3 items and recognised at fair value in the statement Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss were of financial position. Risk management 147 Table 14.1.C Breakdown of movements in financial liabilities classified as Level 3 in 2019 At 1 January To statement To equity1 Issues Settlements Transfers At 31 of income December Assets Financial assets from trading activities (FVtPL) 472 –13 – 4 – – 463 Derivatives (FVtPL) 10,138 –1,034 – 2,358 –5,038 114 6,539 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 21,143 2,175 – 641 –8,972 –1,448 13,539 Total assets 31,753 1,129 – 3,003 –14,010 –1,333 20,541 Liabilities Derivatives (FVtPL) 8,641 5 – 479 –5,807 92 3,410 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 27,896 –934 – –11,620 –6,231 9,111 Total liabilities 36,537 –929 – 479 –17,427 –6,139 12,521 Total assets less liabilities –4,784 2,058 – 2,523 3,417 4,805 8,020 Table 14.1.D Breakdown of movements in financial liabilities classified as Level 3 in 2018 At 1 January To statement To equity1 Issues Settlements Transfers At 31 of income December Assets Financial assets from trading activities (FVtPL) 119 –3 – 450 –95 – 472 Derivatives (FVtPL) 3,254 –562 6,516 –7 938 10,138 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 74,572 184 – 404 –54,019 – 21,143 Total assets 77,945 –380 – 7,371 –54,121 938 31,753 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 17 – – – –17 – – (FVtPL) Derivatives (FVtPL) 375 930 – 4,552 –183 2,968 8,641 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 23,912 –666 – 4,650 – – 27,896 Total liabilities 24,303 263 – 9,202 –200 2,968 36,537 Total assets less liabilities 53,642 –644 – –1,832 –53,921 –2,030 –4,784 Table 14.1.E Fair value changes recognised in profit or loss of financial 2019 2018 instruments classified as Level 3 Realised Unrealised Total Realised Unrealised Total Net interest income – – – 109 – 109 Income from securities and associates –13 –668 –681 –3 –476 –479 Result on financial transactions – 2,739 2,739 – –274 –274 Impairments – – – – – – Total –13 2,071 2,058 106 –750 –644 1 The changes in value recognised in equity are included in the statement of comprehensive income as Revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Risk management 148 Table 14.1.F Notes on fair value determination using unobservable market inputs (Level 3) Fair value Valuation method Significance of unobservable market inputs 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Assets Financial assets from trading activities Shares, unlisted 463 472 – Net asset value – Net asset value – Face value Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Options1 3,765 5,508 – Option model – Volatility – Correlation – Equity swaps1 2,774 3,803 – Discounted cash – Volatility flow model – Correlation – Option model – Equity forwards1 – 827 – Option model – Correlation Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Debt instruments: company cumprefs (shareholdings) (FVPL 2,024 7,042 – Discounted cash – Interest rate mandatory)1 flow model – Discount rates Shares, unlisted 8,149 7,437 – Net asset value – Most recent published net asset values of the underlying assets – Kempen: Cost or lower market value 1,905 1,905 – Net asset value – Net asset value – Market value 1,203 2,783 – Net asset value – Multiple analyses of comparable companies less a discount for illiquidity and company size based on EVCA guidelines – Most recently known share price 258 1,976 – Net asset value – EBITA – Issue or transfer price – Market price on final trading day – Face value less provisions Total assets 20,541 31,753 Liabilities Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Credit–linked swaps – 2 – Discounted cash n/a flow model – Options1 3,410 7,111 – Discounted cash – Volatility flow model – Correlation – Option model – Equity swaps1 – 1,528 – Discounted cash – Volatility flow model – Correlation – Option model Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Structured debt instruments1 9,111 27,896 – Discounted cash – Volatility flow model – Correlation – Option model Total liabilities 12,521 36,537 1 Please refer to Tables 14.1.G and 14.1.H for the range and sensitivity of these financial instruments. No range or sensitivity information is available for the other financial instruments. Risk management 149 Table 14.1.G Notes on range and sensitivity of unobservable market inputs (Level 3) at 31/12/2019 Significant Range (weighted average) Sensitivity unobservable market inputs Assets Derivatives Structured products derivatives – Options – Correlation –19% 20% (1%) Total impact €0.3m – Volatility 13% 18% (16%) Total impact €0.4m – Equity swaps – Correlation –13% 15% (2%) Total impact €0.1m – Volatility n/a n/a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – Interest rates –6% 12% (1%) Change of 1% change of €0.0m Debt instruments: company cumprefs (shareholdings) – Discount rates –6% 12% (1%) Change of 1% change of €0.0m Liabilities Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Options – Correlation –23% 26% (1%) Total impact €0.8m – Volatility n/a n/a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Structured debt instruments – Correlation n/a n/a – Volatility n/a n/a Table 14.1.H Notes on range and sensitivity of unobservable market inputs (Level 3) at 31/12/2018 Significant Range (weighted average) Sensitivity unobservable market inputs Assets Derivatives Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting – Inflation-linked swaps – Seasonality Structured products derivatives – Options – Correlation –17% 20% (1%) Total impact –€0.4m – Volatility 10% 13% (12%) Total impact €1.0m – Equity swaps – Correlation –21% 30% (2%) Total impact €0.0m – Volatility 10% 13% (12%) Total impact €0.2m – Equity forwards – Correlation –10% 12% (1%) Total impact –€0.1m Liabilities Derivatives Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting – Inflation-linked swaps – Seasonality Structured products derivatives – Options – Correlation –21% 30% (1%) Total impact €1.5m – Volatility 10% 13% (12%) Total impact €0.4m – Equity swaps – Correlation –21% 25% (2%) Total impact –€0.1m – Volatility 9% 13% (12%) Total impact €1.8m – Equity forwards – Correlation Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Structured debt instruments – Correlation –19% 25% (3%) Total impact €0.1m – Volatility 9% 13% (11%) Total impact €0.1m Risk management 150 14.2 Financial instruments at amortised cost The value of financial instruments at amortised cost is taken as the amount for which the instrument could be exchanged Table 14.2 shows the carrying amount and fair value of in a commercial transaction between willing parties, other financial instruments at amortised cost, with the exception than in a forced or liquidation sale. If there is an active of line items Cash and cash equivalents and balances at market, we use the market value to determine the fair value. central banks, Other assets and Other liabilities. For these For financial instruments for which no market prices are financial instruments the carrying amount is a reasonable available, the fair values shown in Table 14.2 are estimated approximation of the fair value. on the basis of the present value or using other estimation or valuation methods. Table 14.2 Financial instruments at amortised cost 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying Level Valuation method Significant observable amount amount and unobservable market inputs Assets Due from banks 297,444 297,556 538,910 539,180 2 Discounted cash flows Interest rate and using applicable money discount rate market rates Loans and advances to the 8,855,716 8,597,894 8,794,997 8,561,497 3 Discounted cash flows Interest rate, discount public and private sectors using current market rate and counterparty fees for comparable credit risk loans and taking into account the creditworthiness of the counterparty Other financial assets at 442,305 425,606 576,970 554,209 1 Quoted prices in active – amortised cost markets Liabilities Due to banks 141,715 141,715 334,902 334,902 2 Discounted cash flows Interest rate and using applicable money discount rate market rates for liabilities Public and private sector 9,607,892 9,545,095 9,165,416 9,090,939 3 Discounted cash flows Interest rate, discount liabilities using applicable money rate and own credit market rates for risk liabilities with a comparable term to maturity, taking account of own credit risk Issued debt securities 1,550,831 1,545,109 1,532,823 1,521,504 1 Quoted prices in active Interest rate and markets discount rate Subordinated loans 222,483 173,090 184,108 173,473 3 Discounted cash flows Interest rate, discount using applicable money rate and own credit market rates for debt risk instruments with a comparable term to maturity, taking account of own credit risk Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER (€1,000) 1. Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 2019 2018 Total 1,417,164 1,406,864 Cash 32 38 Balances at central banks 1,243,932 1,283,903 Statutory reserve deposits at central banks 14,425 12,783 Amounts due from banks 158,776 110,139 Impairments –1 –0 Statutory reserve deposits comprise balances at central banks within the scope of the minimum reserves requirement. We cannot use these balances in our day-today operations. Reconciliation with consolidated statement of cash flows 2019 2018 Movements Cash and cash equivalents 1,417,164 1,406,864 10,300 Due from banks, available on demand 75,594 104,659 –29,066 Due to banks, available on demand –56,377 –37,951 –18,426 Due from/to banks, available on demand, net 19,217 66,708 47,491 Total 1,436,381 1,473,572 –37,191 2. Financial assets from trading activities 2019 2018 Total 49,263 62,468 Debt instruments Structured debt instruments 4,152 3,877 Total debt instruments 4,152 3,877 Equity instruments Shares, listed 44,648 58,119 Shares, unlisted 463 472 Total equity instruments 45,111 58,590 3. Due from banks 2019 2018 Total 297,556 539,180 Deposits 206,975 172,824 Receivables arising from unsettled securities transactions 75,594 104,659 Reverse repo transactions – 250,000 Loans and advances 14,987 11,697 Impairments –1 –0 Deposits include deposits to a total of €174.3 million (2018: €152.3 million) which serve as collateral for liabilities arising from derivatives transactions. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 152 4. Derivatives At 31 December 2019 Asset Liability Contract amount Total 367,279 449,826 11,653,638 Derivatives used for trading purposes Currency derivatives 133 129 11,141 Equity derivatives 172 961 1,133 Client option positions 30,994 28,256 30,994 Total derivatives used for trading purposes 31,298 29,345 43,267 Derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting 103,864 97,312 3,454,540 Derivatives: portfolio fair value hedge accounting 2,076 96,745 2,090,000 Derivatives: cash flow hedge accounting – 20,687 100,000 Total derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes 105,940 214,744 5,644,540 Other derivatives Economic hedges 1,376 4,119 130,609 Structured product derivatives 228,665 201,617 5,835,223 Total other derivatives 230,041 205,736 5,965,831 At 31 December 2018 Asset Liability Contract amount Total 332,719 469,316 12,026,497 Derivatives used for trading purposes Currency derivatives 93 92 17,499 Equity derivatives 309 107 416 Client option positions 42,547 39,787 39,787 Total derivatives used for trading purposes 42,949 39,986 57,701 Derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting 56,804 56,580 2,844,430 Derivatives: portfolio fair value hedge accounting 1,077 36,341 2,380,000 Derivatives: cash flow hedge accounting – 18,247 100,000 Total derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes 57,881 111,168 5,324,430 Other derivatives Economic hedges 4,766 6,085 243,547 Structured product derivatives 227,122 312,076 6,400,818 Total other derivatives 231,888 318,161 6,644,365 We use derivatives for both trading and hedging purposes. The following types of equity derivatives are used: Equity forwards; Note 4, Derivatives shows both the positive and negative Futures; market values of the derivatives, as well as their notional Long and short structured product options; values. Equity swaps. The following types of interest rate derivatives are used: Inflation-linked swaps and swaptions are also used. Interest rate swaps; Interest rate options. The following types of currency derivatives are used: Currency options; FX forwards. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 153 We use interest rate swaps and inflation-linked swaps as hedging instruments in our hedge accounting. Ineffectiveness of derivatives for hedge accounting purposes 2019 2018 Fair value Ineffective Fair value Ineffective Total –108,804 –686 –54,542 –221 Fair value hedge accounting model 6,552 326 –1,031 49 Portfolio fair value hedge accounting model –94,668 –1,012 –35,264 –270 Cash flow hedge accounting model –20,687 – –18,247 – The total ineffectiveness of fair value hedges at year-end 2019 was €0.7 million (2018: €0.2 million), comprising €56.0 million in negative value changes in hedging instruments (2018: €29.7 million negative) and positive changes in the value of the hedged items of €55.4 million (2018: €29.5 million). Hedged items in cash flow hedge Within 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years and longer accounting by term at 31/12/2019 Total – – – –15,221 Cash inflow – – – – Cash outflow – – – –15,221 Hedged items in cash flow hedge Within 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years and longer accounting by term at 31/12/2018 Total – – – –13,509 Cash inflow – – – – Cash outflow – – – –13,509 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 154 5. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2019 2018 Total 321,509 218,583 Debt instruments Government paper and government-guaranteed paper 27,932 2,513 Sovereign, supranationals and agencies (SSA) bonds 62,638 – Banks and financial institutions, listed 19,458 10,933 Covered bonds 79,470 94,922 Puttable investment funds 87,385 70,281 Company cumprefs (shareholdings) (FVPL mandatory) 2,024 7,042 Total debt instruments 278,906 185,691 Equity instruments (FVPL mandatory) Shares, listed 9,088 – Shares, unlisted 33,515 32,892 Total equity instruments 42,603 32,892 All financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition with the exception of puttable investment funds, company cumprefs (shareholdings) and equity instruments. The maximum credit risk to which we were exposed in the reporting period is equal to the carrying amount. Movements in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2019 2018 At 1 January 218,583 416,899 Purchases 162,111 306,573 Sales –56,129 –232,531 Redemptions –18,050 –264,076 Value changes 15,294 –8,391 Other movements –298 109 At 31 December 321,509 218,583 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 155 6. F inancial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2019 2018 Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Total 2,384,261 2,335,985 1,803,584 1,798,601 Debt instruments Government paper and governmentguaranteed paper 539,189 524,500 372,453 369,943 Sovereign, supranationals and agencies (SSA) bonds 454,305 440,556 44,205 44,000 Banks and financial institutions, listed 24,731 24,700 36,332 36,000 Covered bonds 928,015 914,155 843,168 842,281 Asset-backed securities 385,661 381,604 497,760 496,727 Companies, listed 52,362 50,470 9,666 9,650 Total debt instruments 2,384,261 2,335,985 1,803,584 1,798,601 Movements in gross carrying amount of Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Stage 1 At 1 January 2019 1,798,601 Additions or releases without transfer 326,184 New financial assets originated or purchased 211,200 At 31 December 2019 2,335,985 Movements in gross carrying amount of Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Stage 1 At 1 January 2018 1,703,564 Additions or releases without transfer –853,654 New financial assets originated or purchased 948,691 At 31 December 2018 1,798,601 Movements in Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2019 2018 At 1 January 1,803,584 1,716,356 Purchases 1,139,837 1,001,047 Sales –150,296 –579,312 Redemptions –418,551 –329,760 Value changes 17,682 –2,165 Other movements –7,995 –2,582 At 31 December 2,384,261 1,803,584 The loss allowance for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income is recognised in Other comprehensive income and does not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 156 7. L  oans and advances to the public and private sectors 2019 2018 Total 8,597,894 8,561,497 Mortgage loans 6,287,753 6,289,139 Loans 1,349,692 1,447,782 Current accounts 547,762 578,442 Securities-backed loans and settlement claims 313,130 267,221 Subordinated loans 579 1,510 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 162,746 90,212 Impairments –63,768 –112,811 Impairments 2019 2018 Total –63,768 –112,811 Mortgage loans –8,027 –10,483 Current accounts –28,783 –69,335 Other loans and advances –26,958 –32,994 Movements in gross carrying amount of Loans and Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total advances to the public and private sectors At 1 January 2019 7,559,491 1,399,661 336,236 9,295,388 Additions or releases without transfer –567,299 –833,749 –79,078 –1,480,126 Transfer to Stage 1 1,032,935 –1,039,654 –4,373 –11,092 Transfer to Stage 2 –1,484,481 1,544,877 –61,628 –1,232 Transfer to Stage 3 –40,850 –49,042 89,084 –808 New financial assets originated or purchased 1,705,367 – – 1,705,367 Amounts written off – – –37,907 –37,907 At 31 December 2019 8,205,162 1,022,094 242,334 9,469,589 Movements in gross carrying amount of Loans and Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total advances to the public and private sectors At 1 January 2018 7,762,425 1,684,215 392,728 9,839,368 Additions or releases without transfer –924,506 –290,088 –102,255 –1,316,850 Transfer to Stage 1 896,890 –882,587 –14,303 –0 Transfer to Stage 2 –936,556 978,090 –41,534 – Transfer to Stage 3 –23,926 –89,969 113,895 – New financial assets originated or purchased 785,164 – – 785,164 Amounts written off – – –12,295 –12,295 At 31 December 2018 7,559,491 1,399,661 336,236 9,295,388 We acquired no significant financial or non-financial assets See “Risk management” (under 2, Credit risk) for more during the year through the seizure of collateral held as information about Loans and advances to the public and security (2018: nil). In general, the policy is to dispose of private sectors. these assets within a reasonably short period. The proceeds are used to redeem the outstanding amount. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 157 8. O ther financial assets at amortised cost 2019 2018 Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Total 425,606 412,000 554,209 532,000 Debt instruments Government paper and governmentguaranteed paper 211,729 200,000 318,043 300,000 Banks and financial institutions, listed 213,905 212,000 236,200 232,000 Impairments –28 – –34 – Movements in gross carrying amount of Other financial assets at amoritised cost Stage 1 At 1 January 2019 532,000 Additions or releases without transfer – 120,000 At 31 December 2019 412,000 Movements in gross carrying amount of Other financial assets at amoritised cost Stage 1 At 1 January 2018 490,000 New financial assets originated or purchased 42,000 At 31 December 2018 532,000 Movements in Other financial assets at amoritised cost 2019 2018 At 1 January 554,209 521,349 Purchases – 42,001 Redemptions –120,000 – Value changes 6 –34 Other movements –8,608 –9,107 At 31 December 425,606 554,209 9. Investments in associates using the equity method Movements in associates using the equity method 2019 2018 At 1 January 54,071 70,390 Acquisitions and contributions 4,447 9,609 Sales and repayments –15,311 –25,407 Income from associates 13,469 11,759 Impairments 87 783 Dividend received –4,516 –3,473 Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale – –7,882 Other movements 206 –1,709 At 31 December 52,452 54,071 All associates valued using the equity method are unlisted investments. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 158 10. P  roperty and equipment 2019 2018 Total 102,521 48,238 Buildings 31,517 35,465 Right-of-use – buildings 51,648 – Right-of-use – transport equipment 7,318 – IT, operating system software and communications equipment 5,168 5,453 Other assets 6,840 7,214 Work in progress 30 106 The carrying amount of buildings not in use amounted to €3.5 million at year-end 2019 (2018: €3.5 million). No restrictive rights apply to property and equipment. Movements in property and Buildings Right-ofRight-ofIT, Other Work in Total equipment 2019 use use operating assets progress – buildings – transport system equipment software and communications equipment At 31 December 2018 35,465 – – 5,453 7,214 106 48,238 Impact of adopting IFRS 16 – 59,108 7,752 – – – 66,860 At 1 January 35,465 59,108 7,752 5,453 7,214 106 115,098 Capital expenditure 668 – – 3,141 2,196 9 6,014 Additions – 1,594 3,210 – – – 4,804 Disposals –2,397 – – –2 – – –2,399 Capitalisation of investments – – – – – –85 –85 Depreciation –2,219 –9,055 –3,644 –3,424 –2,564 – –20,906 Other – – – – –6 – –6 At 31 December 31,517 51,648 7,318 5,168 6,840 30 102,521 Historical cost 71,807 60,702 10,962 60,224 23,737 30 227,462 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –40,290 –9,055 –3,644 –55,056 –16,897 – –124,942 Net carrying amount at 31 December 31,517 51,648 7,318 5,168 6,840 30 102,521 Movements in property and equipment 2018 Buildings IT, operating system Other assets Work in Total software and progress communications equipment At 1 January 41,973 5,929 15,335 231 63,468 Capital expenditure 1,125 2,648 1,358 4,525 9,656 Disposals –4,679 –7 – – –4,686 Capitalisation of investments – – – –4,650 –4,650 Depreciation –2,399 –3,118 –1,968 – –7,485 Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale –558 – –7,518 – –8,076 Other 3 – 8 – 11 At 31 December 35,465 5,453 7,214 106 48,238 Historical cost 76,582 16,256 22,258 106 115,203 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –41,117 –10,804 –15,044 – –66,964 Net carrying amount at 31 December 35,465 5,453 7,214 106 48,238 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 159 The carrying amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions in earlier years and other intangible assets are given in the table below. 11. Goodwill and other intangible assets 2019 2018 Total 141,311 183,083 Goodwill 95,247 130,247 Other intangible assets 46,064 52,836 Movements in goodwill and other Goodwill Client bases Third-party Brand Application Total intangible assets 2019 distribution names software channels At 1 January 130,247 42,280 – 6,132 4,424 183,083 Additions – – – – 167 167 Amortisation – –4,770 – –767 –1,402 –6,939 Impairments –35,000 – – – – –35,000 At 31 December 95,247 37,509 – 5,366 3,189 141,311 Historical cost 130,247 51,200 4,899 15,330 65,487 267,163 Accumulated amortisation and impairments –35,000 –13,691 –4,899 –9,965 –62,298 –125,852 Net carrying amount at 31 December 95,247 37,509 – 5,366 3,189 141,311 Movements in goodwill and other Goodwill Client bases Third-party Brand Application Total intangible assets 2018 distribution names software channels At 1 January 154,981 48,678 409 6,898 7,424 218,389 Additions – – – – 879 879 Disposals – – – – –160 –160 Amortisation – –6,398 –409 –767 –1,742 –9,315 Impairments – – – – –263 –263 Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale –24,734 – – – – –24,734 Other – – – – –1,712 –1,712 At 31 December 130,247 42,280 – 6,131 4,426 183,083 Historical cost 130,247 106,084 4,899 15,330 65,487 322,047 Accumulated amortisation and impairments – –63,804 –4,899 –9,198 –61,063 –138,964 Net carrying amount at 31 December 130,247 42,280 – 6,132 4,424 183,083 The accumulated impairments on goodwill amounted to €88 million at 31 December 2019 (2018: €53 million) and have been deducted from the historical cost. We have defined six CGUs, namely Private Banking, Evi, Asset Management, Merchant Banking, Other and Nonstrategic investments. These correspond to our operating segments (see section on segment information) except for the Other activities segment, which is split between Other and Non-strategic investments. For impairment testing, goodwill was allocated to Private Banking, Asset Management, Merchant Banking and Non-strategic investments. The goodwill in Non-strategic investments relates to our subsidiary Holowell. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 160 Allocation of goodwill to CGUs (based on segments) 2019 2018 Total 95,247 130,247 Private Banking 1,695 1,695 Asset Management 49,292 49,292 Merchant Banking 41,293 76,293 Non-strategic investments 2,967 2,967 Van Lanschot Kempen performed its annual impairment Management has compared the main assumptions against test on the goodwill arising from acquisitions in earlier market forecasts and expectations. Cash flow estimates are years. To determine whether an impairment is necessary, based on our strategic plans and potential future trends. the recoverable amount of each CGU is compared with its Events and factors that could have a significant impact on carrying amount. The recoverable amount is calculated on the estimates include stock and bond market developments, the basis of value in use. This calculation uses cash flow effects of mergers and acquisitions, competitive conditions, projections for each CGU for a five-year period. These client behaviour and changes in the client base, cost projections are based on the current year and on the structure, trends in interest rates and risks, and other financial estimates for the years 2020 until 2024 used by circumstances specific to the industry and sector. Cash management in its strategic forecast as per end of 2019. flows are discounted using a cost of equity for each CGU For the period after the explicit projections per CGU, the which reflects the risk-free interest rate, supplemented with growth rate is set at the long-term market growth rate of a surcharge for the market risk exposure of the CGU. 1.0%. This growth rate applies to all CGUs, as in the long Compared with 2018, the peer group of Merchant Banking term all CGUs will be impacted by the same economic has been extended with additional, more specialist market developments. The rate is based on our own investment banks, as this more reliably captures the projections and on wealth management market projections volatility of the business. by market experts. The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is used as the discount rate for the cash flows in the impairment test for Non-strategic investments. CGU Discount rate before tax % Discount rate after tax % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Private Banking 8.6 9.5 6.7 7.4 Asset Management 9.6 9.9 7.5 7.8 Merchant Banking 10.9 8.7 8.5 6.9 Non-strategic investments 11.2 11.9 9.1 9.9 The impairment test performed in 2019 did not result in Given the current stage of the market cycle, the goodwill impairments for Private Banking, Asset unpredictability of Merchant Banking’s cash flows has Management and Non-strategic investments. The model increased on previous years. uses two baseline scenarios. A sensitivity analysis was also performed, focusing particular attention on a decrease in The impaired goodwill of €35 million is recognised in the net profit, a change in the pay-out ratio and an increase in statement of profit or loss under the line item Goodwill and the cost of equity. intangibles in Note 35, Impairments. This impairment is included in operating segment Other. For Merchant Banking, the impairment test in 2019 has resulted in a goodwill impairment for an amount of In addition, an annual test is carried out for indications of €35 million. The calculated recoverable amount of this CGU impairment of other intangible assets with a finite useful (€103 million) fell below its carrying amount. The main life. For the line item Client bases, movements in the causes for the impairment are the additional risk premium number of clients are assessed. For Third-party distribution used and lower assumed growth for this CGU. In our channels, an assessment is carried out to determine opinion, the additional risk premium used for Merchant whether the relationships with these parties still exist. The Banking gives a better reflection of the volatility of the cash useful life tests carried out in 2019 provided no indication of flows of these activities compared with the other CGUs. a need for further examination, nor of impairments. 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025-31 Expected amortisation of intangible assets 6,749 6,604 6,162 5,352 4,996 16,202 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 161 12. Tax assets 2019 2018 Total 18,566 29,118 Current tax assets 994 1,231 1 Deferred tax assets 17,573 27,886 Movements in deferred taxes 2019 At 31 Effect of At 1 Through To equity Tax rate At 31 December changes in January statement adjustments December 2018 accounting 2019 of income 2019 policies Deferred tax assets Employee benefits 6,585 – 6,585 –384 2,131 299 8,631 Property and equipment 2,301 –568 1,733 –31 – 34 1,736 Lease liabilities – buildings – 12,163 12,163 –2,155 – 702 10,710 Lease liabilities – transport equipment – 1,222 1,222 –44 – 93 1,271 Derivatives 3,483 – 3,483 – 501 233 4,218 Loss available for set-off 11,881 – 11,881 –7,940 – –110 3,832 Commission 203 – 203 46 – – 249 Other 3,433 – 3,433 856 –1,153 105 3,241 Total deferred tax assets before offsetting 27,886 12,816 40,702 –9,651 1,480 1,357 33,887 Offsetting deferred tax assets –16,316 Total deferred tax assets after offsetting 17,573 Deferred tax liabilities Property and equipment 1,633 – 1,633 –542 – 98 1,189 Right-of-use assets – buildings – 11,595 11,595 –1,553 – 771 10,813 Right-of-use assets – transport equipment – 1,222 1,222 –53 – 93 1,262 Intangible assets 2,588 – 2,588 –266 – 31 2,354 Investment portfolio –790 – –790 – 1,270 28 507 Other 111 – 111 – 124 – 234 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 3,542 12,817 16,358 –2,414 1,393 1,021 16,359 Offsetting deferred tax assets –16,316 Total deferred tax liabilities after offsetting 43 1 Prior year figure adjusted due to restatement (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 162 Movements in deferred taxes 2018 At 1 January Through To equity Tax rate At 31 statement adjustments December of income Deferred tax assets Employee benefits1 7,075 439 –749 –180 6,585 Property and equipment 2,593 –317 – 26 2,301 Derivatives 3,275 – 208 – 3,483 Loss available for set-off 17,117 –5,236 – – 11,881 Commission 128 75 – – 203 Other 3,937 –383 –121 – 3,433 Total deferred tax assets before offsetting 34,125 –5,423 –662 –155 27,886 Offsetting deferred tax assets –3,368 Total deferred tax assets after offsetting 24,518 Deferred tax liabilities Property and equipment 873 736 – 23 1,633 Intangible assets 3,852 –793 – –471 2,588 Investment portfolio 3,227 – –4,017 – –790 Other 63 – 48 – 111 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 8,015 –57 –3,969 –448 3,542 Offsetting deferred tax assets -3,368 Total deferred tax liabilities after offsetting 174 A proportion of the deferred tax assets depends on future taxable profits. Tax losses incurred can be offset against taxable profits in future years. Based on the most recent forecast, it is likely that the existing tax losses can be offset well before expiry. The non-current portion of deferred tax assets that is expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months amounts to €13.1 million. See Note 36, Income tax, for more information. Tax losses to be offset Amount Final year for Financial year offsetting 2014 – 2023 2015 6,992 indefinitely 2016 4,360 indefinitely 2017 31 indefinitely 2018 1,453 indefinitely 2019 3,441 indefinitely The total amount of tax losses is recognised as a deferred tax asset based on the prevailing tax rate. The losses of 2015 through 2019 arose from the permanent establishment in Belgium. As Belgium does not apply a time limit for offsetting losses, they can be carried forward indefinitely. 1 Prior year figure adjusted due to restatement (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 163 2019 2018 Unrecognised losses 20,940 24,167 The unrecognised losses are losses for which it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised. 13. Assets classified as held for sale 2019 2018 Total – 68,058 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 1,729 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors – 1,719 Investments in associates using the equity method – 9,956 Property and equipment – 8,127 Goodwill and other intangible assets – 29,465 Other assets – 17,062 The held for sale balance at the end of 2019 was nil. AIO II Our stake in Van Lanschot Chabot Mandema & Partners BV is the holding company of pharmacy chain Medsen and was sold to De Goudse Verzekeringen in the first half of wholesale chemist Ceban. In the first quarter of 2019, we 2019. sold our stake in AIO II. 14. Other assets 2019 2018 Total 143,469 121,513 Interest receivable 19,534 16,622 Commission receivable 26,185 53,629 Transitory items 65,909 36,280 Assets acquired through foreclosures 190 190 Inventories 1,078 785 Other 30,574 14,006 Assets acquired through foreclosures relate to property. Inventories are related to the non-strategic investments. We aim to convert these to cash as soon as practicable. 15. Financial liabilities from trading activities 2019 2018 Total 2,150 333 Equity instruments Shares, listed 2,150 333 Total equity instruments 2,150 333 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 164 16. Due to banks 2019 2018 Total 141,715 334,902 Deposits 85,338 46,951 Repo transactions – 250,000 Payables arising from unsettled securities transactions 14,847 35,798 Loans and advances drawn 41,530 2,153 17. Public and private sector liabilities 2019 2018 Total 9,545,095 9,090,939 Savings 2,994,800 3,362,404 Deposits 161,502 231,472 Current accounts 5,988,483 5,130,131 Other client assets 398,402 365,808 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 1,908 1,123 18. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2019 2018 Total 907,602 940,361 Unstructured debt instruments 47,936 142,021 Structured debt instruments 859,666 798,340 All financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are notes and fixed-rate notes, and structured debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial such as index guarantee notes and trigger notes. Our own recognition. credit risk in the reporting year decreased by €5.6 million (2018: up €1.0 million), reflecting a decrease of €0.8 million We have issued debt instruments which are managed on on the back of our own credit quality, together with a the basis of fair value. The fair value is paid to the issuer on reduction of €4.8 million for the passage of time and for maturity date. Management believes that valuation at fair changes in the notional amount. The cumulative change in value through profit or loss applies, as this largely eliminates the fair value of Financial liabilities at fair value through or reduces inconsistencies in valuation and disclosure, and profit or loss which can be allocated to the changes in own performance is assessed on the basis of fair value. credit risk amounted to a total increase of €8.7 million (2018: €14.3 million). Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include non-structured debt instruments such as floating-rate 19. Issued debt securities 2019 2018 Total 1,545,109 1,521,504 Covered bonds 1,491,490 1,493,179 Floating-rate notes 17,605 18,898 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 36,014 9,427 Issued debt securities comprise debt instruments with Face value versus carrying amount interest rates that are either fixed or variable, in so far as The value adjustment of debt securities as a result of hedge not subordinated. None of these debt securities becomes accounting is recognised under the line item Issued debt payable on demand in 2020 (2019: nil). securities. A retained Covered Bond 19-24 was issued in August 2019 for an amount of €300.0 million. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 165 Face value versus carrying amount of Face value Value adjustments Premium/discount Carrying amount issued debt securities at 31/12/2019 fair value hedge accounting Total 1,514,573 36,014 –5,478 1,545,109 Covered bond 1,497,050 36,014 –5,560 1,527,504 Floating-rate notes 17,523 – 82 17,605 Face value versus carrying amount of Face value Value adjustments Premium/discount Carrying amount issued debt securities at 31/12/2018 fair value hedge accounting Total 1,518,755 9,427 -6,678 1,521,504 Covered bond 1,500,000 9,427 -6,821 1,502,606 Floating-rate notes 18,755 143 18,898 20. Provisions 2019 2018 Total 49,597 44,461 Provisions for pensions1 39,841 30,809 Provision for long-service benefits 2,552 2,352 Provision for restructuring 3,426 6,356 Provision for interest rate derivatives recovery framework 184 1,025 Provision for financial guarantees and loan commitments 76 286 Other provisions 3,518 3,632 Compared with 2018, provisions increased by €5.1 million, – Kempen operates an average salary scheme under mainly due to the provision for pensions. which 1.875% of the pensionable salary – salary less state pension offset, with an annual ceiling of We operate a number of employee schemes under which €41,232 – is accrued for each year of service and participants receive payments or benefits after they retire. which is based on a retirement age of 68. The Specifically, there is a pension scheme and a discount surviving dependants’ pension is insured on a risk scheme for mortgage interest rates, as well as a longbasis. service benefits scheme. – The pension plans of F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) have been set up according to the Swiss The following defined benefit schemes were valued for the method of defined contributions but do not fulfil all purpose of the 2019 financial statements: the criteria of a defined contribution pension plan – Van Lanschot Kempen employees were eligible for according to IAS 19. For this reason, the Swiss discounted mortgage interest rates. Entitlement to pension plans are treated as defined benefit plans in this discount continued beyond retirement from active the consolidated financial statements. service. – T he long-service benefits depend on the number of Only within a Kempen pension scheme, plan assets fund years of service. the obligations (i.e. the scheme is funded). The other – Both a defined contribution scheme and a defined schemes are unfunded; payments in any year are made benefit scheme are in place for employees working at directly by the company. the Belgian branch. The pensionable salary for the defined benefit scheme is taken as the average basic The pension schemes have been placed with insurers and a salary over the last five years of service. The pension pension institution, which are responsible for the pension capital is insured with UKZT (Uitgesteld Kapitaal administration, risk insurance and communication of legal Zonder Tegenverzekering). The accompanying term documents to employees who are scheme members. life assurance is funded from risk premiums. The Decisions on and changes to pension scheme content are defined contribution pension plans have been set up taken by an internal pensions committee. Where applicable, according to the Belgian method of defined in the Netherlands the Works Council is consulted for its contributions but do not fulfil all the criteria of a opinion and/or consent. defined contribution pension plan according to IAS 19. For this reason, the defined contribution pension plans are treated as a defined benefit plan in the consolidated financial statements. 1 Prior year figure adjusted due to restatement (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 166 The pension schemes of Kempen and Van Lanschot have future accrual of entitlements in this plan will cease. been adjusted and will be replaced from 1 January 2020 by This impact of €1.2 million has been processed as a plan a single new plan. The new scheme is an individual defined amendment and is directly charged to the profit and loss contribution scheme. The former Van Lanschot scheme is account. Because there is still an obligation to index over classified as a collective defined contribution scheme, and the existing pension accrual, the remainder of the provision the change of scheme has no impact from an accounting (€24.9 million) remains on the balance sheet. perspective. With the former Kempen scheme classified as defined contribution with guaranteed indexation, the The obligations are calculated using the projected unit termination of this scheme does have an impact, as the credit method. Obligations/assets included in the Pensions Early retirement Employee Long-service statement of financial position by scheme discounts benefits at 31/12/2019 Defined benefit obligations 266,206 45 96 2,552 Fair value of plan assets 226,411 – – – Surplus/deficit –39,795 –45 –96 –2,552 Obligation at year-end –39,795 –45 –96 –2,552 Obligations/assets included in the Pensions Early retirement Employee Long-service statement of financial position by scheme discounts benefits at 31/12/2018 Defined benefit obligations 213,343 58 112 2,352 1 Fair value of plan assets 182,592 – – – Surplus/deficit –30,751 –58 –112 –2,352 Obligation at year-end –30,751 –58 –112 –2,352 Movements in defined benefit obligations for pension scheme 2019 2018 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 213,343 207,094 Current service costs 5,442 5,899 Interest costs 4,204 3,580 Members' contributions 1,498 1,242 Financial assumptions 43,929 –3,811 Gross benefits –2,923 –2,034 Transfers –1,059 1,111 Discontinuation –1,179 – Changed assumptions 2,951 262 Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 266,206 213,343 At 31 December 2019, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 24.5 years (2018: 23.5 years). Movements in defined benefit obligations for early retirement scheme 2019 2018 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 58 83 Current service costs –13 –25 Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 45 58 1 Prior year figure adjusted due to restatement (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 167 Movements in defined benefit obligations for long-service benefits scheme 2019 2018 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2,352 2,322 Current service costs 142 143 Interest costs 33 28 Financial assumptions 120 -21 Gross benefits -96 -120 Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2,552 2,352 Movements in fair value of pension plan assets 2019 20181 Fair value at 1 January 182,592 176,818 Expected return on plan assets 4,056 3,442 Financial assumptions 36,625 –3,230 Employer's contribution 6,848 5,776 Employees' contribution – 300 Gross benefits –2,923 –1,833 Transfers –786 1,317 Fair value at 31 December 226,411 182,592 Actual return on plan assets 40,680 213 Current service costs of pension scheme included in statement of income 2019 2018 Current service costs 5,442 5,898 Net interest income 4,204 3,580 Expected return on plan assets –4,056 –3,442 Net costs 5,590 6,036 Current service costs of early retirement included in statement of income 2019 2018 Current service costs –13 –25 Net costs –13 –25 Current service costs of long-service benefits included in statement of income 2019 2018 Current service costs 142 143 Net interest income 33 28 Financial assumptions 120 –21 Net costs 295 150 1 Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 168 Plan assets by investment category 2019 2018 Fair value % Fair value % Total 226,411 100 182,592 100 Fixed income 146,320 65 125,668 69 Equities 46,093 20 33,097 18 Mixed funds 2,116 1 1,686 1 Real estate 8,598 4 6,657 4 Cash and cash instruments 365 0 -830 0 Other 22,919 10 16,313 9 At each reporting date, an asset/liability matching study is maximum investment risk is linked to a strategic asset mix carried out by the pension fund’s asset manager, in which comprising 73% fixed income and 27% equity income the consequences of the strategic investment policies are investments, with a duration match of 75%. A bandwidth of analysed. The strategic investment policies of the pension 5% is in place. The other investment category consists of fund are bound by the maximum investment risk. The funds managed by an external pension fund manager. The most significant actuarial assumptions made at the reporting date are as follows: Assumptions 2019 2018 Actuarial interest rate pension 0.10% 1.10% 0.8% 2.1% Actuarial interest rate employee discounts 0.3% 1.2% Actuarial interest rate long-service benefits 0.50% 0.50% 1.3% 1.4% Expected return on investments 0.10% 1.10% 0.8% 2.1% Price inflation 1.75% 2.00% 1.75% 2.0% General salary increase 1.00% 1.75% 1.00% 1.75% Retirement age 64-68 years 64-68 years The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality costs in the statement of income, as no future contributions tables for the relevant countries. For the calculations at are to be made due to the change in pension scheme. 31 December 2019, the following mortality tables were used: For the Belgian branch, a reduction of 25 basis points in the – Kempen: the mortality tables as published by the Dutch actuarial interest rate will lead to an increase of 3.2% in the Association of Actuaries (Prognosetafel 2018); pension obligations and a rise of 25 basis points in the – Belgian branch: the mortality table as published by the actuarial interest rate will lead to a decrease of -3.2% in the Institute of Actuaries in Belgium (MR/FR) with an age pension obligations. correction of -3 years. – F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz): the mortality table For F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz), a reduction of as published by BVG (BVG 2015 GT). 50 basis points in the actuarial interest rate will lead to an increase of 9.8% in the pension obligations and a rise of For Kempen, a rise of ten basis points in the actuarial 50 basis points in the actuarial interest rate will lead to a interest rate will lead to a decrease of 2.6% in the pension decrease of -8.4% in the pension obligations. obligations and will have no effect on the current service History of movements in pension scheme 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 gains and losses Defined benefit obligations 266,206 213,343 207,094 199,811 167,276 Fair value of plan assets 226,411 182,592 176,818 187,526 157,030 Surplus/deficit –39,795 –30,751 –30,276 –12,285 –10,246 Actuarial gains/losses on obligations 43,929 –3,811 –3,010 13,484 –5,627 Actuarial gains/losses on investments 36,625 –3,230 120 16,734 –8,377 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 169 Pension obligations Employee discounts Long-service Expected contributions for 2020 benefits scheme Total 3,967 5 170 Expected employer's contributions 3,647 5 170 Expected employees' contributions 320 – – Provision for restructuring 2019 2018 At 1 January 6,356 66 Withdrawals –6,011 –1,216 Additions 3,081 7,506 At 31 December 3,426 6,356 Provision for interest rate derivatives recovery framework 2019 2018 At 1 January 1,025 2,064 Withdrawals –842 – Release – –1,040 Additions 2 – At 31 December 184 1,025 Other provisions 2019 2018 At 1 January 3,632 4,087 Withdrawals related to acquisitions/consolidation base – –399 Withdrawals –1,178 –865 Release –522 –942 Additions 1,541 1,780 Other changes 45 –29 At 31 December 3,518 3,632 Other provisions include provisions made for various legal claims and defined benefit obligations for employee discount schemes. An amount of €2.6 million has an expected maturity of one year or longer. 21. Tax liabilities 2019 2018 Total 792 5,764 Current tax liabilities 749 2,222 Deferred tax liabilities 43 3,542 For movements in deferred tax liabilities, see Note 12, Tax assets. See Note 36, Income tax, for more information. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 170 22. Liabilities classified as held for sale 2019 2018 Total – 20,871 Provisions – 284 Other liabilities – 20,587 For more information, see Note 13, Assets classified as held for sale. 23. Other liabilities 2019 2018 Total 187,306 125,383 Interest payable 20,872 24,943 Other accruals and deferred income 52,668 56,717 Lease liabilities 60,499 1,317 Other 53,268 42,407 Other liabilities comprise lease liabilities, income received to be credited to future periods and amounts payable such as accrued interest, payables, suspense accounts and unsettled items. Payments not included in lease liability measurement 2019 Total 1,776 Leases of low value assets 638 Variable lease payments 1,138 Interest expense on leases amounted to €0.9 million at year-end 2019, and was recognised in the profit or loss under line item Other interest expense in Note 27, Net interest income. 24. Subordinated loans 2019 2018 Total 173,090 173,473 Certificates of indebtedness 155,986 156,402 Other subordinated loans 16,450 16,563 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 654 509 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 171 Amortised cost versus carrying amount The value adjustment of subordinated loans used as hedged items is recognised under Subordinated loans. Amortised cost versus carrying amount subordinated Amortised cost Value Premium/ Carrying loans at 31/12/2019 adjustments discount amount fair value hedge accounting Total 166,450 654 5,986 173,090 7.320% subordinated bond loan 08/33 25,000 – 1,080 26,080 7.218% subordinated bond loan 08/38 25,000 – 1,457 26,457 7.269% subordinated bond loan 08/43 50,000 – 3,449 53,449 3.396% subordinated bond loan 16/26 50,000 – – 50,000 Other subordinated loans 16,450 654 – 17,104 Amortised cost versus carrying amount subordinated Amortised cost Value Premium/ Carrying loans at 31/12/2018 adjustments discount amount fair value hedge accounting Total 166,563 509 6,402 173,473 7.320% subordinated bond loan 08/33 25,000 – 1,205 26,205 7.218% subordinated bond loan 08/38 25,000 – 1,563 26,563 7.269% subordinated bond loan 08/43 50,000 – 3,634 53,634 3.396% subordinated bond loan 16/26 50,000 –285 – 49,715 Other subordinated loans 16,563 794 – 17,357 The average coupon on the other subordinated loans in 2019 was 6.05% (2018: 6.06%). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 172 25. Total equity 2019 20181 Total 1,316,570 1,255,876 Equity attributable to shareholders Issued share capital 41,362 41,362 Treasury shares –10,007 –8,678 Share premium reserve 323,719 385,115 Revaluation reserve 1,831 –3,065 Actuarial results on defined benefit schemes –37,682 –29,910 Currency translation reserve 872 104 Cash flow hedge reserve –15,221 –13,509 Own credit risk reserve –6,819 –11,394 Retained earnings 819,870 809,008 Other reserves 762,852 751,233 Undistributed profit (attributable to shareholders) 92,929 74,631 Total equity attributable to shareholders 1,210,853 1,243,663 Equity attributable to AT1 capital securities AT1 capital securities 100,000 – Undistributed profit attributable to AT1 capital securities 1,688 – Total equity attributable to AT1 capital securities 101,688 – Equity attributable to other non-controlling interests Other non-controlling interests 3,606 6,529 Undistributed profit attributable to other non-controlling interests 423 5,684 Total equity attributable to other non-controlling interests 4,029 12,213 On 25 March 2019, Van Lanschot NV issued €100 million in Tier 1 qualifying capital when determining capital adequacy. Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital securities at an issue price of The AT1 capital securities included under equity are carried 100%. The securities have a coupon of 6.75% and count as at cost. Share capital 2019 2018 Number Value Number Value Class A ordinary shares (nominal value €1) 41,361,668 41,362 41,361,668 41,362 Unissued shares 108,638,332 108,638 108,638,332 108,638 Authorised capital 150,000,000 150,000 150,000,000 150,000 Movement in share capital 2019 2018 Number Value Number Value At 1 January 41,361,668 41,362 41,146,668 41,147 Shares issued – – 215,000 215 Capital increase 61,379,658 61,380 61,525,532 61,526 Capital return –61,379,658 –61,380 –61,525,532 –61,526 At 31 December 41,361,668 41,362 41,361,668 41,362 Share premium reserve as announced on 27 August 2019. The capital return paid on At an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in 23 December 2019 amounted to €61.4 million and is charged ’s-Hertogenbosch on 9 October 2019, our shareholders to the share premium reserve available for distribution. These approved the return of capital in the amount of €1.50 per share, transactions are exempt from dividend tax in the Netherlands. 1 Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”). Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 173 All shares were paid up in cash. During the financial year No option rights have been granted since 2008. By the end Van Lanschot Kempen conditionally granted 60,039 of 2019, board members held a total of 225,423 shares and depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares. Van Lanschot depositary receipts for shares in Van Lanschot Kempen. Kempen holds 440,895 depositary receipts for Class A Awards of unconditional shares and depositary receipts to ordinary shares to meet open positions (2018: 344,647). staff are linked to performance and employment contracts. For more information on share-based payments, see For more information about shares and options schemes for Note 32, Staff costs. staff and the Statutory Board, see page 72. Movements in reserves Revaluation reserve Actuarial Currency Cash flow Own credit Retained Total in 2019 financial assets at results on translation hedge risk reserve earnings fair value through defined reserve reserve other comprehensive benefit income schemes At 1 January –3,064 –29,910 104 –13,509 –11,394 809,008 751,233 Net changes in fair value 5,010 – – –1,711 – – 3,298 Realised gains/losses –523 – – – – – –523 through profit or loss Net reversal of impairment 408 – – – – – 408 (to profit or loss) Value change own credit risk – – – – 4,575 – 4,575 Profit appropriation – – – – – 15,194 15,194 Share plans – – – – – –2,608 –2,608 Actuarial results – –7,772 – – – – –7,772 Other changes – – 768 – – –1,724 –955 At 31 December 1,831 –37,682 872 –15,221 –6,819 819,870 762,852 Tax effects –1,151 2,490 – 437 –1,180 – 596 In 2019, the dividend for 2018 was set at €1.45 per ordinary share. Movements in reserves Revaluation reserve Actuarial Currency Cash flow Own credit Retained Total in 2018 financial assets at results on translation hedge risk reserve earnings fair value through defined reserve reserve other comprehensive benefit income schemes At 1 January 9,682 -17,885 1,602 –9,825 -9,966 780,625 754,234 Adjustment opening balance1 – –11,861 – – – – –11,861 Adjusted 1 January opening balance 9,682 –29,746 1,602 –9,825 –9,966 780,625 742,373 Net changes in fair value –9,951 – – –3,684 – – –13,635 Realised gains/losses through profit or loss –2,731 – – – – – –2,731 Net impairment to profit or loss –65 – – – – – –65 Value change own credit risk – – – – –2,198 – –2,198 Profit appropriation – – – – – 30,139 30,139 Share plans – – – – – –445 –445 Actuarial results – –165 – – – – –165 To retained earnings – – – – 770 –770 – Other changes – – –1,499 – – –542 –2,040 At 31 December –3,064 –29,910 104 –13,509 –11,394 809,008 751,233 Tax effects 3,985 –930 – 208 733 – 3,996 In 2018, the dividend for 2017 was set at €1.45 per ordinary share. 1 See “Summary of significant accounting policies”, subsection “Disclosure relating to prior period error”. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 174 Nature and purpose of other reserves Currency translation reserve: This reserve (which is not available Treasury shares: Covers the cost price of treasury shares kept for free distribution) covers currency exchange differences by Van Lanschot Kempen for shares awarded to staff under resulting from the valuation of investments in group companies current remuneration and equity schemes. at the prevailing exchange rate in so far as the currency rate risk is not hedged. Share premium reserve: Covers amounts paid to Van Lanschot Kempen by shareholders above the nominal value of purchased Own credit risk reserve: Covers the changes in Van Lanschot shares. Kempen’s own credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Revaluation reserve: Covers movements in the fair value of FVOCI investments. Cash flow hedge reserve: Covers the share in the gain or loss on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge that has been Actuarial results on defined benefit schemes: Covers actuarial designated as an effective hedge. gains and losses on revaluation of investments and defined benefit obligations. The actuarial gains and losses related to a Retained earnings: Covers past profits added to equity and shortfall in minimum performance on defined contribution plan changes in connection with the share scheme. assets, required under Belgian and Swiss law, are also included. 26. Contingent liabilities and irrevocable commitments 2019 2018 Total 1,044,862 987,725 Guarantees, etc. 105,706 134,449 Unused credit facilities 901,374 815,157 Other 37,782 38,119 For several group companies, guarantees of €217.6 million Management has concluded under IFRS that no present (2018: €225.6 million) have been issued. It is impossible to obligation exists as per 31 December 2019. It is not possible predict whether, when and how much of these contingent to assess the potential effect of the outcome of this liabilities will be claimed. investigation. We expect to receive more information from the AFM concerning the potential consequences of the Investigations by supervisory authorities: Specific parts of investigation in the course of 2020. Kempen & Co (as of 1 January 2020 part of Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management) are the subject of an The following movements are related to the gross carrying investigation by the AFM regarding compliance with the amount of the contingent liabilities and the irrevocable Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (prevention) commitments. These figures only include IFRS 9-related Act (Wwft). We are fully cooperating with the investigation. items and do not therefore reconcile with the table above. Movements in gross carrying amount of Guarantees and loan Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total commitments in 2019 At 1 January 224,716 10,326 3,271 238,313 Additions or releases without transfer –32,451 –10,641 –867 –43,959 Transfer to Stage 1 18,678 –18,678 – – Transfer to Stage 2 –20,878 22,987 –2,035 74 New financial assets originated or purchased 42,508 – – 42,508 At 31 December 232,573 3,993 369 236,935 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 175 The following tables show the contingent items (contingent For each transaction that we have guaranteed, the liabilities and irrevocable commitments) based on their maximum guaranteed amount is included in the relevant remaining contractual terms to maturity at the reporting term bucket. For each obligation arising from an irrevocable date. commitment, the committed amount is classified in the relevant term bucket. Contractual maturity of contingent items at 31/12/2019 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Total 71 110,876 127,114 11,376 795,425 1,044,862 Guarantees 71 3,011 1,623 7,036 93,965 105,706 Unused credit facilities – 107,865 125,491 1,466 666,552 901,374 Other irrevocable commitments – – – 2,874 34,908 37,782 Contractual maturity of contingent items at 31/12/2018 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Total 644 121,340 11,574 12,238 841,930 987,725 Guarantees 644 3,370 11,083 7,803 111,549 134,449 Unused credit facilities – 117,970 491 1,466 695,230 815,157 Other irrevocable commitments – – – 2,969 35,150 38,119 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 176 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (€1,000) 27. Net interest income 2019 2018 Total interest income 268,282 304,344 Interest income on cash equivalents 64 103 Interest income on banks and private sector 224,546 238,356 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,617 5,040 Interest income on other financial assets at amortised cost 7,939 8,485 Interest income calculated using the effective interest method 236,165 251,985 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1,098 2,192 Interest income on derivatives 21,258 45,262 Other interest income 9,761 4,904 Other interest income 32,116 52,359 Interest expense 2019 2018 Total interest expense 93,385 129,131 Interest expense on balances at central banks 4,369 5,855 Interest expense on banks and private sector 25,771 27,755 Interest expense on issued debt securities 10,083 23,333 Interest expense on subordinated loans 9,688 9,575 Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 49,912 66,518 Interest expense on derivatives 37,852 61,084 Other interest expense 5,621 1,528 Other interest expense 43,473 62,612 Net interest income 174,897 175,213 In 2019, interest result was €0.3 million lower than in 2018. the tune of €3.9 million, to be received from DSB Bank NV. The decrease was the outcome of lower interest rates and The interest result on loans subject to impairment was is offset by a slightly higher mortgage volume and an €8.6 million (2018: €11.1 million). one-off effect of a positive revaluation of interest claim to 28. Income from securities and associates 2019 2018 Total 86,535 31,323 Income from associates using the equity method 9,469 14,171 Realised result of associates using the equity method 23,957 14,557 Realised and unrealised gains/losses on investments at fair value through profit or loss 17,067 2,410 Other gains on sales 36,042 184 Income from securities and associates was up by associates includes an earn-out gain based on a fair €55.2 million. This was largly due to Other gains on sales, value calculation; the maximum cash consideration for which were mainly related to the sale of our majority stakes this earn-out is €2 million. in non-strategic interests. Income from securities and Notes to the consolidated statement of income 177 29. Net commission income 2019 2018 Total 290,390 293,247 Securities commissions 24,342 25,131 Management commissions 217,453 213,416 Cash transactions and funds transfer commissions 6,071 7,663 Corporate Finance and Equity Capital Markets commissions 34,886 38,125 Other commissions 7,637 8,913 30. Result on financial transactions 2019 2018 Total –7,407 –805 Gains/losses on securities trading 3,545 –662 Gains/losses on currency trading 8,904 8,007 Gains/losses on derivatives under hedge accounting –6,404 –4,684 Gains/losses on trading derivatives – 600 Realised gains on financial assets at fair value through other 657 3,764 comprehensive income Gains/losses on economic hedges/hedge accounting not applied 67,204 –29,037 Gains/losses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –81,314 21,207 Compared with 2018, result on financial transactions was lower. This balance reflects the revaluation result caused by down by €6.6 million, –€1.7 million of which was due to higher changes in capital market yields in the marked-to-market unrealised gains on derivatives under hedge accounting. The portfolio and a number of derivatives positions. balance of losses on economic hedges and losses on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss came in €6.3 million 31. Other income 2019 2018 Total 8,808 7,304 Net sales 13,066 11,020 Cost of sales –4,258 –3,716 Other income comprises net sales and cost of sales from been converted into a shareholding, thus giving the company non-strategic investments arising from debt conversion. In time to recover. We aim to sell any shares in non-strategic certain cases, where a company has not been able to repay a investments in due course. corporate loan granted by Van Lanschot Kempen, the loan has 32. Staff costs 2019 2018 Total 250,577 263,724 Salaries and wages 188,647 192,332 Pension costs for defined contribution schemes 18,114 18,324 Pension costs for defined benefit schemes 4,998 6,976 Other social security costs 21,204 22,181 Share-based payments for variable remuneration 4,047 4,510 Other staff costs 13,568 19,401 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 178 Staff costs declined by €13.1 million. The decrease in salaries schemes include €1.1 million for Statutory Board members and wages was partly due to a reduction in FTEs. Other (2018: €1.1 million). staff costs fell due to the lease cost shift as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16. As the participants in the Kempen Management Investment Plan pay the fair value of the equity instruments, no In 2019, share-based payments added €2.0 million to equity expenses related to this are included in staff costs. (2018: €5.3 million). Of the total expenses arising from share-based payments, €0.0 million is included in Salaries The average number of staff in 2019 was 1,834 (2018: and wages (2018: €2.7 million); this amount includes the 1,843), or 1,698 in full-time equivalents (2018: 1,747), as profit-sharing scheme. Pension costs for defined contribution shown below: Average FTEs 2019 2018 Total 1,698 1,747 Netherlands 1,515 1,553 Belgium 134 141 Other 49 53 There are no options outstanding. The remaining weighted-average exercise price of €75.53, expired in options outstanding at 1 January 2018 (6,679), with a 2018. No option rights were exercised in 2018 or 2019. Conditional depositary receipts for shares granted to staff (excluding Statutory Board) 2019 2018 At 1 January 222,930 315,986 Granted 60,039 55,890 Vested –127,107 –143,711 Forfeited rights –5,249 –5,234 At 31 December 150,613 222,930 Conditional depositary receipts for shares are granted to 2011-14 LTP, 50% of the Van Lanschot Kempen shares staff both under the variable remuneration policy for were awarded conditionally over a period of three years and identified staff and the long-term share plan (LTP). 50% over a period of five years. As from LTP 2015, 60% of the Van Lanschot Kempen shares are awarded immediately The fair value is determined based on the volume-weighted and unconditionally, while 40% are awarded conditionally day price for depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares over a period of three years. on the second trading day after release of Van Lanschot Kempen’s annual figures. The fair value is equal to the Conditional depositary receipts for shares will vest if: share price less discounted value of expected dividends. (i) Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial position allows this in Depositary receipts granted in 2019 had a weightedthe year of vesting; average fair value of €16.78 (2018: €24.16). (ii) Risks have been reviewed and no material, unforeseen risks have occurred; and In 2019, 12,540 conditional depositary receipts for shares (iii) T he individual has not left Van Lanschot Kempen in the were granted under the LTP to a number of senior three or five-year period. managers other than members of the Statutory Board (2018: 10,587). The depositary receipts for Class A Conditional variable remuneration can be revised down if so Van Lanschot Kempen shares will be granted in 2020 prompted by risks and performances identified later (malus). on the second trading day after the release of Van Lanschot Kempen’s annual figures for 2019. Employees do not receive any dividends during the vesting period. If an employee ceases to be employed by Long-term share plan Van Lanschot Kempen within this period, their rights will The long-term share plan allows us to award variable be forfeited, except in limited circumstances judged on an remuneration to certain key employees, including identified individual basis. staff. It offers a special type of variable remuneration in which the total variable pay takes the form of depositary A part (around 50%) of the conditionally awarded receipts for Class A Van Lanschot Kempen shares. For the depositary receipts is used to pay income tax. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 179 Share-based payments Kempen Any dividends Kempen pays on the ordinary shares owned Management Investment Plan (MIP) by Coöperatie MIP and profit-sharing rights on the profitUnder the terms of the MIP, selected Kempen staff invest sharing certificates are distributed to Coöperatie MIP, which indirectly via depositary receipts in Kempen shares and in turn distributes the profits to its members: Stichting MIP Kempen’s profit-sharing certificates. Kempen issued these to and Van Lanschot. Stichting MIP will subsequently pay out Kempen Management Investeringsplan Coöperatief UA its share of the profits to the individual staff members, pro (Coöperatie MIP), a cooperative with two members, Stichting rata their holding of depositary receipts; for more information, Administratiekantoor Kempen Management Investeringsplan see “Disclosure of interests in other entities”. (Stichting MIP) and Van Lanschot, with Stichting MIP holding virtually all membership rights. Stichting MIP issues Individual staff finance the issue price entirely from their own depositary receipts to selected staff, who pay their issue means and are not financially supported by Van Lanschot price and receive the indirect right of beneficial ownership of Kempen in any way. the underlying Kempen shares and profit-sharing certificates. 33. Other administrative expenses 2019 2018 Total 135,062 162,043 Accommodation expenses 9,389 20,078 Marketing and communication 9,206 13,746 Office expenses 4,922 5,990 IT expenses 52,647 63,240 External auditors' fees 3,652 3,066 Consultancy fees 12,261 18,705 Travel and hotel fees 3,497 3,665 Information providers' fees 14,437 13,714 External service provider charges 7,609 6,331 Other 17,442 13,507 Consultancy fees relate to advisory services (business consultancy, tax) and the implementation and maintenance of software and hardware. Fees charged by the external independent auditors (and their network of offices) can be broken down as follows: Fees charged by external independent auditors 2019 Auditor PwC Other auditors Total auditors Total 3,512 141 3,652 Financial statements audit fee 2,377 96 2,473 Fee for other audit services 210 – 210 Financial statements audit fee for funds managed by Kempen 751 – 751 Other non-audit assurance fees 173 44 217 Fees charged by external independent auditors 2018 Auditor PwC Other auditors Total auditors Total 2,876 190 3,066 Financial statements audit fee 1,464 83 1,547 Fee for other audit services 659 – 659 Financial statements audit fee for funds managed by Kempen 627 – 627 Other non-audit assurance fees 127 106 233 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 180 This is a summary of the services rendered by our auditor – ISAE 3402 report on Kempen Capital Management, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV: Private Banking and DGS; – Financial statements audit; – A ssurance engagement F. van Lanschot Bankiers – Financial statements audit for funds managed by (Schweiz); Kempen; – Non-audit assurance engagements on safeguarding – Statutory audit of controlled and related entities; cient assets. – Audit of the regulatory returns to be submitted to De Nederlandsche Bank; 34. Depreciation and amortisation 2019 2018 Total 25,201 14,427 Buildings 2,219 2,399 Right-of-use assets – buildings 9,055 – Right-of-use assets – transport equipment 3,644 – IT, operating system software and communications equipment 3,424 3,118 Application software 1,402 1,742 Intangible assets arising from acquisitions 5,537 7,573 Results on disposals of property and equipment -1,879 -2,373 Other depreciation and amortisation 1,799 1,968 Depreciation and amortisation rose by €10.8 million, mainly due to the implementation of IFRS 16. 35. Impairments 2019 2018 Total impairments 22,854 -13,416 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 0 0 Due from banks 1 -0 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 5 -119 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors -11,857 -11,709 Other financial assets at amortised cost -6 5 Financial guarantees and loan commitments -203 -913 Impairment of financial instruments -12,059 -12,737 Investments in associates using the equity method -87 -892 Goodwill and intangible assets 35,000 263 Assets acquired through foreclosures -50 Other impairments 34,913 -679 Total impairments increased by €36.3 million compared with 2018, mainly due to impairment of goodwill; for more information, see Note 11, Goodwill and other intangible assets. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 181 36. Income tax 2019 2018 Operating profit before tax from continuing operations 119,529 79,504 Profit before tax from discontinued operations – 16,275 Total gross result 119,529 95,779 Prevailing tax rate in the Netherlands 25% 25% Tax on continuing operations 21,114 12,086 Tax on discontinued operations – 3,378 Total tax 21,114 15,464 Expected tax on the basis of the prevailing tax rate in the Netherlands 29,882 23,945 Increase/decrease in tax payable due to Tax-free income from securities and associates –10,122 –9,649 Non-deductible costs 1,382 2,092 Non-deductible losses –113 –228 Adjustments to taxes for prior financial years 3 –239 Impact of foreign tax rate differences –108 –146 Addition/(release) deferred tax assets 181 –82 Other changes 9 –229 –8,768 –8,481 Total tax 21,114 15,464 This tax amount consists of the tax expense for the financial mainly due to the equity holding exemption and nonyear on the operating result as disclosed in the statement of deductible costs. In both 2018 and 2019, the effective tax income, also allowing for any tax relief facilities. When also changed as a result of changes to the statutory tax rate determining the tax amount, we have applied currently in the Netherlands. existing tax rules. Changes in the effective tax rate were Key income tax components 2019 2018 Total 21,114 15,464 Standard tax 28,712 10,775 Income/expense from foreign tax rate differences –108 –146 Income/expense from changes in deferred tax assets –8,913 5,578 Income/expense from deferred tax liabilities 1,420 –504 Income/expense from prior-year adjustments 3 –239 The breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities (including tax rate adjustments) through the statement of income is as follows: Deferred tax assets 2019 2018 Total –8,913 5,578 Employee benefits –366 –258 Commissions 46 –75 Property and equipment –1,400 292 Tax-loss carry-forwards –8,049 5,236 Other 856 383 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 182 Deferred tax liabilities 2019 2018 Total 1,420 –504 Property and equipment 1,186 760 Intangible assets 235 –1,264 37. Net profit from discontinued operations 2019 2018 Net interest income – –377 Income from securities and associates – 276 Other income – 45,108 Total income from operating activities – 45,007 Staff costs – 17,286 Other administrative costs – 9,481 Depreciation and amortisation – 1,965 Total expenses – 28,732 Operating profit before tax – 16,275 Income tax – 3,378 Net profit – 12,897 For more information, see Note 13, Assets classified as held for sale. 38. Earnings per ordinary share 2019 2018 Net result 98,414 80,315 Share of AT1 capital securities –5,063 – Share of other non-controlling interests –423 –5,684 Net result for calculation of earnings per share 92,929 74,631 Net result for calculation of earnings per share from continuing operations 92,929 61,734 Net result for calculation of earnings per share from discontinued operations – 12,897 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 40,974,330 41,004,769 Earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.27 1.82 Earnings per ordinary share from continued operations (€) 2.27 1.51 Earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations (€) – 0.31 Proposed dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 To calculate earnings per ordinary share, the number of ordinary shares consists solely of the weighted average number of shares in issue, ignoring any treasury shares held by the company. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 183 39. Diluted earnings per ordinary share 2019 2018 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share 92,929 74,631 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 92,929 61,734 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations – 12,897 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 40,974,330 41,004,769 Potential shares 218,240 294,240 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, fully diluted 41,192,569 41,299,009 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.26 1.81 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 2.26 1.49 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations (€) – 0.31 Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated the same way as earnings per share, but taking into account the number of shares that could potentially cause dilution. Diluted earnings per ordinary share reflect the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be in issue upon conversion into ordinary shares of all potential shares. Related parties 184 RELATED PARTIES The Executive Board comprises our key management COO and the members of the management team with personnel and is responsible for implementing our strategy responsibility for our core activities Van Lanschot Private and managing our core activities. The Board is made up of Banking, Evi van Lanschot, Kempen Asset Management the Chairman of the Van Lanschot Kempen Statutory Board, and Kempen Merchant Banking. the Van Lanschot Kempen CFRO, the Van Lanschot Kempen Remuneration of Executive Board 2019 2018 Total 6,510 6,510 Fixed salary, amount in cash 2,961 2,961 Fixed salary, amount in shares 1 1,949 1,949 Fixed payment for pension and disability insurance costs 1,600 1,600 For transactions with key management personnel, see “Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards”. Affiliates 2019 2018 Income Expenses Income Expenses Stichting Pensioenfonds F. van Lanschot 1,014 – 950 – Parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen The table below shows the year-end income and On the basis of regulatory guidelines, management has expenditure relating to these parties in the statement of decided that entities with a shareholding of at least 5% in income and the statement of financial position. Van Lanschot Kempen are parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen. Parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen in 2019 Income Expenses Amount receivable Amount payable Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen – – – 71 APG Asset Management NV – – – – LDDM Holding BV 0 – – 1,788 Janus Henderson Group plc – – – – Reggeborgh Invest BV 2,514 – 75,000 – In November 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen offered a funding Reggeborgh was granted at market rates and collateral was commitment of €200 million to Reggeborgh; of this amount provided by Reggeborgh. €75 million was drawn at year-end. The funding to Parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen in 2018 Income Expenses Amount receivable Amount payable Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen – – – 52 APG Asset Management NV – – – – LDDM Holding BV 0 – – 1,304 Janus Henderson Group plc – – – – Reggeborgh Invest BV – – – – 1 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for Van Lanschot Kempen shares differ due to the treatment under IFRS 2. For 2019, expenses under IFRS amounted to €2,162,000 (2018: €1,993,000). Related parties 185 Loans to parties with significant influence in List of shareholders Van Lanschot Kempen were granted at market In compliance with Section 5.3 of the Dutch Financial conditions, and collateral was provided. Supervision Act, the following notifications have been recorded in the major interests register held by the Van Lanschot Kempen did not grant any guarantees Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). in 2019 or 2018, and neither were impairments The percentages reflect the number of shares on the recognised for receivables. register on the dates listed and the current number of shares. Shareholder Notification date Interest Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 24 May 2013 96.80% Depositary receipt holder Notification date Interest APG Asset Management NV 30 January 2018 9.89% LDDM Holding BV 3 June 2014 9.68% Janus Henderson Group plc 17 October 2016 5.56% Reggeborgh Invest BV 9 April 2018 5.00% FMR LLC 7 July 2016 4.96% Wellington Management Group LLP 9 April 2019 4.90% NN Group NV 23 December 2019 3.23% CRUX Asset Management Limited 14 September 2017 3.23% T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. 9 May 2017 3.06% Investec Asset Management Limited 22 August 2019 2.99% Invesco Limited 11 April 2019 2.98% Disclosure is required once a shareholder’s interest reaches, exceeds or falls below certain threshold values, and it should be noted that current stakes of listed shareholders and/or depositary receipt holders may have changed since notification date. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen currently holds more than 99.99% of the Class A ordinary shares. For transactions in associates, see “Disclosures of interest in other entities”. Disclosure of interests in other entities 186 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES Key judgements and assumptions Interests in subsidiaries We rely on key judgements and assumptions when The consolidated statement of financial position and determining control and significant influence. We have statement of income comprise subsidiaries and entities included these under the headings “Basis of consolidation” in which Van Lanschot Kempen has control, but excludes and “Summary of significant accounting policies”. the names of relatively minor subsidiaries and entities. Subsidiaries (%) 2019 2018 Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV 100 100 F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG 100 100 Kempen & Co NV (part of VLKWM from 1 January 2020) 100 98 Van Lanschot Participaties BV 100 100 Quion 17 BV 100 100 AIO II BV – 72 Allshare BV 100 97 Holowell Holding BV 93 90 No restrictions apply between Van Lanschot Kempen and its subsidiaries. Consolidated structured entities controlled Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond Programme by Van Lanschot Kempen (CPTCB) In the consolidated statement of financial position, we Van Lanschot Kempen established a CPTCB programme in consolidate structured entities. These are designed in such March 2015. Investors have a dual recourse claim: initially a way that the voting rights are not the dominant factor in against Van Lanschot Kempen, and, in the event of the deciding who controls the entity, and the relevant activities bank’s failure, against a pool of cover assets. In April 2015 are governed by contractual arrangements. Van Lanschot the bank launched the first bond loan of €500 million Kempen is exposed to substantially all of the risk of the (maturity of seven years: coupon of 0.275%). The second structured entity and thereby controls it. Therefore, these bond loan of €500 million was placed in March 2016 structured entities do not qualify as a transfer of financial (maturity of seven years: coupon of 0.375%) and the third assets and are not derecognised from our statement of bond loan of €500 million was placed in February 2017 financial position. (maturity of ten years: coupon of 0.875%). All loans were placed with institutional investors. We consolidate the following structured entities: – Van Lanschot Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond Programme 2 Company BV (CPTCB2) – Van Lanschot Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond Van Lanschot Kempen established a retained CPTCB Company 2 BV programme in July 2019. In September 2019, the bank launched the first bond loan of €300 million (maturity Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV of five years: coupon of 0.40%). All loans were retained. The Courtine RMBS 2013-I securitisation transaction, which became active in 2013, was redeemed on 26 September 2019. Disclosure of interests in other entities 187 The tables below show the total amounts of the mortgage loans involved in each securitisation transaction. Securitised loans at 31/12/2019 Fair value Carrying amount Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Impairments Total 2,163,289 2,101,257 1,936,380 164,174 703 – Covered Bond Programme 1,812,359 1,758,025 1,625,096 132,929 – – Covered Bond Programme 2 350,930 343,232 311,284 31,245 703 – Securitised loans at 31/12/2018 Fair value Carrying amount Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Impairments Total 2,322,251 2,213,905 1,941,492 269,985 2,427 409 Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV 478,648 460,461 390,018 68,016 2,427 409 Covered Bond Programme 1,843,603 1,753,444 1,551,474 201,970 – – Van Lanschot Kempen provides no financial or other support the carrying value as recognised in the consolidated to the securitisation entities, and has no intention of statement of financial position. providing such support. Van Lanschot Kempen has no other interests in nonNon-consolidated structured entities consolidated structured entities such as commitments, Asset-backed securities are classified as financial assets guarantees, provisions, derivatives or other obligations. at fair value through other comprehensive income. These The maximum exposure to non-consolidated structured investments are structured entities. We do not consolidate entities is equal to the acquisition cost and amounted to these because Van Lanschot Kempen is not exposed to €387.3 million at 31 December 2019 (2018: €501.3 million). substantially all of the risk of the structured entity. The table below shows Van Lanschot Kempen’s investments in Van Lanschot Kempen provides no financial or other support non-consolidated structured entities and the total income to non-consolidated structured entities, and has no intention from these investments. The Investments column shows of providing such support. Non-consolidated structured entities 2019 Interest income Comprehensive Total income Investments income Total 833 1,903 2,736 385,661 Asset-backed securities 833 1,903 2,736 385,661 Non-consolidated structured entities 2018 Interest income Comprehensive Total income Investments income Total 1,856 –2,549 –693 497,760 Asset-backed securities 1,856 –2,549 –693 497,760 Non-controlling interests interests; a list of non-controlling interests in Van Lanschot The consolidated statement of financial position and Kempen subsidiaries is provided below. statement of income include a number of non-controlling Non-controlling interests 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 4,029 12,213 Kempen MIP 4,122 5,103 Consolidated investment funds 67 38 Consolidated shareholdings –159 7,072 Van Lanschot Kempen’s minority interests are recognised under non-controlling interests as part of equity. Disclosure of interests in other entities 188 Movements in non2019 2018 controlling interests Non-controlling Undistributed Total Non-controlling Undistributed Total interests profit attributable interests profit attributable to non-controlling to non-controlling interests interests At 1 January 6,529 5,684 12,213 10,827 5,437 16,264 Profit appropriation 5,376 –5,376 – 4,542 –4,542 – Dividend – –309 –309 – –895 –895 Result for the reporting period – 423 423 – 5,684 5,684 Other changes –8,298 – –8,298 –8,840 – –8,840 At 31 December 3,606 423 4,029 6,529 5,684 12,213 Kempen Management Investment Plan (MIP) depositary receipts in issue, i.e. 100% of the total available Before the Kempen Management Investment Plan (MIP) underlying depositary receipts under the MIP. was implemented in 2010, all Kempen shares were held by VLKWM (formerly Van Lanschot NV until 31 December As a consequence of the merger as at 1 January 2020 between 2019). These shares were all converted into Class A ordinary Van Lanschot and Kempen, Kempen ceased to exist. In view shares following the implementation of the MIP. At the same of this merger, the Executive Board decided to wind up the MIP time, within the scope of this implementation, Kempen issued in 2020. The participants in the MIP will share in Kempen's full 1,658,671 new Class B ordinary shares to Coöperatie MIP in results for 2019. exchange for a total purchase price of €15.0 million. Coöperatie MIP transferred its shares in Kempen to VLKWM on In 2013, the MIP’s structure changed, with Class A ordinary 27 December 2019 at a price consisting of 1) the nominal value shares converted to ordinary shares and Class B shares to of the MIP certificates, plus 2) the payment that the participants ordinary shares and profit-sharing certificates. in the MIP will receive based on Kempen’s net profit for 2019. VLKWM paid the amount under 1) to Coöperatie MIP in 2019. Coöperatie MIP has two members, Stichting MIP and The amount under 2) will be paid by VLKWM in the first VLKWM, which hold the membership rights issued by quarter of 2020 after Kempen’s net profit for 2019 has been Coöperatie MIP, with Van Lanschot’s membership being established. After receiving both amounts and after deducting legally required. Stichting MIP issued depositary receipts for any costs, Coöperatie MIP will make a payment to Stichting its membership right in Coöperatie MIP to selected Kempen MIP, and Stichting MIP will pay this benefit to the participants. employees who accepted the offer to invest in the MIP. The After this payment, the certificates will expire (Article 7.1 total purchase price of the depository receipts amounted to sub-paragraph (b) of the Terms of Administration of Stichting €15.0 million. MIP). After this, both Coöperatie MIP and Stichting MIP will become shell entities. At that time (expected at the end of Q1 In 2019, Kempen employees who owned depositary receipts 2020), VLKWM will start the dissolution of Coöperatie MIP and in the MIP exchanged a total of 998 depositary receipts Stichting MIP, and this is expected to be completed in Q2 2020. (2018: 6,649). At 31 December 2019, there were 15,000 Kempen MIP 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Number of depositary receipts issued to Kempen employees 3,801 4,799 Legally required contribution by Van Lanschot Kempen (€) 100 100 Financial information for Kempen MIP 2019 2018 Total assets 16,285 15,965 Total liabilities – – Equity attributable to shareholders 12,163 10,862 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 4,122 5,103 Total income from operating activities 1,285 965 Total expenses – – Taxes – – Net income 1,285 965 Of which attributable to shareholders 959 656 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 326 309 Disclosure of interests in other entities 189 Consolidated investments We consolidate two investments in which non-controlling Allshare BV of Hoofddorp, the Netherlands (0.20%). The minority interests of third parties are included. These figures for 2018 include AIO II BV of Breda, the Netherlands. non-controlling interests of third parties in consolidated investments comprise of minority stakes in Holowell The table below provides aggregated information on Holding BV of Tholen, the Netherlands (7.37%) and in consolidated investments. Financial information consolidated investments 2019 2018 Total assets 13,661 49,400 Total liabilities 12,568 36,523 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,253 5,805 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests –159 7,072 Total income from operating activities 8,431 52,126 Total expenses 6,579 34,142 Taxes 309 3,521 Net income 1,542 14,464 Of which attributable to shareholders 1,474 9,305 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 68 5,158 Associates Investments in associates using the equity method As part of our investment policy, we invest in medium-sized companies in the Netherlands, only holding minority interests of between 20% and 49%. These investments are classified as investments in associates using the equity method. The table below shows the largest investments in associates based on the carrying amount. Name Activities Head office Interest Bolster Investments Bolster is a long-term investor specialising in taking minority Amsterdam 29.75% Coöperatief UA shareholdings of 20-50% in private companies and pursuing a flexible, long-term investment horizon, allowing its companies' portfolios to realise their long-term growth potential. Fire Safety Holding BV Gerco is the Dutch market leader in the field of fire compartmentation Schoonhoven 42.50% (Gerco) of buildings. Movares Group BV Movares provides engineering and consultancy services in the fields of Utrecht 35.00% mobility, infrastructure, spatial planning and transport systems. OGD Beheer BV OGD provides ICT services to medium-sized and large companies, public Delft 32.20% and semi-public and non-profit organisations. Its services include service management, outsourcing, software development and ICT training. Ploeger Oxbo Holding BV Ploeger Oxbo develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of specialist Roosendaal 11.87% harvesting equipment to customers across the world. Quint Wellington Quint is an independent consultancy focusing on the strategic Amstelveen 18.00% Redwood Holding BV management, sourcing and outsourcing, and implementation of IT-related processes in organisations. Tecnotion Investment BV Tecnotion designs, produces and sells linear motors across the world, Almelo 37.98% to the semiconductor, electronics, LCD, automotive and robotics industries among others. Disclosure of interests in other entities 190 Aggregated financial information of associates for which Van Lanschot Kempen 2019 2018 applies the equity method Associates, Attributable to Associates, Attributable to equity method Van Lanschot Kempen equity method Van Lanschot Kempen Total 208,636 52,452 134,451 54,071 Current assets 197,762 40,928 132,049 45,461 Non-current assets 351,481 71,935 385,906 89,198 Current liabilities –86,740 –22,246 –90,040 –25,562 Non-current liabilities –253,866 –36,549 –293,464 –54,296 Goodwill 11,411 7,653 Impairments –6,455 –6,496 Other –6,572 –1,887 Other financial information Dividend received 4,516 3,473 Income from operational activities 9,642 10,683 Share of net income 13,606 11,759 Unrecognised share of losses 120 3,517 Comprehensive income – – The table below shows the income and expenses that we report in the statement of income and the positions included in the statement of financial position, as well as guarantees issued at year-end in respect of these entities. Transactions with associates using the equity method 2019 2018 Income 19 7 Expenses – 30 Amount receivable 0 850 Amount payable 1,193 1,142 Guarantees 29 29 Loans granted to entities in which we exercise significant influence but do not have decisive control are granted on market terms and secured on collateral provided. No impairments were applied to the receivables in either 2019 or 2018. Disclosure of interests in other entities 191 Van Lanschot Participaties resulting from debt conversions and consolidated in the Investments using the equity method are managed by Van Lanschot Kempen accounts (note that this is not a core Van Lanschot Participaties, with the exception of our stakes activity for Van Lanschot Participaties). The table below in Bolster Investments Coöperatief. As part of its direct shows Van Lanschot Participaties’ financial impact on the holdings, Van Lanschot Participaties issues subordinated consolidated statement of financial position and statement loans and cumulative preference shares, while it also invests of income. The table does not include information about in a portfolio of equity funds. In addition, Van Lanschot controlling interests. Participaties is the controlling shareholder of a stake Investment activity Item Carrying Interest Income from securities Impairments Total value and associates Direct investment Investment in associates using the equity method 33,140 – 11,944 –50 11,894 Shareholdings Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,024 2,648 – 195 2,843 Subordinated loans Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 579 63 – – 63 Fund investment Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8,149 – 3,284 – 3,284 Total 43,892 2,712 15,228 145 18,084 Joint ventures in which Van Lanschot Kempen is a partner We have no joint ventures. Commitments 192 COMMITMENTS IT contracts contractual payment commitments for the new and existing In the past, Van Lanschot Kempen entered into several IT IT contracts amount to €24.5 million, as shown below. contracts e.g. for hiring services and capacity, and for licensing and maintenance of our systems. Our future Future payments for IT contracts Total 24,476 Within 1 year 8,643 1 to 5 years 15,346 More than 5 years 488 Early termination of these contracts could result in additional costs. Exit fees are linked to the remaining term of the contracts. Segment information 193 SEGMENT INFORMATION Segmentation of our activities is based on operating Asset Management segments, as our risk and return profile is chiefly affected A specialist asset manager, Asset Management focuses on by differences in our products and services. Internal cost a range of investment strategies while also offering allocation is based on use of services. Our activities break fiduciary services to domestic and international institutional down into five operating segments, while intrasegment clients such as pension funds and insurers. transactions are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Merchant Banking Private Banking Merchant Banking offers specialist services including Private Banking offers private clients and entrepreneurs equities research and trading, mergers & acquisitions a broad range of products in the private banking market, services, structured investment activities, capital market while also focusing on business professionals and executives, transactions and debt advisory services to institutional healthcare professionals, foundations and associations. investors, corporates, financial institutions and public and In 2019, we integrated our remaining corporate banking semi-public entities. activities into our Private Banking segment and comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. Other activities These comprise activities in the fields of interest rate, Evi market and liquidity risk management, staff departments, Evi, Van Lanschot Kempen’s online investment coach in as well as the activities of Van Lanschot Participaties/ the Netherlands and Belgium. Its activities also specifically Bolster and consolidated investments. target mass affluent individuals and Millennials. Operating segments in 2019 (€ million) Private Asset Merchant Other activities Banking Evi Management Banking Total Statement of income Net interest income 154.0 3.2 0.1 –0.1 17.7 174.9 Income from securities and associates – – –0.7 – 87.3 86.5 Net commission income 130.1 5.1 101.7 52.2 1.2 290.4 Result on financial transactions 1.2 – 0.0 2.6 –11.3 –7.4 Other income – – – – 8.8 8.8 Total income from operating activities 285.3 8.2 101.1 54.7 103.8 553.2 Staff costs 97.0 3.5 49.8 25.3 75.0 250.6 Other administrative expenses 63.2 5.4 16.3 8.8 41.3 135.1 Allocated internal expenses 69.5 2.2 13.3 10.2 –95.2 – Depreciation and amortisation 1.6 0.0 0.1 0.0 23.5 25.2 Impairments –11.2 0.0 – – 34.0 22.9 Total expenses 220.1 11.1 79.5 44.4 78.6 433.7 Operating result before tax 65.2 –2.9 21.6 10.4 25.2 119.5 Operating result of discontinued operations before tax – – – – – – Segment information 194 Operating segments in 2018 (€ million) Private Asset Merchant Other activities Banking Evi Management Banking Total Statement of income Net interest income 159.3 2.5 –0.0 –0.0 13.5 175.2 Income from securities and associates – – –0.2 – 31.5 31.3 Net commission income 128.9 4.4 100.0 58.0 1.9 293.2 Result on financial transactions 1.1 – –0.0 1.0 –2.8 –0.8 Other income – – – – 7.3 7.3 Total income from operating activities 289.2 6.9 99.8 58.9 51.4 506.3 Staff costs 106.6 4.2 45.8 26.3 80.7 263.7 Other administrative expenses 67.7 9.1 23.8 9.1 52.3 162.0 Allocated internal expenses 71.5 2.9 12.8 9.9 –97.1 – Depreciation and amortisation 5.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 7.6 14.4 Impairments –13.5 0.0 – –0.0 0.1 –13.4 Total expenses 238.1 16.2 83.4 45.3 43.7 426.8 Operating result before tax 51.1 –9.3 16.3 13.6 7.8 79.5 Operating result of discontinued operations before tax – – – – 16.3 16.3 The tables below give additional information on the geographical spread of income from operations. Geographical segments in 2019 (€ million) Netherlands Belgium Other Total Statement of income Total income from operating activities 499.1 33.0 21.1 553.2 Of which income from other segments –4.9 3.7 1.2 – Statement of financial position Due from banks 193.6 – – 193.6 Investments in associates using the equity method 52.5 – – 52.5 Total non-current assets1 246.1 – – 246.1 Geographical segments in 2018 (€ million) Netherlands Belgium Other Total Statement of income Total income from operating activities 450.0 30.5 25.8 506.3 Of which income from other segments –4.2 3.6 0.6 – Statement of financial position Due from banks 158.3 – – 158.3 Investments in associates using the equity method 54.1 – – 54.1 Total non–current assets 1 212.4 – – 212.4 1 Other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment assets. Segment information 195 Country-by-country reporting on a consolidated basis at 31 December 2019 Country Name of main Nature of Average Total income Operating Income tax Government subsidiary activities number of from result before (€ million) subsidies staff (FTEs) operating tax (€ million) activities (€ million) (€ million) Total 1,698 553.2 119.5 21.1 – Netherlands VLKWM NV Wealth management 1,515 498.8 120.6 20.9 – Belgium VLKWM NV Wealth branch management 133 32.9 –3.5 –0.5 – Switzerland F. van Lanschot Wealth Bankiers management (Schweiz) AG 28 11.9 1.5 0.4 – United Kingdom Kempen & Co NV Asset branch management 16 6.0 0.2 0.0 – United States Kempen & Co Securities trading USA Inc. and research distribution 6 3.2 0.6 0.2 – France Kempen Capital Asset Management NV management branch – 0.4 0.0 – – Country-by-country reporting on a consolidated basis at 31 December 2018 Country Name of main Nature of Average Total income Operating Income tax Government subsidiary activities number of from result before (€ million) subsidies staff (FTEs) operating tax (€ million) activities (€ million) (€ million) Total 1,747 506.3 79.5 12.1 – Netherlands VLKWM NV Wealth management 1,553 450.0 83.2 12.6 – Belgium VLKWM NV Wealth branch management 141 30.5 –5.3 –1.3 – Switzerland F. van Lanschot Wealth Bankiers management (Schweiz) AG 24 11.2 0.8 0.2 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (England) Management NV management branch 14 6.3 0.3 0.3 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (Scotland) Management management (UK) Ltd 9 5.3 0.4 0.1 – United States Kempen & Co Securities trading USA Inc. and research distribution 6 3.0 0.5 0.2 – France Kempen Capital Asset Management NV management branch – – –0.4 – – Profit appropriation 196 PROFIT APPROPRIATION If the annual general meeting of shareholders approves the dividend proposal as included in these financial statements, the appropriation of net result will be as follows: Profit appropriation 2019 2018 Total 92,929 74,631 Addition to/withdrawal from reserves 33,594 15,156 Dividend on Class A ordinary shares 59,335 59,475 Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 197 REMUNERATION OF THE STATUTORY AND SUPERVISORY BOARDS For further details of remuneration received in 2019, see “Remuneration” on page 76. Total direct compensation of the individual members of the Statutory Board in 2019 Fixed salary, amount in cash Fixed salary, amount in Total fixed salary shares1 Total 2,087 1,323 3,410 Karl Guha 773 387 1,160 Constant Korthout 438 312 750 Arjan Huisman 438 312 750 Richard Bruens 438 312 750 Total direct compensation of the individual members of the Statutory Board in 2018 Fixed salary, amount in cash Fixed salary, amount in Total fixed salary shares1 Total 2,087 1,323 3,410 Karl Guha 773 387 1,160 Constant Korthout 438 312 750 Arjan Huisman 438 312 750 Richard Bruens 438 312 750 Pension and disability insurance costs for the individual members of the Statutory 2019 2018 Board Total 1,110 1,110 Karl Guha 378 378 Constant Korthout 244 244 Arjan Huisman 244 244 Richard Bruens 244 244 Total remuneration related to 2019, consisting of fixed salary, pension and disability insurance, amounted to €1,538,000 for Karl Guha (2018: €1,538,000); €994,000 for Constant Korthout (2018: €994,000); €994,000 for Arjan Huisman (2018: €994,000); and €994,000 for Richard Bruens (2018: €994,000). 1 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for Van Lanschot Kempen shares differ due to treatment under IFRS 2. For 2019, expenses under IFRS for Karl Guha amounted to €432 (2018: €404), for Constant Korthout to €346 (2018: €324), Arjan Huisman to €346 (2018: €324), and for Richard Bruens to €346 (2018: €324). A proportion of fixed salary is paid in the form of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. Karl Guha received 18,953 shares (2018: 15,165) and the other members of the Statutory Board each received 15,273 shares (2018: 12,168). The number of shares granted is based on the average share price for the first four trading days of 2019: €20.45 (2018: tranche 1 €26.28 and tranche 2 €24.53). IFRS takes the share price at grant date as the basis for recognition. This price also amounted to €20.45 (2018: tranche 1 €26.28 and tranche 2 €24.53). Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 198 Number of depositary receipts for shares held by Statutory Board members in 2019 Sold/postAt 1 January Bought/awarded At 31 December employment Total 187,080 38,343 – 225,423 Karl Guha 52,502 11,220 – 63,722 Constant Korthout 53,001 9,041 – 62,042 Arjan Huisman 32,614 9,041 – 41,655 Richard Bruens 48,963 9,041 – 58,004 At 31 December 2019, the members of the Statutory Board held no options for depositary receipts for shares. Loans to Statutory Board members at 31 December 2019 At 31 December Repaid Interest Collateral Total 1,375 613 Constant Korthout – 357 2.30% Mortgage – 150 1.90% Mortgage Arjan Huisman – 80 Floating Mortgage Richard Bruens 600 – 1.90% Mortgage 519 18 1.72% Mortgage 256 8 1.72% Mortgage Loans to Statutory Board members at 31 December 2018 At 31 December Repaid Interest Collateral Total 1,988 349 Constant Korthout 357 93 2.30% Mortgage 150 – 1.90% Mortgage Arjan Huisman 80 230 Floating Mortgage Richard Bruens 600 – 1.90% Mortgage 537 18 1.90% Mortgage 264 8 1.90% Mortgage No advances or guarantees have been granted to members of the Statutory Board. No impairments or write-offs have occurred on loans granted to Statutory Board members. Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 199 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 2019 2018 Total 613 556 Willy Duron 127 127 Manfred Schepers 95 95 Frans Blom (from 5 October 2018) 77 19 Jeanine Helthuis 76 76 Bernadette Langius 80 79 Godfried van Lanschot (until 31 May 2018) – 32 Maarten Muller (from 31 May 2018) 73 43 Lex van Overmeire 85 85 No loans or advances had been granted to members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. The company and its subsidiaries only grant personal loans, guarantees and the like to Supervisory Board members within the scope of normal operations and in keeping with conditions laid down in the financial services regulations for directors of Van Lanschot Kempen, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Loans are not forgiven. 's-Hertogenbosch, 20 February 2020 Supervisory Board – Willy Duron, Chairman – Manfred Schepers, Vice–Chairman – Frans Blom – Jeanine Helthuis – Bernadette Langius – Maarten Muller – Lex Van Overmeire Statutory Board – Karl Guha, Chairman – Constant Korthout – Arjan Huisman – Richard Bruens Events after the reporting period 200 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD Legal merger On 1 January 2020, the legal merger between Van Lanschot NV and Kempen & Co NV into Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV became effective. As a result of this merger, Kempen & Co NV ceased to exist as a separate legal entity and Van Lanschot NV acquired all assets and liabilities of Kempen & Co NV under universal title of succession. In addition, the Executive Board has decided to end the Kempen Management Investment Plan in 2020 (see “Disclosure of interests in other entities”). Company statement of financial position and income Company statement of financial position and income 202 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER (€1,000) Assets 2019 20181 Investments in subsidiaries (a) 1,210,853 1,243,663 Total assets 1,210,853 1,243,663 Equity and liabilities 2019 20181 Equity (b) 1,210,853 1,243,663 Total equity and liabilities 1,210,853 1,243,663 COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME (€1,000) Statement of income 2019 2018 Income from subsidiaries (c) 92,929 74,631 Net result 92,929 74,631 The letter beside each item refers to the relevant Note to the company financial statements. ACCOUNTING POLICIES GOVERNING COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The company financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen have been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements as set out in Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have availed ourselves of the facility offered by Section 362(8), Book 2 to use the same accounting policies (including those for the presentation of financial assets as equity or debt) as used in the consolidated financial statements. This does not apply to investments in associates, which are recognised at net asset value. The consolidated financial statements are denominated in euros, the functional and reporting currency of Van Lanschot Kempen. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are given in thousands of euros. 1 Prior year figure adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Disclosure relating to prior period error ). Notes to the company financial statements 203 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (€1,000) a Investments in subsidiaries VLKWM is measured at net asset value, with our share in the result recognised in the statement of income under Income from subsidiaries. Movements in this item were as follows: Investments in subsidiaries 2019 2018 1 At 1 January 1,243,663 1,306,617 Share premium payment –61,396 –61,526 Revaluations –64,342 –76,060 Group company results 92,929 74,631 At 31 December 1,210,853 1,243,663 Further information on the revaluations can be found in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, Equity. Van Lanschot Kempen has issued undertakings pursuant to Article 403, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code for: – Kempen & Co NV – NNE BV – Efima Hypotheken BV – Van Lanschot Participaties BV – BV Beheeren Beleggingsmij Orthenstraat b Equity Equity 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total 1,210,853 1,243,663 Issued share capital 41,362 41,362 Treasury shares –10,007 –8,678 Share premium reserve 323,719 385,115 Revaluation reserve 1,831 –3,065 Actuarial results on defined benefit schemes –37,682 –29,910 Cash flow hedge reserve –15,221 –13,509 Own credit risk reserve –6,819 –11,394 Statutory reserves 20,142 29,338 Reserves under the Articles of Association 872 104 Available reserves 799,728 779,669 Other reserves 762,852 751,233 Result for the current financial year 92,929 74,631 For movements in equity, see Note 25 to the consolidated (Article 389(6), Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code) of financial statements, Equity. €18.1 million and a reserve for currency translation differences on associates of €0.9 million. In the year under review, conditional rights to 60,039 depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares were c Income from subsidiaries awarded, for no consideration. To cover its open positions, This item includes the net profit attributable to Van Lanschot Kempen retains 440,895 depositary receipts shareholders. for Class A ordinary shares (2018: 344,647). Related parties The statutory reserves comprise a reserve in the amount of For related parties information, see “Related parties” the share in the positive income from associates on page 184. 1 Some prior year figures adjusted due to restatement related to provisions for pensions (see Summary of significant accounting policies , subsection Disclosure relating to prior period error ). Other information Independent auditor's report 205 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To: the general meeting and the supervisory board of Van Independence Lanschot Kempen N.V. We reviewed the details of services provided by the PwC network of firms and concluded that we are independent of Report on the financial statements 2019 Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. in accordance with the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding Our opinion statutory audit of public-interest entities, the ‘Wet toezicht In our opinion: accountants-organisaties’ (Wta – Audit firms supervision – the consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot act), the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van Kempen N.V. together with its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO – Code of Ethics give a true and fair view of the financial position of the for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to Group as at 31 December 2019 and of its result and cash independence) and other relevant independence flows for the year then ended in accordance with requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 accountants’ (VGBA – Dutch Code of Ethics). of the Dutch Civil Code; – the company financial statements of Van Lanschot Our audit approach Kempen N.V. (‘the Company’) give a true and fair view of Overview and context of the 2019 audit the financial position of the Company as at 31 December Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. is a Dutch wealth management 2019 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance institution operating through the business segments Private with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Banking, online investments and savings platform Evi, Asset Management, Merchant Banking, Corporate Banking and What we have audited Other. The Group is comprised of several components and We have audited the accompanying financial statements therefore we considered our group audit scope and approach 2019 of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V., Den Bosch. The as set out in the section ‘The scope of our group audit’. We financial statements include the consolidated financial paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the statements of the Group and the company financial operations of the Group, as set out below. statements. As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality The consolidated financial statements comprise: and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the – the consolidated statement of financial position as at financial statements. In particular, we considered where the 31 December 2019; executive board made important judgements, for example, – the following statements for 2019: the consolidated in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved statement of income, the consolidated statement of making assumptions and considering future events that are comprehensive income, the consolidated statement inherently uncertain. In the section ‘Summary of significant of changes in equity and the consolidated statement accounting policies’, subsection ‘Significant accounting of cash flows; and judgements and estimates’ on page 112 of the financial – the notes, comprising significant accounting policies statements the Company describes the areas of judgement and other explanatory information. in applying accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. Of the judgements and estimates The company financial statements comprise: mentioned in this section we considered the impairments of – the company statement of financial position as at loans and advances to the public and private sectors, the risk 31 December 2019; of impairment of goodwill and the determination of fair value – the company statement of income for 2019; and of financial instruments as most significant for the financial – the notes, comprising the accounting policies applied year 2019. Given the significant estimation uncertainty and and other explanatory information. significance of the impact on both the organisation and the Group results, we considered the following matters as key The financial reporting framework applied in the audit matters, as set forth in the key audit matter section of preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the this report: ‘impairments of loans and advances to the public relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil and private sectors’, ‘risk of impairment of goodwill’ and ‘fair Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 value measurement of level 2 and 3 financial instruments’. of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the company financial statements. The various IT change initiatives (such as the outsourcing of payment services to third parties, implementation of digital The basis for our opinion solutions together with a move to the cloud and the In expressing this opinion, we believe that the audit realisation of a more integrated IT environment across the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate. Group) bring inherent operational and reputation risks that Our audit has been undertaken, and our opinion expressed, could also have an indirect and direct impact on the business in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch and financial reporting processes of the Group. Since these Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities and those of the change initiatives affect systems, (outsourcing) processes boards are explained in the section ‘Our responsibilities for and the effectiveness of controls they could affect the the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. financial statements and our audit. Therefore, we also Independent auditor's report 206 included ‘reliability and continuity of IT systems’ as a key other provisions. As part of our responsibility, we ensured that audit matter. the audit teams at both group and component level included the appropriate skills and competences, which are needed for Other areas of focus in our audit of the financial statements, the audit of a wealth management organisation with banking that were not considered to be key audit matters, were the operations. We therefore also included specialists and experts implementation of the new accounting standard IFRS 16, in the areas of IT, accounting and valuation of financial valuation of share-based payments, the divestment of instruments, impairment of goodwill, employee benefits and participation AIO II (note 13 in the financial statements) and pensions, real estate valuation and taxation in our team. The outline of our audit approach was as follows: Materiality – Overall materiality: €4.1 million. Audit scope – We conducted audit work primarily in the Netherlands. – Site visits were conducted to Belgium and Switzerland. – Audit coverage: 98.2% of consolidated revenue, 99.2% of consolidated total assets and 95.2% of consolidated profit before tax. Key audit matters – Impairments of loans and advances to the public and private sectors. – Risk of impairment of goodwill. – Fair value measurement of level 2 and 3 financial instruments. – Reliability and continuity of IT systems. Materiality materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of in the table below. These, together with qualitative materiality, which is further explained in the section ‘Our considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’. extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain of identified misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall on the financial statements as a whole and on our opinion. Overall Group materiality €4.1 million (2018: €4.7 million). Basis for determining materiality We used our professional judgement to determine overall materiality. As a basis for our judgement, we used 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations, excluding the gain from the sale of one of the Group’s non-strategic operations. Rationale for benchmark applied We used profit before tax as the primary benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis, we believe that profit before tax is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. We excluded results from divesting non-strategic investments like AIO II. However, these transactions were subject to specific audit procedures with a lower materiality than our overall group materiality. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €1.4 million and €4.1 million. We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the supervisory board that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €200 thousand (2018: €235 thousand) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Independent auditor's report 207 The scope of our group audit In the current year, we visited the components in Belgium Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. is the parent company of a group and Switzerland. On an annual basis we select working of entities. The financial information of this Group is included papers of component auditors that we review. For this year, in the consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot we reviewed a selection of working papers of the Belgian Kempen N.V. and Swiss component auditor. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we The group engagement team performed the audit work on performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the a number of complex items at the group level. These management structure of the Group, the nature of included derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting operations of its components, the accounting processes and the impairments of loans and advances to the public and controls, and the markets in which the components of and private sectors. the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. has outsourced various parts of to be performed at component level by the Group its services to third parties amongst which: payment engagement team and by each component auditor. services, mortgage administration services and parts of its IT software management. In our assessment related to The group audit primarily focused on the significant these service providers, we evaluated the design and tested component Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management the operating effectiveness of the internal controls in place N.V. (formerly: Van Lanschot N.V.),as this component is at Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. over the outsourced services. considered to be individually financially significant to the Furthermore, where available, we evaluated the ISAE 3402 Group. Additionally, we selected four other components type 2 assurance reports rendered by independent auditors (Van Lanschot Belgian Branch, Kempen & Co N.V., and/or we performed additional substantive audit F. van Lanschot (Schweiz) AG and Van Lanschot procedures ourselves. Based on the procedures performed, Participaties B.V.) for full scope audit procedures and one we conclude that in the context of our audit of the financial other component (Quion 17 B.V.) for the audit of account statements of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V., we could rely on balances with a higher risk of material misstatement, to the ISAE 3402 type 2 assurance reports in combination achieve appropriate coverage on financial line items in the with our substantive audit procedures performed. consolidated financial statements. By performing the procedures above at components, In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the combined with additional procedures at group level and following coverage on the financial line items: over the outsourced processes, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the Group’s Revenue 98.2% financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements. Total assets 99.2% Profit before tax 95.2% Our focus on the risk of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations None of the remaining components represented more than Our objectives 1% of total group revenue or total group assets. For those The objectives of our audit are as follows. remaining components we performed, among other things, In respect of fraud: analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that – to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement there were no significant risks of material misstatements of the financial statements due to fraud; within those components. – to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, For the components Van Lanschot Belgian Branch, through designing and implementing appropriate audit F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG and Quion 17 B.V., responses; and we instructed component auditors that are familiar with the – to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. For the identified during the audit. other components, the group audit team performed the work. In respect of non-compliance with laws and regulations: Where component auditors performed the work, we – to identify and assess the risk of material misstatement of determined the level of involvement we needed to obtain from the financial statements due to non-compliance with laws their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient and regulations; and appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the – to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial consolidated financial statements as a whole is obtained. We statements, taken as a whole, are free from material issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit misstatement, whether due to fraud or error when scope. These instructions included amongst others our risk considering the applicable legal and regulatory framework. analysis, the expected materiality to be applied and requested scope of the work to be performed by them. We had individual The primary responsibility for the prevention and detection calls with each of the in-scope component audit teams during of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations lies the year, including upon conclusion of their work. During these with the executive board with oversight by the supervisory calls, we discussed the instructions, the significant accounting board. We refer to the section ‘Risk Management’ of the and audit issues identified by the component auditors, annual report where the executive board included its fraud the reports of the component auditors, the findings of their risk assessment and the same section of the annual report procedures and other matters and developments, which where the executive board included its risk assessment on could be of relevance to the consolidated financial statements. non-compliance with laws and regulations. We refer to Independent auditor's report 208 sections ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’ where the – do not have a direct effect on the determination of material supervisory board reflects thereon. amounts and disclosures in the financial statements (e.g. Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act Fraud (Wwft)), but where compliance may be fundamental to the As in all of our audits, in assessing the risks of material operating aspect of the business, to the Company’s ability misstatement in the financial statements, we also addressed to continue its business or to avoid material penalties. As to the risk of management override of internal controls, the other laws and regulations, we inquired with including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by management and/or those in charge with governance as to the executive board that may represent a risk of material whether the entity is in compliance with such laws and misstatement due to fraud. We evaluated the design and the regulations and inspected correspondence, if any, with implementation and, where considered appropriate, tested relevant licensing and regulatory authorities. the operating effectiveness of internal controls that mitigate fraud risks, performed data analysis of high-risk journal Key audit matters entries and evaluated key estimates and judgements for bias Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional by Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. Finally, we incorporated judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the elements of unpredictability in our audit. financial statements. We refer to the key audit matters ‘Impairments of loans and We have communicated the key audit matters to the advances to the public and private sectors’, ‘Risk of executive board and the supervisory board. The key audit impairment of goodwill’ and ‘Fair value measurement of level matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters 2 and 3 financial instruments’ that are examples of our identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, approach related to an area with higher risk due to we describe the key audit matters and include a summary of accounting estimates where management makes significant the audit procedures we performed on those matters. judgements. We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our Laws and regulations audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming There is an industry risk that emerging compliance or our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on litigation areas have not been identified and/or addressed by these matters or on specific elements of the financial the executive board for financial statement purposes. This statements. Any comments or observations we made on the includes the consideration whether there is a need for the results of our procedures should be read in this context. recognition of a provision or a contingent liability disclosure Compared to prior year’s auditor’s report we have included on the future outcome of legal or regulatory processes. one new key audit matter related to the risk of impairment of goodwill considering the goodwill impairment in 2019. The In line with Standard 250 we made a distinction between other key audit matters remained relevant considering these those laws and regulations which: relate to the core operations of the Company. – have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. We obtained audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations generally recognized to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; and Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Impairments of loans and advances to the public and private Control design and operation effectiveness sectors We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key See note 7 to the financial statements for the disclosures of loans and controls in the following areas: advances to the public and private sectors including impairments, – the loan origination process; the section ‘Impairments’ of the summary of significant accounting – the internal credit risk management process to assess the loan quality principles and subsection 2.8 of the risk management section containing classification to identify impaired loans; the disclosures in view of credit risk. – the methodology and controls applied in measuring and determining significant increase in credit risk; The gross loans and advances to the public and private sectors amount – the review and approval process that management has in place for to €8,661 million, the total impairment as at 31 December 2019 amounts timely, accurate and complete determination of stage 3 specific to €64 million. impairment allowances; and – the review and approval process that management has in place for the In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, the outputs of the impairment models, and the top-level adjustments that Company applies a three-stage expected credit loss impairment model. are applied to the model outputs. The Company determines loan impairments in stage 1 (allowance equal to 12-month expected credit loss), and stage 2 (amount equal to the Based on the testing of controls, we determined that it was appropriate to life-time expected credit loss) on a modelled basis. For stage 3 exposures, place reliance on the above controls for the purpose of our audit. a loan-by-loan impairment is determined on which a model overlay is applied to account for macro-economic variables and forward-looking information. Independent auditor's report 209 Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Model methodology and inputs (stage 1 and 2) Assessment of model-based impairments stages 1 and 2 For the modelled loan impairments, the Company utilises the point in time With support of our internal valuation experts, we challenged probability of default (PD), the loss-given default (LGD) and the exposure management on the model-based impairments (stages 1 and 2) by at default (EAD) models for the majority of the loan portfolio. The critical inquiry and review of the applied model methodology, the (updated) data elements as input for these models are retrieved from the core model performance monitoring dashboard, the evaluation of the banking source systems. Three global macro-economic scenarios are macro-economic scenarios and macro-economic variables applied and incorporated into these models and the probability of the scenarios is the assessment of stage transfers as at 31 December 2019. weighted in order to determine the expected credit losses. When specific macro-economic exposures are not sufficiently covered by the models or Together with our internal valuation experts we reviewed and reperformed when data limitations or other inherent model limitations are identified, a the model performance monitoring dashboard for critical model inputs. top-level adjustment is made. And, with support of our IT specialists, we tested the reliability of the dataflow that is input to the models. Stage 3 – specific impairment allowance For each individually impaired loan, the Company determines an Based on the above, we assessed the methodology and inputs for the impairment allowance based on the most likely scenario taking into stage 1 and 2 models to be in line with market and industry practice. account timely identification of impairment triggers, expected future cash flows, discount rates and the value and recoverability of the Assessment of specific impairment allowance stage 3 corresponding collateral. This impairment allowance is the neutral Considering the inherent estimation risk of individually impaired loans, we scenario (baseline). A model overlay is applied to calculate for alternative performed risk-based sample testing for which we selected samples from: scenarios and the impact of macro-economic variables and forward– the total loan portfolio to gather evidence as to the correct looking information. The final ECL is a weighted average over scaled ECLs classification of exposures as being in stage 1, 2 or 3; and under the neutral and alternative scenarios. – the stage 3 population to gather evidence as to the correct estimate for the impairment allowance made by management. Judgements and estimation uncertainty The judgements and estimation uncertainty in the impairment allowance We analysed the latest developments at the borrower as described below of loans and advances is primarily linked to the following aspects: and considered whether the key judgements applied in the impairment – the identification of impaired loans including the assessment for allowance are acceptable for the balance as at 31 December 2019. which loans credit risk has significantly (de)/increased since inception (stage transfers); and The following judgemental areas were tested for the risk-based sample: – the determination of the future cash flows based on the appropriate – classification as a performing or non-performing loan based on the use of key parameters (such as forward-looking information) and the (non-)existence of triggering events; valuation of the recoverable collateral for the specific loan by loan – nature and accuracy of the expected future cash flows with reference (stage 3) impairment allowance. Furthermore, the probability to the current economic performance, the assumptions most weighting of each impairment scenario in this category is inherently commonly used in the industry, and a comparison with external subjective in nature; evidence or historical trends; – the assumptions regarding the PDs, LGDs and EADs applied – the accuracy of the applied discount rate with reference to external including the assumptions applied in overlay models in the modelsources; and based impairment allowances (stages 1 and 2); and – the valuation of the corresponding collateral (for example using – any top side adjustments that management applies across the appraisal reports and/or other information) with support of our model-based impairment allowances (stages 1 and 2). valuation experts, with reference to industry standards and the inspection of legal agreements and supporting documentation to Given the complexity, judgements and the impact it may have on the confirm the existence and legal right to collateral. results, this area is subject to a higher risk of material misstatement. Therefore, we consider the impairments of loans and advances to the Based on the above, we assessed the methodology and inputs in public and private sectors as a key audit matter in our audit. determining the stage 3 impairment allowance to be in line with market and industry practice. Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to the provision for impairment losses, as disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements, to evaluate compliance with disclosure requirements included in EU-IFRS 9. Risk of impairment of goodwill With the support of our valuation experts, we assessed management’s See note 11 to the financial statements for the disclosures of Goodwill goodwill impairment testing, challenged the impairment methodology and and other intangible assets and the section ‘Impairments of Goodwill’ of tested the source data used in the impairment models. the summary of significant accounting principles. Initial audit procedures The goodwill balance amounts to €95.2 million as at 31 December 2019, We evaluated the current year actual results with the prior year forecast to that is allocated to the following cash-generating units (CGUs), that consider whether any forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, match to operational segments of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V.: had been too optimistic. – asset management €49.2 million; – merchant banking €41.3 million; We furthermore evaluated the appropriateness of the CGU structure and – non-strategic investments €3.0 million; level of goodwill testing applied by management. – private banking €1.7 million. We evaluated the methodology of the derivation of carrying amount, As at 31 December 2019, an impairment has been recognised on the including assessment of the consistency of the carrying amount and the merchant banking goodwill amounting to €35 million. recoverable amount in accordance with IAS 36 and we assessed the valuation methodology. Annual impairment testing Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Detailed testing procedures We tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models on a sample For its impairment testing, in accordance with IAS 36, management basis and we validated management’s cash flow forecasts by challenging applies the value in use (ViU) approach. The ViU is determined by cash flow projections applied and comparing prognoses with analyst’s discounting the future cash flows generated by a CGU to its net present forecasts. value. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is lower than its carrying amount, an impairment for that CGU is in place. We have reviewed the cost of capital calculations by validating the methodology and testing input factors (like discount rates and risk premiums) against comparable market data. Independent auditor's report 210 Key audit matter Our audit work and observations This year, the ViU for the CGU merchant banking was lower than the carrying Specifically, for the CGU merchant banking, taking the impairment into value, which resulted in the recognition of the impairment amounting to account, we additionally performed: €35 million. The main drivers for the impairment in this year are the – peer group analysis to assess whether the market capitalisation falls applicable discount rate and flattening growth expectations for this CGU. within an acceptable range; and – sense checks of the sensitivity of management’s estimate by Judgements and estimation uncertainty performing several downward scenarios. Given the significant estimation uncertainty in the use of valuation models, the assumptions made by management and the impact it has on Based on the above, we assessed the valuation methodology and the results, the impairment of goodwill is subject to a higher risk of assumptions applied in the goodwill impairment testing to be within our material misstatement. range of expectations. Therefore, we consider the risk of impairment of goodwill as a key audit Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures matter in our audit. relating to the goodwill, as disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements. During the year, an impairment amounting to €35 million was booked in relation to the goodwill for the CGU merchant bank. This impairment was mainly driven by the discount rate applicable and flattening growth expectations for this CGU. Fair value measurement of level 2 and 3 financial instruments Control design and operating effectiveness See subsection 14 'Fair vale' of the Risk management section in the We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the financial statements that contains the fair valuation policies, its internal controls with respect to the governance over the applied valuation disclosures and the split of financial instruments into level 1, 2 and 3. models, the financial instrument deal capturing process, the source data management and the valuation of financial instruments. The total asset value of financial instruments measured at fair value level 2 and 3 as at 31 December 2019 amounts to €398.4 million (2018: We determined that we could rely on these controls for the purpose of our €356.4 million) and the total liability value amounts to €1,328 million audit. (2018: €1,369.8 million). Assessment of the fair value valuation of financial instruments The fair value measurement of financial instruments consists of: For each type of level 2 and 3 financial instruments, we tested, with the – financial assets and liabilities from trading activities; support of our valuation specialists, the outcome of management’s – derivatives; valuation process as follows: – financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; and – comparing on a sample basis the observable input data with – financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. independent data sources and externally available market data (where available), which included assumptions and estimates such as market Level 2 and 3 financial instruments prices, credit spreads, yield curves, correlations and volatilities; For level 2 and 3 financial instruments, directly observable market prices – evaluating the inputs and models used in determining the or other market information are not available causing the fair value to be unobservable inputs via independent sources where available; subject to (significant) judgement. – independently re-performing, on a sample basis, the valuation using our own valuation tools and with external data sources where The fair value of such financial instruments is determined using either available; and proxy valuations (level 2) or valuation techniques (such as discounted – assessing the appropriateness of the classification as either level 1, cash flow models and option valuation models) (level 3) in which level 2 or 3. judgements made by management and the use of assumptions and estimates such as: market prices, credit spreads, yield curves, correlations Based on the above addressed procedures, we found that management’s and volatilities are important factors. outcome of the models and classification of the fair value of the level 2 and 3 financial instruments are reasonable. Due to the magnitude of the level 2 and 3 financial instruments measured at fair value, the complexity of the valuation techniques used in We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to measurement of such financial instruments, and the judgements applied by the financial instruments measured at fair value and verified compliance management, this area is subject to a higher risk of material misstatement. with disclosure requirements from EU IFRS 7. Therefore, we determined this to be a key audit matter for our audit. Reliability and continuity of IT systems As part of our audit, our efforts were focused on: The Group relies on the reliability and continuity of information • entity-level controls over information technology in the IT organisation, technology (IT) systems for its operational, regulatory and financial including IT governance, IT risk management and cybersecurity reporting processes. management; • governance over the strategic IT transformational projects including The Group’s accounting and reporting processes are heavily dependent vendor risk and third-party assurance; on IT general controls (ITGCs) that establish and preserve the ongoing • for the procedures performed on the outsourced activities relevant to our integrity of the system access rights and restrictions intended in the audit scope, we refer to the section ‘The scope of our group audit’ above; design of internal control. • management of access to programmes and data, including user access to the network, access to and authorisations within applications, The Group is executing a significant number of IT projects to continue to privileged access rights to applications, databases and operating meet the high reporting standards and expectations from stakeholders systems; relating to operating effectiveness, efficiency, cybersecurity and data • management of changes to applications and IT infrastructure, quality. This way, the Group is accommodating the ongoing regulatory including the change management process and the implementation of changes imposed to the banking industry. These projects result in changes in the production systems; and changes to several of the Group’s control activities related to financial • computer operations, including batch monitoring, back-up and reporting. This could increase the risk of material misstatement in recovery and incident management. financial reporting. The outsourcing of the payment services including the migration to the We consider the migration to a new payments platform, following the new platform was part of our audit procedures. We performed both outsourcing of payment services, the most significant IT project that was controls testing and test of details to evaluate the proper migration of data completed during the year. relevant to the audit of the financial statements. Deficiencies in ITGCs as such could have a pervasive impact across the We focused on the ITGCs to the extent relevant for the purpose of our audit Group’s internal control framework. Also, the outsourcing to third-party of the financial statements. service providers is considered an additional focus area to our audit as this brings extra complexity to the IT environment. Through the period of Our audit procedures indicate that we could place reliance on these change, there is an increased risk that ITGCs are not operating as controls for the purpose of our audit. intended. Therefore, we identified the reliability and continuity of information technology of the Group as a key audit matter. Independent auditor's report 211 Report on the other information included in Responsibilities for the financial statements the annual report and the audit In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s Responsibilities of the executive board and the supervisory report thereon, the annual report contains other information board for the financial statements that consists of: The executive board is responsible for: – Chairman’s message, – the preparation and fair presentation of the financial – 2019 highlights, statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with – About Van Lanschot Kempen, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for – Our strategy, – such internal control as the executive board determines – Our business themes, is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial – Progress report, statements that are free from material misstatement, – Report of the Supervisory Board, whether due to fraud or error. – Corporate governance, – Our Executive and Supervisory Boards, As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the – Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting, executive board is responsible for assessing the Company’s – Other information, including the other information ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the executive board should prepare the financial statements using the Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we going-concern basis of accounting unless the executive conclude that the other information: board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease – is consistent with the financial statements and does operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The not contain material misstatements; executive board should disclose events and circumstances – contains the information that is required by Part 9 of that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. continue as a going concern in the financial statements. We have read the other information. Based on our The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the Company’s financial reporting process. financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements misstatements. Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient By performing our procedures, we comply with the and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code opinion. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance and Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures about whether the financial statements as a whole are free was substantially less than the scope of those performed from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error in our audit of the financial statements. and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of The executive board is responsible for the preparation of assurance, which makes it possible that we may not detect the other information, including the report of the executive all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or board (consisting of Our strategy, Our business themes and error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in Progress report) and the other information in accordance the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit Our appointment procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified We were appointed on 13 May 2015 as auditor of misstatements on our opinion. Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. by the general meeting following a recommendation by the supervisory board. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out Our appointment has been renewed annually by in the appendix to our report. shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of four years. Amsterdam, 20 February 2020 No prohibited non-audit services PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific Original has been signed by requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA entities. Services rendered The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the Company and its controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in note 36 to the financial statements. Appendix to the auditor’s report on the financial statements 2019 of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. 212 APPENDIX TO OUR AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 OF VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN N.V. In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we are the geographic structure of the Group, the significance have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the the audit of the financial statements and explained what an accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which audit involves. the Group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial specific balances was considered necessary. statements We have exercised professional judgement and have We communicated with the supervisory board regarding, maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical audit and significant audit findings, including any significant requirements and independence requirements. Our audit deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our consisted, among other things, of the following: audit. In this respect, we also issued an additional report to – Identifying and assessing the risks of material the audit and compliance committee in accordance with misstatement of the financial statements, whether due article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements to fraud or error, designing and performing audit regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit information included in this additional report is consistent evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the independence, and to communicate with them all intentional override of internal control. relationships and other matters that may reasonably be – Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are related safeguards. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, Company’s internal control. we determine those matters that were of most significance in – Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies the audit of the financial statements of the current period and used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these and related disclosures made by the executive board. matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation – Concluding on the appropriateness of the executive precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in board’s use of the going-concern basis of accounting, extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding is in the public interest. whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. – Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the Group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors Assurance report of the independent auditor 213 ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR To: the general meeting and the supervisory board of documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. with ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements. Assurance report on the sustainability information 2019 Reporting criteria Our conclusion The sustainability information needs to be read and Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our understood in conjunction with the reporting criteria. The attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability executive board of Van Lanschot Kempen is solely responsible information included in the annual report 2019 Van Lanschot for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into Kempen N.V. does not present, in all material respects, account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. a reliable and adequate view of: – the policy and business operations with regard to The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the corporate social responsibility; and sustainability information are the Sustainability Reporting – the thereto related events and achievements for the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the year ended 31 December 2019, internally applied reporting criteria, as disclosed in the in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of section ‘Reporting principles’ of the ‘our value creation story the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally applied 2019’ supplement. The absence of an established practice reporting criteria as included in the section ‘reporting criteria’. on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non financial information allows for different, but acceptable, What we have reviewed measurement techniques and can affect comparability We have reviewed the sustainability information for the between entities and over time. year ended 31 December 2019, as included in the annual report 2019, pages 4 until 57, and the ‘our value creation Limitations to the scope of our review story 2019’ supplement (hereafter together referred to as: The sustainability information includes prospective information the sustainability information). This review is aimed at such as expectations on ambitions, strategy, plans and obtaining a limited level of assurance. estimates and risk assessments. Inherently, the actual results are likely to differ from these expectations. These differences The sustainability information comprises a representation of may be material. We do not provide any assurance on the the policy and business operations of Van Lanschot assumptions and the achievability of prospective information Kempen N.V., Den Bosch (hereafter: ‘Van Lanschot in the sustainability information. Kempen’) with regard to corporate social responsibility and the thereto related business operations, events and The links to external sources or websites in the sustainability achievements for the year ended 31 December 2019. information are not part of the sustainability information reviewed by us. We do not provide assurance over information The basis for our conclusion outside of the section mentioned in paragraph ‘What we have We have performed our review in accordance with Dutch reviewed’. law, which includes the Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assuranceopdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen’ Responsibilities for the sustainability information and the ('Assurance engagements on corporate social responsibility review reports'). Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the Responsibilities of the executive board and the supervisory review of the sustainability information’ of this assurance board report. The executive board of Van Lanschot Kempen is responsible for the preparation of reliable and adequate sustainability We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained information in accordance with the reporting criteria as is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our included in section ‘reporting criteria’, including the conclusion. identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the executive board regarding Independence and quality control the scope of the sustainability information and the reporting We are independent of Van Lanschot Kempen in accordance policy are summarized in the section ‘Reporting principles’ of with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van the ‘our value creation story’ supplement. The executive board accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO – Code of Ethics is responsible for determining that the applicable reporting for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. independence) and other for the engagement relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, The executive board is also responsible for such internal control we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen as the executive board determines is necessary to enable the beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – Code of Ethics for preparation of the sustainability information that is free from Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. of professional conduct). The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ company’s reporting process on the sustainability (NVKS – Regulations for quality systems) and accordingly information. maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including Assurance report of the independent auditor 214 Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability – Evaluating the consistency of the sustainability information information with the information in the annual report, Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review which is not included in the scope of our review. engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient – Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of and appropriate assurance evidence to provide a basis for the sustainability information. our conclusion. – To consider whether the sustainability information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance the reporting criteria used. are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than Amsterdam, 20 February 2020 for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit engagements. Original has been signed by Procedures performed R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our procedures included amongst others: – Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining insight into relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the company. – Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive board. – Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review. – Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of: • Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for the sustainability strategy, policy and results; • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the sustainability information; • Obtaining assurance evidence that the sustainability information reconciles with underlying records of the company; • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation; • Performing an analytical review of the data and trends; • Reconciling the relevant financial information with the financial statements. Articles of association on profit appropriation 215 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION ON PROFIT APPROPRIATION Profit is appropriated in accordance with Article 32 of the Articles of Association. This article states that the dividend on Class C preference shares1 must first be paid from distributable profits (Article 32(1)). The Statutory Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will then determine what portion of remaining profits after dividend distribution on Class C preference shares will go to reserves (Article 32(3)). The portion of the profit remaining after the distribution on Class C preference shares and transfer to the reserves will be at the disposal of the annual general meeting of shareholders, providing that no further distributions shall be made on Class C preference shares. If losses have been suffered in any financial year which could not be covered by a reserve or in any other way, no profit distributions will be made until such losses have been recovered (Article 32(5)). The Statutory Board may decide that a dividend distribution on Class A ordinary shares will be made in full or in part in the form of shares or depositary receipts rather than in cash. This decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board (Article 32(8)). 1 There are no Class C preference shares in issue. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 216 STICHTING ADMINISTRATIEKANTOOR VAN GEWONE AANDELEN A VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN Board report Board meetings The board (“the Board”) of Stichting AdministratieIn 2019, the Board held two board meetings, on 23 April kantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 2019 and 2 October 2019. Topics covered in these (“the Stichting”) reports on its activities in 2019. meetings included: Purpose, policies and activities • Van Lanschot Kempen’s 2018 financial statements; The Stichting issues depositary receipts for shares that are • The agenda of the general meeting of Van Lanschot exchangeable for their underlying Class A ordinary shares Kempen held on 22 May 2019 (“the AGM”) and the in Van Lanschot Kempen NV (“Van Lanschot Kempen”). Stichting’s voting intentions; The Stichting’s policy is solely aimed at pursuing what is • The updating of and amendments to the Stichting’s described in its objects clause as included in Article 2 of its trust conditions; Articles of Association ( statutaire doelomschrijving ). Its • Van Lanschot Kempen’s 2019 half-year results; activities exclusively concern holding and managing shares • The agenda of the extraordinary general meeting of in Van Lanschot Kempen; the Stichting does not engage in Van Lanschot Kempen held on 9 October 2019 any commercial activities. (“the EGM”) and the Stichting’s voting intentions. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, at every Van Lanschot Kempen’s general meetings Van Lanschot Kempen general meeting the Stichting grants The Board attended both the AGM and the EGM. For each a proxy to depositary receipt holders that either attend of these general meetings, the Stichting granted proxy the meeting in person or are represented by a third party. votes to holders of depositary receipts for shares that In other words, depositary receipt holders can always vote attended the meeting in person or were represented by at their own discretion for the number of shares for which third parties. This enabled these depositary receipt holders they hold depositary receipts. to vote at their own discretion for the number of Class A ordinary shares corresponding to the depositary receipts In 2019, the Stichting’s activities consisted of: of Class A ordinary shares held by them at record date. The Stichting voted, at its own discretion, on the Class A • Convening board meetings (at which the matters ordinary shares for which no proxy votes had been mentioned below were discussed); requested. Such shares represented 28.78% and 30.43% • Granting proxies for Van Lanschot Kempen’s general respectively of the total number of votes that could be cast meetings; at the AGM and the EGM. After careful consideration, the • Attending Van Lanschot Kempen’s general meetings; Board decided to vote in favour of all items put to the ballot. • E xercising the voting rights on Van Lanschot Kempen shares held by the Stichting at Van Lanschot Kempen’s Changes to trust conditions general meetings, to the extent that no proxies had The changes to the Stichting’s trust conditions that were been granted to depositary receipt holders. discussed by the Board in 2017 and 2018 were implemented in 2019. The Stichting holds a meeting of depositary receipt holders once every two years, which is due again in 2020. The The most important change to the trust conditions concerns Stichting will continue to pursue its policies and activities in the name of the Stichting: as of 16 January 2018, Stichting 2020 in accordance with its objects clause and in keeping Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot with past practice. became Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen. Elsewhere, too, The Stichting’s income consists of an “independence references to Van Lanschot have been replaced with donation” paid by Van Lanschot NV. The costs incurred by Van Lanschot Kempen. In addition, certain other the Stichting typically only consist of the remuneration amendments have been made in connection with changes due to its Board members and administrative charges to the Euronext Rule Book. Neither the objects clause nor (such as account fees). As the Stichting does not have any the operation of the Stichting have been changed, as the discretionary funds, it has no policies in place related to amendments to the trust conditions were not of a such spending. The Board expects the Stichting’s budget substantive nature. Consequently, the amendments did not for 2020 to be similar to the budget (as well as the profit result in changes to the rights of depositary receipt holders. and loss account) for 2019. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 217 Composition of the Board In 2019, there were no changes to the composition of the Board. Based on the rotation schedule, the current terms of Mr J.M.T. Thijssen and Ms C.M.P. Mennen-Vermeule will end in 2020. Both have indicated that they are available for reappointment, and the Board intends to reappoint Mr Thijssen for an additional period of two years and Ms Mennen-Vermeule for an additional period of four years. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Stichting’s Articles of Association, the Board will grant the depositary receipt holders the opportunity, in advance, to make recommendations in relation to the vacancies in the Board. The Board’s current members are: J. Meijer Timmerman Thijssen, Chairman C.M.P. Mennen-Vermeule, Secretary W.F. Hendriksen Mr Meijer Timmerman Thijssen is a consultant with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer. Ms Mennen-Vermeule is Chief Executive Officer at Brand Loyalty Group. Mr Hendriksen is a partner at Van Doorne. The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board amounts to €10,000 (excluding VAT) and that of each other Board member to €7,500 (excluding VAT). Expenses Other expenses incurred by the Stichting amounted to €10,129 in 2019. Outstanding depositary receipts On 31 December 2019, the Stichting held 41,360,667 Class A ordinary shares with a nominal value of €1 each, for which depositary receipts with the same nominal value have been issued. Other The Stichting is a legal entity independent of Van Lanschot Kempen, as referred to in Section 5:71 (1) sub-paragraph (d) of the Financial Supervision Act (Wft). Stichting contact details The Stichting’s Board can be contacted at: Secretariat of Stichting administratiekantoor gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen PO Box 1021 5200 HC ’s-Hertogenbosch The Netherlands The Board 's-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 8 January 2020 Stichting Preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen 218 STICHTING PREFERENTE AANDELEN C VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN Board report Composition of the Board The board (“the Board”) of Stichting Preferente aandelen The Board appoints its own members. C Van Lanschot Kempen (“the Stichting”) reports on its activities in 2019. The present members of the Board are: A.A.M. Deterink, Chairman Purpose, policies and activities P.J.J.M. Swinkels The Stichting was set up on 28 December 1999 and has its H.P.M. Kivits seat in ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands. Mr Deterink is a former partner of Deterink Advocaten The purpose of the Stichting is to safeguard the interests en Notarissen. of Van Lanschot Kempen NV (Van Lanschot Kempen) and its stakeholders, and to avert outside influences that could Mr Swinkels is the former Chairman of the Board of threaten its continuity, autonomy or identity to the Directors of Bavaria. detriment of such interests. The Stichting pursues its purpose by acquiring Class C preference shares in the Mr Kivits is the former Chairman of Stage Entertainment. capital of Van Lanschot Kempen, and by exercising the rights attached to these shares. The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board amounts to €10,000 (excluding VAT), and that of each The Stichting and Van Lanschot Kempen have signed a call other Board member to €7,500 (excluding VAT). option agreement granting the Stichting the right to acquire Class C preference shares up to 100% of the value of Expenses Van Lanschot Kempen’s share capital in issue before the Other expenses incurred by the Stichting amounted to exercise of the call option, less one share. When acquiring €121,140 in 2019. Class C preference shares, the Stichting is required to pay a minimum of 25% of the nominal amount. To ensure it will be Other able to pay when the time comes, the Stichting has a The Stichting is a legal entity independent of funding agreement with ING Bank in place. Van Lanschot Kempen, as referred to in Section 5:71 (1) sub-paragraph (d) of the Financial Supervision Act (Wft). Van Lanschot Kempen aims to keep any period with outstanding Class C preference shares as brief as possible, The Board and has committed itself to a maximum of one year as the term within which Van Lanschot Kempen will propose to the 's-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 3 January 2020 general meeting to redeem any Class C preference shares. The Stichting’s policy is exclusively aimed at pursuing the purpose as described above. The Stichting does not in any way engage in commercial activities, or any other type of activities as long as there are no circumstances that, pursuant to its objects clause, would give the Stichting cause to act and exercise its powers. In 2019, the Stichting’s activities consisted of convening a Board meeting as well as holding ad hoc consultations as and when required. The Stichting’s income consists of an “independence donation” paid by Van Lanschot NV. The costs incurred by the Stichting typically only consist of a commitment fee due to ING Bank in relation to the funding agreement, the remuneration due to its Board members and administrative charges (such as accountancy fees). As the Stichting does not have any discretionary funds, it has no policies in place in relation to such spending. The Board expects the Stichting’s budget for 2020 to be similar to the budget (as well as the profit and loss account) for 2019. Board meetings In 2019, the Board convened for one meeting, on 25 June 2019. Topics discussed at that meeting included: • Van Lanschot Kempen’s figures for 2018; • The minutes of the Board meeting of 13 June 2018. Glossary 219 GLOSSARY Advanced internal ratings-based approach (A-IRB) Basel IV The most sophisticated credit risk measurement technique. The reform of Basel III, commonly referred to as “Basel IV”, Under A-IRB, a bank is allowed to develop its own models, involves the final calibration and design of capital output based on direct or indirect observations, to estimate floors, based on revised standardised approaches. It also parameters for calculating risk-weighted assets. Credit risk includes reforms of the IRB approach and the standardised under A-IRB is determined by using internal input for approach for credit and operational risk. probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD), exposure at default (EAD) and maturity (M). Capital conservation buffer Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV), Amortised cost Van Lanschot Kempen is required to maintain Common The amount for which financial assets or liabilities are Equity Tier 1 capital equivalent to 2.5 times total risk initially recognised less redemptions, plus or minus exposure as a capital conservation buffer. accumulated depreciation/amortisation using the effective If an institution fails to maintain this capital conservation interest rate method for the difference between the original buffer, it will be restricted in making discretionary amount and the amount at maturity date, less impairments distributions. or amounts not received. Cash flow hedges (hedge accounting) Assets under administration (AuA) Instruments to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in cash Assets which are entrusted by clients to flows of assets, liabilities or future transactions, arising as Van Lanschot Kempen purely for custody or for which solely a result of interest rate changes and/or inflation. administrative services are performed. Clients take their own investment decisions, over which Van Lanschot Client option positions Kempen has no influence. Clients are unable to buy or sell share options directly on the stock exchange. Van Lanschot Kempen purchases or Assets under discretionary management sells on behalf of these clients and covers this with Client assets entrusted to Van Lanschot Kempen under a offsetting transactions on the stock exchange. Such discretionary management agreement, irrespective of receivables and payables are recognised under Derivatives. whether these assets are held in investment funds, deposits, structured products (Van Lanschot Kempen Combined buffer requirements index guarantee contracts) or cash. From 2016, subject to transitional provisions, institutions are required to maintain capital buffers in addition to the Assets under management (AuM) own funds requirements contained in the Capital Assets deposited with Van Lanschot Kempen by clients, Requirements Regulation (CRR). For Van Lanschot Kempen, breaking down into assets under discretionary management the combined buffer requirement consists of the capital and assets under non-discretionary management. conservation buffer extended by the institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer. The G-SII buffer, O-SII Assets under monitoring and guidance buffer and systemic risk buffer are not applicable to Client assets that are only subject to monitoring, plus minor Van Lanschot Kempen. advisory and related services. Clients make their own investment decisions and Van Lanschot Kempen has little Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital or no influence on the management of these assets. Also referred to as core capital. CET 1 capital encompasses a bank’s share capital, share premium and other reserves, Assets under non-discretionary management adjusted for deductions as specified by regulators, such as Client assets held for clients by Van Lanschot Kempen, goodwill, deferred tax assets and IRB shortfall. irrespective of whether these assets are held in investment funds, deposits, structured products (index guarantee Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) ratio contracts) or cash, with either a Van Lanschot Kempen CET 1 capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets. investment adviser advising the client on investment policy or clients making their own investment decisions without Contingent liabilities Van Lanschot Kempen’s input. All commitments arising from transactions for which the bank has given a guarantee to third parties. Basel III The new framework drawn up by the Basel Committee on Countercyclical capital buffer Banking Supervision, which introduces a stricter definition Common Equity Tier 1 capital equivalent to the total risk of capital and several new ratios and buffers with which exposure amount (calculated in accordance with the CRR) banks must comply. The gradual transition from Basel II to multiplied by the weighted average of the countercyclical Basel III is taking place over a period of five years and buffer rates. The countercyclical buffer rates are set by the started in 2014. designated authority in each member state on a quarterly basis. The buffer is determined by calculating the weighted average of the countercyclical buffer rates that apply in the jurisdictions of the relevant credit exposures. Glossary 220 Credit-linked swaps Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) Swaps where variable interest payments linked to Euribor, The Dutch regulator for financial institutions in the possibly with a lower or upper limit, are exchanged for Netherlands. afm.nl/en credit guarantees in respect of a third party. The counterparty is obliged to pay out if the third party is no Economic hedges longer able to meet its payment obligations. The contract Derivatives used to manage risks without applying hedge will identify specific payment-triggering events. accounting, carried at fair value. At Van Lanschot Kempen, these primarily take the shape of interest rate derivatives. Credit risk The risk that loans are not repaid, not fully repaid or not Effective interest rate repaid on time. The rate that discounts estimated cash flows to the net carrying amount of the financial asset over the life of an Credit support annex (CSA) instrument, or, where appropriate, over a shorter period. Forming part of an international swaps and derivatives agreement (ISDA), a CSA regulates credit support Efficiency ratio (collateral) for obligations resulting from derivatives. Operating expenses excluding impairments and result from the sale of public and private sector loans and advances, as Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) a percentage of income from operating activities. An adjustment made on the valuation of derivatives transactions with a counterparty, reflecting the current Engagement market value of counterparty credit risk. A sustainability strategy that seeks to persuade companies, fund managers, borrowers and other stakeholders through Currency options active dialogue that their sustainability policies should be Currency options grant their buyer the right, but not the made compatible with international treaties and conventions. obligation, to buy or sell a quantity of a certain currency at a pre-determined exchange rate during or at the end of a Expected loss (EL) pre-determined period. The currency option constitutes an Expected loss on loans, expressed in the formula obligation for the seller. Van Lanschot Kempen’s currency EL=PD*EAD*LGD. options mainly relate to client transactions covered by offsetting transactions in the markets. Exposure at default (EAD) Basel Exposure at the time of a client’s default, also referred to De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) as net exposure. The Dutch central bank. dnb.nl/en Exposure at default (EAD) IFRS 9 Defined benefit scheme The exposure at default is an estimate of the exposure at a A pension scheme other than a defined contribution scheme future default date, taking into account expected changes in (see below). In a defined benefit scheme, the company has the exposure after the reporting date, including repayments the constructive obligation to make up any deficit in the of principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or scheme. This does not have to be based on any legal otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities, requirements, but may be simply on the basis of an historical and accrued interest from missed payments. intention on the part of the company to make up any deficits. Fair value hedges (hedge accounting) Defined contribution scheme A fair value hedge comprises one or more swaps concluded A scheme in which the company makes agreed to cover the changes in fair value resulting from changes contributions to a separate entity (a pension fund) to secure in interest rates, of debt securities, for example. Hedge pension rights. The company is not obliged, either legally or relations are typically exact hedges, involving debt effectively, to pay additional contributions if the pension securities with fixed rates and terms being offset by swaps fund does not have enough assets to cover all of its current with exactly the same terms and fixed interest rates. and future obligations. Fiduciary management Derivatives Holding assets as a trustee or in another fiduciary role for Financial assets whose value derives from the value individuals, trusts, pension providers and other institutions. of other financial assets, indices or other variables. These assets are not included in the consolidated financial Van Lanschot Kempen holds both derivatives whose size statements because they are not Van Lanschot Kempen’s (face value), conditions and prices are determined assets. between Van Lanschot Kempen and its counterparties (OTC derivatives), and standardised derivatives traded Fitch on established markets. Credit rating agency. fitchratings.com Discounted cash flow (DCF) Forbearance A method to value an investment by estimating future cash Making a concession regarding the terms and conditions flows, taking account of the time value of money. of a loan agreement due to actual or anticipated financial difficulties which prevent a client from meeting its obligations Duration of equity vis-à-vis Van Lanschot Kempen. The concession enables A measure of the interest rate sensitivity of equity that the client to meet the revised obligations. reflects the impact on equity of a 1% parallel shift in the This may also include the whole or partial refinancing of interest curve. the existing loan. Glossary 221 Forum Ethibel Impairment A Belgian consultancy in the field of corporate social Amount charged to the result for possible losses on responsibility (CSR) and socially responsible investment non-performing or irrecoverable loans and advances. (SRI). forumethibel.org Alternatively, an impairment test may suggest lower asset values, if fair values have dipped below carrying amounts Forwards and/or the fair value of investments and associates have Contractual obligations to purchase or sell goods or moved below cost. financial assets at a future date at a pre-determined price. Forward contracts are customised contracts traded on the Interest rate option OTC markets. An agreement between a buyer and a seller, under which the seller guarantees the buyer a maximum interest rate Foundation internal ratings-based approach (F-IRB) (cap) or minimum interest rate (floor) for a fixed term. An advanced credit risk measurement technique. Under F-IRB, a bank is allowed to develop its own models, based Interest rate risk on direct or indirect observations, to estimate parameters The risk that profit and equity are impacted by changes for calculating risk-weighted assets. Credit risk under F-IRB in interest rates, in particular in the event of an intentional is determined by using internal input for probability of or unintentional mismatch in the terms of funds lent and default (PD). In contrast to A-IRB, the loss given default borrowed. (LGD) is included, based on prescribed values. Interest rate swaps Funding ratio A contract in which two parties exchange interest The ratio between public and private sector liabilities payments for a pre-agreed period and a notional principal and total loans and advances (excluding bank borrowing amount, while not swapping the face value. An interest rate and lending). swap typically involves exchanging fixed-rate cash flows for floating-rate cash flows in the same currency, with the Futures floating rate based on a benchmark interest rate (usually Contractual obligations to purchase or sell goods or Euribor). financial assets at a future date at a pre-agreed price. Futures are standardised contracts traded on organised Internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) markets, with stock exchanges acting as intermediaries Strategies and procedures designed for the bank’s and requiring daily settlement in cash and/or deposits of continuous assessment as to whether the amount, collateral. Van Lanschot Kempen has a number of futures composition and distribution of its equity still reconcile with on share indices on its books, partly for own use and partly the size and nature of its current and potential future risks. for clients, for offsetting transactions in the markets. Internal ratings-based approach (IRB) General meeting An advanced approach used to calculate credit risk. The body formed by voting shareholders and others with Van Lanschot Kempen applies both the foundation internal voting rights. ratings-based (F-IRB) and advanced internal ratings-based (A-IRB) approaches. In this report, IRB refers to both Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) internal ratings-based models. An independent organisation which develops guidelines for sustainability reports. Van Lanschot Kempen’s integrated International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) annual report is based on GRI. globalreporting.org Accounting and reporting standards drawn up by the International Accounting Standards Board. These standards Gross exposure have been adopted by the European Union and have been The value at which receivables are recognised in the applied by us from the 2005 financial year. consolidated statement of financial position, with the exception of derivatives. Gross exposure is calculated on Irrevocable commitments the basis of an add-on percentage of the nominal value All obligations resulting from irrevocable commitments that (fixed percentages in accordance with the Financial could result in loans being granted. Supervision Act) and the positive replacement value. KCM Hedge Kempen Capital Management NV Protection of a financial position – against interest rate risks in particular – by means of a financial instrument Kempen (typically a derivative). Kempen & Co NV IFRIC (International Financial Reporting Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets Interpretations Committee) The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active The interpretative body of the International Accounting market is based on the price at the reporting date (market Standards Board (IASB). IFRIC interprets the application of price). The bid price is applied for financial assets and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to ensure offer price for financial liabilities. Since these instruments consistent accounting practices throughout the world and are traded in an active market, their prices adequately provide guidance on reporting issues not specifically reflect current and frequent market transactions between addressed in IFRS. unrelated parties. Glossary 222 Level 2: Inputs observable in the markets Net Promoter Score (NPS) The fair value of financial instruments not traded in active The NPS provides information on client loyalty and the markets (e.g. over-the-counter financial derivatives) is number of promoters of the organisation. The score lies established using cash flow and option valuation models. within a range of –100 to 100 points, the higher the better. On the basis of its estimates, Van Lanschot Kempen selects The formula is as follows: NPS = % promoters % detractors. a number of methods and makes assumptions based on the Promoters give the organisation a score of 9 or 10, whereas market conditions (observable data) at the reporting date. detractors award a score of between 0 and 6. Level 3: Significance of unobservable market data Non-controlling interests The financial assets in this category have been assessed Non-controlling interests in entities that are fully on an individual basis. Their valuation is based on consolidated by Van Lanschot Kempen. management’s best estimate by reference to the most recent prices, prices of similar instruments and, to a OECD Guidelines not insignificant extent, information not observable in The OECD Guidelines describe what the Dutch government the market. expects from multinational enterprises when it comes to corporate social responsibility. The Guidelines provide Leverage ratio (LR) companies with guidance in the field of e.g. supply chain The leverage ratio represents the relationship between total management, human rights, child labour, environment and assets plus contingent items and the Basel III Tier 1 capital. corruption. It is calculated in accordance with the Delegated Act. Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) provide a The LCR represents the ratio between high-quality liquid framework for incorporating environmental, social and assets and the balance of cash outflows and cash inflows in governance criteria in investment policies. the next 30 days. Probability of default (PD) Basel Liquidity risk The likelihood that a client will default within one year. The risk that the bank has insufficient liquid assets available to meet current liabilities in the short term. Probability of default (PD) IFRS 9 The probability of default is an estimate of the likelihood of Loss given default (LGD) Basel default over a given time horizon. A default may only An estimate of the loss for Van Lanschot Kempen after happen at a certain time during the assessed period if the liquidation of the received collateral. facility has not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio. Loss given default (LGD) IFRS 9 The loss given default is an estimate of the loss arising in Proxy voting the event of a default occurring at a given time. It is based Kempen regards it as its fiduciary responsibility to vote at on the difference between the contractual cash flows due shareholder meetings for its own (Kempen) funds and – at and those that the lender would expect to receive, including the request of clients – for discretionary mandates. Its proxy from the realisation of any collateral. It is typically expressed voting policy describes how it fulfils this responsibility. as a percentage of EAD. kempen.nl/proxyvoting Market risk Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) The risk that the value of a financial position changes due to Securities backed by residential mortgages. A provider of movements in stock exchange prices, foreign exchange residential mortgages (typically a bank) will sell these on to and/or interest rates. a separate entity, a special purpose vehicle (SPV). To finance the mortgages, the SPV will then issue securities Morningstar called RMBS, which are secured by the mortgages. Morningstar rates mutual funds and ETFs from 1 to 5 stars based on how well they have performed in comparison to Risk-weighted assets (RWA) similar funds and ETFs. The assets of a financial institution after being adjusted by a weighting factor, set by its regulators, that reflects the Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) relative risk attached to the relevant assets. Risk-weighted The relationship between available stable funding and the assets are used to calculate the minimum amount of capital required amount of stable funding. the institution needs to hold. CRR/CRD IV uses the term “total risk exposure amount” instead of RWA, but for now Non-performing loans (NPL) we follow common usage. Loans are classed as non-performing if they meet one or more of the following criteria: 1) significant limit overrun for Settlement risk a period of more than 90 days; 2) a probability of default of The risk for financial transactions that are not settled within 1; 3) a provision has been taken; 4) forborne exposures five days of the agreed deadline if the difference between for which the two-year probation period has not started. the agreed settlement price and the price at the reporting date could lead to a loss. Operational risk The risk of direct or indirect losses as a result of inadequate or defective internal processes and systems, inadequate or defective human acts, or external events. Glossary 223 Shortfall Value at risk (VaR) The difference between the calculated expected loss (EL) Statistical analysis of historical market trends and and the provision made for a loan for which the capital volatilities, used to estimate the likelihood that a portfolio’s adequacy requirement is calculated using the IRB method. losses will exceed a certain amount. If the calculated EL exceeds the provision made, the difference must be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 Van Lanschot Kempen capital. Van Lanschot Kempen NV Solvency VLKWM The bank’s buffer capital expressed as a percentage of Van Lanschot Kempen Wealth Management NV risk-weighted assets. (formerly Van Lanschot NV) Standard & Poor’s Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) Credit rating agency. spratings.com A measure of the average cost of a company’s capital, in which debt and equity are proportionally weighted. Standardised approach (SA) A method used under Basel to measure operational, market Wft (Financial Supervision Act) and credit risks, based on a standardised approach, in Wft governs the supervision of the financial sector in which risk weightings are prescribed by the regulators. the Netherlands. Strategic risk Wholesale funding Current or future threats to the bank’s results or equity A type of funding, in addition to savings and deposits, resulting from not or inadequately responding to changes in used by banks to fund operations and manage risks. the environment and/or from taking incorrect strategic decisions. This is a part of the business risk. Structured products Synthetic investment instruments specially created to meet specific needs that cannot be met by the standardised financial assets available in the markets. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In 2015, the United Nations set out the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030: a set of 17 highly ambitious goals relating to climate, poverty, healthcare, education and other challenges. Tier 1 capital ratio The ratio between total Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets. Total capital ratio The percentage of a bank’s capital adequacy, calculated by dividing qualifying capital by the risk-weighted assets as defined by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). Total Tier 1 capital Total Tier 1 capital of the bank includes share capital, share premium and other reserves, adjusted for certain deductions set by the regulator, such as goodwill and shortfall. Total Tier 2 capital Capital instruments and subordinated loans may be designated Tier 2 capital under certain conditions. UN Global Compact A non-binding United Nations pact to encourage and support global businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The UN Global Compact is a principle-based framework for companies, setting out ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Ten-year figures 224 TEN-YEAR FIGURES 2019 20181 2017 2016 2015 Results (€1,000) Total income from operating activities 553,222 506,282 522,539 524,400 561,140 Operating expenses 410,840 440,193 428,990 440,729 422,516 Impairments 22,854 –13,416 –11,461 –2,115 61,937 Operating profit before tax 119,529 79,504 105,010 85,785 54,2843 Net result (group profit) 98,414 80,315 94,945 69,800 42,754 3 Statement of financial position (€1,000) 3 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,210,853 1,243,6635 1,332,860 1,340,470 1,299,358 2 Public and private sector liabilities 9,545,095 9,090,939 9,145,119 9,679,764 9,908,391 3 Loans and advances to the public and 8,597,894 8,561,497 3 9,103,327 9,624,048 10,504,423 2 private sectors Total assets 14,318,853 13,983,1845 14,658,875 14,877,411 15,831,775 Key data Number of ordinary shares at year-end (excluding treasury shares) 40,920,773 41,017,021 40,846,973 40,873,462 40,961,353 Average number of ordinary shares 40,974,330 41,004,769 40,959,989 40,908,194 40,919,503 Earnings per ordinary share based on average number of ordinary shares (€) 2.27 1.82 2.19 1.61 0.83 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 1.45 1.20 0.45 Efficiency ratio (%) 74.3 86.9 82.1 84.0 75.3 1 The 2018 figures have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 9; those for the years from 2009 to 2017 in accordance with IAS 39. 2 The 2015 figures have been adjusted to reflect the discontinuing of offsetting current account balances. 3 Includes the Result on loans and advances to the public and private sectors amounting to €22.4 million negative. 4 Some amounts differ from the 2012 financial statements, reflecting changes resulting from the implementation of revised standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 5 Some amounts differ from previously published reports, reflecting changes that result from the accounting changes related to provisions for pensions. Ten-year figures 225 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Results (€1,000) Total income from operating activities 566,187 551,193 541,764 4 552,386 630,887 4 Operating expenses 337,138 408,633 449,200 426,456 439,893 4 Impairments 95,529 105,117 258,021 79,394 102,458 4 Operating profit before tax 133,520 37,443 -165,457 46,536 88,536 4 Net result (group profit) 108,701 33,506 -147,281 43,127 66,710 Statement of financial position (€1,000) Equity attributable to shareholders 1,292,274 1,283,487 1,262,348 4 1,507,245 1,461,676 Public and private sector liabilities 10,499,160 10,161,397 11,368,814 13,100,131 13,545,650 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 11,021,107 12,490,723 13,464,234 14,270,431 15,710,224 4 Total assets 17,259,438 17,670,365 17,940,865 18,453,522 20,325,117 Key data Number of ordinary shares at year-end (excluding treasury shares) 40,826,361 40,926,249 40,879,922 40,809,337 40,819,359 Average number of ordinary shares 40,918,849 40,917,566 40,883,330 40,870,488 38,366,748 Earnings per ordinary share based on 4 average number of ordinary shares (€) 2.42 0.71 -3.67 0.84 1.47 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 0.40 0.20 0.00 0.40 0.70 Efficiency ratio (%) 59.5 74.1 82.9 4 77.2 69.7 1 The 2018 figures have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 9; those for the years from 2009 to 2017 in accordance with IAS 39. 2 The 2015 figures have been adjusted to reflect the discontinuing of offsetting current account balances. 3 Includes the Result on loans and advances to the public and private sectors amounting to €22.4 million negative. 4 Some amounts differ from the 2012 financial statements, reflecting changes resulting from the implementation of revised standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits. Text and editing Van Lanschot Kempen NV Vicky Hampton Copy & Content Design Capital Advertising Dtp JARGO design Photography Jessy Visser English translation and editing Anita Graafland, Tom Scott Headquarters Van Lanschot Kempen NV Hooge Steenweg 29 5211 JN ’s-Hertogenbosch Telephone +31 20 354 45 90 investorrelations@vanlanschotkempen.com vanlanschotkempen.com/en ’s-Hertogenbosch Trade Register no. 16014051 We welcome your views and opinions – please see our contact details above. This annual report was published on 27 February 2020.
