UN GLOBAL COMPACT CERIDIAN (MAURITIUS) LTD Communication on Progress Year: 2020 Statement of continued support by our Senior Vice President Dear Stakeholders, Ceridian Mauritius has been supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact for the past 9 years now. As a member of this worldwide initiative, we make sure that our business policies revolve around these principles set by the UN Global Compact. Through our continued support, we also aim at contributing with more focus on human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our report below, we summarised the progress we have made so far based on these principles and we are committed to sustain this alignment with UN. We are today happy to confirm our continued support for the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Yours faithfully Vidia Mooneegan Senior Vice President 1 Contents Communication on Progress ......................................................................................................................... 1 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ...................................................................................................................................................................... 2 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ................................................ 3 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ..................................................................................................................................... 5 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour ........................................................ 6 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour ....................................................................................... 7 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ......................... 8 Goals of Ceridian Women’s Network...................................................................................................... 11 Africa Code Week.................................................................................................................................... 12 Women in Tech ....................................................................................................................................... 14 Youth Mobile........................................................................................................................................... 14 iamtheCODE ............................................................................................................................................ 15 Micro:Bit ................................................................................................................................................. 15 Other CWN activities............................................................................................................................... 16 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ............. 19 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ................................ 19 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ........... 20 Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and briberyError! Bookmark not defined. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer. In 2015, we have worked on new values which in turn shapes Ceridian’s culture. Our behavior drives our actions and, ultimately, our results. Our core values are: Customer Focus: We listen to our customers with empathy and we care about them. We win when our customers win. We focus on delivering employee engagement, satisfaction and productivity to our customers. Transparency: We are open in the way we communicate and perform. We ensure that integrity and accountability drive our behavior. Diligence: Preparation and planning is vital to our success. We establish goals and standards against which we measure our success. We work on a reliable and repeatable performance. Optimism: Optimism is about expecting success. It is planned behaviour. We deliver optimism to our clients by making work life better. The Preparation leads to knowledge, knowledge builds confidence and confidence creates success. At Ceridian, we celebrate team success. Agility: We are flexible and innovative. We confront all challenges with enthusiasm. We encourage change in order to achieve success. Our Brand Promise is Makes Work Life Better. Our promise defines who we are; ✓ Drives behaviour, thinking and communication ✓ Core of our culture – it’s our way of life ✓ Basis for making decisions ✓ We act/think in this way consistently over time, with every single customer, every single time. 2 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Ceridian values all its employees and sees to it that there is no human rights’ abuse. The company has different policies which cater for this aspect such as: 1. Ceridian Code of Conduct 2. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Policy 3. Discrimination and Harassment Policy 4. Respectful Workplace Policy 5. Time Away from Work Policy 6. Other Leaves (Sickness & others) Policy 7. Flexible Work Arrangements Policy 8. Bereavement policy 9. Safety and Health Policy 10. Dispute Resolution Policy 11. Talent Acquisition Policy 12. Volunteer Day Policy 13. Voting Time Off Policy 14. Public Health Crisis Policy Our aim is to make sure that our employees are happy to come to work while enjoying their work in a respectful environment without any violations of rights. These are a number of our regular activities held within the company: ✓ Blood donations ✓ Talks on General Health ✓ Fire Drill ✓ Fire Safety Program ✓ First Aid program 3 Talks/activities on specific events will are being conducted in 2020 are: • World Health Day • World Cancer Day • World Day for Safety and Health at Work • World No Tobacco Day • World Environment Day • World Blood Donor Day • World Diabetes Day • World Heart Day • Lung Cancer Awareness Day • World AIDS Day We have the Milestone Anniversary Awards recognising the tenure of our employees. They are rewarded with an additional Paid day off and a gift voucher. 4 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Ceridian fully uphold the right of each individual in the organisation to form associations and effectively recognise the right to collective bargaining. This is in line with the Employment Relations Act, in accordance to both the constitution of Mauritius and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. Yet, Ceridian employees have not felt the need to be unionised so far as our salary and benefits level are always within or sometimes higher than the market median trends. Ceridian also provides increases every year in May on top of the government increases in January. Ceridian participates every two years in salary survey exercises, to ensure that we understand the market and follow benchmarking. Since the year 2014, Ceridian participated in the following local surveys; i.e. HAY Group now called Korn Ferry / Capfor and the Global surveys company, namely IPAS, Mercer, Radford Technology and Willis Towers Watson Our latest salary survey was held with Korn Ferry in 2019. Ceridian, continuously, strive to provide a conducive working environment to all of our employees and we employ a full-time dedicated Health and Safety officer to ensure that we have the best working environment for our people. Ceridian is also considered to be an employer of choice in the IT sector in Mauritius and has won a number of awards in 2017, 2018, 2019 namely; the Mauritius Best Employer Brand Award, The Africa Best Employer Brand Awad and The IT Innovation Leadership Award in 2018 and 2019. Ceridian also using the latest technology named Dayforce which uses Modern Cloud HCM Software. Dayforce is a global human capital management platform that transforms the employee experience. It unifies data from across the entire employee lifecycle to enable better decision-making at every level. We also used Dayforce for our merit increases happening in May each year. All employees are able to see their own personal data, salary, pay slip and rewards letter as well. There are several committees in Ceridian such as the Fun@work committee who looks after the welfare of our employees and creates a lively working experience for our staff members. Previously named Payback, Ceridian Cares is another one of our internal committees dedicated to charity. Employees engage in fundraising activities and host voluntary donations to help children across the island. The Ceridian’s Woman Network on the other hand, has for mission the empowerment of women with ultimate focus on leadership and technology. Ceridian Mauritius also supports an internal Toastmasters Club. 5 Learning and development is essential for our current and future prosperity. We develop our workforce capabilities, skills and competencies to create a sustainable, successful organisation, and this is an important part of our organisation's overall business strategy. As part of our learning and development, we also conduct workshops which are participative and allow participants to voice out concerns and opinions and propose solutions. All employees have access to both team development and personal development programmes. On a quarterly basis, Ceridian conducts an Employee Engagement Survey because we rely on the voice of our employee to make work life better. The Engagement Survey is seen as one of the most critical bottom-up feedback mechanisms. Survey results and action points are then incorporated into the company’s business planning process. Our People and Culture team hosts regular sessions with the employees to address their concerns and requests to improve both their work and life balance and thus creating an enjoyable working environment. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Being a fair employer, Ceridian condemns all forms of forced labour. All employees have a clear contract of employment and a Job Description for their specific role. All our policies and procedures are in accordance with the Worker’s Rights Act and other laws in Mauritius. We are also an active member at the Business Mauritius and our current CEO, Mr. Vidia Mooneegan, is the current President of Business Mauritius since 2019. Business Mauritius is an independent association that represents over 1,200 local businesses and has, through them, a national, regional and international reach. Business Mauritius is the coordinating body and the voice of local business, and delivers services that sustain the progress of both business and community. Our objective is to provide a favourable working environment. This means safe working conditions, decent compensation, career opportunities and inclusiveness into decision-making processes. Our workforce is well balanced between men and women. Medical insurance facilities are provided to all employees: we believe that health is as important as the skills and experience, so medical benefits make an integral part of our corporate culture, improve motivation and create the conditions that help generate excitement, energy and commitment. 6 Due to the nature of our business, there is a requirement for people to work non-standard hours. Additional compensation is provided to employees working these hours. Their shifts are set in such a way to account for long hours of work. Employees working hours are monitored to allow for frequents breaks and flexibility comes as a benefit to allow ‘work from home’ options. At Ceridian, we make sure that our employees work independently without any forced forms of labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Ceridian is against child labour and does not employ children. Employment eligibility in our company starts at the age of 18 for all employees. Ceridian Cares exists to financially assist deserving and disadvantaged youngsters and we support individual children, as part of an ongoing and long-term relationship to help them develop and improve their lives. Ceridian also supports institutions that work for the benefit of children. By contributing to the well-being of children, we also intend to eliminate any required child labour by providing them with the basic such as school materials, food and clothing. As per our Government Financial Bill, every company is required to set up a CSR Fund equivalent to two per cent of its book profit derived during the preceding year to finance an approved NGO. As such, Ceridian has funded several NGO institutions catering for the children development and education of deprived children with the added intention to eradicate child labour. This is in line with the spirit of the Global organisation effort to help eradicate child labour. 7 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer and is against any forms of discrimination. As a company, Ceridian is dedicated to ensure that our recruitment and selection policy: • Is fair and consistent • Is non-discriminatory on the grounds of gender, race, age, religion, marital status, sexual orientation or disability • Conforms to statutory regulations and agreed best practice. The company acts affirmatively to ensure that persons hired will be treated equally in all aspects of employment and employee relations matters, including but not limited to: promotions, demotions, transfers, work force reductions, terminations, salary increases, rates of pay, training, participation in any company sponsored programs, and all conditions or privileges of employment. As a company, Ceridian is committed to providing a productive working environment, where all employees are treated with dignity and respect. All employees are required to behave in such a way that they never cause offence to others in respect to their color, race, religion, beliefs, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or nationality. The welfare of our employees is a prime concern for Ceridian. As such, we have a zero tolerance to harassment in the workplace. Our Bullying and Harassment Policy provides strict guidelines to ensure that our workplace is free from prohibited discrimination or harassment. Everyone is expected to avoid any behaviours or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as prohibited discrimination or harassment; no employees, not even the highest-ranking executive in the company, are exempt from the requirements of this policy. The company does not tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment that violates this policy. Disciplinary actions range from warnings for mild cases to dismissal for severe cases. These are assessed in ultimate transparency, the same being one of our values. 8 In June 2018, we were the first company in Mauritius to be EDGE Certified, reflecting our commitment to gender equality and empowerment within our industry. EDGE is the leading global assessment methodology and business certification standard for gender equality. The Mauritius Ceridian Women’s Network (CWN) has organised several successful events for both male and female colleagues over the years. These events have not only helped Ceridian employees to further strengthen their leadership traits but have also contributed towards creating a healthier lifestyle and a better work-life balance. Guest speakers and practitioners have delivered talks on Project Management, Leading and Managing people. Some fun activities were also scheduled around leadership where participants had the opportunity to learn about managerial and leadership qualities like risk, time management, resource planning, influencing people, customer focus and so on by going through a series of games in teams. Actively supporting and showing strong commitment to gender diversity and equality, Ceridian, on top of the CWN platform, embarked on global initiatives. On the International Women’s day in March 2018, Ceridian Women’s Network organized a ‘Learn to Code’ event. Our focus was to raise awareness that coding is the future and Learn to Code is part of our celebration honoring International Women’s Day. CWN has been following and adapting the global movements such as #HourofCoding, #GirlstoCode, #BeBoldforChange. Our initiative is simply to try to bring more gender equality in the technology field. Our focus was to offer women: • Better career opportunities with better pay hence reducing salary inequality. • Be prepared for jobs of the future which will require more knowledge of coding. Ceridian also works with Mauritius Human Resource Development Council (HRDC) under the National Skills Development Program (NSDP) and Graduate Training For Employment Scheme (GTES) scheme for our employability program. It helps young students benefitting from training and placement. Ceridian learning Centre has placed many candidates for the year 2018 to 2019 with several local and global-based companies. Ceridian has also taken a strategic approach in building a partner eco-system providing a sustainable model for promoting innovation and create a talent pool of very highly skilled developers thus addressing the talent shortage problem on the local market through the program Ceridian AppFactory 21st Century Lab Program in partnership with Microsoft4Afrika in 2019. To create the culture of continuous innovation on disruptive technologies , Ceridian is sponsoring a state-ofthe-art Digital Innovation Lab that will be used by UoM fellow students / academics at all levels by leveraging 9 on the research capabilities of the university and in-depth technical industry expertise of Ceridian to come up with disruptive and innovative digital solutions that will transform the workplace by making use of the Nexus of Forces namely; Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning ML), Internet of Things (IoT), Advanced Data Analytics and Robotic Process Automation. We do not support discrimination in any form and support equality in employment and occupation through our principles and management practices. In fact, from a facilities standpoint, we ensure our premises are adapted to any physical disability by having the below: • Our Building is equipped with a ramp. • Priority access is given for any person with disability (manned by security personnel for assistance) • All floors are equipped with disabled toilets. • Floor layout caters for wheelchair movement between rows of tables. • Flat flooring throughout floor setup. • All fingertips and card access machines are positioned at height accessible for any wheelchair to access easily. 10 Ceridian Women’s Network (CWN), our internal association has worked on numerous projects to help empower the Mauritian youth for better career prospects and an enhanced modern education. These are: Ceridian Women's Network (CWN) was launched in Ceridian Mauritius in October 2009. The goals of CWN are as follows: Goals of Ceridian Women’s Network CWN is mainly driven by our female employees as we wanted to provide them a platform to own and participate in initiatives to help attain the above-mentioned objectives. Since 2017, the CWN committee focuses on Women and Technology, which is in line with the aim of engaging and developing women for professional growth and more specifically in technology. Within this context, CWN participated and/or led many events: 11 Learn to Code Supporting International Women's Day in March 2017, CWN organized a series of training sessions on coding, targeting girls and women mainly, with the belief that technology jobs are the future and trying to break down the mental barriers for programming related studies and jobs. As a technology company, Ceridian is fully cognizant of the rate of change and advances in technology and how it will change the future of jobs and employment. CWN has been following and adapting the global movements such as #HourofCoding, #GirlstoCode, #BeBoldforChange. We want to raise awareness that coding is the future and we launched the Learn to Code event in March as part of our celebration honoring International Women’s Day. Technology jobs are among the fastest growing in the country, yet women struggle to shine in this field. We believe there is a gender gap in technology and by 2020 we will have more jobs in technology related field. Our initiative is simply to try to bring more gender equality in the technology field and break the myth that women are not interested or cannot do programming jobs. Also in a wider context and in the long run, we can build better computer products for society if they are built by men and women (men and women do not see the world the same way). This initiative was just a start aiming to bring awareness to girls and women about 1) better career opportunities with better pay hence reducing salary inequality and 2) to be prepared for jobs of the future which will require more knowledge of coding. Africa Code Week The Africa Code Week is a continent-wide initiative to spark the interest of African children, teenagers and young adults in software coding, giving birth to the largest digital literacy initiative ever organized on the African continent, with half million youths introduced to coding over the past 2 years and driven by strong public-private partnership. 2017 was the first participation of Mauritius in the Africa Code Week and we participated again in 2018. Ceridian was a core member of the organizing committee partnering with Rajiv Gandhi Science Centre (RGSE), the Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE) and the National Computer Board (NCB) all joining forces, resources and skills with SAP CSR EMEA to spread coding literacy across the Republic of Mauritius. 12 We organized and hosted the ‘Train the Trainer’ workshops held in the past at the Ceridian Learning Center, aimed at educators, students at the Mauritius Institute of Education, staff from the National Computer Board (NCB), professionals from Ceridian and members of the private sectors. These workshops provided the participants with tools and materials they need to teach coding to pupils and students in their respective communities. The main ‘Live events’ took place in Mauritius. As announced by Her Excellency, the President of the Republic of Mauritius at the official launch of Africa Code Week 2017 and we quote: “The Republic of Mauritius is keen to support and participate in Africa Code Week this year and I look forward to working with all stakeholders from the public and private sector to drive STEM skills development nationwide and across the African continent. Free Coding workshops for youth aged 8 to 24 have been organized in schools and science centers all over the country. Ceridian dedicated time and resources through its people, Learning Centre and CWN was fully engaged with the planning, organization and execution of the training sessions, both at the Train the Trainer level and the Live events. Some 743 participants were trained during the week of July 2017 and some 19,550 people were introduced to Coding during the Live Events comprising of primary, secondary, tertiary and vocational students and the public emanating from 64 primary schools, 84 secondary schools, 8 tertiary/vocational institutions as well as several community groups/associations, and corporate bodies. CWN is honored and proud to have participated in and partly led such national initiative. The Africa Code Week has had a significant impact on the people who delivered and received the training. People discovered that coding is fun and accessible. We have sown some valuable seeds that will continue bearing fruits in the years to come. The Africa Code Week is a great example how we can work together to make a difference. We have created a big buzz all over Mauritius including primary and secondary schools, NGO’s, Rotary Clubs, associations, NWC, training centers, tertiary sectors/universities, and more. 13 Women in Tech In 2017, we participated in another technology related initiative through the Women in Tech week. This event simultaneously took place in countries such as Kenya, Ghana, South Africa, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Botswana, Cape Verde, China, Germany, United States of America, Canada, Belgium, UK supporting the growth of women in technology and the African growth using technology. It gave participants the opportunity to train and discuss with thousands of women around the globe both physically and virtually on issues on Technology, Entrepreneurship, Work-life balance, and Leadership annually. The themes this year over the 5 days were: Leadership Day, Mobile and Digital commerce Day, Teach A Skill Day, Entrepreneur Day, Award Day. CWN was a proud sponsor of this event. In 2018, we again participated as sponsor and this time hosted a competition on coding to students on the topic: ‘Building a Better Mauritius with Girls who Code’. We awarded prizes to the winners to promote coding in Mauritius. And in 2019, we also participated once more in this event and participated in panels around AI and also drove panels of discussion on The future world of work. Youth Mobile One more digital literacy initiative and this time under the patronage of UNESCO, it gave us yet another opportunity in 2017 to train students and teachers on MIT App inventor. UNESCO organized the event within the context of the International Day for Universal Access to Information in collaboration with Government of Mauritius, eLearning Africa, Global Rainbow Foundation and Talkmate. Other partners include Hewlett Foundation, INRIA, Kenn Foundation, Mauritius National Computer Board, Ceridian, European Space Agency, Research Institute for Innovation & Technology in Education (UNIR iTED), and UNIR. CWN helped to organize and execute the YouthMobile workshop that took place in 2017 at Ceridian Learning Centre and facilitated the introduction to MIT App inventor training module targeted mostly towards elementary/secondary school teachers. The module focuses on the effectiveness of MIT App Inventor as a tool to teach computational thinking and basic computer science principles. 14 iamtheCODE CWN organized a full day Hackathon in 2018 in collaboration with iamtheCode to create the awareness and support young women in STEAMD (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics, and Design), through learning how to code, creative learning and cracking problems. Around 100 girls between 11 to 18 years old participated in the full day hackathon. iamtheCode was founded by Senegalese born Marieme Jamme, Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum, Winner of the UNICEF, Bill and Melinda Gates Innovation Award. The iamtheCODE movement is designed to promote access in STEAMD (science, technology, engineering, mathematics, Arts and Design) with women and girls. We aim to mobilize governments, investors, civil society and businesses to ensure by 2030, 1 million women and girls are trained through technology and Digital literacy. Micro:Bit As part of the celebration of the ICT Global Girl’s Day in 2018, CWN organized a half day workshop on coding using Micro: Bit. The Ceridian team introduced coding using Micro:Bit to 50 young girls. The Micro:bit is the most recent project by the BBC in an effort to bring computer science education and STEM topics to every student in the United Kingdom. CWN together with British Council is bringing the micro: bit to the students in Mauritius. The Micro:bit is a pocket-sized computer that lets you get creative with digital technology. You can code, customize, and control your micro: bit from anywhere! It is an open development board that works in sync with other onboard hardware components to get you started down the path of programming hardware. You can use your Micro:bit for all sorts of unique creations, from robots to musical instruments and more. Ceridian dedicated time and resources through its people, Learning Centre and CWN was fully engaged with the planning, organization and execution of the workshop. 15 In 2019, we started working on the Micro:Bit project in schools in Mauritius (including Rodrigues) and we have been working on the launch where the Micro:Bit will be introduced to some schools and we are in the process of finalizing the documentation and steps forward. This is because we believe that introducing innovation and coding at an earlier stage at school will help to better prepare our youngsters to become innovators, digital creators rather than only consumers of technology. Once the pilot has been launched and is working successfully, there is a plan from the Ministry to add same as a topic in the curriculum of students in Mauritius. Ceridian will be supporting the program as follows: • Chairing and take the accountability of Committee of Micro: bit in Mauritius. Ceridian has been the connecting point between MIE, BC, MBC and NPCC. • Sponsoring of one club during the pilot phase. • Sponsoring of a girl school for a minimum of 3 years during the roll out with 40 Kitronik Inventors Kits. • Providing Ceridian expert (Software Developer) to work and support the kids during the program. • Continuously support the development of the program in collaboration with other initiatives on STEAM, coding and innovation. In 2020, on the ICT Global Girl’s Day, during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, we are arranging virtual coding training sessions for girls in some secondary schools end of April. Other CWN activities In addition to those national or continental level initiatives, CWN also organized a Monthly Talk series ‘Coffee at Ceridian’ where we invited some guest speakers for discussion room sessions on subjects such as gender equality, steps to the path of growth, etc. …and facilitated some Webinar events such as Personal Branding and sponsored a ‘Wonder Woman Movie Party’ for its employees and their families, similar to the initiative in our sister offices in North America, as part of promoting woman leadership, Debate Competition on IT Related topics. 16 General note on Gender Diversity and Equality We are proud to affirm that Ceridian leads when it comes to enabling women in the workplace to reach their full potential. Actively supporting and showing strong commitment to gender diversity and equality, Ceridian, on top of the CWN platform, embarked on global initiatives such as #GoSponsorher, #MovetheDial, and Edge Certification—a leading global assessment and business certification program for gender equality. #GoSponsorher By participating in #GoSponsorHer, Ceridian is playing an active and intentional role in the success of a high potential woman, where its senior leadership is taking an active role and sponsoring. This movement believes that mentoring women in the workplace is not sufficient. Women need more sponsors who will engage in their career advancement, and commit to their success. #MoveTheDial Again, this year, Ceridian announced that it has become a founding partner of #MoveTheDial, a global movement that helps create opportunities for women in the technology sector. Ceridian’s involvement in this initiative is another great example of our organization’s support for female leadership and gender equity in the workplace. CWN is aiming and looking forward to widen and deepen in its activities in promoting career development for women and focusing on the technology area in line with our activity and the worldwide trend in future employment growth. In 2019, CWN has organized many events on the occasion of the International Women’s day. 1. Firstly, we arranged a debate competition between girl colleges on Ceridian premises. The title of the debate was ‘Her Aspiration needs her cooperation’ 17 2. Secondly, we arranged an external panel discussion by inviting four successful women to share their views and advice on the theme #Balance for Better. The aim of the panel was to inspire university students, as they are the leaders of tomorrow on the topic gender equality and women empowerment. In 2020, CWN organized the following: 1. Social Media Campaign: The International Women’s Day is the time of the year where Ceridian reflects on progress made, celebrate our achievements and look forward to doing more to empower women and girls. One of Ceridian Women’s Network (CWN Mauritius) key messages shared was that the efforts we put into International Women's Day 2020 must be replicated every other day of the year. Change and progress will not be achieved through one inspirational speech or event, it requires action each day, every day. #ceridian #ceridianwomennetwork #iwd2020 #eachforequal 2. Ted Talk session to discuss around the theme EachforEqual 3. Speech from a very inspiring woman Senior Vice President leader in Ceridian to our Mauritius colleagues Ceridian Book Club The Ceridian Book Club which is part of CWN has as objective to empower women through inspiring books, and sharing insights. Last year, we had the book discussion on Michelle Obama’s book Becoming. We are working to do another session of book discussion on the ‘Alchemist’. We plan to have podcast, video and book discussions every month. 18 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Ceridian being a multinational business is conscious about the degradation of the global environment. In line with this, a team was setup in 2007 at Ceridian headquarters in the US named “Green Team” to primarily work on ways to be more environmental friendly. In June 2014, the Mauritius team kicked off certain initiatives to mark the World Environment Day. We still ensure that we keep these initiatives ongoing. These include frequent recycling of used papers, use of paper cups in all beverage distributors and a clean working environment. Frequent communiques are sent out to our employees to promote a healthy environment which includes no smoking in public spaces and closed areas. Being a Cloud company, we aim to promote environmental benefits such as shutting down servers and adopting energy efficient cloud-based applications. We cannot fail to mention that through our software, we are working towards a considerable decrease of paper use. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility One of the initiatives is changing the use of Styrofoam throughout the US building to recyclable or biodegradable to go ware and to build awareness about recycling and the environment. The approach to environmental issues is guided by a simple principle: We will conduct our business in ways that protect, preserve and enhance the environment. Ceridian is active in initiatives organised by the industry and associations on environmental protection. Ceridian Initiative Reduce, Reuse and Recycle The key actions were: • Managers to talk about ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ with their team members. • Involve all team members in the disposal of: 19 o Old notebooks, o Paper, o Magazine, o Training materials (outdated) o Flipcharts o Newspaper o Cardboard Unused papers from all drawers and the storeroom. Moreover, the following initiatives are fully active within our premises: • Reduction in the number of physical servers by adopting a consolidated and virtualized environment to decrease power consumption and cooling • Elimination of plastic water bottle dispensers – water is provided through mains fed machines with are plumbed directly into the main water supply include filters. • Removal of plastic cups and increased use of mugs instead • Use of cloud based services and applications • Shared transport services with other companies in the vicinity to encourage telecommuting Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Ceridian Mauritius has established and implemented an Environmental Culture to demonstrate the commitment to go green in its business operations which includes: • Energy savings Ceridian Mauritius has implemented several measures which help in reducing the energy consumption within the company as follows: o Each member of the staff has the responsibility to ensure that all lightings are switched off when there is no one in the office. Ceridian Mauritius currently occupies 67,000 Square Feet of surface area (3 20 floors) at the Cyber Tower to run all its operations. The lighting and air conditioning run on each floor to match the duration of the shift thus leading to energy efficiency. o The company uses only LCD screens with low energy consumption. Furthermore, 90% of our computers are laptops. o In line with Go Green Initiatives, Ceridian Mauritius has already established several guidelines and is paperless. As far as possible, the Company has digitized most processes thus reducing the need to print and use less paper. The organization has also implemented duplex printing and provided dual screens for viewing thus reducing paper usage. Ceridian Mauritius also encourages reuse of printed copies as draft paper. o Refilling of toners Purchase of refilled printer toners ensures that we minimize the disposal of cartridges. o E-waste disposal Ceridian is always engaging with other stakeholders for e-waste disposal which is a hazard for our environment. Ceridian helps customers reduce their paper consumption through our cloud software enabling them to save electricity (server rooms) and paper (Ceridian produces E-Payslips and E-Reports). Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Ceridian has in place an effective ethics policy which provides clear guidelines against corruption, fraud as well as extortion and bribery. There is also a mandatory online ethics training which all Ceridian employees need to go through which pertain to areas such as fraud and corruption. Any employee found guilty to be part of any form of corruption is subjected to disciplinary actions and a potential exit from the organisation. We provide safe methods for our employees to report on unethical practices. We encourage the whole company to fight all forms of corruption. 21
