IsaDora Sustainability Report 2020 Table of content Foreword from the Executive Board Introduction IsaDora Corporate Responsibility A final word on our fundamental beliefs 2 Foreword from the Executive Board As Chief Executive Officer of IsaDora, I believe we have a duty to In our work, we have taken inspiration from the important demonstrate corporate responsibility. We should actively international efforts made by the UN Sustainable Development contribute to creating good conditions for our employees, Goals. In this context, we have identified three key areas, to which respecting human rights and considering the environment and we have dedicated special focus and intend to continue the years climate. This is an integral part of our business and will continue to ahead. be so going forward. In a rapidly changing global environment, ensuring responsible business practice is a way to remain IsaDora recognises the importance of transparency. Therefore, this successful and contribute to overall sustainable economic annual report comprehensively covers the entire sustainability development. area, including our Communication on Progress (COP) report. Like many other organisations, we are stepping up our efforts to Rasmus H. Poulsen embed sustainability more deeply into our operations. It is Chief Executive Officer important to ensure that IsaDora continues to develop its business practices, and in many ways, we view these efforts as a means to future-proof the organisation. We have continuously improved our focus on our sustainability approach and the topic is receiving increasing management attention. A lot still remains to be done, but it is a work in progress, which I believe is of particular importance. 3 Table of content Foreword from the Executive Board Introduction IsaDora Corporate Responsibility A final word on our fundamental beliefs 4 Introduction Isadora IsaDora's purpose is to provide makeup that empowers everyone to embrace 6 their unique beauty. Since day one, all the products have been fragrance free, Clean water and cruelty free and clinically tested against some of the highest standards in the sanitation industry, making them safe for even the most sensitive skin types. The company’s vision is to be the obvious choice when buying makeup. In order to achieve this, IsaDora aims to run a sustainable business that delivers long-term value for its customers, shareholders and investors, with a 10 focus on responsible business conduct. Reduced Inequalities IsaDora ensures that its sustainability policies are in accordance with its values, and that they complement each other well. The company is highly committed to continuously integrating these values and sustainability initiatives into its everyday operations, as this is an important way of ensuring that it is able to continue to create value for all stakeholders. 12 IsaDora strives to address sustainability issues that are meaningful to the Responsible consumption & production company and the markets in which it operates. It intends to focus both on sustainability initiatives for in-house use and on efforts related to any indirect impact it might have through the activities of its customers. 5 Table of content Foreword from the Executive Board Introduction IsaDora Corporate Responsibility A final word on our fundamental beliefs 6 SDG goal 6 SDG Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation High-Quality Ingredients With A Purpose 6 The goal is to ensure availability and None of the products contain artificial Clean water and sustainable management of water and fragrances which enable IsaDora to contribute sanitation sanitation for all. to reach target 6.3 by improving water quality. Isadora contributes to this by minimizing From the global indicator framework IsaDora release of hazardous chemicals and materials more specifically focuses on target 6.3. through not using artificial fragrances. Target 6.3 is to improve water quality by 10 reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and Reduced Inequalities materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. What we want 12 We will comply with environmental legislation, thorough ongoing training and monitoring. We Responsible consumption & will work systematically to continually improve production environmental performance within clean water and sanitation, to reduce our impact on the environment and to promote greater 7 environmental responsibility. SDG goal 10 SDG Goal 10: Reduce inequalities Inclusive & supporting environment 6 The goal is to reduce inequality within and Our work with safety and well-being takes place Clean water and among countries. in the work environment. We focus on the sanitation individual employee’s well-being regardless of From the global indicator framework IsaDora location and workplace. more specifically focuses on target 10.2. Furthermore, we celebrate individuality and are Target 10.2 is to empower and promote the working to change industry norms and social, economic and political inclusion of all, 10 irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic or other stereotypical ideals contributing to reach target 10.2 by using all sorts of models irrespective of Reduced Inequalities age, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or status. other status. In this attempt to embrace What we want individuality and beauty we also support Look We will provide our employees with equal Good Feel Better, an organisation that offers opportunities as well as a safe, healthy and nonwomen, who are treated for cancer, free courses 12 discrimination working environment. We will not discriminate in the workplace because of on skin care and makeup. Lastly, we strive to have a highly diversified Responsible consumption & age, sex, race, disability, religion or any other production management team where men and women are discrimination grounds recognized by equally represented. Today 4 out of 7 in our international law. We will only make decisions management are women and thus we are very regarding hiring and employment on the basis proud of this empowerment. 8 of relevant and objective criteria. SDG goal 12 SDG Goal 12: Responsible consumption & Always Striving For Improvement 6 production We make conscious choices by offering veganClean water and The goal is to ensure sustainable consumption friendly products and using plastic sleeves for sanitation and production patterns. all eye and lip products to minimize the damage of products in stores. This will in the long run From the global indicator framework IsaDora reduce the amount of waste in damaged more specifically focuses on target 12.2 & 12.6. products and contribute to reach target 12.2 & Target 12.2 is to achieve sustainable 12.6 by adopting sustainable practices and 10 management and efficient use of natural resources. While 12.6 focuses on adopting integrate more efficient use of natural Reduced Inequalities resources. sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. What we want 12 We will as business support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and Responsible consumption undertake initiatives to promote greater & production environmental responsibility. 9 Table of content Foreword from the Executive Board Introduction IsaDora Corporate Responsibility A final word on our fundamental beliefs 10 A final word on our fundamental beliefs Beliefs How we work IsaDora and all its employees share a common set of beliefs that Our culture is based on a strong work ethic and an under yielding defines us as business. It describes the approach of both dedication to the customer. We are a proud and flexible team that management and each individual towards our customers, business is closely knit, and we keep our feet on the ground. We poses an partners and colleagues across organisational and national unrivalled expertise of our industry and each one of us take our borders. responsibility for our products seriously. Who we are Our heritage We have grown and developed over decades to become the proud Our business is built on in-depth knowledge of the fields we work beauty brand we are today. Our company consist of a bunch of in and long-term relations with our customers. Quality, dedication, creative, nerdy, techy, curious beauty fantasts who love standing happiness and reliability is the focus of our business and the root behind what we do: a cruelty free, fragrance free, clinically tested to maintain a sustainable company. makeup brand that brings out the best in you. 11 Höjdrodergatan 26 212 39 Malmö SWEDEN +46 (0)40 691 50 00 info@isadora.se 12
