TEAM MEMBERS CYBERSECURITY QUALITY TEAM MEMBERS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 President & CEO’s Letter 3 About West 4 Notable Awards External Organization Involvement 5 Our Corporate Responsibility Commitment 6 Materiality 7 Health and Safety 9 Quality 11 Compliance and Ethics 13 Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 14 Team Member Engagement in West's 2019 Focus Weeks 15 Diversity and Inclusion 17 Philanthropy 19 Environmental Sustainability 21 Corporate Sustainability Initiative 22 GRI Index West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. A MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO Everything we do at West supports Sustainability; and Quality. We continue our promise to make a meaningful to support community organizations and difference—for our communities, team programs in each of the areas covered by members, customers, and ultimately for these pillars. In 2019, we were recognized the patients who rely on our products to for our efforts across the six pillars of our help them lead longer and healthier lives. Corporate Responsibility program. Each of We remain dedicated to our commitment of us at West are committed to sustainability, building a diverse and inclusive workforce, and these accolades, from several and to our sustainability efforts aimed influential organizations, are a testament at improving the communities where we to our dedication and progress. live and work. That unwavering focus has Our commitment to building a diverse and enabled us to make a positive impact on inclusive workforce remains a priority, and our society in countless ways. we continue to seek new ways to foster an First and foremost, we are guided by our environment where all individuals are safe, mission to contain and deliver injectable treated fairly and respected, so everyone therapies to our customers and the can feel comfortable to bring their authentic patients we jointly serve across the globe. selves to work every day. As you will see in Delivering on this mission using sustainable this report, we have made progress in our business practices is critical and has been commitment to diversity, and will continue a long-standing imperative at West—from to work hard at creating new opportunities our Board of Directors to the more than for supporting a diverse culture that aligns 8,000 team members across our business with our Company Values, strengthens our worldwide, who are actively dedicated to ability to innovate and contributes to the developing, producing and delivering to our success of our business. customers the highest quality components I am proud of what our One West team has for injectable medicines. It is part of our accomplished thus far and look forward to DNA and we embrace this responsibility our continued progress in the year ahead. and strive to be good stewards in all We recognize there is always more to do, our business decisions—from the raw and as a One West Team, we welcome the materials we use, to our production and challenge to continue improving on the manufacturing techniques, to how we impact we are making, both now and for package and distribute our products. future generations. After outperforming our prior five-year goal targets well ahead of schedule, in 2019 we Sincerely, established a new set of five-year goals, and we are proud of our progress across each of the impact pillars of Compliance and Ethics; Diversity and Talent; Health Eric M. Green and Safety; Philanthropy; Environmental President & CEO 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 ABOUT WEST West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is an S&P 500, award-winning corporation and a leading global manufacturer in the design and 8,000+ GLOBAL production of technologically advanced, high-quality, integrated TEAM MEMBERS containment and delivery systems for injectable medicines. As an important player and trusted partner in the healthcare industry, 1.84B West stands by the side of the world’s top pharmaceutical, biotechnology, generic and medical device companies to improve patient health. IN 2019 NET SALES ($US) Our mission—to contain and deliver testing, device manufacturing and injectable therapies that improve assembly, regulatory expertise patient lives—inspires our team members to deliver high-quality and more. West’s Contract Manufacturing 154 products and services to help PATENTS services offer healthcare partners ISSUED IN 2019 our customers supply life-saving quality, safety and reliability in TO FUEL FUTURE solutions to tens of millions of patients injection molding, contract assembly INNOVATION worldwide, treating diabetes, cancers, and finished packaging services. The hemophilia and other conditions. West Contract Manufacturing team West offers a unique combination serves its partners’ needs by providing of products and services, including proprietary packaging, containment a single-source solution from product conceptualization through 1,900 CUSTOMERS WORKING and drug delivery products, as well manufacturing and final packaging. WITH WEST TO IMPROVE as contract manufacturing, scientific PATIENT LIVES West is headquartered in Exton, insight and technical expertise. Pennsylvania, and supports its West’s products range from stoppers customers from locations in North 25 and seals for injectable packaging and South America, Europe and Asia systems, to self-injection and Pacific. West’s 2019 net sales of reconstitution systems. Some of the $1.84 billion reflect the manufacture MANUFACTURING Analytical Services that West offers of over 100 million components and LOCATIONS include extractables & leachables IN 11 COUNTRIES devices per day. West has more (E&L), particle and container closure than 8,000 team members working AROUND THE GLOBE integrity analysis. Our Integrated at about 50 locations worldwide, Solutions Program combines West’s including 25 manufacturing locations. high-quality packaging and delivery products with our expert analytical 3 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 2019 WEST AWARDS West was honored to be recognized by a number of organizations and industry associations throughout 2019. These awards are a testament to West’s commitment to nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusion, offering innovative products and supporting the communities in which we live and work. Leading Specialists in Employer of the Year Excellence in Enhanced Containment & Delivery Systems Kearney, NE site User Experience Development 2019 NovaGuard® SA Pro Safety System Investor’s Business Daily Excellence in Packaging Design CSR Initiative Award 2019 Top 50 Best Shapes and Structures Dublin, IE Site ESG Companies NovaGuard® SA Pro Safety System Newsweek 2020 America's Most Corporate Social Responsibility Faces of Philanthropy Responsible Companies Programme of the Year Exton Site’s Partnership with Fox West without Borders at Dublin, IE Site Chase Cancer Center EXTERNAL ORGANIZATION INVOLVEMENT West is an active member of several industry, trade and other collaborative organizations, which promotes accountability and helps us stay connected and engaged with others in the industry. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 4 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT West has a long and proud history We believe that West plays a significant of being a trusted partner with top role in making the world a better place, pharmaceutical and biotechnology and we do that through manufacturing companies. As a key member of high-quality products, supporting and the pharmaceutical and healthcare empowering our team members, and industry, we understand it is not only conducting responsible operations important to be by the side of our in the communities where we do customers in delivering lifesaving business. We take this responsibility medicines to patients around the very seriously and never underestimate world, but also important to be by the important role we play in our their side as a good corporate citizen. broader global community. We recognize that this connection is a fundamental element in enabling our customers to achieve their own Sincerely, corporate responsibility objectives. As you read through this Report, we are pleased to share some of the significant Steven G. Walton accomplishments West has achieved Vice President, HSE & Sustainability over the past year, as well as those we aim to achieve over the next four years, MATERIAL ASPECT* according to our 2019 – 2023 goals. Environmental In addition to the ‘What’ West is doing, sustainability we are also sharing our view about the Our people ‘Why’ – and why West is passionate Governance and about Corporate Responsibility. Simply compliance put – it is part of our DNA. It is reflected Access and in the early efforts of our Company, innovation when West started packaging penicillin Our communities for soldiers in World War II. Since it Patient safety first opened its doors in 1923, West Our business has actively worked to address the environmental, economic and social *The matrix to the right needs of our communities, because represents rankings that summarize various material we know it is the right thing to do. aspects as measured by West, as well as their importance to external stakeholders. Use the color key above to see which material aspect each issue impacts. 5 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. MATERIALITY Our Materiality Matrix results are summarized and prioritized in the materiality matrix show below. The matrix features seven different colors, each representing a broader grouping of the identified material topics. The horizontal axis represents the material topics that West perceives to be more important to its success, and the vertical axis represents the material topics that external stakeholders perceive as more important. Marketing practices Talent attraction & retention Access to healthcare Corruption & bribery Innovation management Intellectual property Drug pricing Growth strategy Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting MAJOR Importancetotoexternal external stakeholders Importance stakeholders Climate strategy Water consumption Employee training Philanthropy Hazardous waste Health & safety Community engagement Diversity Human rights Policy influence Environmental policies Code of conduct SIGNIFICANT Social policies Business partner code of conduct Governance policies Data privacy Supply chain management Product quality Engagement & transparency Leadership commitment Risk & crisis management Tax strategy Animal welfare Energy consumption Customer relationship management Non-hazardous waste Energy procurement Emissions Biological waste Research & Development for the Equal remuneration environment MODERATE Compensation MODERATE SIGNIFICANT MAJOR Importance Importanceto to West’s success West’s success 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GOVERNANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our team members has always been West’s top priority. This mindset is supported by our Board of Directors and is led by our President and CEO, Eric Green, who often reiterates his belief that “one incident is one too many.” West’s commitment to the safety of our teams starts at the top and is driven throughout our business by every level of management and by every team member across the globe. We work hard to minimize the risk of incidents, injuries and exposure to health hazards for all team members, visitors and contractors at our sites, and we are committed to designing and operating our facilities to provide a safe and healthy work environment. I’m passionate about the safety of our team members and take it very personally. I’m always thinking about ways to better ensure all our team members are going home safely at the end of their day.” Tony Wong Sr. Manager, Operational Excellence, Asia Pacific 7 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and Several foundational elements resulted in improved Sustainability Policy is displayed prominently at all sites safety include HSE Gemba Walks, Behavior-Based Safety and serves as a visual reminder of our commitment to the Programs, Near-Miss Reporting, as well as enhanced health and safety of our team members and our respect Incident Investigations and Root Cause Analysis. These for the environment. It also reinforces the expectations elements of our HSE Management System are tied to of our team members and visitors: everyone plays a role leading indicators and utilize proactive activities and in our HSE and Sustainability process. controls to help reduce and eliminate accidents. A critical component in maintaining a safe workplace Another successful safety engagement element has been begins with instilling and supporting a culture of safety the addition of HSE Safety Hubs at our manufacturing – each team member understands that they share sites. These Hubs provide a dedicated space for safety the responsibility for safety. To help drive individual relevant activities, such as safety trainings, safety accountability, in 2019 we held our first annual global talks, and a shared computer kiosk for inputting safety Safety Week. Although safety is a focus all year long, this observations. These Safety Hubs are located in high dedicated week gave the opportunity to target specific key traffic areas and serve as another visual reminder of safety safety-related topics, and team member participation in throughout the team members’ day. Safety Week related events and contests was impressive. West’s global HSE Team is also a critical component in To give an idea of the level of involvement of our team leading the safety efforts at our sites. Each manufacturing members, a safety slogan contest run during that week location has dedicated and trained HSE professionals, which resulted in more than 1,100 entries. The winning responsible for general safety oversite at the site. slogan, submitted from a team member in Singapore, was: A Safer Today. A Healthier Tomorrow, which is now used Although our industry is constantly changing, our first in all safety campaigns and communications. priority remains the same – the health and safety of our teams. And we will work to continuously improve our We are proud of our progress. Our HSE Management health and safety procedures and processes across our System, deployed in 2018, continued to deliver great global network, with a goal of further reducing workplace results in 2019, helping us to reduce and eliminate injuries to industry-leading levels, enabling all of our team accidents within our facilities around the world. The members to go home safely at the end of their day. leading (as opposed to lagging) metrics we have put into place are helping to drive down our Recordable Injury Rate (RIR). In 2019, our RIR was 0.7, the lowest rate ever for West, which represents a 66% reduction since 2015. 2019-2023 GOALS • Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) of 0.60 in 2020 • Reduce RIR to under 0.30 by 2023 1 MILLION BODMIN, UK SITE CELEBRATES SRI CITY, INDIA AND ST. AUSTELL, UK SITES CELEBRATE HOURS WITHOUT ANY INJURIES 5 YEARS CELEBRATED AT OUR KINSTON, NC SITE ACCIDENT FREE ZERO SAFETY INCIDENTS IN 2019 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 8 GOVERNANCE QUALITY At West, we are committed to safeguarding the health and safety of the millions of patients who use our products every day. This commitment is anchored in our Core Value of Leadership in Our Patient First Quality, which ensures we never compromise on quality because Focus really helps we know that patients are counting on us. The saying of “Every our team remain Dose, Every Time – 100% Commitment” is visible throughout our focused on Quality. global manufacturing sites, a reminder that supports our constant It’s critical that focus on quality. every team member This focus on quality includes excellence in manufacturing, realizes what they scientific and technical expertise, and management. At the do each day will manufacturing level, this means producing clean, sterile, highimpact the life quality components designed to minimize disruption to the supply of a patient. This chain and to deliver safe, effective drug products to the market— connection helps and to the patient—quickly and efficiently. support our ‘Every Quality product and system controls are designed to ensure Dose, Every Time – compliance with our high standards and applicable cGMP’s, 100% Commitment’ ISO standards and regulatory requirements. mindset.” We continuously work to improve our customer satisfaction scores Reggie Lewis for quality and have established metrics in place to measure our Production Manager, Kinston, NC progress, including: TIMELINESS AND QUALITY OF REDUCTION IN RESPONSE TO CUSTOMERS QUALITY ISSUES ON-TIME REDUCTION OF DEFECT AND OUT DELIVERY OF SPECIFICATION (OOS) RATES 9 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our Out of Specification (OOS) metric, which is OOS Complaints per billion pieces shipped, continues to show steady improvement, with a 2019 OOS score of only 6.6 complaints per billion pieces shipped—our lowest number ever since we commenced tracking this metric. West’s global sites hosted more than 300 customer audits in 2019, receiving less than one major observation per audit, an exceptional result. Our continuously improving quality metrics are a testament Team Members in West’s Sao Paolo, Brazil site sign their to an unrelenting focus on our quality culture, which commitment to Quality connects team members to the patients who ultimately use our products. This culture is driven by our Leadership in Quality Core Value as well as a cadence of Patient First OOS Complaints/Billion Pieces Shipped Focus themed events and communications. West’s Global 15 Quality Week in 2019 continued with this Patient First 12.9 Focus theme, highlighting the importance of data integrity, 12 10.6 and emphasizing the need for our team members to ensure quality in everything we do. 9 8.4 8.9 6.6 Product quality has always been a top focus for West— 6 producing high quality product for our customers and patients is “what” we do. A recent focus has also been 3 on the “how,” which is the quality of our processes. A key metric in monitoring our process quality is Cost 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 of Poor Quality (COPQ), which captures scrap, rejects, rework, customer returns/credits, and yield losses. We realize that our Core Value of Leadership in Quality not only applies to product quality, but to everything that we do—laboratory testing, services, administrative and business process, as well as manufacturing processes. Improving process quality improves COPQ and reduces variations, which in turn improves the quality of the output from the process. This makes the output more predictable, eliminating additional inspections, rework loops and other 2019-2023 GOALS type of mitigation activities to assure product quality is • Year over year 10% reduction in manufacturing achieved. Improving process quality reduces overall risk related defects to West, our customers and the patients we serve. • Customer response rate of 10 days or less • Reduction in OOS Customer Complaints of 10% each year • 15% reduction in the Cost of Poor Quality 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS West recognizes its responsibility to operate with integrity and to proactively identify potential misconduct. We hold ourselves accountable to the highest standards of quality, integrity and West’s support and respect for our team members, our shareholders, our customers, encouragement and the patients we jointly serve. of team members’ In an effort to objectively evaluate our program, in 2019, we ability to share benchmarked our Compliance and Ethics Program against those their concerns of over 150 other companies using a mechanism constructed in creates a positive alignment with guidance issued by the U.S. Department of Justice and trusting and developed by a leading compliance best practices expert. environment. This The results placed West in the 4th Quartile, which is above the 3rd Speak Up culture Quartile benchmark of all companies participating in the program. helps to promote and maintain a CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Helpline, toll free or online, available safe workplace AND INTERNAL EDUCATION 24/7 from anywhere in the world where our values in multiple languages. Our team members live the values and standards are of our ethical culture. They are West carried out its annual Code upheld.” responsible for adhering to our recertification and training process core values as they work together in 2019, which requires team Ira Antonic to support our mission to improve members to review and agree to the Director, Human patient lives. West’s Code of Business Company’s expectations related to Resources, EU Conduct (the “Code”), available in their conduct and submit to training. multiple languages on WestPharma. In 2019, our training completion and com, provides guidance to our team Code recertification rate was 98%, members on appropriate conduct. which is consistent with the high The Code provides several avenues rates we typically see. for team members to report their Transparency is another important concerns without fear of retaliation. component of our operating model. West encourages team members to We create clear expectations for our first address any issues with their team members to enable them to managers, or, seek help from Human achieve success. In 2019, we began Resources, the Compliance & Ethics to simplify our corporate policies to Office, or the Law Department. West ensure they are clear, actionable and also makes available its Integrity easily understood by team members. 11 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Speak Up was the theme for West’s 2019 Compliance & Ethics Week In November 2019, West held its annual Compliance & COMPLIANCE OVERSIGHT Ethics Week, with an emphasis on our Speak Up culture. The Compliance and Ethics program reinforces our core Team members at all sites around the globe engaged in values and supports West’s efforts to build and maintain meaningful discussion surrounding the importance of a responsible business culture. Our Executive Compliance Speaking Up, when and how to raise concerns, and the Oversight Committee (ECOC) is chaired by West’s Chief measures taken to protect from retaliation those team Compliance Officer and includes all members of West’s members who Speak Up in good faith. Our global sites Leadership Team. The ECOC oversees and provides hosted executive and guest speaking events, games, strategic direction for our compliance activities and trainings and small group discussions to help engage ensures regular reporting to the Audit Committee of our our team members on this valuable initiative. Board of Directors. DATA PRIVACY With guidance from the ECOC, our business unit compliance committees support our global compliance West understands its crucial role in securing the personal structure and its corresponding policies and procedures data of team members, customers, business partners and to empower our team members to conduct business with other stakeholders. There are programs and processes in integrity. This comprehensive program is designed to foster place to enable West to adhere to applicable data privacy a consistent approach to conducting business—and a regulations, including the European Union’s General Data practice that supports all parties from team members, Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy customers and other stakeholders to the patients we serve. Act of 2018. Personal data protection will continue to be a key priority for West well into the future. To carry out this mission, in 2019, West increased resources dedicated to its data privacy program and enhanced its privacy processes globally. 2019-2023 GOALS • Augment our anti-corruption program and continue to enhance our oversight of third parties acting on our behalf. • Expand acknowledgements from companies supporting our supply chain of key attributes of our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which include requirements for environmental risk management, compliance with human rights, equal opportunities, occupational health and safety. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 12 GOVERNANCE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program is designed to ensure CYBERSECURITY appropriate Risk Identification and Mitigation, Crisis Management, When it comes to maintaining the highest Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans are in place, linked level of cybersecurity, we recognize that and regularly monitored. This includes active engagement in monitoring our team members are our first line of critical corporate risk factors with Board of Director oversight. defense to keep our critical information Comprehensive risk management is an integral component of West’s safe. Through extensive internal awareness strategy, culture and business operations. Each business function campaigns, we emphasize the importance routinely assesses its risks to determine impacts and controls for of following safe cyber practices so that mitigation which is calibrated with senior executive team reviews we can protect our information assets. In semi-annually. 2019, we continued to enhance awareness of cybersecurity risks with a global West has site level procedures and plans for maintaining and simulated phishing attack and speaker restoring critical business operations to acceptable functionality events in October in conjunction with in the unlikely event of a severe disruption in normal operations. National Cybersecurity Awareness Month Work continues to drive these plans and procedures deeper and in the United States. broader into the organization. We are continuously transforming WEST BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANS INCLUDE: our infrastructure and cybersecurity programs with a strong focus on risk • Scenario considerations for natural disasters, pandemics, suppliers and materials, IT system disruption, tool life cycle management, and social risks mitigation and data protection. One • Descriptions of plant emergency operations initiative completed in 2019 to ensure resiliency of our eCommerce platform • Communication plans to inform Team Members and, when appropriate/ required, business partners in the event of an emergency was a successful disaster recovery test to ensure that the platform would West recognizes that maintaining availability of information technology remain available in the event of regional resources in the wake of a disaster is important to the successful outages. Additionally, to help improve our operations of the company in supporting its business operations, critical cybersecurity effectiveness, we increased applications and infrastructure. The information technology Disaster password length requirements for team Recovery Plan exists for all West global systems and is maintained and members, and implemented Multi-Factor tested by our Digital & Transformation business function. Authentication, Intrusion Detection and We continually assess risks associated with our manufacturing Prevention Systems and other privacy processes. We take an end-to-end view of our supply chain, assessing access controls. The West team has also potential risks and defining elements for risk mitigation, in order to embarked on innovative cybersecurity maintain a continuous supply of products to customers. We also assess improvement projects including the the balance of capacity and demand on a regular basis and take segmentation of West’s network decisions on capacity provision as part of the global S&OP process. architecture, planned infrastructure Many activities, reviews and decisions are made with a focus on refreshes, data center migration to increasing flexibility and exceeding customer expectations in terms of Microsoft Azure and more. service and product delivery. 13 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT IN WEST'S 2019 FOCUS WEEKS QUALITY WEEK – OCTOBER 2019 COMPLIANCE & ETHICS AWARENESS WEEK – NOVEMBER 2019 HEALTH AND SAFETY WEEK – MARCH 2019 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 14 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION A COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY of Directors is comprised of over 25% women. Additionally, four out of the At West, we actively foster an inclusive eleven members of West’s Executive and collaborative culture for our team members where different views Leadership Team (over 35%) are West’s commitment women and/or U.S. minorities. to proactively and perspectives are welcomed and Meanwhile, the population of senior valued. We are convinced that this leaders who are U.S. minorities has attract and retain approach brings forth innovation, grown by more than 10% since 2017. team members learning and growth for our team members on a global basis. We are committed to recruiting and from a variety retaining diverse team members at of backgrounds West prohibits and does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any all levels of the organization who can enables us to team member, customer or service share their varied perspectives on the build a high most complex challenges facing us provider because of age, race, color, performing team, as we work towards a healthier world. religion, sex, ancestry, national origin, Today, 45% of our U.S. workforce working together military service or application, marital comes from minority backgrounds, to bring fresh and status, citizenship status, physical or mental disability, genetic information, compared to 37% in 2017. Also, innovative ideas, sexual orientation, gender identity 37% of our global team members and build are female. While we are proud of the or expression, or other protected a stronger One progress we have made in minority characteristic under applicable laws. and female representation, we West Team.” Over the past several years, West has recognize that there is still room made great strides in including team for improvement and are working on Catherine Lee members from diverse backgrounds Managing Director, a number of initiatives in this area. China in leadership roles across the organization. Today, West’s Board ENGAGING TEAM MEMBERS ON DIVERSITY What makes us different makes us better. Our One West Team is a passionate, diverse group of individuals who bring immeasurably valuable experiences to our workplace. To help retain our talented team members, we are committed to embedding diversity and inclusion goals into our business activities. 15 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Some of these programs include the onboarding of our global team members as they build and support their new team members, management training, succession families, including expanded parental leave, transitional planning, affirmative action plans, recruitment materials leave and alternate work arrangements, an initiative that and global mentoring. has paid dividends as we recently instituted a work from home policy in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2019, West administered a Self-ID campaign, providing team members an avenue to confidentially share their We invest in talent at the early stages of career diversity data, enabling us to better understand the development through our summer Ambassador Internship diversity of our workforce so that we can continue to Program, which is designed to introduce students and implement strategies, programs (such as our Employee recent graduates to our West culture. This program has Business Resource Groups), and other initiatives that resulted in the hire of 68 full-time team members since best support our culture of diversity. the program’s inception. West team members have the opportunity to join Our recruiting strategy focuses on diversity, with Employee Business Resource Groups (EBRGs) that spark success measures in place to ensure we are attracting connections across our global sites and cultivate career and hiring diverse talent to drive business success. growth. In 2019, we expanded our EBRG structure to In 2019, almost 40% of all hires within the U.S. came include two new EBRGs—Multinational Organization from a minority background. Supporting an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), dedicated to embracing multiculturism and intersectionality of all team LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT members, and Veterans & Allies Leading for Organizational At West, we strongly encourage our team members Results (VALOR), focused on helping veterans achieve their to engage in continuous learning, and we provide full potential at West. In addition, our Women’s Initiatives development opportunities and build talent from within. Network (WIN) EBRG has continued to expand and We are proud to offer resources like our online Learning develop leadership opportunities for both women and men Management System, in-person and virtual trainings at West, with active chapters in the United States, Brazil, and tuition reimbursement to our team members. In Singapore, Germany, France and Ireland. 2019, several initiatives were implemented to support development of our One West Team: In 2019, West was proud to sponsor and participate in a diversity fireside chat at West Chester University, a school • Extended access to West’s online performance local to West’s global headquarters. This event highlighted management process for all production employees leaders who have overcome challenges in their career path • Increased virtual classroom offerings and gave West the important opportunity to promote and • Continued our global manager training program support diversity education in the community. with its second edition RECRUITING AND RETAINING TALENT Our learning and development programs include continued diversity education, with 2019 global trainings focused Our focus on talent acquisition, performance management, on Recognizing, Preventing and Reporting Harassment, resource planning and leadership assessment are strongly Discrimination and Retaliation, as well as Promoting aligned with our diversity and inclusion strategies. We Mutual Respect. understand that diversity leads to greater innovation, more opportunities, better access to talent and stronger business performance. Additionally, we are continuously striving to provide a more flexible work environment to help retain 2019-2023 GOALS • Increase our ability to attract, develop, and retain underrepresented talent at all levels of the OVER 35% organization, with a particular focus on women • Deepen culture competence to enhance inclusivity OF WEST’S C-SUITE COMPRISED OF WOMEN AND/OR US MINORITIES in the workplace 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PHILANTHROPY Philanthropy is a cornerstone of West’s culture. It anchors our purpose of standing by the side of our customers to help make a difference in our global community. Since our beginnings -97 years ago, West has fostered a culture of giving to support the communities where we live and work. Our One West Team embraces philanthropy every day by making generous donations of time and resources to contribute to a healthier world. Their enthusiastic commitment powers our philanthropic programs and enables us to amplify our impact in our local communities. I’m so thankful to work for a Company like West which has such a strong commitment to giving back. My ability to take part in so many volunteer and giving opportunities enables me to not only build closer relationships with my fellow team members, but importantly, to truly make a difference in the lives of others within my local community.” Haley Boardman Sr. Specialist, Marketing Operations Exton, PA 17 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS West targets philanthropic activities and local charities We care for our communities and we care for our team to those that align with our mission in the focus areas members in need. In 2019 West started a new initiative of: children, people with disabilities, healthcare, and – the West Employee Emergency Fund, created to assist education (with a focus on STEM – Science, Technology, team members who are facing financial hardship as Engineering and Math). The Company’s charitable a result of an unforeseen event, like a natural disaster, giving framework is separated into three tiers: Corporate home fire, death in the family and more. In our inaugural Giving through direct charitable gifts made by West Employee Emergency Fund campaign, team members Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.; the Herman O. West donated approximately $130,000 to support their Foundation, an independently managed 501(c)(3) colleagues. The Herman O. West Foundation matched entity, which awards scholarships and matching gifts; these donations 2-1, and West contributed an additional and West without Borders*, our team member-led giving $100,000. So far, 25 grants totaling approximately program that has raised millions of dollars since its $50,000 have been distributed to team members inception in 2004. in every region where West operates. In 2019, Corporate and Foundation giving reached In 2019, West continued its support of the American approximately $2.1 million, with more than 200 charities Red Cross with the purchase of an Emergency Response supported globally. Our teams continue to answer the Vehicle (ERV) that will help with their national healthcare needs of our communities. West Teams giving totaled and emergency response efforts. nearly $565,000, a 9.5% increase over 2018. One proud In recognition of our commitment to philanthropy, West accomplishment from our 2019 West without Borders was proud to receive several Corporate Responsibility giving efforts was our fourth annual Global Food Drive, in Awards in 2019. Notably, West was awarded with a Faces which every West site collected food for local food banks of Philanthropy award from the Philadelphia Business and soup kitchens. In 2019, team members collected a Journal, honoring our ongoing partnership with Fox Chase record amount of more than 65,000 pounds of food, up Cancer Center. At West, we look forward to continuing 17% from 2018. to nurture our team members’ philanthropic spirit and With the expansion of our volunteer programming in 2019, implementing new philanthropic initiatives in support of team members also had the opportunity to donate their our local communities. time. Almost 100% of our global sites organized at least one group volunteer event in 2019, totaling over 8,000 team member volunteer hours. 2019-2023 GOALS • Achieve 100% site participation in annual *West without Borders is not affiliated with Doctors Without Borders®, philanthropic campaigns which is a registered service mark of Bureau International de Medecins San Frontieres. $ 2.1 MILLION NEARLY $565K OVER 65K POUNDS IN CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION DONATED BY WEST TEAM MEMBERS OF FOOD COLLECTED BY TEAM GIVING IN 2019 IN 2019 MEMBERS AT OUR ANNUAL GLOBAL FOOD DRIVE IN 2019 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 18 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ACTIONS West believes that, as a global organization, we have a duty and obligation to contribute to a sustainable future and that each of The energy us, working together, can make a difference. While we know that management sound environmental practices make good business sense, the program is a underlying reasons behind our commitment are the many benefits key cornerstone these practices provide to our communities, now and for future to West’s generations. As a company with the mission to improve patient sustainability health, it stands to reason that we are equally committed to commitment and a sustained investment in creating a healthier environment. reducing our impact on the environment. Our Sustainability Program is designed In late 2019, we entered a partnership It makes me proud to target reductions in areas where to begin a test recycling program with to support our local we feel we can make the greatest the goal to implement this program teams and their impact: CO2 emissions, waste and in multiple West U.S. manufacturing commitment to increased recycling, as well as energy sites in 2020. Our Jersey Shore, PA and water usage. Although we manage site was the first to begin recycling this program and a our Program at a global level, each of 100% of its rubber scrap, and by better environment.” West’s manufacturing sites are also 2021, we plan to expand this initiative working hard to make improvements across our network of manufacturing Niall Darcy in areas where they can make a sites. West’s six Contract Director, Global Facilities Energy, difference in their community. Each Manufacturing sites recycled 98% of Waterford, Ireland West facility collaborates and shares their waste in 2019. All of these efforts the ideas, methods and lessons have resulted in a 15% recycling they've learned, from energy efficiency improvement over 2018, decreasing projects, to Kaizen energy events to our waste-to-landfill total to 48%, the measurement and verification of which is in line with the reductions savings. This collaborative effort has we need to obtain to achieve our shown improved results in all areas of 5-year goal set for 2023. our Program. 19 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ALIGNMENT WITH UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2019, we realized a 3.03% improvement in energy WEST'S 2019 RESULTS efficiency over 2018—on target against the goal of improving energy efficiency by 15% over 5 years. Our absolute CO2 emissions have also improved. West has a goal of reducing our absolute CO2 emission by 10% over 5 98% OF WASTE RECYCLED AT WEST’S years. We reduced our absolute CO2 emissions 1.46% in CONTRACT MANUFACTURING 2019 compared to 2018. We have improved our Carbon SITES IN 2019 Disclosure Project rating by no less than 500 basis points each year since we began reporting in 2013 and achieved our highest ever rating in 2019. We have also increased our environmental score with ISS (Institutional Shareholder 3.03% Services, Inc.), a leading provider of governance and ENERGY IMPROVEMENT OVER 2018 responsible investment solutions to the global financial community. In addition, in 2019, we maintained our Gold Standard from EcoVadis, a leader in sustainability ratings, placing us in the top 5% of reporting companies. 1.46% REDUCTION IN ABSOLUTE As a testament to our continued commitment to EMISSIONS sustainability, in 2019 West was honored to achieve several accolades, including being named as one of Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies as well as a Top 50 ESG Company by Investor’s Business Daily. 3.99% REDUCTION IN ABSOLUTE WATER COMSUMPTION 17.3% IMPROVEMENT IN WASTE-TOLANDFILL OVER THE PREVIOUS YEAR, BRINGING OUR GLOBAL WASTE DIVERSION RATE TO 52% 2019-2023 GOALS • Improve energy efficiency by 15% • Reduce absolute emissions by 10% • Reduce water consumption by 10% • Reduce waste-to-landfill by 90% 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 20 ALIGNING WITH THE UNGC CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE West is pleased to align our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. Corporate sustainability starts with a value system and a principles-based approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a responsible Company, we enact the same values and principles wherever we have a presence. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, we are not only upholding our basic responsibilities to people and the planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. Our five-year corporate responsibility goals, running from 2019-2023, align with our Company’s strategy as well as an alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Corporate and organizational success requires stable economies and healthy, skilled and educated workers, which in turn increases brand trust and investor support. UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 21 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. REPORTING INFORMED BY GRI STANDARDS 2019 GRI INDEX The index below references information related to the disclosure from the Global Reporting Index (GRI). 2019 2018* (CONT.) 2019 2018* GRI 302-1 – ENERGY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION GRI 305-4 – GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY Fuel consumption by type (non-renewable) Revenue / net sales ($MMUSD) 1,840 1,717 Scope 1 (Thermal) (MJ) 579,959,202 589,082,074 Absolute GHG Emissions 1,187 1,204 (100's Tons CO2) Scope 1 (Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (MJ) 4,674,695 3,664,727 Emissions Intensity 0.65 0.70 Energy Consumed (non-renewable) GRI 305-5 – REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS*** Scope 2 (Electrical) (MJ) 938,724,891 957,290,229 Procurement of Green Energy 13,643 18,914 Energy Consumed (renewable) (Tons CO2) (Scope 1) Energy Management / Solar Energy Consumed (MJ) 3.6 466 0 Facilities Projects TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MJ) 1,523,358,791 1,550,037,030 (Scope 2) Energy Management / 1,635 0 Facilities Projects GRI 302-3 – ENERGY INTENSITY TOTAL 15,744 18,914 Revenue / net sales ($USD) 1,839,900,000 1,717,400,000 GRI 306-3 – WASTE GENERATED Total Energy Consumption (MJ) 1,523,358,791 1,550,037,030 Total Weight of Waste Generated (lbs.) 24,950,000 25,450,000 Scope 2 (Electrical) (MJ) 0.83 0.90 GRI 306-4 – WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL GRI 302-4 – REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED AS A DIRECT RESULT OF CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES Total Weight of Waste Diverted From 12,974,000 10,943,500 Disposal (lbs.) Scope 1 (Gas) (MJ) 9,675,307 GRI 403-9 – WORK-RELATED INJURIES Scope 2 (Electrical) (MJ) 18,134,546 Work-related Injuries for All Employees GRI 303-3 – WATER WITHDRAWAL The number of fatalities as a result of Total Water Withdrawal (Gal.) 240,622,000 250,504,000 0 0 work-related injury GRI 305 – 1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS The rate of recordable work-related 0.70 0.82 injuries Scope 1 (Gas) 27,987 29,698 The rate of recordable work-related (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) 0.33 0.39 injuries with lost time Scope 1 (Distillate Fuel Oil 4) 274.3 349.9 (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) GRI 302-2 – INDIRECT DIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS Scope 2 (Electrical) 106,165 109,302 (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) * West's baselines are based on 2018 Scope 1&2 Energy consumption data and 2018 absolute CO2 emissions. This baseline was chosen as 2018 is the starting year of the 5 year goals with the most up-to-date and accurate information to help establish a firm baseline. ** The boundary of the reporting is aligned with the EU/AP/US global operations for both Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2 including manufacturing sites and associated offices. Regional sales offices and administration facilities are excluded. *** Emission factors conversion source: The Climate Registry, US EPA, USA EPA egrid, International Energy Agency (IEA) 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 22 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 530 Herman O. West Drive Exton, PA 19341 | USA Copyright © 2020 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 11439 • 0720 All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. or its subsidiaries, in the United States and other jurisdictions, unless noted otherwise.
