General Affairs Dept., Corporate Infrastructure Division 2-2-13, Fujinoki, Itami City, Hyogo 664-0847, Japan Tel: +81-72-789-9101 Fax: +81-72-773-3270 https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/ Publishing date: July 2020* The names of products, services and other items in this brochure are trademarks *It is English version published. or Japanese registered trademarks of Toyo Tire Corporation Japanese version was published in June 2020. TOYO TIRE will Shape the Future On August 1, 2020, TOYO TIRE will mark the 75th anniversary of its foundation. We will take this opportunity to expand the reach of our unique presence over the next 25 years as we move toward our centennial anniversary, with each and every employee continuing to challenge themselves. Philosophy Editorial Policy Company Philosophy Our Fundamental Values: “The TOYO WAY” When confirming the content and quality of this report, some of the GRI Standards, established by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and published in 2016 or 2018, were used as reference. And we have finalized the boundaries of the content and the items in this report, taking into We will endeavor to continuously improve our products, and Fairness consideration factors including the organization’s activities, their impact, and substantial expectations and interest of stakeholders. create value for everyone who we work with. Be fair and selfless in one’s actions to benefit society. Items that are thought to have a substantial impact on the economy, the environment, and society and could have a practical impact on the Pride evaluation and decision-making of stakeholders have been positioned as the “material aspect (materiality)” and are reported under the title “TOPIC.” Take pride in one’s self, work and company, and to persevere. Our Mission Initiative ● Topic Boundaries: 38 Group Companies* (as of the end of April 2020) To create excitement and surprise with our products that Show initiative in all matters, and take ownership of one’s *Toyo Tire Corporation and the group companies (consolidated subsidiaries) exceed customer expectations and enriches society. actions. ● Setting the Organizations Name in This Report: Toyo Tire Corporation → “Toyo Tire Corporation”, all group companies → “TOYO Appreciation TIRE” or “the group”, the each company of the group → each company name, all group companies affiliated with TOYO TIRE Demonstrate sincere compassion and appreciation for people HOLDINGS OF AMERICAS INC. → “TTHA group”, all group companies affiliated with TOYO TIRE EUROPE GMBH→ “TTE group” Our Vision and society. ● Reporting Period: From January 2019 to December 2019 *More recent information is included in some parts of the report. Solidarity Our goal is to be a company that: ● Reporting Cycle: Once a year (Previous Publish: June 2019) Continuously advance creativity and innovation by working Stays one step ahead of the future through constant technological ● Approve the Report by the governance body: Executive Committee approved the report in June 2020 together to mobilize our corporate knowledge and capabilities. innovation; ● Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report: Toyo Tire Corporation General Affairs Dept., Corporate Infrastructure Division Drives entrepreneurial and creative spirit through a progressive * This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. culture; and ** Information may differ from that previously announced as changes have been made to the scope of some of the data collected. Shares in the enjoyment felt by everyone involved in our activities. CONTENTS 01 Philosophy 09 Value chain & SDGs 25 Priority Theme 5 Harmony with Local Communities The website version provides 02 Editorial Policy 11 Priority Theme 1 27 Priority Theme 6 the details of this PDF version. Product and Service Reliability and Innovation Creation of Safe and Healthy Workplaces 03 Business Impact of TOYO TIRE 16 Priority Theme 2 29 Priority Theme 7 WEBSITE Contribution to the Global Environment Reinforcement of Corporate Governance and Complianc https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/ 05 Message from the President 20 Priority Theme 3 33 Fiscal 2019 CSR Activities Summary Respect for Human Rights and Diversity / Third-Party Opinion on the TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 <GRI Content Index> 07 CSR Policy 23 Priority Theme 4 https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/pdf/gristd̲en.pdf Collaboration with Business Partners 01 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 02 Bringing a New Way of Driving Toyo Tire has deployed its mobility business in over 100 countries and regions, including North America, Asia, and Europe. from TOYO TIRE to the World With our eyes on the “mobility society” of the future, Business Impact of TOYO TIRE we are aiming to further strengthen our global network. Business Profile Company Outline (As of the end of 2019) The bases that have significant impact on the local area (Manufacturing/R&D) Our primary business, which accounts for more than 80% of net Company Name: Toyo Tire Corporation Consolidated Subsidiaries: Japan sales, is the production of automotive tires in Japan, the U.S., Headquarters: 2-2-13, Fujinoki, Itami City, Hyogo, Toyo Tire Corp., 43 subsidiaries, 11 affiliated companies, Toyo Tire Corporation (Headquarters) Malaysia, and China. 664-0847, Japan and 1 other affiliated company. Manufacturing base R&D base With the aim of optimizing operations in the tire production Paid-in capital: 55,935 million yen * Entities subject to consolidated financial statements: 41 consolidated Sendai Plant, Kuwana Plant, Corporate Technology Center subsidiaries, 4 Affiliates accounted for by the equity method system in the future, we have plans to reinforce production Hyogo Manufacturing Complex Tire Technical Center Number of Employees*: 11,840 (1,292) ** Please refer to the securities report for economic performance in fiscal 2019. capacity and construct new production bases in the U.S. and Automotive Parts Technical Center Consolidated Subsidiaries Number of Employees by Geographic Segment: <Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain> (Manufacturing base) Malaysia, and reinforce production facilities for truck and bus Japan 5,201 (908) The Toyo Tire Group liquidated Sendai Service Co., Ltd. and Kuwana Fukushima Rubber Co., Ltd., tires in Japan. Americas 2,125 (381) Service Co., Ltd. in December 2019 for business downsizing, and Toyo Soflan Co., Ltd., Asia/Oceania 4,391 (2) dissolved Nitto Japan Co., Ltd. and Nitto Tire Canada Inc. in January Ayabe Toyo Rubber Co., Ltd <Business Strategic Brands> Europe 123 (1) 2020 for business integration. Also, the air suspension business for truck and bus tires will be TOYO TIRE, NITTO, SILVERSTONE * The information of entities included in the consolidated financial statements separated from Toyo Tire Corporation and Toyo Chemical Industrial Americas ** Number of people in parentheses is Temporary Employees Products Co., Ltd. by the end of June 2020. As a result, structures of Country where group companies are established America, Canada, Mexico In addition, we manufacture automotive parts that make use of relevant organizations and their supply chains, as well as terms of contracts with business partners, will be different in 2020 and beyond. Americas Tire Business Management our proprietary vibration control technology, such as automobile TOYO TIRE HOLDINGS OF AMERICAS INC. anti-vibration rubber, in Japan, the U.S., China, and Thailand. upply o f h i g h p e r fo r m a n c e t i r e s ent ar y s Manufacturing base R&D base lem Co m p TOYO TIRE NORTH AMERICA MANUFACTURING INC. North America R&D Center TOYO AUTOMOTIVE PARTS (USA), INC. TMM (USA), INC. on to Serbian plant for E f pr oducti urop er o ean Tra nsf ma rke ts US plant Asia/Oceania Country where group companies are established European Plant China, Malaysia, Thailand, Australia ns i g n e d p r o d u c t ion Phase V Expansion for pick-up trucks/large SUVs r co Manufacturing base s fe 1st step: +1.2 million tires* (Production started in April 2019) New production plant in Serbia 5 million high performance tires (Production start in Tr a n Japanese plant 2nd step: +1.2 million tires* (Production start in January 2021) TOYO TIRE ZHANGJIAGANG CO., LTD. (China) TOYO TIRE (ZHUCHENG) CO., LTD. (China) TOYO AUTOMOTIVE PARTS (GUANGZHOU) CO., LTD. (China) January 2022) Chinese plant TBR (Actual number of tires for trucks/buses) Expansion in Kuwana plant Ensure stable brand position in pick-up trucks/SUVs/CUVs category. TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD SILVERSTONE BERHAD Enhancing supplies mainly for Europe, and Promote local production TOYO RUBBER CHEMICAL PRODUCTS (THAILAND) LIMITED +0.2 million tires (Production start in July 2020) current business areas, such as Russia, the for local consumption. R&D base Middle East and Africa. Enhancing product proposal skills. TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD Transfer consigned New Global Europe Country where group companies are established Malaysian plant production Supply Strategy Germany, UK, Netherlands, Italy, Russia European Tire Business Management Phase II Expansion for SUVs/passenger vehicles TOYO TIRE EUROPE GMBH (Germany) 1st step: +2.4 million tires* (Production start in October 2019) for 2023 Manufacturing base R&D base *Converted to the number of tires for passenger ** Please refer to our homepage for “Growth TOYO TIRE SERBIA D.O.O BEOGRAD European R&D Center vehicles in Serbia, Malaysia, and US. Improve flexibility as a global hub. Strategy for Next Corporate Stage” included the new global supply strategy. ■Net Sales by Business Segment (2019) ■Net Sales by Geographic Segment (2019) ■Percent of Tire Production Volume (New Rubber) ■Composition Ratio of Tire Sales Numbers by Geographic Segment (2019) by Geographic Segment (2019) Other （Automobile parts etc., Other North America Tires Japan 28.5 % Including Original 88.2% Adjustment amount） 30.1 % Equipment 332,838 million yen 11.8 % 113,473 million yen 70.1 thousand tons 17.1 % Japan Net Sales 44,618 Net Sales Total Production Volume 22% North America million yen 39% 377,457 377,457 245.6 Other Areas 10% million yen North America Japan thousand tons million yen Asia Replacement Other Areas 52.4 % 53.2 % 18.3 % 82.9 % Southeast 17.5 % Asia Europe 197,698 million yen 11% 18% 130.6 thousand tons 44.9 thousand tons 66,286 million yen 03 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 04 Message from the President In FY2020, we began drawing up a new medium-term business plan that will start in 2021, with this growth strategy future issues of our CSR Reports and elsewhere we will explain to our stakeholders the management targets of TOYO at its foundation. At the same time, we will work on the TIRE’s SDGs during the period of the new medium-term creation of a future mobility society by making the most of business plan and our unique value creation narratives for cutting edge technologies, while providing attractive products realizing them. globally as we constantly stay ahead of the market. While working to promote and develop the auto industry and stimulate a rich automobile culture, we will focus on Toyo Tire Corporation will celebrate the 75th anniversary of TOYO TIRE Proudly Supports solutions to numerous social issues, including the environment its foundation in August 2020. This could not have been and human rights, by contributing to the establishment of a possible without the most generous support from all of a Rich Mobility Society through its Business sound value chain. our stakeholders, for which I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude. After the start of this year, the COVID-19 has spread Sharing the Same Sustainability Goals in 2019 across the world at an alarming rate. Restrictions on the With the change of company name to Toyo Tire Corporation in as we tap into our agility and flexibility and fully optimize our The UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) have movement of people have divided and slowed down the January 2019, we made a fresh start as a business entity resources. Delivering diverse values to society through business become a globally standard business rule for achieving global economy, which in turn is disrupting the global centered on mobility. As a member of a business group with management we believe this is our corporate mission. long-term economic growth. Demonstrating what form of society. Although there is still no telling what will happen “tire” in its name, each and every employee proudly supports sustainability we wish to realize in the mobile society and next, we will use the pandemic as a learning experience to the mobility society as they work toward its betterment with a seeking solutions to this challenge We believe this to be a make efforts to enhance our staying power for the future, sense of responsibility. Setting the New Growth Strategy managerial issue of paramount importance. including re-constructing the foundation of supply chains, The mobility industry is at a significant inflection point. as the Backbone of the Mid-term Plan In March 2019, we announced TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, which reinforcing the framework for global cooperation and Seeing an opportunity in this time of change, TOYO TIRE aims Now, you may ask, what is TOYO TIRE’s biggest unique we must address to achieve the ideal state of our business in synergy, and establishing new ways of working. to be a company whose presence is genuinely needed by the strength? I would say it is our “presence in the differentiated 2030. All 14 goals thus set involve social issues that the Toyo Everyone at the Toyo Tire Group is determined to overcome public and keeps taking on challenges for survival. area of specialty.” Tire Group intends to confront and find solutions to for the this difficulty as they continue to challenge themselves. I hope In the Growth Strategy for the Next Corporate Stage, which sake of sustainability, including climate change, demographic that you will continue to have high expectations of us. Your was published in August 2019, we declared that our key policy Delivering Value changes, and technological progress. kind support in this regard will be much appreciated. would be to further enhance our existing strengths. In order to of Unique Strengths to Society As we go about achieving TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, the Toyo Tire expand and increase the supply of our competitive, Group will make maximum use of its resources. If there is About 15 years ago, we opened a new tire production plant high-performance large-diameter tires, we will further ramp June 2020 anything that is not available within the Group, we will use our in the U.S. With the introduction of our proprietary production up capacity at the existing plants that underpin our North ingenuity and efforts by relying on our unique approach of method, the plant gave rise to tough and aggressively America business. “turning the weakness of not having everything into a designed large-diameter tires, a standard which met the In Europe, on the other hand, with a new tire plant currently strength” to make up for what is missing by reinforcing expectations of car-enthusiast Americans. It was a case of under construction in Serbia, we will expedite local production partnerships, reducing business risks, or constructively us locating the latent need in the market and becoming the for domestic consumption there and complement supplies to expanding business opportunities. first to materialize the yet unmet demand. Now TOYO TIRES the North American, Middle Eastern, and African markets. We After the announcement of TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, we have and NITTO are enjoying high popularity as some of the also hope to conduct significant renovations on our tire plants engaged in dialogues with each organization and Group leading brands of tires for professional-grade SUVs, the in Japan. Other key projects in the new growth strategy company by taking advantage of every available prevailing vehicles in North America, to become an integral include the establishment of the “R&D Global Tripolar System opportunity. In so doing, we try to spread the part of the automobile culture in the U.S. (for strengthening R&D at the three poles of Japan, North understanding of our SDGs within the Group by explaining The Toyo Tire Group may not be among the largest tire America, and Europe),” which is designed to improve the background leading to their establishment and the manufacturers in scale, but we have opted for a strategy technological development prowess and the enhancement of rationale behind the need for us to work on them. We hope to expand business by “leveraging our unique strengths” the overall levels of our sales capability on a global basis. that everyone in the Toyo Tire Group will have a better understanding of our ultimate goal of raising our corporate value, while examining how our business can address global issues and requests from our stakeholders. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2020: The Year to Prepare To our stakeholders: for Actions to Take in the Next Decade I am pleased to confirm that Toyo Tire Corp. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global In 2020, we will start preparing a master plan that our Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. management should follow for the remaining decade In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global (2021-2030) to achieve TOYO TIRE’s SDGs in 2030. In Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this order to eliminate the bottlenecks that were identified in information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. the dialogues within the Group last year, we are in the Sincerely yours, process of developing a new framework for enhancing an June 2020 awareness-raising campaign and monitoring progress in activities by each organization. Representative Director Takashi Shimizu and President Representative Director and President, Toyo Tire Corporation This year, we are supposed to draw up a new medium-term business plan. Given the fact that TOYO TIRE’s SDGs present integrated goals for the Group’s business and sustainability, in 05 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 06 CSR Policy Promote Sustainability (History) Stakeholder Engagement TOYO TIRE identifies stakeholders who have a major direct or contribute to enriching society. 2014 Established Basic Policy indirect impact at each stage of the value chain. We consider the Through our opportunities for engagement with stakeholders, impact on the evaluation and decision-making of all stakeholders we strive to be accountable by communicating information TOYO TIRE seeks to remain a company admired by individuals and society, and examine the priority issues. accurately and clearly. each member keenly aware of their “Connection” with society. The significance of the Group in society is that we not only And we also check if we are providing business partners and solve the issues requested by our stakeholders, customers with not only products and services, but also the Identified 7 Priority Themes & Ideal Status in 2020 but we also create surprise and new discoveries for society and excitement that exceeds their expectations through our various work. Priority Themes Ideal Status in 2020 1. Product and Service Reliability Providing eco-friendly products and and Innovation services founded on high quality and safety 2. Contribution to the Global Environment Promoting environmental management on a Group-wide basis Employees/ Co-R&D/ Diverse employees actively working in an environment Business Partners/ 3. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity with a global sense of human rights Customers 4. Collaboration with Business Partners Entire supply chain engaging in CSR activities 5. Harmony with Local Communities Contributing to local community development while responding to stakeholders’ voices 1 Product and Service Reliability and Innovation Engagement Policy 6. Creation of Safe and Healthy Workplaces With priority given to safety, promoting the creation of Responding to changes in the business workplaces that ensure well-being and security environment and social needs will create Local Communities/ Employees delight and surprise in our stakeholders Environment/ Creation of Safe Contribution 6 7. Reinforcement of Corporate Engaging in business activities with integrity 2 beyond their expectations. Customers Governance and Compliance while constantly improving management transparency and Healthy to the Global Main Approach Workplaces Surveys, Customer satisfaction Environment The accelerating changes of business environment surveys, Hotline, Meeting 2014-2017 → It has become clear the emerging social issues. Engagement Policy Engagement Policy As the responsibility of the We recognize the impact of our company to all of its stakeholders, business on society and will share we will ensure safety and security the rich blessings from the earth with in our business activities. TOYO TIRE our stakeholders into the future. 2017 Extracted four priority issues for our sustainability Main Approach Main Approach Committee, Meeting, Hotline Reinforcement of Interview ● Responding to climate change ● Responding to human rights and anti-corruption 7 Corporate Governance and Compliance Engagement Policy ● Responding to the responsibility for sustainable procurement We recognize our responsibility Harmony with ● Setting and achievement of TOYO TIRE’s SDGs (Ideal Status in 2030) 5 3 toward our various stakeholders Local and will ensure transparency in Respect for Human Communities management and will pursue Rights and Diversity fairness within the organization. Engagement Policy Engagement Policy 2018 Established the WG for promoting sustainability Through dialogue and collaboration We will fulfill our responsibility to with stakeholders, we aim to respect human rights through our resolve social issues and develop business activities and aim for a society Executive Committee WG for promoting 4 SDGs WG local communities by making use of in which all stakeholders can play an Collaboration with active role with diverse values. the Group’s resources. Related departments sustainability Environment WG Main Approach Business Partners Main Approach Employees/ Interview Engagement Policy Surveys, Interview, Meeting, at each site *Responsibility: Vice President of Local Communities/ Hotline Local Communities/ Corporate Headquarters Human Rights & Labor WG Environment The entire supply chain will engage with diversifying social Business Partners Related departments *Secretariat: Corporate Supply Chain WG issues, as well as achieve of group companies Infrastructure Division sustainable procurement. Cooperation Main Approach *Names of some institutions are ones at the end of April 2020 Briefing, Surveys, Hotline, Meeting 2019 Established New Global Human Rights & Labor Policy Indirectly Established New Global Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery policy Business Partners/ Stakeholders Revised of CSR Procurement Guidelines (Included the Sustainable Procurement Local Communities Shareholders and Investors/ Policy for Natural rubber) Creditors/Local Communities/NGOs/ Directly Set “TOYO TIRE’s SDGs” (to achieve by 2030) *See P9-10 Government/Business organizations Stakeholders Main Approach Expressed the support for the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact. General Meeting of Stockholders, Disclosure of Information on Website, Surveys, Interview 07 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 08 Value Chain & SDGs TOYO TIRE identifies stakeholders who have a major direct or indirect impact at each stage of the value chain. We consider the impact on the evaluation and decision-making of all stakeholders and examine the priority issues. Raw Materials/ R&D Manufacturing Logistics/Sale Use/Waste The significance of the Group in society is that we not only solve the issues requested by our stakeholders, but we also create surprise and new Purchasing Recycling Value Chain Corporate discoveries for society and contribute to enriching society. Through our opportunities for engagement with stakeholders, we strive to be accountable by communicating information accurately and clearly. And we also check if we are providing business partners and customers with not only products and services, but also the excitement that exceeds their expectations through our various work. Priority Themes TOYO TIRE's Opportunities and Risks with Respect to Global Issues TOYO TIRE's SDGs We will contribute to widespread of mobilities that will be enable social participation Raw Materials/ by using higher functionality technologies. Purchasing: Resource depletion R & D: We will contribute to progress of mobilities by focusing on adding of value of products and R & D: by climate change ・･Social Social inclusion inclusion technologies. Product and and increasing ・･Advancement Advancement of We will contribute to the mobility industry efforts that will adapt to climate change and aim to demand user ofuserneeds needs Service mitigate the influence by climate change by innovations. ・･Climate Climate risks risks Reliability include transition include transition We will contribute to sustainable resource recycling through optimization of resource utilization and Innovation risks and risks and physical physical and improvement of product durability. risks risks Use: Traffic demand increase We will contribute to realize the safe and secure mobility society through implementing safety awareness and supporting for improving maintenance skills. Sustainable Development Raw Materials/ Waste Recycling: We will contribute to improve resource usage efficiency including water and energy through Purchasing: Manufacturing/Logistics/Sale: Resource depletion promoting to upgrade of equipment and operation on manufacturing sites. Contribution to Resource depletion ･Climate transition risks by climate change and by climate change ･Resource depletion by climate change and increasing demand the Global and increasing increasing demand We will contribute to promote the use of renewable energy in the region to increase renewable Environment demand energy share of energy used at manufacturing sites. We will contribute to promote local employment and to develop and stabilize the local economy Logistics/Sale: by strengthening global network. Market stabilization, Sustainable growth We will contribute to create a society where diverse peoples are able to get equal opportunities and Respect for play an active role by providing work environment that employees can continue to challenge with Human Rights peace of mind. and Diversity Corporate: ･Ensuring stable of talent ･Mainstreaming of SDGs We will contribute to create a society where SDGs become mainstream through developing human resources to support sustainable development of the world. of TOYO TIRE and Community Raw Materials/ Logistics/Sale: Purchasing: Building a We will contribute to create a society where ethical consumption is standardized by building Building a sustainable Collaboration with a sustainable supply chain through cooperation with stakeholders. sustainable supply chain Business Partners supply chain We will contribute to develop the whole world economy steadily by improving regional education Corporate: Market stabilization, Sustainable growth Harmony with and culture level through deployment of our resources. Local Communities Manufacturing/Logistics/Sale: We will contribute to create a society where everyone are able to work safety and healthy though Utilization of diverse human resources smartness -development and introduction of technologies that reduce the human load, Creation of Safe and and technology e.g. AI and IoT. Healthy Workplaces Corporate: Responding to the social changes (climate change impacts, etc.) Reinforcement of We will contribute to minimize social impact of extreme weather phenomena derived from climate Corporate change by building a robust value chain. Governance and Value Chain: Business globalization and borderless Compliance 09 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 10 Priority Theme 1 Product and Responding to the Quality Standards of Management Approach Quality Assurance Service Reliability Each Country Policies Against the background of, for example, climate change and and Innovation TOYO TIRE states as its manufacturing principle that we will Improving the Quality of the Development & Productive Proces expanding demand for mobility resulting from population increase in emerging countries and economic expansion, more and more “strive for the highest level of quality, safety, and societal benefits While considering it important to achieve greater quality in the countries and regions are rapidly introducing new laws and in our products and services” and we will ascertain changes in upstream business processes for manufacturing, we aim to raise systems relating to performance and environmental quality for TOYO TIRE’s SDGs market trends and customer needs in an accurate and timely the quality not only of products and services that we introduce to improving fuel efficiency of automobiles and reducing of CO 2 (Ideal Status in 2030) manner, and promote product development through unique ideas the market but also the development and productive process itself. emissions from automobiles. We are working to strengthen our and a drive to take on new challenges not influenced by For new products that we develop, our Quality Assurance handling of quality standards throughout the Group by responding We will contribute; conventional wisdom. Department checks the design reviews that are performed at every to all quality related to increasingly complex laws and regulations. to widespread of mobilities that will be enable social At the research and development stage, we will support a stage, from product planning stage to production planning stage. At the four tire experiment/evaluation bases in Japan, we test participation by using higher functionality technologies. precautionary approach towards environmental issues, and This is to ensure that quality is designed into our products and our tires in compliance with ISO/IEC17025 (general requirements continue to develop products and services that reduce, prevent, production processes. for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories). Since to progress of mobilities by focusing on adding of and minimize the negative impact on the environment. The new plant building of TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD, the initial accreditation in 2013, we have been making constant value of products and technologies. As for product quality and safety, we operate a quality which was completed in October 2019, is equipped with a tire efforts to improve the accuracy and reliability of our testing. to the mobility industry efforts that will adapt to management system based on ISO9001 and IATF16949 (the production operation system that features TOYO TIRE’s cutting-edge Every year, our Tire Business and Automotive Parts Business each climate change and aim to mitigate the influence by former ISO/TS16949) and have established risk countermeasures technological know-how and Internet of Things (IoT) technology, both hold a Global Quality Management Committee (QMC) meeting, climate change by innovations. through foreseeing and predicting. And all the manufacturing of which reduce quality loss costs at production processes. where quality assurance managers and others concerned come to sustainable resource recycling through optimization bases of the Toyo Tire Group have been certified to the ISO 9001 together from manufacturing bases from around the world. At this of resource utilization and improvement of product family of quality management systems. Furthermore, our meeting, we share and discuss initiatives related to product quality, durability. fundamental philosophy and action guidelines regarding improvement of the quality system for production, the logistic and to realize the safe and secure mobility society through product safety is clearly defined in the “Toyo Tire Group Product supplier quality demanded by customers (business partners). implementing safety awareness and supporting for Safety Charter.” improving maintenance skills. Goals Priorities TOPICS As a quality improvement Goal, through the product planning and ● Ensuring product quality based on thorough customer production transfer preparation stages, which include material orientation purchases and logistics, we perform quality risk analysis for each QC Circle Activities, TOYO TIRE’s Tire Safety Awareness ● Efforts to alleviate and adapt to climate change process and are sure to reflect that in each R&D project. the Source of Sustainable Growth Campaign Chosen for the Nikkan ● Development of human resources with technical expertise We will work to ascertain the state of their quality with a constant Jidosha Shimbun Car Accessory For more than 50 years, the Group has undertaken QC circle awareness of customer satisfaction by referring customer opinions Award 2019 Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) activities to take the initiative to raise the level of quality of our products and services. The collaboration between the management using what we have learned from a frontline Toyo Tire Corporation and Toyo Tire Japan Co., Ltd. are engaged Quality Assurance, Production, Sales, Engineering, and other perspective. There are now more than 300 circles across all in a joint campaign that uses a driving simulator to raise the In the business environment, TOYO TIRE foresees the departments, we will work to make improvements in order to facilities, now spread to sales departments. At all the circles, awareness of tire safety. This unique initiative received the Special following; increased demand or tightening of regulations provide even higher quality products. We also push forward with members bring with them their experiences and knowledge in Prize of the Car Accessor y Award 2019 sponsored by the for products and services that concern climate change; efforts to improve current issues from various perspectives through order to resolve issues as well as working to improve quality by prestigious trade paper in Japan for the fact that no other globalization of our business area; diversification of personnel exchanges with all Group companies. ascertaining current conditions, setting goals, developing activity companies have tried to help drivers to recognize the importance consumers, etc. We necessary to respond to these plans, and analyzing issues. of tires through a virtual experience. We will improve functionality in all product development activities, changes in the business environment. So, we regard our To share their experiences and achievements with their peers Wishing to make an extensive contribution to the mobility society, which are our goals in resolving global issues through our products priority issues as the development and supply of and services. We will also promote human resource training. and learn from each other, a Group-wide QC Circle Conference is the Toyo Tire Group considers this initiative to educate drivers products and services that meet the needs of the held annually. In FY2019, six domestic circles and five overseas about the proper use of tires that it manufactures/distributes to be next-generation mobility society, strengthening of circles qualified for this global competition and gave presentations a mission of great importance. Every year, this educational Responsibilities (April 2020) on their quality kaizen activities. In the latest conference, some campaign begins on April 8 Tyre Day in Japan. technological and material development to achieve this, circles went beyond the framework of quality improvement to In FY2019, we introduced a new simulation system featuring our improvement of quality, and training of human resources. R&D choose project themes related to the SDGs, such as work style original software, which provides a realistic experience of a variety Corporate Officer & Vice President of R&D Headquarters reform and resource conservation, evidence that there is a growing of situations that not many drivers would have the chance to Activities in 2019 perception among field workers that everyday quality improvement encounter in real life: driving on tires with different levels of air Production Engineering Corporate Officer & Vice President of Production Headquarters activities are a prerequisite to the sustainability of an enterprise. pressure to compare handling stability and driving a car that is Construction of the quality assurance system by IoT hydroplaning*. So far, nearly 1,000 persons have tried this system at Raising the awareness of tire safety by a driving Provision of products and services nine sites across the country, and as many as 96% of them said that simulator Corporate Officer & Vice President of Sales Headquarters they now have a better idea about the safety of tires. Intelligent Tire Development Platform T-MODE Quality Assurance Through these safety campaigns with unique hooks, we will Senior Corporate Officer & Vice President of Quality Assurance, remind as many persons as possible of the impor tance of Environment & Safety Headquarters maintaining their tires in an attempt to reduce road traffic accidents. * Hydroplaning: When a vehicle drives on a water-covered road, a layer of water builds between the wheels and the road surface, resulting in a loss of traction that causes the vehicle to slide over the wate 11 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 12 Priority Theme 1 Product and Service Reliability and Innovation Resolving Global Issues Responding to Climate Change Risks by Our Products We are actively engaged in developing technology to respond to TOPICS the various climate change risks that is expected in the future, such as improving technology for fuel-efficiency and low emissions, and Supporting the Participation of Intelligent Tire Supplying the NANOENERGY the development of next-generation mobility to replace engine Diverse Individuals in Society Development Platform M638 Bus Tire to SORA, the First vehicles, etc. For example, TOYO TIRE Corporation has begun joint T-MODE Fuel Cell-powered Bus Operated In developed countries such as Japan, several issues exist such as development of a suspension module (composite components) for by a Private Business the rapid decline in population, the increase of the aging electric vehicles (EV) with GLM Co., Ltd. which is the EV population, and measures to take for vulnerable road users as a manufacturer. We are developing automotive parts to achieve a As the only automotive part in contact with the road, tires play a TOYO TIRE’s bus tire NANOENERGY M638 has been supplied to result of natural disasters. Through our products and services, we comfortable ride by automatically controlling the vehicle’s shock crucial role in satisfying the various performance requirements for SORA*, a fuel cell bus introduced for the first time by Keihin Kyuko contribute to the mobility society that supports the participation of absorbers and damping the juddering or vibrations to best suit the cars. As the mobility society is going through a period of drastic Bus Co., Ltd. as a private business (in service since March 2019). diverse individuals in society. For example, The Toyo Tire Group’s road conditions, and we are aiming for commercialization in 2020. change with the advancement of connected, autonomous, Designed specifically for large route buses, M638 has been truck and bus tires underpin networks of logistics and public shared, and electric (CASE) technologies, automobile tires are developed by implementing e-balance core technology for truck transportation around the world. Our tires enjoy a high degree of required to innovate continuously. and bus tires and Nano Balance Technology, another core Responding to Resource Depletion due to In order to support the “evolution of mobility,” tires need to technology for material design, to achieve the two often popularity among our customers and users for their superb Climate Change and Increased Demand offer clear-cut performance and functionality in a timely paradoxical elements of wear resistance and fuel efficiency. durability and fuel efficiency, guaranteeing safe and comfortable manner; high-precision and high-speed design hold the key to Equipped with a large sidewall protector to protect the outer transportation for ever-diversifying drivers and passengers alike. It is essential to the sustainable growth of society to resolve the this requirement. side of tires from being damaged by road curbs, NANOENERGY issue of shortages in natural resources caused by climate change In response, we have come up with T-MODE, an advanced tire M638 not only supports safe operation of public transportation Responding to Increasingly and population growth. We are working on reducing the use of raw development process, by evolving the simulation technology of systems with its high durability but also reduces the burden of materials in all value chain; research on next-generation material the conventional T-mode (a simulation core technology that maintenance work by customers. This eco-friendly specialty tire Sophisticated Customer Needs integrates tire structural analysis with vehicle behavior analysis) also achieves high fuel efficiency and helps to reduce CO2 such as new functional rubber and sustainable raw material; In addition to changes in the social environment, the values of development of material and products with a high-level of wear and incorporating AI design support technologies. emissions in the mobility society throughout its entire life cycle. people involved in mobility and customer needs for the Group is The sixth-generation high-performance computing (HPC) system * A commercial-model fuel cell bus developed by Toyota Motor Corporation, this resistance, etc. For example, using our proprietary technology, new mode of eco-friendly public transportation uses electric power generated by quadrupled processing power, thus realizing automatic generation becoming increasingly sophisticated. The Group does not only “Nano Balance Technology,” we have established a new hydrogen and does not emit CO2 or other environmentally hazardous substances. of machine learning data and reinforcement of massive parallel resolve issues according to the needs of the stakeholders, but we development process that can maintain a high-level of wear processing technology and multiprocessing capability. are also working on product development, with the aim to provide resistance through optimizing resource characteristics while Thanks to the introduction of a brand new SPDM* platform new realizations and joy. For example, the neo-futuristic airless achieving significant fuel efficiency. We have started supplying system, T-MODE can send various types of data to unified concept tire “noair” that we developed is aimed to pursue a products using this technology from the spring of 2019, management as shared assets for designers. maintenance free tire and realize a spare less solution. This contributing to resource saving by improving product life. Data from simulations run by designers is stored automatically neo-futuristic airless concept tire responses to new needs in the on a shared server for use in new analysis and prediction, thus increasing the efficiency and performance of design work. mobility society. And the “noair,” in 2017, have reached the Furthermore, T-MODE uses the database thus created to run industry-leading level of being able to mount the tires on passenger machine learning, making it possible to develop higher cars and drive at high speeds. performing tires in a shorter time. TOYO TIRE will continue to take tires to higher levels by applying our “proprietary design technologies for future road mobility.” * Simulation Process and Data Management. A platform system that sends various types of data to unified management to share standardized processes TOYO TIRE has been conducting business for 75 years TOPICS since its establishment and has constantly made technical innovations, in addition to seizing changes and evolution in society, and has delivered products and services that contribute to resolving social issues to customers in global. We will introduce the innovative technology of TOYO TIRE The PROXES Sport SUV Tire which always keeps running aiming at the future. Ranked the Highest * More information is available at in a Russian Auto Magazine https://www.toyotires-global.com/rd/ Our PROXES Sport SUV premium tire was ranked the highest* in the summer SUV tire test conducted by Russian auto magazine “AutoReview”. * First place in the 19-inch category, third place in the 17-inch category A fuel cell bus “SORA” and NANOENERGY M638 AutoReview applies an original program to objectively assess the safety of auto products. The PROXES Sport SUV premium tire received high marks for such features as tough side-cut resistance, in addition to exceptional grip performance on wet surfaces and excellent handling on dry surfaces. 13 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 14 2 Priority Theme 1 Product and Service Reliability and Innovation Priority Theme Training Human Resources Our production departments are putting a lot of effort into Contribution to Management Approach the Global improving the inspection skills of quality control personnel and with Technical Expertise developing operators’ competence so that they can deal with multiple tasks. Policies With an eye toward a future in which the market environment is projected to be dramatically different due to the mobility revolution, Examples of Training Human Resources Environment In 1990, TOYO TIRE established the Toyo Tire Group Global TOYO TIRE is focusing its efforts on training professionals who can with Technical Expertise (2019) Environmental Charter, which sets forth a fundamental philosophy transform difficulties and crises into opportunities for sustainable Toyo Tire Corporation (Japan) and action guidelines for promoting environmentally conscious growth. Education and training for tire technicians who joined the TOYO TIRE’s SDGs behaviors and activities. Since then, the Charter has guided our Toyo Tire Corporation aims to train human resources with company less than two years previous in order to advance the (Ideal Status in 2030) environmental management as one of the fundamental principles “problem-solving skills and innovative capabilities” based on skills of young employees: about 115 hours/employees of internal controls for the Group. With the establishment of TOYO thinking oriented toward customer needs as well as “logical We will contribute; TIRE’s SDGs in 2019, we are putting together a new policy so that TTHA Group (U.S.) thinking and facilitation capabilities,” which are important abilities. to improve resource usage efficiency including water we can move forward to create sustainable value. Over the past Training of employees to enhance their technical capabilities and This will be done through company-wide, grade-specific training. and energy through promoting to upgrade of three decades, both the quality and quantity of impact that the problem-solving skills: about 18 hours/employees At each of our technical headquarters, we will conduct training for equipment and operation on manufacturing sites. Toyo Tire Group has had on society have changed significantly. Yet, young employees so that they acquire technical expertise and TOYO TIRE ZHANGJIAGANG CO., LTD (China) we will remain committed to fulfilling our corporate social to promote the use of renewable energy in the region promote annual human resource training to achieve each Tests to enhance their appearance inspection skills for quality responsibility by offering solutions to climate change and other to increase renewable energy share of energy used at organization’s mission. control personnel: 4 times a year environmental issues that the world faces today. manufacturing sites. And we support international norms; the United Nations Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, Agenda 21 and the Priorities TOPICS ● Efforts to alleviate and adapt to climate change Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), etc. To fulfill our environmental responsibilities, we quickly establish countermeasures for environmental issues based on ● Efforts to reduce water risk a precautionary approach (risk assessments). We respond to Holding of the 9th Our Young Researcher ● Resource recycling efforts organization issues by operating ISO14001-based environmental Company-wide Technology Recognized by the Rubber management system, and disclose the environmental performance Development Presentation Industry Organization of Japan Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) of our corporate activities in our CSR report. At Toyo Tire Corporation, technological development that Yuki Hasegawa of Toyo Tire Corporation’ s Central Research With the impact of climate change becoming more meets customer needs and responds to the opinions of the Center received the 12th CERI Young Scientist Incentive Award severe, societal demands on mobility are also Goals Production and Sales Departments is conducted while from the Society of Rubber Science and Technology, Japan. constantly keeping commercialization in mind. In addition, This prestigious award is given to researchers 45 years of increasing. TOYO TIRE recognizes that efforts to For our activities within Japan, we have formulated the Toyo Tire we hold a company-wide technology development presentation age or younger who have made outstanding contributions to adapt to and mitigate climate change is the most Group Global Environmental Action Plan, the target year of which is as a venue to present the Company’s cutting-edge scientific and technological progress in the areas of evaluation important issue affecting the growth of the Group in technology-related efforts and their results to management. and processing of rubber and plastics. Hasegawa successfully 2020, plan and manage annual activity. And we translate the plans one way or another. Reduction in the emission of In FY2019, three out of the six entries were commended after developed thermoplastic liquid crystal elastomer materials into English and share it for business sites outside Japan. greenhouse gases to achieve the “2-degree goal” set being evaluated based on the five criteria of originality, logic, (polymer materials with rubber-like elasticity) that offer high As for global environmental issues such as climate change, water future prospect, speed of development, and presentation. fl e x i b i l i t y a n d s t r e tc h i n g f o r c e . H e r d e v e l o p m e n t w a s in the Paris Agreement, reduction of the water risks security, resource cycle, etc., we are moving forward with a review exceptionally well received as it paved the way to improving that are increasing due to climate change and of our mediumand long-term targets. the processabilit y of elastomer materials for commercial increased demand, and resource recycling are our The 2019 awards application by optimizing molecular structure design and responsibility not only to modern society but also to ■Outstanding Technological Development Award modifying the molding process. Responsibilities (April 2020) future generations. So, we have positioned these as Development of composite components for special applications: ■Comments from Hasegawa: priority issues to be addressed for the sustainability of Senior Corporate Officer & Vice President of Quality Assurance, The team designed a mixture of materials that achieves both Much is expected from thermoplastic liquid crystal elastomer the Group. Environment & Safety Headquarters required characteristics and production accuracy. material as it offers the potential to realize “affinity with humans” and “adjustability to changeable situations,” both of which can ■Unique Award be applied to next-generation mobility, as it presents unique Activities in 2019 Assurance: Development of a strip extrusion technique* for special properties such as high flexibility and significant stretching force To ensure the veracity and reliability of data that it discloses, composition rubber: when subject to thermal stimulation. I will do my best to reach Revision work of the Toyo Tire Group Global the Toyo Tire Group obtained the independent practitioner’s The team developed an extrusion technique for improving strip new heights in my future research endeavors. Environmental Charter assurance of the FY2019 environmental data. rubber’s productivity for a broad range of rubber compounding. The third-party assurance for the environment date (As per the procedures of the independent practitioner) * A technique for supplying strip rubber to form a rubber layer that makes up treads and sidewalls -Scope: The scope of verification is Scope 1 and 2 emissions, energy consumption, water intake and drainage. ■Surprise Award Boundary: 22 sites (1 management, 21 sites of development Development of next-generation, light-weight tires for higher and manufacture) * Excluding off-site mobile units fuel efficiency: Period Subject to Report: from 1 January 2019 to 31 December The team developed tires with lighter weight and lower 2019. rolling resistance while ensuring handling, comfort, and other C r i te r i a o f Ve r i fi c a t i o n: I S O14 0 6 4 3: 20 0 6 a n d t h e S G S performance parameters equivalent to those of conventional tires. verification protocol Verification Organization (a third-party): SGS Japan Inc. Researcher Hasegawa 15 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 16 Priority Theme 2 Contribution to the Global Environment Response to Reduction of Energy Consumption Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) we are examining water utilization plans, improvement of work processes, and the promotion of recycled water usage in bases Emissions Climate Change We are moving forward with efforts to reduce energy consumption that operate in communities that have been assessed as being through the effective use of energy required for business activities Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are said to be the main cause impacted by water either now and in the future. of climate change, and we are working to reduce GHG emissions Opportunities and Risks posed both in and outside the organization. Efforts are also being made to develop new products and technologies that contribute to climate by making effective use of energy through business activities both by Climate Change Interactions with water as a shared resource change alleviation and adaption. in and outside the organization and our products. We are We recognize that opportunities and risks posed by climate change TOYO TIRE ZHANGJIAGANG CO., LTD. renovated its plant to promoting fuel conversion and equipment renewal at Identify water-related impacts for our business are important business issues. reduce power usage at the vulcanization process, which requires manufacturing bases as a countermeasure to scope 1 and 2. For activities (manufacturing) We have established a company-wide working group (WG) and the largest amount of energy within the production process. As a example, Ayabe Toyo Rubber Co., Ltd. converted its boiler fuel discuss action for climate change issues. The WG brings together result, this subsidiary in China was able to reduce more than 50% from heavy oil to LP gas in 2019, which helped them reduce CO 2 Approach: the responsible parties in related business organizations and of its power usage of said process in FY2019. emissions significantly. Accessed the water-related impacts by Aqueduct Water Risk discusses about action plans. The plan is approved by the And we are promoting development of Fuel Efficient Tires as a Data (Aqueduct, WRI) at the end of February 2020. Executive Committee which the Board of Directors delegates ■Energy consumption within the organization countermeasure to scope 3, too. Result: authority to, and the plan is spread to all companies and 2017 2018 2019 Around Zhucheng (China), where the Group’s production facility organizations in the Group. Total fuel consumption (1000GJ) 7561.1 7473.0 7346.1 ■GHG emissions (1000t-CO2e) is located, has been evaluated the water-related impact as The WG is considering actions for climate change that we should By Region (1000GJ) 2017 2018 2019 Extremely high because in this area, there is a large demand for engage in while referring to the contents of the CDP* Climate ▶Japan 4314.9 4213.8 3991.7 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 320.9 313.3 296.3* water, the yearly and monthly fluctuations in the water supply ▶US 1654.7 1725.0 1810.0 Change Questionnaire and Final Report (Recommendations) of By Region are significant, and the development status of wastewater ▶Asia (Excluding Japan) 1591.5 1534.2 1544.4 ▶Japan TCFD**. Based on the predicted impact of climate change 232.5 226.1 204.8 treatment infrastructure. Around Chon Buri (Thailand) has been ▶非再生可能エネルギー源由来燃料 Type of Source (1000GJ) ▶US 51.0 53.6 57.8 evaluated the water-related impact as high because in this area, published by IPCC and various research institutes, we are in the ▶Non-Renewable Sources 4798.8 4927.8 5065.8 ▶Asia (Excluding Japan) 37.5 33.7 33.8 there is a large demand for water, the past flooding of process of organizing climate-related long-term opportunities, risks ▶Renewable Sources 216.8 138.3 2.91 surrounding rivers, and the development status of wastewater (physical and transition), and financial impact that will occur in 2017 2018 2019 ▶Purchased Electricity 2222.5 2082.9 1963.3 treatment infrastructure.In addition, the predictions for 2030 has continuing corporate operations. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG *Reference: Percentage of renewable emissions 337.9 313.0 294.6* assessed that, if stable economic development continues in the For example, we recognize the impact of climate change as an energy in purchased electricity 15.6% By Region future, the ratio of demand to water supply are expected to opportunity, and receives profit from the development and sales of ▶Purchased Steam 323.0 324.1 314.2 ▶Japan increase more than the present demand. In this forecast, the fuel-efficient products. And there are some countermeasures that * Renewable energy sources can include geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, and biomass. 126.3 99.2 70.4 ▶US demand will be 1.4 times in Zhucheng (China) and Grad have launched in response to the risks of the strengthen ** In 2019, the Sendai plant (Toyo Tire Corporation, Japan) converted the factory's 86.3 86.7 91.2 thermal energy source from waste tires to natural gas. ▶Asia Beograd (Serbia), 1.7 times for the area around Perak (Malaysia). (Excluding Japan) 125.3 127.2 133.0 environmental regulations in each country, such as changing fuel * Third-party verified data sources, making active use of renewable energy, and improving the ■Reductions in energy requirements of products and services energy efficiency of facilities. In future, we will prioritize these (Fuel Efficient Tires) We checked that no business sites use water taken from ■CO 2 emissions intensity opportunities and risks that have been organized, evaluate the 2017 2018 2019 wetlands listed in the Ramsar Convention or any other nationally, 2017 2018 2019 business impact using scenarios that are based on scientific Amount of reductions in energy internationally proclaimed conservation area, high biodiversity consumption (GJ/km) *Estimated values 164.0 186.7 169.2 Scope 1+2 /Sales (t-CO2/million yen) 1.63 1.59 1.57 evidence, and set long-term targets. *Reference: Production ratio of area, and importance water resources to local communities and * An international NGO working in environmental fields (climate change, water security and Fuel Efficient Tires (%) indigenous peoples. As for impacts for which sufficiently forest). Uses questionnaires to collect information related to companies’ CO2 emissions ▶Tires for Passenger Vehicles (PCR) 25.1 28.6 20.7 accurate information is difficult to obtain for our Group to report and initiatives on climate change, etc., evaluate and disclose. ▶Tires for Trucks and Buses (TBR) 21.6 25.3 21.0 ** Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in 2015 for the purpose of discussing the financial industry’s response to Efforts to Reduce on at the current time, we will work to ascertain current conditions giving priority to areas where there is a risk of climate change issues. ■Energy intensity ratio for the organization 2017 2018 2019 Water Risk increased water risk in the future. * Identify using the following information; Ramsar Sites Information Service, ▶Energy consumption /Sales UNESCO-World Heritage Center, Ministry of the Environment (Japan), Agency (GJ/million yen) 18.7 19.0 19.5 We recognize that access to fresh water is one of Human Rights. for Cultural Affairs (Japan) So, we are aware that water risks in business activities are our TOPICS business issue. The company-wide Working Group (WG) also discusses about Reducing Water Withdrawal and Water Discharges the water securities, not only climate change. The WG is examining TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD： the water security that we should address with reference to the Primarily at its production facilities, our Group uses water Cut CO2 Emissions through Higher Boiler Energy Efficiency details of the CDP Water Security Questionnaire. withdrawal from ground water, third-party water for its boiler Using the Aqueduct Water Risk Data disclosed by Aqueduct equipment, parts processing facilities, product cooling, cooling The vulcanization process is part of the tire manufacturing resulted in a more than 20% reduction in natural gas consumed (World Resources Institute: WRI), the Group has identified towers, welfare facilities, and other facilities. process for grooving treads by applying heat and pressure to by the boilers. This is equivalent to an approximately 2,400-ton achieve higher elasticity and durability. As such, the process reduction in annual CO 2 emissions, in recognition of which they water-related impacts on business activities around our production Regarding water withdrawal and water discharges, each requires copious amounts of steam and accounts for a large received the Toyota Environmental Award from their customer, facilities. And we will engage in efforts to reduce water intake and production facility is responsible establishing its own goals based portion of energy consumption at the manufacturing process. Toyota Motor Corporation. waste water through effective use of the water appropriate for the on the size of the facility and products they produce. We are also At TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD, they have introduced Besides this, they have introduced a solar power generation size of the impact. In this evaluation, it was confirmed that none of revamping our equipment to reuse water as much as possible in equipment that efficiently recovers exhaust heat from steam system to reduce CO 2 emissions. Going forward, this subsidiary our bases/sites operates in areas where there is a high risk of any each production process. boilers at the vulcanization process to preheat water to be fed to in Malaysia will make continued efforts to reduce CO 2 emissions of the following: water supply fluctuates from season to season, the boilers, thus increasing energy efficiency. over the product life cycle by relentlessly pursuing higher energy water may run short due to drought, groundwater may run out, or With this equipment, the feed-water temperature can be use efficiency in their business undertakings and replacing the access to drinking water is not ensured there or thereabouts. And increased by more than thirty degrees centigrade, which has current energy sources with renewable alternatives. * The details of each performance that energy and water usage, significant air emissions (GHG, others), and waste, and the detail of each data (boundary, period, assumptions underlying of data) are available at our website. 17 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 18 3 Priority Theme 2 Contribution to the Global Environment Priority Theme Respect for TOPICS Resource Recycling Efforts Management Approach Human Rights TOYO TIRE considers our mission to contribute to the shift from a Policies TOYO TIRE (ZHUCHENG) CO., LTD.: society that consumes resources to one that recycles as the social responsibility of a manufacturer that conducts business globally. and Diversity We respect international norms related to human rights and labor, Achieved Full Recycling of We strive to secure a stable and sustainable supply of raw such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Steam Drain materials indispensable for business growth, such as natural Declaration and the Ten Principles of United Nations Global TOYO TIRE (ZHUCHENG) CO., LTD. is based in the rubber, the main raw material in the procurement stage, in terms of TOYO TIRE’s SDGs Compact (UNGC). In addition, we set “Global Human Rights and both quality and volume. We are also moving forward with efforts to (Ideal Status in 2030) Labor Policy” and actively contribute to the promotion and spread city of Zhucheng, China, where, according to an assessment by international organizations, water risks develop new materials and to improve product design and of human rights to the extent that they impact the Group’s business are high there or thereabouts due to the sheer number production processes to make more efficient use of materials. We will contribute; activities in order to fulfill our responsibility to respect human rights. of water consumers. The Toyo Tire Group is making constant efforts to increase to create a society where diverse peoples are able to In particular, for the work environment, we provide safe and They purchase large quantities of steam for use at material usage efficiency. Toyo Soflan Co., Ltd., for example, reuses get equal opportunities and play an active role by healthy work conditions, thoroughly prohibit not only discrimination their tire production process but are aware of the 100%* of defective units and discards (cut pieces from the molding providing work environment that employees can in HR practices but also the direct and indirect use of forced and need to save water. So they began recovering process) from its resin product manufacturing process by feeding child labor. We show our attitude towards the responsibility for continue to challenge with peace of mind. contaminant-free steam drainage (warm water them back to the process. to create a society where SDGs become mainstream respecting human right in procurement activities as “CSR generated as a result of steam cooling down) for * Excluding products using special materials Procurement Guidelines.” And we also support and promote the recycling in an effort to reduce water intake. As they through developing human resources to support succeeded in recycling all waste steam, they were able enjoyment of human rights in collaboration with business partners sustainable development of the world. to reduce water intake by more than 10% annually. TOYO AUTOMOTIVE PARTS (USA), INC., on the other hand, is so that the Group does not take part in human rights violations. to promote local employment and to develop and expanding the scope of items for reuse that would be otherwise We have positioned the promotion of diversity as an important stabilize the local economy by strengthening global disposed of. In FY2019, they designated 16 items for reuse. They human resources policy, and we are moving forward with efforts to also chose the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act network. reinforce systems to train diverse human resources and for them to (RCRA) of the U.S. as a topic for environmental learning, a fully demonstrate their capabilities. ■Water withdrawal (1000kL) segment covered in their weekly meetings, in order to raise the Priorities The Toyo Tire Group Charter of Corporate Behavior was 2017 2018 2019 environmental awareness of their employees. compiled as corporate action principles applied uniformly across ● Fulfilling responsibility to respect human rights Total water withdrawal from all As for when products are used, efforts are being made to extend the Group in order to faithfully conduct business activities. The areas 3,891.5 3,719.1 3,737.3* ● Review labor standards taking into consideration the service lives of products, which includes manufacturing charter addresses the undertaking of business in a manner that By Source customary international law products with outstanding durability and producing reused tires respects human rights and the culture and customs of each region ▶Surface water 18.8 0.00 0.00 (retreaded tires) from used tires. as well as valuing diversity among all people in the workplace. ▶Groundwater 2,909.9 2,734.9 2,726.8 The information that the management and treatment of specific Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) *More information about the new policy is available at ▶Third-party water 962.7 984.2 1,010.5 https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/pdf/human_rights_en.pdf chemical substances is available at our website. 2017 2018 2019 For TOYO TIRE to grow as a global company in the (Please refer to Priority Theme 4 for the CSR Procurement Guidelines, and to Priority Theme 7 for the Charter of Corporate Behavior). Total water withdrawal from future, we believe it is important to understand the areas with water stress 87.2 ■Total Production Shipments of Recycled (Retreaded) Tires *TOYO Brand diversification of our stakeholders. And we must respond By Source in good faith to diversifying needs while having the Goals ▶Surface water 0.00 2017 2018 2019 ▶Groundwater Production output consideration and appreciation for people and society. We respect human rights in the workplace and work to eliminate all 86.1 124.9 131.0 130.0 ▶Third-party (1,000 units/year) To create this environment, it is important to build an forms of discrimination and to promote diversity. water 1.10 * Third-party verified data organization that can make the most of the personalities and values of people from various backgrounds and ** At present, all water intake is from fresh water (water for which the total dissolved solids are 1,000 mg/L or less) Responsibilities (April 2020) Water with a High Level of Sodium enable them to demonstrate their capabilities. So, we Hypochlorite Discharged from Toyo Tire support and respect international norms, reduces the Corporate Officer & Vice President of Corporate Headquarters ■Water discharge (1000kL) Corporation’s Sendai Plant risk of business activities negatively impacting human 2017 2018 2019 On October 2, 2019, it was confirmed that water discharge from rights, as well as positions opportunities to support and Total water discharge to all areas 2,601.8 2,284.3 2,194.8* our Sendai Plant caused a temporary rise in the chlorine promote the benefits of human rights as issues that By destination ▶Surface concentration of the Gokenbori River that runs by it. should be addressed with priority. water 1,816.8 1,542.8 1,525.0 To prevent a recurrence, we re-trained the plant’s employees on ▶Third-party water 785.0 741.5 669.7 the risks associated with substances subject to the Water Pollution Prevention Act and how to respond to abnormalities, and we Activities in 2019 2017 2018 2019 reminded them of the emergency contact tree that is in place for Total water discharge to areas with water stress 86.9 when an abnormality is detected. Furthermore, they installed a President sends a message on Human Rights Day chlorine concentration continuous measurement meter to launch a Promoting Work Style Reform * Third-party verified data system that automatically suspends discharging of water outside Launching the Digital Innovation Division ** At present, all water intake is from fresh water (water for which the total dissolved solids are 1,000 mg/L or less) of the plant when an abnormality occurs. We offer our sincere apology to the host community, residents, and relevant administrative bodies for the enormous concerns and inconvenience that this may have caused. Recycling*The details of each performance that energy and water usage, significant air emissions (GHG, others), and waste, and the detail of each data (boundary, period, assumptions underlying of data) are available at our website. 19 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 20 Priority Theme 3 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Fulfilling the Responsibility Global Human Rights & Labor Policy mid-career recruiting, but also disabled persons and the reemployment of retired employees. We consider the establishing of constructive dialogues between companies and labor representatives is a way to share information to Respect Human Rights TOYO TIRE established “Global Human Rights & Labor Policy” and From FY 2018, Toyo Tire Corporation no longer publishes on workplace issues which will lead to solutions to these issues. commenced operations. recruitment ratios on gender or nationality when hiring new * More information about the current situation of labor management relations is available at our website. At TOYO TIRE, there are increasing opportunities to communicate We respect the human rights of every person involved in our graduates. Instead, we have changed to a policy that evaluates and with diverse stakeholders, both internally and externally. So, we business activities, both in the workplace and the business hires human resources evenly. have established the “Global Human Rights & Labor Policy,” and communities we operate in. Our goal is to contribute to the creation To ensure diversity and equal opportunity at workplaces, we are Improvement of Education we are committed to corporate management that respects the of an inclusive society* by responding to globalization and developing various personnel systems to empower all employees, and Training Programs human rights of all people involved in the business. diversification of stakeholders. while at the same time conducting career interviews with each and We consider the respecting of human rights a business issue that We recognize the possibility of causing, promoting or act in a every employee, drawing up a human resources development plan, We consider our people to be our most important resource to should be addressed with priority. We have established the manner that will have a negative impact for human rights. We will and organizing an awareness-raising training session. support continued business growth and we are aware of the company-wide working group (WG) and discuss action for the take reasonable steps to avoid these outcomes. A good example of how diversity can be promoted can be found importance of developing these human resources. In this changing re s p e cting of hum a n r ights. T h e WG br ings to g eth e r th e In line with this policy, in FY2019, we conducted interviews at all at Toyo Tire Japan Co., Ltd. In 2016, they established a human labor environment, we have expanded our education and training, responsible parties in related business organizations and discusses affiliates to ask about their diversity and work environment. The resources empowerment committee, whose main goals were career the goals of which are for employees to acquire the skills needed to about action plans. The plan is approved by the E xecutive interviews did not reveal any concerns over human rights and labor at advancement and empowerment of female employees. Because it is achieve business management targets. Committee which the Board of Directors delegates authority to, and their workplaces, but we are currently preparing for due diligence. of equal importance to have supervisors and male employees For example, Toyo Tire Corporation divides its training programs the plan is spread to all companies and organizations in the Group. * An inclusive society: the process of improving the terms on which individuals and actively participate in the initiative and raise their awareness, the into three categories: “Grade-Specific Training”, “Selective Training”, groups take part in society —improving the ability, opportunity, and dignity of those In FY2019, a report was received by the grievance control committee involves all employees in its activities. Meanwhile, more and “Independent Training”. We created training programs to meet disadvantaged on the basis of their identity. system run by the Toyo Tire Group about a human rights concern women are holding managerial positions, thanks to aggressive the objectives of these three categories and employees’ grade levels (harassment). We make it a rule to investigate every fact about efforts to review job descriptions, job responsibilities, and authorities and years of service. such cases to take corrective measures if it is an active problem of female employees to assist their career advancement. and preventive measures if it is a latent problem. Many of the harassment cases occur because of a lack of understanding and awareness of the act of harassment by the perpetrator. As this is Diversity of the case, when an incident is reported, we organize a training Human Resources TOPICS session at the base/site in question and, if deemed necessary, other relevant bases/sites to prevent a recurrence. The Toyo Tire Employment Situation Showa Estate Co.,Ltd.: department and others participate in Telework Days in response to Group will remain committed to the prevention or mitigation of r e q u e s ts f ro m th e g ove r n m e nt, w h il e a t th e s a m e tim e negative impacts on human rights within the organization. TOYO TIRE is committed to ensuring fair employment practices Promoting Employment of implementing measures to increase work efficiency by updating As for the impact that we have on parties outside the group and treatment of employees across our organization. We are also Persons with Disabilities the workflow and visualizing job responsibilities of each employee. organization for which sufficiently accurate information is difficult striving to create workplaces where diverse individuals can fully Based on the outcome from FY2019, we aim to further improve the to obtain for our Group to report on at the current time, we will demonstrate their capabilities, regardless of nationality or gender. Showa Estate Co., Ltd. is a special subsidiary company of Toyo work-life balance on a company-wide basis by increasing the work to ascertain current conditions, which includes conducting In terms of recruiting, we endeavor to secure necessary human Tire Corporation. Under the slogan of “Involve diverse people and depth and expanse of activities in this regard. research in the future on areas with high human rights risks. resources through various methods not only new graduate and grow together!” , they are aggressively hiring persons with disabilities, which is one of the corporate missions of the Toyo Tire Group. In collaboration with other Group companies in Japan, Launching the Digital New employee hires (Toyo Tire Corp.) they are focusing on the creation of a safe and secure workplace Innovation Division TOPICS *Full-time employee including mid-career hiring environment and the expansion of the range of their work. Thanks Total: 167 to their dedications, many persons with disabilities are playing an Age groups active role at those companies. Toyo Tire Corporation has engaged in extensive discussions on • Under 30 years old: 68.9% To ensure that employees with disabilities can continue to work strategies and directions of its move to digitalize operations across President Sends a Message • 30-50 years old: 28.1% in the Group, they assist those in leadership positions to qualify as the board as part of its response to constant evolution in the on Human Rights Day • Over 50 years old: 3.0% a work adjustment supporter ( job coach). Furthermore, they business environment. With the environmental changes in the auto Gender*: Male 85.6% / Female 14.5% organize periodic in-house training sessions, such as lectures on industry in mind, we have examined the values that digitalization interpersonal support skills by guest speakers from welfare can bring to the Group to map out five digital strategies (see Diversity of employees (Toyo Tire Corp.) *Full-time employee universities and business manner workshops for persons with below). In January 2019, TOYO TIRE published the Global Human Total: 3,595 (+1.8% from the previous year) disabilities, to help them increase their employability. Accordingly, in Februar y 2020 we established the Digital Rights & Labor Policy and in March expressed its support for Age groups By including diverse people in society through the employment I n n o v a t i o n D i v i s i o n w i t h a v i e w to w a r d p r o m o t i n g t h e the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact • Under 30 years old: 22.4% of persons with disabilities, we aim to be a company that is reorganization of our business across the board, creating a • 30-50 years old: 61.3% (UNGC), declaring its commitment to fulfill the responsibility indispensable to local communities. strategic business management structure, and deploying business • Over 50 years old: 16.2% to respect human rights as a global business entity. Then on strategies with a focus on next-generation mobility by introducing Gender*: Male 93.4% (+2 pt from the previous year) / Human Rights Day on December 10, Takashi Shimizu, and leveraging digital technologies. Going forward, this new Female 6.6% (+4 pt from the previous year) TOYO TIRE’s President & CEO, sent out a message to all People with disabilities: 16 division will take the lead in accelerating further digitalization of the employees of the Group emphasizing the importance of Promoting Work Style Reform Foreigner**: 21 Group, thereby establishing a start-to-end process that reaches respecting diversity within the organization. The message Total number of managers: 819 customers and enhances mobility in management. was translated from Japanese to Portuguese, English, and Male-female ratio of managers: Chinese, and was shared with all the bases/sites within the Male 95.2% (±0 pt from the previous year) / For each and every employee to fulfill their expected roles as they <The five digital strategies> Group via e-mail or on bulletin boards. Female 4.8% (+5 pt from the previous year) respond to changes in the operating environment, Toyo Tire 1. Original product planning based on field data Fully aware of the value created by respecting human Percentage of Foreign** managers: 0.6% (±0 pt from the previous year) Corporation is working on work style reform with the aim of allowing 2. Data-driven provision of customer experience rights, the Toyo Tire Group tries to provide a work * Gender-specific data: Refers to data for each biological sex. We do not have its employees to design and optimize their personal work style. 3. Utilization of big data and a cyber-physical system (CPS) for lower costs environment where all employees can continually challenge quantitative data specific to individual social sexes due to the difficulty in determining In FY2019, we promoted the diversification of work styles by, for 4. Sales/supply system that anticipates demand themselves without worries. them. Our goal is to provide a workplace environment where all the employees are example, expanding the scope of teleworking and having a model 5. Data-driven development of a management foundation given equal opportunities. ** Data on foreign nationals: Refers to data on foreign nationals as defined in the Nationality Act of Japan 21 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 22 Priority Theme 4 Collaboration procurement of raw materials (especially natural rubber). ** A platform that aims for production and use of natural rubber around the world to be Management Approach with Business conducted in a method that considers the natural environment and social issues, Following the revision in the Guidelines, in FY2019 we invited 60 going beyond the norms of the industry. business partners in Japan to a briefing session. We also shared Policies the content of the Purchasing Policy (on sustainable purchasing of Partners We formulated the Toyo Tire Group’s Basic Purchasing Policies in natural rubber, in particular) individually with the Group’s key natural rubber suppliers to help them to internalize the Policy. order to comply with laws and regulations related to free competition and fair transactions in every country and region as International collaboration on the Response to the Conflict Minerals Issues TOYO TIRE’s SDGs well as pursuing appropriate quality and price through fair sustainable procurement of natural rubber (Ideal Status in 2030) transactions. Conflict minerals refer to tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold which “TOYO TIRE Group CSR Procurement Guidelines” were also In the future, being able to procure a stable supply of natural are produced in conflict areas such as Central Africa. In Europe We will contribute to create a society where ethical established. We will promote sustainable purchasing in rubber is a particularly important management issue for the and North America, the law requires that the supply chain of consumption is standardized by building a sustainable collaboration with business partners, the goal of which is to Group, which uses natural rubber as the main raw material for minerals be subject to due diligence and other procedures since supply chain through cooperation with stakeholders. reduce, prevent, and minimize the negative impact that business manufacturing. Meanwhile, the natural rubber industry faces purchasing them could finance the local armed forces that activities have or could have on the environment or society and social issues, such as deforestation at production sites and propagate conflicts and violations of human rights. Priorities simultaneously raise corporate value and competitiveness. We will infringement of the rights of local residents, and there is a We conduct thorough investigations by tracing all the way back also secure stable supplies. worldwide movement to achieve sustainable procurement of along the supply chain to refining companies to determine ● Supply chain management (Society and Environment) * More information about the new policy is available at natural rubber by resolving these issues. whether the materials or products supplied to us contain conflict https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/pdf/procurement_en.pdf Since 2016, we have endorsed the aims of the “Sustainable minerals from the relevant countries, in cooperation with our Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) Natural Rubber Initiatives (SNR-i) *” proposed by the International customers and suppliers. It essential to TOYO TIRE’ sustainable growth that we Goals Rubber Study Group (IRSG), and we have promoted CSR procurement while gaining the understanding of our business understand the impact of its activities on the supply We share our sustainable purchasing policy with all business partners. In addition, we also participated in the “Global Platform chain and engage in resolving social issues faced by the supply chain, as a global company. In addition, we partners and efforts are made to ascertain conditions throughout the supply chain and conduct fair transactions. for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR)**,” a new framework launched in 2018 by the Tire Industry Project (TIP), a project of the Promotion of Fair and believe that it is only through a sound supply chain that World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Transparent Transactions we can deliver safer, more secure products and Responsibilities (April 2020) The Sustainable Natural Rubber Procurement Policy, which has services to consumers. To this end, we position been added to version 3 of the Toyo Tire Group CSR Procurement With the Toyo Tire Group Code of Conduct as our action contributing to sharing the Group’s thoughts on Corporate Officer & Vice President of Business Headquarters Guidelines, respects the Sustainable Natural Rubber Principles guidelines, we formulate our own codes of conduct to reflect sustainable procurement with business partners and by the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). differences in laws, regulations, and customs of each country and solving global social problems throughout the supply In FY2019, we sent the new guidelines to all primary supplies of regions, and strive to spread and promote compliance. chain as issues that should be addressed with priority. Partnership with natural rubber (natural rubber processing services) that we work with to solicit their understanding of our new procurement policy and For example, in FY 2018, the Procurement Division collaborated with the Legal Dept. and the Compliance Dept. to create a Activities in 2019 Business Partners their cooperation with sustainable procurement. We also visited checklist. We use this checklist to confirm whether the some of our largest natural rubber suppliers at their sites to compare Subcontract Law applies to each transaction and to check for notes on how we can build a sustainable natural rubber supply omissions in the information recorded in the documents that must Public awareness of the Revised CSR Procurement Promoting Sustainable Procurement chain. The suppliers we visited this time account for approximately be created and stored under the Subcontract Law. We conducted Guidelines Creating a supply chain that supports sustainable procurement is 80% of our total purchase of natural rubber (by volume). a self-assessment of the compliance status with the Subcontract indispensable for continuing to ensure a stable supply of raw Through international initiative or our own value chain, we will Law and analyzed these assessment results and are materials with the quality and volume to support the growth of work closely with our stakeholders to create a sustainable natural implementing corrective and preventative actions as necessary. TOYO TIRE. Sustainable procurement means that we work toward rubber supply chain. Furthermore, we conduct on-going study groups, promote the resolving social issues throughout the entire supply chain, from * Initiatives with the aim to support the improvement of productivity, enhancing quality, sharing of information within the group, and ensure that support forest sustainability, water management, and to demonstrate the highest production to consumption, and aims for sustainability in society. Subcontract Law compliance managers improve their knowledge respect for human and labor rights across the natural rubber supply chain. Because this is an urgent high priority issue for the Group, we and have a unified understanding of the law. have established a company-wide working group (WG) and discuss action plans, which include orientation, goals, and targets. The WG brings together the responsible parties in related business organizations, the discussed action plan is approved by the TOPICS Executive Committee (chairperson: President), which the Board of Directors delegates authority to, and the plan is spread to all Briefing on the Revised CSR environment and society, as well as sustainable procurement Procurement Guidelines activities at which the Group aims. Within a limited time, we companies and organizations in the Group. were able to show the suppliers that the development of a Toyo Tire Corporation invited 60 suppliers in Japan with whom it sustainable supply chain is one of the key programs of the CSR Procurement Guidelines does regular business to a briefing session on the latest version Group’s endeavor to promote sustainability. of the Toyo Tire Group CSR Procurement Guidelines, which Going forward, the Toyo Tire Group will provide as many To work toward resolving social issues throughout the entire supply were revised in January 2019. opportunities as possible to communicate with global suppliers chain, from production to consumption, we have established the On this occasion, the participating suppliers were updated on so that we can work together to realize sustainability in the “TOYO TIRE Group CSR Procurement Guidelines.” the business environment that the Toyo Tire Group now finds mobility industry. The contents of the guidelines are periodically revised based on itself in and the impact that its business activities have on the Briefing on the Revised CSR Procurement Guidelines the demands of society and changes in the business environment. In the 2019 revisions, we added a policy concerning the sustainable 23 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 24 Priority Theme 5 Harmony Environmental Support for Raising Management Approach with Local Protection Efforts Next-Generation Children Policies Communities We will create common values with local communities by We understand that our business activities have the greatest direct impact on the environment of the areas around our production We consider the sound upbringing of children, society’s next generation, as a social issue that must be addressed for the contributing to environmental protection to the extent that our facilities. We build trust in those activities by maintaining a dialogue continued development of local communities, and we provide business activities impact the environment, supporting raising with and providing information to stakeholders in areas around donation to support the raising of next-generation children. TOYO TIRE’s SDGs next-generation children, and the growth of local communities production facilities, and strive to reduce the minus impact. And we Since 2013, TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SND BHD has sponsored a (Ideal Status in 2030) by the Group’s resources and collaboration with stakeholders promote efforts to protect biodiversity in local communities as scholarship program for schoolchildren and students who are based on various forms of communication. something that not only generates direct benefits for local life but highly motivated academically but may not have access to a We will contribute to develop the whole world economy At production facilities that are expected to have a particularly also leads to sustainable growth. satisfactory learning environment due to economic reasons. steadily by improving regional education and culture level significant impact on the environment as the scale of our For example, the Kuwana Plant works with the NPO Mori-no Since the beginning of the program, they offered a scholarship through deployment of our resources. business grows, we will make use of a precautionary approach to Kaze to undertake “TOYO TIRES Midori-no Tsunagari Mie” to 26 undergraduate students at local universities (four of them respond to the risk that our impact on biodiversity in surrounding activities, through which we are transforming a local abandoned earned a bachelor’s degree) and financial assistance to 210 Priorities areas will increase. thicket into a healthy forest. In FY2019, the fifth year of this project, elementary school students in Kamunting and Taiping in the form they observed a ceremony to celebrate the opening of a walking of the Undergraduate Scholarship Program and the Student ● Engagement with local communities trail by inviting people from the local community. Education Assistance Program, respectively. Goals ● Preserving biodiversity Toyo Tire Corporation is an active participant in Operation Clean The recipients were chosen through interviews conducted at We will resolve social issues through collaboration with the Ina River, which aims to preserve the limpid stream and protect their homes by our employees. A total of US$249,000 has been Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) stakeholders and aim to create common values. and nurture wild habitats. With the understanding that protection of used, mainly to pay for their books, transportation to their schools, the natural environment leads to the sustainable development of a and their living expenses. To become a company that is needed by society in the future, TOYO TIRE believes that it is important to aim at Responsibilities (April 2020) community, a total of some twenty persons, including our employees from our Headquarters and their family members, being a company that can share joy with everyone Corporate Officer & Vice President of Corporate Headquarters volunteered as community members. The friendly ties with the (stakeholders) who is involved in our business activities. community members were further strengthened at an insect It is our opinion that overcoming environmental observation event held afterwards for those who were interested. problems, securing human resources, and the stable growth of local economies are vital to our Engagement with continued growth in the future. To achieve this, we Local Communities place importance on opportunities for dialogue with stakeholders, and position the resolution of issues in the We understand that our business activities have a direct impact on Students who have received scholarships (TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD) local community and social issues through collaboration local economies, environments, and societies, and earnestly listen and contribution to the enrichment of society as issues to the evaluations and expectations of society. We emphasize A ceremony to celebrate that should be addressed with priority. communication with local communities at all our business sites, the opening of a walking strive to properly understand the needs of stakeholders, and reflect that in our business. trail TOPICS Activities in 2019 To express appreciation to their host community and publicize Deepening communication with stakeholders their business activities to the neighborhood, the Sendai Plant Volunteering to Speak for Promotion of the support for raising next-generation organizes a community fureai interaction fair. Every year, this Children of the Next Generation children annual event attracts 1,700 visitors, including local residents and family members of the Sendai Plant’s employees. At the last fair, Support for Development It is our belief that the development of human resources we set up a booth featuring a driving simulator that runs on our of Local Communities who will underpin the sustainable prosperity of the auto industry is crucial to ensure business continuity and original programming. Visitors were given experiences of driving societal enrichment through mobility. It is out of this with worn or poorly-pressurized tires to learn about how tires can As one of our responsibilities as a member of local communities, belief that we began supporting “Jonetsu Kyoshitsu assure safety. This time again, the popular plant tour proved to be TOYO TIRE provides support for efforts to revive local economies (Class of Passion),” which is sponsored by the Kansai an excellent opportunity to foster mutual communication, and and rebuild disaster-stricken communities. Career Education Support Council*, in 2013 by using the successfully impressed the visitors with the dedication and pride The TOYO TIRE HOLDINGS OF AMERICAS INC. (TTHA Group) Toyo Tire Group’ s resources to organize career talks to that we put into manufacturing of tires. organizes a “Holiday Toy Drive” for the holiday season. Following enhance students’ interest in manufacturing and help the huge success of last year’s Drive, they invited their employees them to develop a career view from early in their life. to donate toys and delivered them to children who were In FY2019, at the request of three schools, we gave classes for a total of 94 students, including fifth-graders, undergoing treatment at a local children’s hospital. eighth-graders, and international students studying in Support for reconstruction in the disaster-hit areas (FY 2019) Japan. Volunteer lecturers are selected randomly from a variety of departments to meet varying expectations from Contributions for the disaster recovery and reconstruction of “Sennen-Kibo-no-Oka” (Iwanuma City, Miyagi, Japan) different schools. Also, teaching materials are prepared in Donations to support the typhoon No. 19 disaster area in the first a way that the students’ needs are carefully catered to. year of Reiwa (the Japanese Red Cross Society) * An industr y-labor organization in Kansai that suppor ts career education at elementary, junior high, and high schools Donations to support the hurricane Dorian disaster area at Vocational talk about the tire September 2019 A booth featuring a driving simulator Donations to support the Australian bushfire at September 2019 25 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 26 Priority Theme 6 Creating Safe At manufacturing bases, where diverse people work, we In preparation for natural disasters, for which the degree of Management Approach and Healthy make announcements in multiple languages and use damage increases each year, the Risk Management Committee, illustrations and color-coded warning signs, so that all the which is a special committee in our company, conducted simulations Policies Workplaces employees can work safely. with the cooperation of external expert organizations, and extracted As a result of all these efforts, in FY2019, our total incidence rate issues from the existing manual. Then, based on these issues, we At TOYO TIRE, labor and management work together to operate an of occupational accidents in Japan decreased by 29% from the revised the “Natural Disaster Response Manual” in March 2019. occupational health and safety management system based on previous year. OSHMS Guidelines (Guidelines on Occupational Safety and Health TOYO TIRE’s SDGs Management System, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) and FY2019 Safety Performance By Region Health and Productivity (Ideal Status in 2030) promote safety and health throughout the company. These efforts consist primarily of conducting risk assessments and ● The lost-time accident rate (Manufacturing base) *Number of lost-time accidents per million hours worked in total Management We will contribute to create a society where everyone is implementing necessary measures based on their results under able to work safety and healthy though smartness the leadership of top management. Japan: 0.16 Others: 1.82 We consider employee health management from a business (0.60 in FY2018) (1.81 in FY2018) -development and introduction of technologies that The Company-wide Safety and Health Meeting, a joint perspective and support the idea of strategically conducting reduce the human load, e.g. AI and IoT. labor-management committee, makes decisions regarding annual health management. We have been reinforcing our preventative policies, targets, and plans related to occupational health and measures particularly for mental health issues that are the main Priorities safety, which are then approved by the Safety and Environment Creating Disaster Resistant cause of long-term absences. Committee and implemented. Furthermore, the Meeting evaluates The Toyo Tire Group has compiled the Infection/Contagion ● Global-level worker safety and health management progress in implementing plans and makes improvements. Workplaces Response Manual, which stipulates a necessary risk management system, procedures in ordinary times, the code of conduct for Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) Goals We have enhanced our efforts related to ﬁre prevention employees, and procedures in times of emergency, with the aim of management, and strengthened our disaster prevention and mitigating damage by infection/contagion, protecting the safety of TOYO TIRE believes that it is our obligation to all their The frequency of accidents, lost-time accident rate, number of mitigation efforts taking into consideration our experience with its employees, and minimizing the occurrence of such risks. stakeholders that we are thorough in prioritizing safety in ﬁres, and several other indicators are used to ascertain the state of major disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake. all business activities. The globalization and diversity are occupational health and safety in the workplace, and efforts are * For the Toyo Tire Group’s responses to the COVID-19, see P31. progressing for our employees within the company. And made to improve conditions at workplaces. preventing industrial accidents and promoting the health of workers, creating a comfortable work environment, and continuing to manage and improving them, does not Responsibilities (April 2020) TOPICS only reduce economic damage and loss of life, but also Senior Corporate Officer & Vice President of Quality lead to improvements in performance and corporate Assurance, Environment & Safety Headquarters Natural Disaster Simulation Drills TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDH BTD: value, such as better productivity and quality. Thus, we Received the Safety Award from have positioned these as issues that should be the Malaysian Government In the face of increasingly severe damage from natural disasters, addressed with priority. Creating Safe Workplaces TOYO TIRE has compiled the Natural Disaster Response Manual to prepare for such events. TOYO TYRE MALAYSIA SDN BHD participates in the Systematic Occupational Health Enhancement Level Programme (SoHELP) Activities in 2019 In accordance with the Manual revised in March 2019, Toyo Tire Corporation conducted a real-time simulation drill that assumed by Malaysia’ s Department of Occupational Safety and Health. SoHELP aims to reduce issues related to occupational safety and We are working to create safe workplaces from the three perspectives of “equipment,” “personnel,” and “management emergency responses at times of large-scale natural disasters. health and ensure compliance with related regulations. A total of Natural Disaster Simulation Drills More than 60 persons from different organizations who 270 multinational companies participate in this programme system development” at all business sites. par ticipated in the drill joined together in the Emergency across the country. With regard to physical aspects, by conducting a risk Countermeasures Headquarters to check the initial response Member companies of this programme follow a series of steps assessment on the hazards, we promote the elimination of levels of the business continuity planning and identify issues after for occupational safety and health management, that is, planning hazards based on safety standards for equipment and safety the occurrence of a disaster. The Risk Management Committee -> risk assessment -> correction -> auditing by management -> measures such as an enclosure or interlock. From human h o l d s t h e r e s p o n s i b i l i t y to a d d r e s s t h e p l a n n i n g a n d training -> auditing by the government. Our Malaysian subsidiary aspects, we strive to bring to light the “residual risks” that remain organizational improvements that were made clear in the drill. worked on visualizing issues identified as a result of risk after countermeasures are implemented for hardware, and we are assessment at workplaces and organized training programs for its employees accordingly. With their activities winning appraisal thoroughly enhancing risk management by indicating high from the government, they were chosen to be one of the ten residual risks, implementing work standards, and through recipients of the Best Overall Workplaces SoHELP small-group-based (independent improvement activities led by a Implementation 2018. small group) risk prediction activities, etc. Through this programme, they will continue developing a safe As for creating a management mechanism, we are expanding workplace culture that focuses on preventive maintenance. the safety management system (OSHMS/GSC/OHSAS18001). We have compiled the Industrial Accident Response Manual so that we can mitigate risks to the company and employees, protect employees’ safety and the company’s credibility, and minimize the occurrence of such accidents by taking prompt action when a labor-related accident occurs. Stipulated clearly in this manual are Natural Disaster Simulation Drills concrete steps to follow when an industrial accident occurs, a Awarded CHAMPION necessary risk management system against industrial accidents, procedures in ordinary times, the code of conduct for employees, *The detail of each data (boundary, period, assumptions underlying of data) are available at our website. and procedures in the times of emergency. 25 27 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 28 Priority Theme 7 Reinforcement of pursue the sustainable enhancement of corporate value and Governance Structure (April 2020) Management Approach Corporate Governance ensure that they share said value with our shareholders. In * Chairman: Representative addition, we appropriately manage conflicts of interest. We have General Meeting of The Shareholders: Director, President & CEO Once a year Policies determined that the outside directors appointed by the Company and Compliance We properly implement the principles of the corporate governance carry no risk of conflicts of interest with general shareholders and reported them as independent directors. Regular independent Audit & Supervisory Board * Members: 3 Members of Audit & Supervisory Board (of which 2 are outside members) **See the Notice of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for information of Directors attendance rates and expertise of each director. code in order to implement effective corporate governance. We evaluations of the Board of Directors ensure the functionality and * Chairman: Director, Chairman of the Board ensure the rights and equality of shareholders, strive to establish effectiveness of the Board of Directors and various committees. Board of Directors: (Not concurrently serve as executive) TOYO TIRE’s SDGs appropriate cooperation and dialogue with stakeholders other Once a month Members: 9 Directors (of which 3 are outside members) ** See the Notice of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for (Ideal Status in 2030) than shareholders, and work to secure appropriate information Internal Control System information of Directors attendance rates and expertise of each director. And see the Financial Results on the total compensation for Corporate disclosure and transparency to achieve this. Taking into Officers and the Policy of corporate officer compensation. We will contribute to minimize social impact of extreme consideration its accountability toward shareholders, the Board of In accordance with the Companies Act in Japan, the basic Nomination and * Members: 5 Members weather phenomena derived from climate change by Directors properly fulfills its roles and duties to raise profitability, policy on constructing the internal control system was decided Compensation Committee (of which 3 are outside members) building a robust value chain. increase capital efficiency, etc., in order to achieve sustainable by the Board of Directors, and the internal control system was * Chairman: Representative Director, President & CEO growth and raise the Company’s corporate value in the mediumcreated in line with that basic policy. The basic policy is reviewed Executive Committees: Members: 11 Members (Senior Corporate Officer, Priorities and long-term. each year to reflect changes in the management environment Twice a month Corporate Officer,Division General Manager of Corporate Administration Div.) As for efforts to strengthen compliance required to embody this and to ensure that our internal control system remains effective. ● Reinforcing corporate governance philosophy, the Toyo Tire Group compiled not only the “Toyo Tire “Reporting Hotlines” have been established and operated as Special Committees ● Further spreading awareness of placing greatest Group Charter of Corporate Behavior” as corporate action a system to enable employees to directly report and seek Compliance Committee: * Chairman: CCO, who are priority on compliance principles applied uniformly across the Group in order faithfully advice regarding their concerns, such as compliance issues Once a quarter elected by the Board of Director conduct business activities but also the “Toyo Tire Group Code of that could develop into a crisis. In addition, multiple reporting Reasons for being Priority Issues (Opportunity & Risk) Conduct” for each director and employee to put the charter into routes have been secured, and a system that makes it easy for Crisis Management * Chairman: Vice President of Committee: Crisis Management practice. We strive to spread these throughout the Group. We have required information to rise to the governance organization has Once a quarter We are living in a time when the future outlook is established the Global Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy, been created. Organization & * Chairman: Representative increasingly uncertain, what with climate change, the which is in accord with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Personnel Committee: Director, President & CEO Once a quarter changing demographic structure, and infectious Global Compact (UNGC), in a bid to ensure fairness and Role of Governance Entities in Priority diseases that spread globally. In order to sustain transparency in our business activities. Technology Committee: * Chairman: Vice President of R&D CSR Themes Once a month Headquarters international business growth as we strive to survive the * More information about the new policy is available at https://www.toyotires-global.com/csr/pdf/anti-bribery_en.pdf “once-in-a-century” change in the auto industry, we at In order to strengthen governance related to efforts targeting the Quality Assurance * Chairman: Vice President of Committee: Quality Assurance, Environment & TOYO TIRE believe it essential to ensure management seven priority CSR themes, the Executive Committee Safety Headquarters Once a quarter transparency and pursue fairness within the Goals (chairperson: President) has created a system to promote the Group’s sustainability management. Safety & Environment * Chairman: Vice President of organization. To this end, we recognize that we have Committee: Quality Assurance, Environment & a responsibility to various stakeholders, and it is We will increase the transparency of management and aim to In the group-wide working groups (WG) established upon Once a quarter Safety Headquarters necessary to maintain an appropriate management implement highly specialized, effective corporate governance by approval by the Executive Committee, we identify the sustainable Investment & Credit * Chairman: Division General system and increase awareness that compliance is the spreading awareness of the corporate philosophy and improving development goals (SDGs), the impacts, risks, and opportunities Committee: Manager of Corporate Twice a month Administration Div. most important issue, and we have positioned these as compliance levels. in various priority themes, and plan for actions. And the corporate officer in charge of the Corporate Headquarters compiles the issues that should be addressed with priority. Group Company Responsibilities (April 2020) information and reports it to the Executive Committee. The Each Division *Management responsible departments of each company are listed in the affiliate management rules effectiveness of the processes for each theme discussed by WGs Activities in 2019 Corporate Officer & Vice President of Corporate Headquarters is debated and evaluated when the report is made to the Executive Committee. Reinforcing governance for the promoting sustainability Compliance Promotion System Based on the strategy and policy set by the WG, the related Organizational changes aimed at further strengthening Corporate Governance System special committees develop plans for important activities, Within our Group, compliance is deemed a matter of the highest the management foundation Corporate governance system of the Toyo Tire Corporation analyze the results, and formulate improvement measures. And priority in management, and the president works as the party in Strengthening of awareness that prioritizes compliance consists of the Board of Directors, which is responsible for the progress in implementing the plans by the divisions charge of compliance to create and improve the compliance system. decision-making and supervision; the Executive Committee, responsible for execution of business operations is reported to In addition to establishing the Compliance Committee, one of which serves as the decision-making body for business execution; the Executive Committee. the special committees that debates and examines issues related the Special Committees, which act as deliberative and We disclose the information about the action of each priority to promoting compliance, we have a system of compliance officers consultative bodies for their respective areas; and the Audit & theme an once year as “CSR Report.” Before disclosing, the and are striving to promote compliance, mainly by the chief Supervisory Board, which audits the performance of the Board of report is reviewed by the corporate officers in charge of the compliance officer (CCO), compliance officers (CO), and Directors and overall business execution. Our corporate various control departments and finally approved by Corporate compliance leaders (CL). governance structure allows these organs to effectively fulfill their Officer & Vice President of Corporate Headquarters. We have a structure in place that enables prompt investigation respective functions and responsibilities. The staff in charge of rerated the theme promotes engagement when a compliance issue (or a suspicion of one) is reported to the In February 2020, we established a Nomination and with stakeholders about each priority theme. And Corporate CO. Efforts related to the investigation and measures Compensation Committee, an advisory body for the board of Officer & Vice President of Corporate Headquarters aggregates implemented to prevent recurrence are announced within the directors on personnel affairs, compensation, and other matters the results of engagement and shares them to the Group as company. We make use of this information as the investigation concerning Directors. At the 104th Annual General Meeting of necessary at any time. whether does not have any similar cases (horizontal deployment), Shareholders held on March 27, 2020, it was resolved to introduce reconfirmation of laws and internal rules. And when a similar case a monetary compensation receivables system for granting occurs, we use it as a reference for solving the issues and for restricted stock to internal directors in order to incentivize them to measures to prevent recurrence. 25 29 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 30 Priority Theme 7 Reinforcement of Corporate Governance and Compliance meetings, including extraordinary ones, were held. Outside Directors laws, regulations, and customs between countries and regions, the Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Corporate Governance attend the board of directors meetings and other important meetings various Group companies outside Japan have created independent to offer their opinions on deliberations to fulfill their responsibility to The Company holds a general meeting of shareholders once a year codes of conduct using the code of conduct as action guidelines. monitor and supervise management. and a quarterly financial result briefing. During the first half and full We have newly created and distributed the “Code of Conduct Spreading the Philosophy Since FY 2017, the Company has been conducting an analysis year briefings, our top executives provide detailed business Handbook: Global Version.” This handbook translated into 9 As of January 1, 2017, the Toyo Tire Group has formulated a new and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a information, including financial results, future business outlook, languages: Japanese, English, Russian, German, Italian, Chinese, philosophy which will be the basis for the work of all corporate whole by conducting a signed survey of directors and Audit and business environment, and market trends, to institutional investors Thai, Malaysian, and Portuguese, and defines the basic actions that officers and employees, and measures are implemented to spread Supervisory Board members regarding the operation, composition, and securities analysts. In addition to announcing financial results, every Director and employee of the Group should take. the philosophy among all employees. activities, etc. of the Board of Directors. The compilation, analysis, there were also small meetings attended by the president and other We have positioned the “Corporate Creed,” the important founding and evaluation of the surveys are entrusted to a third party in order to parties as well as several engagement opportunities for managers Internal Reporting System spirit that we will maintain into the future, as the overarching concept; ensure impartiality. The summary of the results of the survey and institutional investors. put into words our significance in society in the form of “Our Mission”; conducted in FY 2019 along with how we will respond going refer to In addition, efforts are made to improve understanding of the We have been operating an internal reporting system since fiscal 2006. and clearly specified the vision for the company that we should strive website. Based on this content, we will continue to further improve Group’s management by providing opportunities each quarter for IR “Reporting Hotlines” have been established in Toyo Tire Corporation for in that mission as “Our Vision.” We also established “Our the functionality of the Board of Directors. staff to respond to the particular concerns of institutional investors and Audit Department, an independent law office, and independent Fundamental Values” as a foundation for ideas that all corporate Effective on February 19, 2020, we chose to establish a analysts (handling individual inquiries). Furthermore, the Group actively specialized companies as an in-house whistle blower system. Not only officers and employees should value equally. Nomination and Compensation Committee, an advisory body for the works to respond to increasing requests by the investors outside employees but also business partners can use the system, and reports All initial in-house training programs start with a session on board of directors that deliberates on personnel affairs, Japan, which includes enhanced responding to individual inquiries can also be made anonymously. Overseas, we are moving forward with management philosophy in order for everyone in the Toyo Tire Group compensation, and other matters concerning Directors and offers except during the quiet period and conducting overseas roadshows. efforts to establish hotlines at each business site. to understand such philosophy well. In FY2019, Toyo Tire advice, proposals, and recommendations to the board of directors. In FY2019, members of our investor relations (IR) team held There is greater awareness of the “Reporting Hotlines” in Japan as Corporation organized a management philosophy training session With the establishment of the Nomination and Compensation dialogues with more than 360 shareholders and investors from 260 a result of a call to promote usage by distributing cards, displaying for officers and division general managers as well as one for Committee, more than half of whose members are Outside institutions. In addition, our board members organized two small posters, and issuing internal monthly compliance communiques. department heads. In the latter session, department heads were Directors, we will further enhance independence, objectivity, and meetings on the Toyo Tire Group’s new growth strategy announced given case studies to understand the importance of spreading accountability of the board of directors’ functions for personnel in August 2019, which were attended by a total of 25 institutional Anti-Corruption visions and strategies at workplaces, as well as group work where affairs, compensation, and other matters concerning Directors, thus investors and others from 22 investment houses. The opinions and they shared what they are doing to spread the management reinforcing the corporate governance structure. requests of shareholders and investors are regularly used as TOYO TIRE established “Global Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery philosophy at their workplaces. The session proved to be a valuable feedback for management and in-house related departments. policy” and “Anti-bribery rules”, and commenced operations. In opportunity for them to share the current status and issues at other FY2019, we provided a training session on anti-corruption and Strengthen the Risk Management System departments, which then helped them to increase their drive to anti-bribery to ensure that our global policy is adhered to. We also spread the management philosophy more. As the risk manager, in our Group, the person in charge of the conducted interviews with all the affiliates within the Toyo Tire Group Three years after our management philosophy was established, we have finally begun to see increased recognition and Corporate Control Department is responsible for parties below the risk management officer appointed for each risk and the risk Promoting Compliance to ask about risks of corrupt practices and bribery to ensure an absence of concerns over such risks at this point. understanding of it within the company. We will continue our efforts management system as stipulated in the Risk Management Rules. Spreading Awareness of the Charter of We strive to ensure fairness and transparency in all its business to spread our management philosophy even further until fulfilling it The main risks are managed through established activities not only activities. We recognize that if acts of corruption and/or bribery are Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct becomes part of our subconscious. to evaluate and analyze potential risks for the Group during discovered, there is a risk of not only a large financial penalty and non-emergency times and to reduce the possibility of them We compiled not only the “Toyo Tire Group Charter of Corporate detention of the perpetrator concerned, but also a risk of causing serious occurring, but also to minimize damage during emergencies and to Behavior” as corporate action principles applied uniformly across the damage to the goodwill of the Group among its suppliers, business Work of the Board of Directors promptly restore business. Group in order faithfully conduct business activities but also the “Toyo partners and society. As one of the corporate social responsibilities of TOYO TIRE holds a regular board of directors meeting once every * Covered Risks: disasters/accidents, quality, purchasing, legal violations, information Tire Group Code of Conduct” for each director and employee to put the Group, we will work to prevent corruption and bribery. management, labor, and issues of rubber bearings month to make decisions on important matters and supervise the the charter into practice. Taking into the consideration differences in status of business execution by Directors. In FY2019, a total of 18 TOPICS TOPICS Comment Results of the FY2019 Compliance Survey *Response rate 88.2% [92.3％ for 2018] “Over the past several years, the levels of awareness of compliance Toyo Tire Group’s Responses to the Effects of the Spread of the Novel Coronavirus Infection among our employees have reached consistent heights. Having ❶ Conducting compliance promotion activities said that, a number of employees replied by saying, ‘I think 97 % In response to the worldwide spread of the novel coronavirus In more concrete terms, we not only take measures to prevent Conducted at least one activity to compliance is about following laws/regulations and internal rules’ or infection that began at the end of 2019, pursuant to the Risk employees and visitors to the company from getting infected but raise compliance awareness within ‘Sometimes I find it hard to seek consultation on small difficulties at Management Rules, we established the Emergency also have expanded the scope of the telecommuting system, the last year, (96% in FY 2018) work.’ If we are to raise awareness levels further, we need to take Countermeasures Committee (upgraded to the Emergency which was introduced in Japan as part of the ongoing work style ❷ Awareness and understanding of compliance different approaches. Based on these outcomes, we will work with Countermeasures Headquarters in February) in January 2020 to reform, and even closed our business bases/sites with workplaces on an individual basis to implement effective measures by gathering information and having a series of discussions on how we should deal with the pandemic. administrative departments. Meanwhile, Toyo Tire Corporation continues to recruit new Know the meaning of compliance, * TOYO TIRE’ s compliance: We shall comply with laws and internal rules in all aspects of our business activities and shall 88 % (87% in FY 2018) discuss what we should be doing so we can help our employees to further raise conduct ourselves according to the highest ethical standards. In the wake of the spread of the novel coronavirus infection, the graduates for FY2021 as originally planned by creating and their awareness of compliance.” Toyo Tire Group is taking measures that place top priority on the ensuring opportunities to communicate with prospective ❸ Making compliance part of the corporate character Rie Kawakubo assurance of health and safety of our employees and employees through online company information sessions and Conscious of compliance when 93 % Compliance Dept., Compliance & Legal Division, stakeholders, as well as the maintenance of employment. group/individual interviews. Toyo Tire Corp. conducting your work, (94% in FY 2018) 31 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 32 Fiscal 2019 CSR Activities Summary / 【Activities of Sustainability Promotion WG in FY2019】 Third-Party Opinion Working Group Purposes Achievement (FY 2019) Plan (FY 2020) (WG) on the TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 Setting and achievement of Publication of the TOYO TIRE’s SDGs Interviews with all Group companies (follow-up on their activities) Development of internal targets and action plans for achieving TOYO TIRE’s SDGs Interviews with all Group companies SDGs WG TOYO TIRE’s Internal dissemination of the SDGs (follow-up on their activities) (briefing sessions for Group companies in Japan) Internal dissemination of the SDGs Fiscal 2019 CSR Activities Summary SDGs (Production/rollout of dissemination tools, Organizations position-specific training) In FY2019, our working group (WG) for promoting sustainability impact that our business activities will have moving forward and the held direct dialogues on “TOYO TIRE’s SDGs” with all companies in importance of deepening our understanding of the corporate value Analysis of the evaluation results about the CDP Further enhancement of disclosure the Group to brief them on TOYO TIRE’s approaches (orientation) to that results from such activities. In FY2020, we will make continued survey (publication of the independent practitioner’s assurance report, consideration of appropriate responses to the TCFD) Further enhancement of disclosure this imperative and gather information on their initiatives and efforts to strengthen understanding of the goals of the Interviews with all Group companies Responding Interviews with all Group companies (follow-up on their activities) challenges in this regard. sustainability promotion while celebrating the diversity in values Environment (follow-up on their activities) WG to climate change Revision of the Toyo Tire Group Global Through these dialogues, we were able to determine the societal and cultural backgrounds of our people. Discussion on the revision to the Toyo Tire Group Environmental Charter Global Environmental Charter Revision of the Toyo Tire Group Global Analysis and evaluation of water risks in the regions Environmental Action Plan where we operate (formulation of a climate change strategy) Comment by SDGsWG Leader In 2019, we set TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, which the Toyo Tire Group that we would act in a way that contributes to their achievement. Announcement of policies on human rights and Internal dissemination (via training) of the policies must achieve by 2030, and announced them within and outside This declaration has carried a lot of weight and great significance labor and the prevention of corruption on human rights and labor and the prevention of the Group.Three years ago, Toyo Tire Corporation redefined its in the 75-year-long history of the Human Responding to Internal dissemination of the policies corruption body of Philosophy, which forms the backbone of the company, company. Rights human rights and (via training, translation into Chinese) Development of a risk check sheet and changed the company name last year to once again manifest & Labor Interviews with all Group companies Interviews with all Group companies If we wish to unify people from anti-corruptio WG (follow-up on their activities) (risk check, follow-up on their initiatives) its mission. This process gave us an opportunity to think deeply different walks of life to help each Sharing of the President’s messages on human Sharing of the President’s messages on human about the responsibility that we have when doing business globally other and hand down this planet to rights to employees across the globe rights to employees across the globe with various parties, which led us to endorse the UN SDGs, an future generations, we believe that internationally unifying initiative for businesses. We then came up being mindful of “Why we do this” with our autonomous behavioral code that contributes to the is more important than “What we Publication of the revised CSR Procurement Translation into Chinese Guidelines, which includes a Sustainable Natural Revision of self-check sheets for suppliers achievement of the UN SDGs in the form of TOYO TIRE’s SDGs should do.” As we continuously Rubber Procurement Policy and our work is just beginning on these. share this basic principle and Responding to the Communication with suppliers via the Internal dissemination of the Guidelines self-check sheets We shed new light on all aspects of our business management, collaborate with our employees responsibility for (Briefing sessions for members of procurement departments Supply Chain in Japan) Activities as a member company of GPSNR including procurement of raw materials, recruitment, employee and everyone else with whom we WG sustainable Haruhiko Kitagawa External dissemination of the Guidelines training, and corporate governance, as well as technological conduct business for society, we Division General Manager of procurement (Briefing sessions for suppliers in Japan and notification to development, production/supply, and marketing/sales, in terms will achieve our goals one by one. Corporate Infrastructure Div., overseas suppliers of natural rubber) of sustainability and harmony with relevant parties, and declared Toyo Tire Corp Activities as a member company of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR) Third-Party Opinion on the TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 Since the establishment of its Basic Policy and seven Priority Themes of sustainable supply chain management. in 2014, the Toyo Tire Group has stepped up its CSR activities, In 2020 the Group will draw up a new medium-term business plan continuously disclosing relevant data with a sincere eye towards to take effect from 2021. Within this plan, I believe that some of the Comment by Corporate Officer in Charge of CSR (Receiving Comments from an External Expert) transparency. It merits mentioning that the company has reaffirmed its initiatives covered in TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, such as a reduction in risks First of all, we would like to express our appreciation to Mr. Motoki reform, and promoting diversity in humanpower. We had to intention to advance this approach over the long term by striving to and expansion of opportunities, will be given a strategic position of for his valuable opinions and advice regarding our CSR Report determine what we could do to stay in business in light of the achieve its seven Priority Theme-derived “TOYO TIRE’s SDGs” by 2030. support and close engagement. I also expect that the Toyo Tire Group 2020. In accordance with the new growth strategy announced last sustainability pertaining to these issues during this state of crisis. It is also reassuring to know that careful preparations are underway to will, while formulating an action plan for the TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, year, TOYO TIRE will drive its efforts to achieve sustainability as We will make the most of this valuable experience to further develop relevant policies and to collect a broader scope of data for redefine how the pursuit of the Priority Themes can create value and part of its push to reinforce its business foundations that are enhance our flexibility so that we can achieve sustainability in any analysis. These policies include those on the priority issues of “climate begin to develop an original story of value creation that goes beyond designed to realize individual strategies. In so doing, we have been operating environment. change,” “human rights, labor, and anti-corruption,” and “responsibility this new medium-term business plan heading towards 2030. made keenly aware that, if we are to realize sustainability, we must As we work to achieve TOYO for sustainable procurement,” which were identified in FY2017. achieve the right balance between the creation of financial values TIRE’s SDGs in the course of our Going forward, it is expected that the Group will specify the roles of and sustainability, involve all parties concerned in our endeavors, business, we will deliver unique these priority issues in realizing its seven Priority Themes within the and give due consideration to diversity. values (differentiated presence) to context of the TOYO TIRE’s SDGs, as well as systematically showcase This year, in order to prevent further spread of COVID-19, we society at large. As Mr. Motoki a comprehensive picture of concrete initiatives and targets that each decided to close all of our business locations except mentioned in his comments, going department will employ, including Priority Theme 1 of “Product and manufacturing and logistics sites, while ensuring business forward, we intend to offer an Service Reliability and Innovation.” Some initiatives mentioned in this continuity by allowing our employees to work from home, thus original story of value creation that report that are being planned for 2020 to address these priority issues assuring the safety of our employees and other stakeholders. We looks beyond the new medium-term need to be promoted systematically over the mid and long term, were suddenly forced to confront head-on all sort of issues amid business plan and is aligned with our together with business partners and other stakeholders. Doing so will the pandemic, including negotiating with business partners from growth strategy. also satisfy the demand for disclosure of ESG information by around the world who are in different situations and operating Takehiko Sasamori investors, and thus should be pursued without fail. Specifically, these environments, caring for employees, developing and training new Director Corporate Officer &Vice President ofCorporate Headquarters, initiatives include the consideration of appropriate responses to the recruits and young employees remotely, implementing work style Toyo Tire Corporation Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the Mr. Hiro Motoki examination of risks associated with human rights, and the promotion President, E-Square Inc. 33 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 TOYO TIRE CSR Report 2020 34
