2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY 1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO .................................................................................................................. 3 TM 2. ESI – THE PRODUCT PERFORMANCE LIFECYCLE COMPANY ......................................................... 4 2.1. Value creation ................................................................................................................................................................ 4 2.2. ESI Group values .......................................................................................................................................................... 4 3. ESI – A COMMITTED GROUP ............................................................................................................... 4 3.1. Setting priorities: CSR framework .............................................................................................................................. 4 3.2. ESI Group’s CSR approach and 2019 performance ................................................................................................ 5 3.3. Evaluating sustainability challenges: materiality assessment ............................................................................... 6 3.4. CSR distinctions ............................................................................................................................................................ 7 4. BEING A COMMITTED EMPLOYER ..................................................................................................... 8 4.1. Developing talents and encouraging leadership and collaborative management .............................................. 8 4.2. Promoting diversity and reducing inequalities ........................................................................................................ 10 4.3. Contributing to the well-being of employees .......................................................................................................... 12 5. BEING AN OUTSTANDING PARTNER ................................................................................................ 14 5.1. Provide innovative solutions that meet our customers’ requirements ................................................................ 14 5.2. Ensure customer satisfaction and meet quality and safety requirements ......................................................... 15 5.3. Maintain long term, trust-based relationships with stakeholders and ecosystem ............................................ 16 6. BEING AN ETHICAL AND COMMITTED COMPANY ............................................................................. 16 6.1. Guarantee solid and diversified governance .......................................................................................................... 16 6.2. Act ethically and responsibly – Ethics charter ....................................................................................................... 16 6.3. Set up initiatives to interact with civil society (give -back) .................................................................................... 18 7. BEING AN ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PLAYER ......................................................................... 19 7.1. Develop sustainable solutions .................................................................................................................................. 19 7.2. Reduce the environmental impact of the Group ..................................................................................................... 20 8. REPORTING ....................................................................................................................................... 23 8.1. Reporting methodology .............................................................................................................................................. 23 8.2. Report of the inspecting organization ...................................................................................................................... 24 ESI Group – Communication on Progress 2 1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Mr Secretary General, dear readers, ESI Group is one of the world’s leading innovator companies in Virtual Prototyping software and services. Our mission, as a specialist in physics of materials, is to empower industry players to commit to outcome, by developing a unique proficiency in helping industrial manufacturers replace physical tests and prototypes by virtual replicas. The Group offers solutions, built from 45 years of experience, bringing technological empowerment to innovate efficiently and with confidence. Leveraging the physics of materials, we support industries to validate the design, manufacturing, and behavior of the product in different environments, early and throughout the whole product life, while minimizing their costs and time to market, without sacrificing safety and quality. To reach these objectives, ESI accompanies its customers in a journey toward Zero Tests, Zero Prototypes and Zero Downtime. Our CSR strategy, divided into four (4) axes and eleven (11) commitments, aims to continuously provide sustainable solutions for customers, while being committed to its employees, acting ethically and responsibly with civil society and limiting its environmental footprint and the one of its customers on the planet. Aware of our responsibility, in each of the three pillars of sustainable development, we have gradually developed, for more than six years, a Corporate Social Responsibility policy that contributes to shared economic and social development and the preservation of human balance. Member since 2018, I am pleased to express, with this second version of our Communication on Progress, that ESI Group is renewing its engagement within the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Sincerely yours, CRISTEL DE ROUVRAY Chief Executive Officer of ESI Group The Group’s CSR challenges and commitments are linked to 10 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact ESI Group – Communication on Progress 3 2. ESI – THE PRODUCT PERFORMANCE LIFECYCLE TM COMPANY 2.1. VALUE CREATION The development of certain products requires significant considering various contingencies such as defects, wear and testing phases to ensure their safety and integrity. tear maintenance operations, running-in of assisted piloting, Traditionally, companies have used physical prototypes to test etc. Henceforth, agile, smart and autonomous, virtual these products and assess their ability to meet technical prototyping accompanies manufacturers in the era of the requirements. The production of these prototypes can be timefactory of the future and smart digital products. consuming and can require significant amounts of materials and energy. Furthermore, it is difficult to assess the effects of The Group’s vision is simple yet powerful: toward zero real time on a physical prototype, since we cannot abstract from tests, zero real prototypes and zero downtime. The benefits the physical constraints. are palpable: faster time to market, increased product performance, and reduced costs, while enabling customers to The added value of ESI’s solutions make it possible to meet commit to outcome. The advantages of this approach are these challenges: by dematerializing the innovation process, concrete: shorter time-to-market, improved product these solutions allow customers to accurately assess and performance including during use and reduced costs. evaluate the performance of their prototypes, virtually. In addition, ESI’s solutions make it possible to simulate the The Group primarily targets customers operating in four consequences of time on their products, while making it sectors: Ground Transportation & Automotive, Aeronautics & possible to estimate the evolution of their performance during Aerospace, Heavy Industry and Energy. Furthermore, the development and throughout their lifecycle. Hence, by means Group has organized its value proposition around 4 specific of ESI’s offer, customers have the information they need to outcomes for customers: Pre-Certification, Smart develop products that meet exacting standards more quickly, Manufacturing; Human Centric and Pre-Experience. in a more efficient way and with a lower environmental impact. Thus, the sustainability of the Group’s business model depends This enriched offer enables complete control of the lifecycle of on its ability to understand the industrial and technical challenges an industrial product from its commissioning to its operational of its customers, to simulate them thanks to the new possibilities withdrawal. It also offers the possibility of anticipating possible offered by technology and, to do so, to rely on the talent of its developments during the lifecycle of the products while employees and the confidence of its stakeholders. 2.2. ESI GROUP VALUES ESI's values infuse this recognized organization with a culture and an ambition that have produced innovation for the benefit of the Group’s customers and employees for more than 45 years. These values – Passion, Global, Change, Trust, Social Responsibility and Energy – anchor the Group’s identity and fit logically together, as can be seen in the Corporate Social Responsibility actions defined as follows: 3. ESI – A COMMITTED GROUP 3.1. SETTING PRIORITIES: CSR FRAMEWORK Aware of its responsibility in each of the three pillars of sustainable development, ESI Group has gradually developed a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy that contributes In addition, ESI has developed its first materiality matrix to to shared economic and social development and the visualize its various priority challenges and their impact on preservation of human balance. the Company and its main stakeholders. For more details, please refer to Chapter 3 “Risks and Risk Management” and ESI Group’s ambition is to become the leader in Virtual the following section of this chapter. ESI’s CSR strategy, Prototyping, through a responsible innovation approach towards which is divided into four axes and cascaded into eleven (11) zero real tests, zero real prototypes and zero downtime. The commitments, aims to continue ensuring harmonious working Group thus intends to be its customers’ preferred conditions for its employees, to provide its customers with development partner, capable of understanding and innovative solutions enabling them to become long-term supporting them in their efforts to bring innovative, quality, partners, and to limit the environmental footprint of the Group sustainable, ethical and highly resource-efficient products to and its customers while acting ethically and responsibly within market. The Group has carried out a review of major risks and civil society. Through its activities, ESI Group has a very opportunities, including the main CSR and sustainability limited impact on the fight against food waste, food insecurity, challenges that could have a significant impact on its respect for animal welfare, and the promotion of responsible, business, financial position or results. fair and sustainable food. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 4 3.2. ESI GROUP’S CSR APPROACH AND 2019 PERFORMANCE ESI Group – Communication on Progress 5 3.3. EVALUATING SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In line with ESI’s commitment to ensuring responsible and / 2. Evaluation and prioritization sustainable business, while giving priority to issues that have the greatest impact on the economy, society, planet and The objective of this step is to rank and assess the various governance, and that most influence stakeholders’ decisionchallenges identified in the first step according to their making, a first version of ESI’s materiality matrix has been potential impact on the business and their importance to developed in 2019. stakeholders. This matrix represents a key tool in the execution of the corporate For the preparation of this first materiality matrix, a workshop was strategy. It enables priorities to be defined according to their organized with an internal staff representing the following importance for internal and external stakeholders and their departments: Executive Committee (GEC), Finance & Administration, impact on ESI’s performance. Human Resources, Corporate Communication, Research & Innovation, Quality, Sales and IT. The latter are directly and/or indirectly concerned by the exanimated challenges and are in interaction with all ESI’s stakeholders. Materiality methodology Eleven (11) key issues have been identified and confronted with the concerns of ESI’s internal and external stakeholders on a scale / 1. Identification of 0 to 4, by answering the following questions: ◗ What is the issue’s potential level of impact on ESI Group The preparation of this matrix first involves the identification and (economic, social and environmental impact)? preliminary assessment of various risk and opportunity factors for ESI in terms of sustainable development. ◗ What is the level of influence of the issue on the decisions of external stakeholders? In addition to a consultation of existing documentation and a benchmark of other companies operating in the same sector, the These challenges were then positioned in a matrix, the axes of assessment is essentially based on key parameters of reporting which are represented by the two questions above. frameworks (SASB standards, GRI standards, the European directive on extra-financial reporting), in perspective with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) defined by the United / 3. Validation Nations Global Compact, to which ESI contributes through its This step aims to verify that the results are well aligned with activities and its CSR approach. the Company’s strategy and values. The matrix is therefore adjusted and validated by the members of the Company’s general management. Finally, the matrix followed an internal validation process and was reviewed by an external consultant. The Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations Global Compact, which are important for ESI and to which the Group contributes As will be detailed below, the Group’s CSR challenges and commitments are strongly linked to the following Sustainable Development Goals. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 6 ESI Group’s materiality matrix Understanding the materiality results ◗ The “Moderate Impact” section contains one (1) issue related In the materiality matrix above, ESI’s sustainable issues are divided to the Group’s commitment to implement and continue to promote into three distinct sections/areas, allowing a better understanding initiatives and partnerships within civil society. Compared to of the impact of each challenge and its importance to ESI’s other issues, and despite its importance, this commitment has stakeholders, both internally and externally. a limited impact on the Group and its stakeholders. ◗ The “Critical Impact” section contains ESI’s six (6) priority Above and beyond, it’s important to note that the identified issues, which are closely linked to the evolution of the challenges are interconnected and interdependent. They must Company’s business model and its positioning regarding its be considered in their entirety. For example, ethics and external stakeholders. Thus, these issues reflect the Company’s employee well-being can have a direct or indirect impact on the strategic priorities, in particular the development of innovative performance of the Company and its relationship with its and responsible solutions to deal with technological change stakeholders. and meet customer requirements, while maintaining long-term and trusted relationships with customers, while relying on the experience-talent of employees and acting ethically and responsibly towards civil society. Exploiting the materiality results ◗ The “Important Impact” section includes four (4) major issues, mainly related to the quality of working life, ESI’s The materiality matrix is communicated and shared internally as corporate governance and the Group’s environmental impact. part of ESI’s commitment to ensuring a responsible and In fact, ESI considers that the well-being of its employees has a sustainable activity. These challenges will also be relayed at the significant impact on their efficiency and on the Company’s level of the various departments and at the level of the sites on performance, both internally and externally. In addition, being an international scale for a better implementation of CSR a committed company also means ensuring solid and diversified commitments. governance, which has a direct impact on the Company’s This materiality analysis has made it possible to identify the performance and internal management. Finally, one of the priority challenges with the greatest impact on the Company and Group’s main challenges is related to its commitment to limit its its environment, in particular their impact on internal and external environmental footprint, which is mainly linked to the impact of its stakeholders. These sustainability challenges will be analyzed international implementations. and presented in detail in this chapter. 3.4. CSR DISTINCTIONS Gaïa Index Between 2016 and 2018, and for three consecutive years, ESI Group has been awarded first prize of the Gaïa campaign in the The Gaia Index (www.gaia-index.com) was created in 2009 and category of mid-cap companies with revenue of less than €150 is now the benchmark sustainability index for medium-sized million and keeps its place in the index which singles out the 70 listed French companies. Developed by EthiFinance top-rated companies in the CSR domain. (www.ethifinance. com), the Gaia Index selects small and medium-sized companies based on their non-financial Ranked 4th in 2019, ESI remains in the Gaïa index, which performance. singles out the 70 top-rated companies in the CSR domain, out of a panel of 230. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 7 Grands Prix de la Transparence Global Compact Since 2008, the “Grands Prix de la Transparence” are evaluating Since 2018, ESI Group signed the Global Compact (United and awarding SBF120 companies under French law for the quality Nations Global Compact) and thus undertakes to align its CSR of the regulated information provided on their Registration strategy on the 10 United Nations principles, relating to human Documents. The aim of these Grands Prix is to enable companies rights, international labor standards, the environment and the to measure their transparency performance each year and to fight against corruption. The Group also undertakes to yearly identify best practices in the sector. Among the outstanding communicate its progress to its stakeholders through the innovations for the 2019 edition is a Grand Prix for Transparency of release of a Communication on Progress (COP). Registration Document for companies outside the SBF 120, of which ESI Group is a member. In this first edition, the Group was For more information, visit: www.unglobalcompact.org ranked 4th for the “Transparency” and quality of its 2018 Registration Document, out of a list of 20 non-SBF120 companies. For more information, visit: www.grandsprixtransparence.com 4. BEING A COMMITTED EMPLOYER ESI Group aims to be a leading employer among all software ◗ promote diversity and multicultural exchanges; and service providers on the market and plans to stay that way ◗ contribute to the well-being of employees. on a long term. This policy draws on various tools, including the Human ESI Group’s employees consist primarily of highly trained engineers Resources Information System (HR-IS) to consolidate the HR and PhDs from prestigious universities and institutes worldwide. reporting process worldwide, and lends greater flexibility to the In addition to the close relationship that the Group has always organization. It also promotes better use of resources by had with these schools, there are a number of other factors that focusing on skills, to encourage a more involved, multiexemplify ESI’s commitment to value employees’ experience and disciplinary managerial culture. The platform provides an foster highly qualified recruitment and internal development. ongoing view of changes in employment indicators and makes These factors include ESI’s positioning in the field of virtual it possible to drive our resource needs more easily. simulation that takes into account the physics of materials, the Group’s prominence as a publicly listed company on the Paris A selection of HR KPI is provided monthly to the Group stock exchange, the Group’s continuing education programs, and Executive Committee in order to measure the effectiveness of its focus on internal promotion at an international level. HR policies. ESI Group’s policy is based on the following axes: The data from HR-IS are provided on a worldwide scope. ◗ develop talents and encourage leadership and collaborative management; 4.1. DEVELOPING TALENTS AND ENCOURAGING LEADERSHIP AND COLLABORATIVE MANAGEMENT Human resources are the greatest value of ESI and are part of the two sustainable development objectives: Moreover, the Group’s size and distribution across many “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality countries require a cross-functional management of numerous education and promote lifelong projects involving various entities and cultures. Leadership, learning opportunities for all” and “Promote sustained, inclusive expertise and collaborative management are therefore and sustainable economic growth, full and productive essential qualities for the success of our missions. Also, the employment and decent work for all”. Talents development is Group’s transformation and its new solutions oriented towards thus a key issue for the Group’s sustainability. Indeed, in order the Hybrid Twin™, in line with ESI’s core business, are an to respond to the increasingly complex issues facing opportunity to develop and enrich the professions and skills of manufacturers and remain at the forefront of technological existing teams, and to recruit new talent directly related to these innovation, the Group must retain its resources and continually new concepts. improve their know-how. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 8 / Policies: Training plan In this way, ESI Group is committed to: At the same time, training programs are being rolled out in the ◗ ensure the integration of new talents through “Welcome Group’s various subsidiaries. The training plans are aligned days” sessions (2 to 3 days, organized in each region); with ESI Group’s strategy and market developments. They ◗ to make the annual interviews more dynamic by promoting enable employees to develop their expertise in terms of one to one interview in order to collect training needs and to knowledge of the solutions portfolio and to strengthen their develop competencies and to encourage the construction of professional (technical, sales) and managerial skills. plans of relevant and responsive local and/or global training to Since 2017, a Virtual Campus has been set up via the support business and strategy of ESI; Company’s Intranet: “ESI Campus”. It allows the Group’s ◗ deploy training programs enabling employees to develop employees to access training in various topics. The objective is their expertise in terms of knowledge available in the portfolio to give access to training to all employees and to support them of solutions and to strengthen their professional (technical, in getting new skills and developing the Group’s skills through sales) and managerial skills; a common language. ◗ develop partnership agreements with universities and engineering schools in order to participate actively in the In terms of technical skills, the Group has put in place a training of junior population; partnership with the e-learning platform Pluralsight, with 200 ◗ to promote the dissemination of information to all employees licenses that allowed employees to train on several hundred online technical training courses. / Results: In India, for example, 107 employees have received training on Recruiting and retaining talents leadership themes or technical training related to C++ and The Group pays particular attention to the integration of new Advanced C++, Python, VPS/VCP, GIT and ISTQB. talents through a locally managed induction program. In order to be more standard and global, an Intranet portal has been set up to guide the arrival of newcomers and guarantee that everyone Actions to promote trainee apprenticeship has access to a single level of information to support them during Numerous partnership agreements with universities and their first days, weeks and months at ESI Group. engineering schools enable ESI Group to participate actively in Since 2018, a corporate integration program is organized the training of students: in Europe, the École Centrale of Paris, internally, called “Welcome Days”. The aim of this program is to the Technical University of Dresden (Germany), the University enable all new joiners to have a better understanding of ESI, its of West Bohemia (Czech Republic), and the ENIT (National business and its strategy. Organized at the regional level, it Engineering School of Tunis) in Tunisia, with which ESI Group allows also to meet the top management and to exchange with benefits from partnership. The Universities of Alabama, colleagues from different countries. Shanghai, Beijing, as well as the Indian Institute of Science, among others, work closely with ESI in the Americas and AsiaThe Group has also defined an internal mobility system Pacific. integrated into the performance assessment tool that allows each employee to make his or her motivations known and thus Following the successful partnerships with the EC Nantes and highlighting its skills and know-how by applying to open a partner in Japan from 2017, ESI Group is continuing these opportunities within the Group in connection with the customer international student exchanges, which will strengthen the links needs and projects. between the academic ecosystem and the Group’s projects. This type of collaboration, supported by ESI Group’s Scientific Department, is further illustrated by the establishment of the Career development and management ESI Chair at ENSAM in September 2018, and a new five-year The Group has a process for evaluating the performance and contract signed with the University of Zaragoza on Augmented development of each employee, which aims to organize at least Reality and Model Reduction. On these themes, a student postonce a year with his or her direct supervisor an evaluation of the thesis of Zaragoza is currently on a mission in Seattle, at the past year’s performance in relation to previously assigned University of Washington. objectives and to define the objectives for the coming year. Also, in collaboration with ESI’s Scientific Department, the Since 2017, online annual interviews have been implemented for Group announced in February 2018 the launch of a five-year the entire Group. During the 2019 feedback campaign, 97% of research program with the CE Cardenal Herrera University employees have formalized their annual interviews on the new (CEU-UCH) in Valencia, Spain. online tool. In 2019, the Group has welcomed a total of 29 trainees from This new step in the performance evaluation process is designed different universities and business school (interns and to make annual interviews more dynamic by encouraging the apprentices). feedbacks, monitoring and archiving of data, particularly for international teams. It also provides easier access to data Internal communication relating to the performance achieved, the level of employee satisfaction and the professional and training objectives that will In order to efficiently communicate internally, ESI Group has contribute to proactive and advanced management of set up several tools to address its messages to teams in more competencies. than 8 countries. A welcome portal has been set up on the Group’s Intranet website. It allows each new employee to These assessment interviews are our first source for collecting discover the Group, its organization and its values and to easily the training and development needs of teams and encourage the access all the information that will be useful for a smooth construction of local and/or global training plans that are relevant integration. and meet the needs of the business’ development. They also provide an opportunity to detect the Company’s high potentials In addition, the Group’s internal social network, Chatter, and thus implement development actions useful for their internal enables everyone to group employees to exchange, share, 9 mobility. In addition, this system makes it possible to support inform or learn about numerous subjects in different fields. A some employees more specifically through an individual plan to new focus group was set up during the first quarter 2019, improve their skills. around environmental issues. Each employee of the Group can share his/her eco-responsible actions set up in their professional or personal life. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 9 Also, multiple communication actions are proposed in order to strengthen information sharing and cohesion within the Group, The Product Operations team organizes once a year an such as global presentations, monthly newsletters, Flash Engineering Management Meeting, a one-week seminar where the key managers of the organization as well as certain experts Corporate News and webinars (corporate or product). can meet. Q&A (Question & Answer) sessions have also been initiated in In addition, and as mentioned earlier in this chapter, a new 2018 to allow a more fluid and transparent exchange between approach to change management has been put in place in the Management Team and the employees of the Group. Since 2020, at the initiative of the Communication Direction, and in October 2019, the Group has implemented Microsoft Teams collaboration with some departments concerned, in order to tool, which replaces “Skype for Business”, enabling employees develop and optimize the employee experience. This also to exchange and plan online meetings easily and more efficiently. applies to the development of ESI's communication and Corporate events are also organized to allow different evaluation of their effectiveness. departments to exchange and meet on strategic issues. Two management meetings are organized each year, as well as one Kick Off Meeting more focused on sales and marketing of products 4.2. PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND REDUCING INEQUALITIES Through its “Global” value, / Policies: diversity is one of the six values In order to promote diversity and reduce inequalities within the promoted by the Group as it Group, ESI is committed to: enhances the organization of the company. The Group's highly ◗ promote diversity and multicultural exchanges; innovative solutions enable ESI to ◗ increase the proportion of female employees with permanent successfully develop its business throughout the world. As an contracts; international company, ESI Group is proud to be able to have a ◗ respect the laws in favor of the accession and retention of multicultural and diversified workforce. The Group has always employees regardless of age; valued differences and encouraged its employees to share their ideas across borders in order to create a modern and efficient ◗ comply with laws and regulations prohibiting any discrimination work environment, able to better support its international based on age, race, sex, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, customers. ESI Group strives to daily develop its know-how and health, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, political or expertise in recruiting the best talent from around the world. philosophical opinions, union membership or other characteristics These challenges are in line with the following Sustainable protected by locally applicable law; Development Goals: “Ensure availability and sustainable ◗ not tolerate any form of sexual, physical or moral harassment, management of water and sanitation for all” and “Reduce coercion or persecution. inequality within and among countries”. / Results: The following tables present the distribution of staff by geographical area and country: Distribution of staff by geographical area (1) (2) 2018 (Jan.-Dec.) 2019 (Jan.-Dec.) Europe, Middle East and Africa 57.1% 56.7% Asia-Pacific 33.0% 33.4% Americas 10.0% 9.9% Note: Of the 56.7% of employees located in the Europe, Middle East and Africa zone, 54.9% are located in Europe. Distribution of staff in the main countries (1) (2) 2018 (Jan.-Dec.) 2019 (Jan.-Dec.) France 26.1% 26.3% India 20.1% 19.9% Germany 15.7% 15.6% United-Sates 9.2% 9.1% Japan 6.2% 6.9% Others 22.6% 22.2% (1) January 1, 2018 – December 31, 2018. (2) January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 10 Gender distribution and equality (in %) 84.7 78.0 77.9 84.5 78.5 77.5 73.4 75.0 22. 26. 25.0 22.0 1 6 21.5 22.5 15.3 15.5 Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific TOTAL The proportion of female employees with open-ended contracts, Breakdown of workforce by seniority (2019)(2) The proportion of female employees with open-ended Breakdown of workforce by seniority (2019)(2) atcontracts, 22.5%, is relatively at 22.5%,low and stablelow is relatively compared and stableto previous compared years. to This low representativeness previous can be explained years. This low representativeness caninbe explainedby particular the low number of women in engineering schools that are the >26 years 6 35 in particular by the low number of women in engineering main source of recruitment for the Group, as well as by socio20 to 25 19 54 schools that are the main source of recruitment for the Group, geographical disparities that sometimes involve a relatively low years as well as by socio-geographical disparities that sometimes 16 to 20 years 12 97 female involveworkforce a relativelyparticipation rate. low female workforce participation rate. Nonetheless, HR professionals are sensitive to the feminization 11 to 15 years 35 165 ofNonetheless, local teams as HRwellprofessionals as consideringare femalesensitive candidatesto when the 6 to 10 years 55 183 recruiting feminization for the ofGroup. local teams as well as considering female candidates when recruiting for the Group. 1 to 5 years 115 341 < 1 year 36 85 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 Age pyramid (2019)(2) >60 years old 5 31 56 to 60 years 8 64 The average seniority in the Group is 8.5 years. This seniority is 51 to 55 years 22 80 relatively high in the dynamic technology and IT sector (source: Society for Human Resource Management study, 2015). 46 to 50 years 31 117 41 to 45 years 36 125 The average length of service is 11.67 years for employees over 35 179 years. 36 to 40 years 52 31 to 35 years 47 179 Non-discrimination policy 26 to 30 years 61 132 51 order to In order In accesstotomore have access to have moredetailed information, detailed in particular information, on in particular 21 to 25 years 14 on gender equality and the principles of non-discrimination, the gender equality and the principles of non-discrimination, the Group has Group has supplemented its HR social database by introducing <21 years 2 2 supplemented its HR social database by introducing the concept of the concept of manager for persons supervising one or more 80 40 0 40 80 120 160 200 manager for persons supervising one or more employees. Thus, we can note a 17.7% increase in the number of women managers compared to Women The average age of the Group’s employees is 39.7 years (female 2018 (15.5%). employees: 38 years and male employees: 40.2 years). The average age of the Group’s employees is 39.7 years (female employees: 38 years and male employees: 40.2 years). The. Ethics Committee (composed of two women and one man) also ESI Group respects the laws in favor of the accession and retention of ensures that none of the above-mentioned discriminations is used within employees, respects the ESI Group regardless laws age. of their in favor Thus, 17%accession of the of employees retention and are over 50 of the Group (see 4.5.2). employees, regardless of their age. Thus, 17% of employees are over 50 years, i.e. 210 employees worldwide. years, i.e. 210 employees worldwide. The Group is also committed to improve the gender balance of the Group. 64.7%of 64.7% the population of the populationaged agedoverover5050isislocated locatedin in Europe, Europe, compared compared to to 19.5% in the Americas and 15.8% in Asia. In addition, 44% of 19.5% in the Americas and 15.8% in Asia. In addition, 44% of employees “Gender equality” is an integral part of the Group’s strategy, aiming to employees hired on permanent contracts are under 30 years of age, hired making on apermanent significant contracts contribution are tounder 30 years of of the employment age, making young a people increase both the percentage of women managers and the percentage significant at the global contribution level. to the employment of young people at the global of women engineers. In 2019, 45 women joined the Group, representing level. 31% of new hires. Some countries have set regulatory obligations in order to serve the same purpose. France is one of them. “Equal pay for (1) January 1, 2018 – December 31, 2018. equal work” has been a principle of labor law enshrined in law for several (2) January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019. decades. In this sense, the Avenir act aims to eliminate the pay gap between women and men. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 11 Local information sessions have been organized on the subject. In addition, in 2018, the Group raised the awareness of 87 In accordance with these regulations, ESI Group, in France, people on the subject of interculturality. These awarenesshas calculated its Gender Equality Index, the results of which raising sessions took place in small groups in the form of virtual are as follows: classes. Employees from different countries of the Group were ◗ The gender pay gap: 33/40; able to discuss cultural differences and intercultural ◗ The gap in individual rates of pay increase: 20/20; communication. ◗ The number of employees of the under-represented sex among the 10 highest paid employees: 5/10; Integration of disabled workers ◗ The rate of employees having benefited from a salary in the Since the beginning of 2016, the Group has been collaborating year following their return from maternity leave: 15/15; with Elise for the Lyon and Rungis site in France to ensure ◗ The gap in promotion rates between women and men: 15/15; selective sorting. Elise is a company called “adapted” which ◗ TOTAL: 88/100, i.e. a 5-point improvement compared with create open-ended contracts for the persons with disabilities. the previous year and 13 points above the legal minimum. India launched an Anti-Sexual Harassment Charter in July 2019 and established an Anti-Sexual Harassment Committee composed of a chairperson and eight members. 4.3. CONTRIBUTING TO THE WELL-BEING OF EMPLOYEES AND ENSURING THE QUALITY OF WORKING LIFE Ensuring decent employment and / Results: contributing to the well-being of employees Headcount data is calculated on the basis of the number of employees present at December 31, 2019. Every company is responsible for providing decent working conditions for all its employees. Total Group headcount includes employees on permanent Promoting decent work with a decent wage and and fixed-term contracts, as well as student contracts such as ensuring the well-being of employees are major work-study contracts and interns. They do not include global challenges, for which ESI Group is temporary employees, consultants and networks of external focused on. This challenge contributes to the distributions. following Sustainable Development At December 31, 2019, ESI Group’s workforce stood at 1,238 Goal: “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic employees. 1,232 at January 31, 2019. The average number growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”. of employees in 2018 was 1,222 employees, a very slight increase compared with the previous year 2017 (1,201). / Policies: 92.5% of the Group’s workforce is hired on open-ended contracts. Precarious contracts such as internships, As an employer ESI strives to: apprenticeship contracts, etc., are not covered by the Group’s ◗ control its workforce in connection with the growth of the activity; employment contract. and fixed-term contracts represent ◗ offer its employees the benefit of flexible management of their 7.5% of the workforce. total, compared to 7% in 2018. In 2019, schedules; ESI continued to pursue its ambitions to control its workforce in line with business growth. ◗ improve working conditions, which has a direct impact on the well-being, efficiency and motivation of employees; ◗ to create a favorable social climate. Employee turnover Recruitments 2017(1) (Jan.-Dec.) 2018(2) (Jan.-Dec.) 2019(3) (Jan.-Dec.) Europe, Middle East and Africa 144 107 88 Apprenticeship/internship 28 25 20 Short-term contracts 24 25 22 Open-ended contracts 92 57 46 Americas 17 17 24 Apprenticeship/internship 6 6 15 Open-ended contracts 11 11 9 Asia-Pacific 48 53 37 Apprenticeship/internship 12 13 8 Short-term contracts 3 11 6 Open-ended contracts 33 29 23 TOTAL 209 177 149 (1) January 1, 2017 – December 31, 2017. (2) January 1, 2018 – December 31, 2018. (3) January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019. ‘’’’’’ ESI Group – Communication on Progress 12 Departures 2017(1) (Jan.-Dec.) 2018(2) (Jan.-Dec.) 2019(3) (Jan.-Dec.) Europe, Middle East and Africa 112 101 94 Apprenticeship/internship 30 28 18 Short-term contracts 10 13 8 Open-ended contracts 72 60 68 Americas 22 23 28 Apprenticeship/internship 10 5 10 Short-term contracts 1 0 0 Open-ended contracts 11 18 18 Asia-pacific 33 48 28 Apprenticeship/internship 2 3 4 Short-term contracts 6 10 4 Open-ended contracts 25 35 20 TOTAL 167 172 150 (1) January 1, 2017 – December 31, 2017. (2) January 1, 2018 – December 31, 2018. (3) January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019. management staff representative institutions shall be In 2019, ESI Group recruited 78 employees on open-ended designated in accordance with the laws in force in the countries. contracts, i.e. 52% of total hirings. Thus, we can count six institutions in France, one in Vietnam and one in Brazil. The departure rate of employees on open-ended contracts is 9.2% in 2019. (number of departures under open-ended These institutions involve 26 employees who have actively contracts/total headcount under open-ended contracts at the participated in meetings during 2019. beginning of the period) x 100] compared to 10% in 2018. Review of agreements: The turnover rate on open-ended contracts is 8.1% in 2019 ◗ review of general agreements: the French subsidiary has [(Number of open-ended contract departures during year N + signed various agreements with its social partners, such as number of open-ended contract arrivals in year N*100/2/staff at the agreement on the reduction of work, the participation the beginning of the period] against 9.6% for the year 2018. agreement and the agreement on employee savings; ◗ review of agreements related to health and safety: no Working time company has signed a specific agreement. The duration of the working time shall be set in accordance with the local legislation in force. Workplace Well-being In the vast majority of its establishments, ESI Group offers its In the different countries, various initiatives have been employees the benefit of flexible management of their schedules. launched to promote the well-being of employees, under the In some countries, such as Japan, the timetables are set to meet responsibility of the Human Resources Departments and in the expectations of the business but are limited to eight hours a collaboration with local and representative bodies such as the day. CSE (Social and Economic Committee) in France. In France, the organization of working time is based on working Since 2017, sophrology relaxation sessions carried out by time measured in fixed days or according to a set schedule. An employees were set up on the Rungis site. employee with a fixed daily rate works a defined number of days in the year and an employee with an hourly rate works the In 2019, two other activities have been made available to number of hours defined in the agreements: employees at Rungis, including pilates classes and seated ◗ Full-time managers working on a fixed number of days per massage sessions. The benefits of these practices include year work 217 days per year, plus one day for the solidarity better stress management, improved productivity and the day; development of positive thinking. ◗ For other employees, the average working week is set at 37 10% of the staff at the Rungis site have already completed a hours, with 10 days of reduced working hours per year for fullsession in 2019. At the Lyon site, 15 sophrology sessions were time employees. organized in 2019, with an average of 15 participants, In 2019, part-time work accounted for 6% of the total workforce; representing more than 14% of the workforce at the site in moreover, most part-time contracts are set up to meet the needs question. South Korea, for example, also offers training of employees who request them in order to arrange for parental courses on happiness and work-life balance. leave, retirement or the resumption of their studies. Most of the projects carried out for our customers are carried out in-house, our engineers have few needs of developing on Social dialogue customer’s site, which limits travels and improve work-life balance. Moreover, in many countries, ESI enables its The quality of the social climate is a determining factor for the employees to work remotely from home. France, for example, quality of working life and the Company's productivity. The social is currently working on the development of a Charter on home dialogue, over and above strict regulatory compliance, office and the right to disconnect. constitutes a source of progress in this area. The value of social dialogue is based on the many exchanges between the Group’s ESI Group – Communication on Progress 13 Ensuring employee health and safety in the Employee compensation is made up of direct and indirect remuneration; the latter includes cash or in-kind supplements workplace and employee benefits deferred from the monthly remuneration (bonuses, commissions, The Group’s approach is also in savings plan, fringe benefits, etc.). All the countries included in the line with the implementation of scope of social reporting offer indirect compensation to their social measures and benefits for employees. our employees worldwide, In Europe and the Americas, six subsidiaries have set up a system especially, by ensuring the health of indirect compensation for their employees. of employees on their daily professional life. This contributes to the following two Sustainable Within this framework, an employee shareholding mutual funds Development Goals: “Ensure healthy lives and promote well( FCPE ) was created in France in 2013 in order to collect future being for all at all ages” and “Promote sustained, inclusive and flows of participation and payments, housed in the Group Savings sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment Plan. This FCPE makes it possible to acquire shares of the and decent work for all”. Company and to benefit from a 100% matching contribution, up to an annual ceiling of €400. Beyond that, ESI subscribes to up to 20% of the payments within a range of between €401 and / Policies: €2,000 maximum. At December 31, 2019, the FCPE held 29,500 As the health and safety of employees in the workplace and shares of the Company, i.e. 0.49% of the capital. social benefits are necessary for the smooth running of activities, ESI has set itself the objective of: ◗ providing a quality social security coverage for all its Special point about Coronavirus (COVID-19) employees worldwide; In order to maintain the well-being of the employees during the ◗ offering an attractive compensation and social benefits period of the COVID-19 epidemic, the Group has put in place package. several measures to protect its teams and ensure the continuity of its activities. The situation is managed globally and adapted to each local situation. Having a global presence, the Group’s Health, Safety and Benefits adaptability and reactivity are of paramount importance for all its ESI Group has set itself the objective of providing coverage for stakeholders. to all of its employees worldwide, both in terms of with regard to health and old age but also the coverage of incapacity, disability Among the measures implemented by the Group: and death. ◗ The launch of the Group’s Business Continuity Plan (BCP); ◗ The creation of a special COVID-19 crisis management team; 13 out of 19 countries offer their employees the opportunity to ◗ The adoption of home office for all positions; finance a local health insurance in compliance with regulations and the well-being of employees. Some countries, such as India, ◗ The ban on travel at Group level, in a more restrictive way now offer a free medical check-up to employees once a year, and according to the local situations; Tunisia now offers five days of holidays since February 2017 and ◗ The use of digital tools and the organization of conferences has set up a mutual insurance company that has been offered to and 100% digital events; its employees from the beginning of 2020. ◗ The development of a communication plan to inform the employees on the preventive measures to be adopted in Wage policy accordance with official recommendations, by email and via the Company’s internal social network; To attract and retain the best talents on the market, ESI Group has set up an attractive compensation package and various ◗ The organization of internal activities (stress management tips, benefits for its employees. This policy is intended to recognize photo contest, drawing contest for children, etc.) and the talent by rewarding both individual and collective performance. creation of an online group for sharing advice, recipes, etc. during the confinement period. 5. BEING AN OUTSTANDING PARTNER The Group solutions help its customers cope with the challenges ◗ ensure customer satisfaction and meet quality and safety of their digital transformation. These solutions meet the requirements; continuously changing regulations that govern the Group’s ◗ maintain long term, trust-based relationships with businesses, in order to: stakeholders and ecosystem. ◗ provide innovative solutions that meet our customers’ requirements; 5.1. PROVIDE INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS THAT MEET OUR CUSTOMERS’ REQUIREMENTS How can an organization bring How can an organization reduce the impact of these new innovative products to market materials, such as composites on product performance and while keeping costs and deadlines integrity? What are the best practices for optimizing the reasonable? How can an product lifecycle and maintenance costs? What processes will organization integrate new ensure that recycling requirements are met? materials and processes safely? ESI Group – Communication on Progress 14 prototype. This approach makes it easier to make key decisions The products developed by ESI Group are used to bring to very early in the process. Innovation is made possible through market innovative products at a lower cost and with greater reliable virtual prototypes and helps customers get their product reliability and contributes through this section to 2 Sustainable right the first time. Virtual Prototyping makes it possible to prepare Development Goals: physical tests under the best conditions, going as far as pre◗ Goal 8: “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic certification or eliminating the need to carry out physical tests until growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”; final validation. ◗ Goal 9: “Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation”. Following the acquisitions of innovative companies in the last years, in new technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, or Internet of Things, ESI Group is now able to represent the / Policies: connected product as used in its operational environment, In its approach, ESI strives to: meaning after its launch on the market. This Hybrid TwinTM targets product predictive performance and maintenance, to ◗ meet its customers’ demand for ever more innovative products; optimize repairs, facilitate certification update, and minimize ◗ engage itself in a process toward zero real tests, zero real recalls. Once the brand-new product is “right the first time” thanks prototypes and zero downtime; to its precertified Virtual Prototype, it must be kept right when in◗ guarantee the quality of its products and services and ensure Service, and perform right in real life, connected and operationally client satisfaction; assisted in its digital version. ◗ acquire a full global certification by 2021. The Group’s success also stems from an approach based on close collaboration with world leaders in each sector where the / Outcomes: Group is active, including Renault-Nissan, Fiat Chrysler and Volkswagen in the Automotive industry, Boeing and Airbus in the Innovative solutions towards the zero real tests, zero real Aeronautic industry, as well as EDF and Framatome in the Energy prototypes and zero downtime industry. By building strong relations with large industrial firms, the To meet its customers’ demand for ever more innovative Group can perfectly match their Virtual Prototyping needs. These products, the Group offers Virtual Prototyping solutions that save strategic partnerships help the Group’s customers assess their manufacturers and their subcontractors significant amounts of innovation requirements and implement them jointly with ESI time and money, and therefore support their efforts to innovate. Group. These are all key advantages that help customers keep up with For example, using Virtual Prototyping to design airbags or international competition. ESI Group gives its customers the carrying out an in-depth study of advanced driver assistance capacity to perform virtual simulations as of the preliminary systems (ADAS) increases the safety of vehicles for consumers. design phase, during detailed design phases, and throughout the ESI Group solutions give consumers greater safety and comfort. product lifecycle, and also to approve the performance of their complete digital model step by step before producing a physical 5.2. ENSURE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND MEET QUALITY AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS most of its subsidiaries: ESI US R&D, ESI France, ESI Japan, In 2000, ESI Group obtained its first ISO 9001 Calcom ESI SA in Switzerland, ESI SW India (which now includes certification, followed by the independent the Pune and Bangalore sites), ESI SW Germany, ESI GmbH, ESI certification of its subsidiaries, so as to ITI (in Germany), ESI NA in the United States, ESI Mecas in the guarantee the quality of its products and Czech Republic, ESI Service Tunisia, ESI Korea (South Korea), services and ensure client satisfaction. The ESI China, ESI Italia and ESI Hispania, ESI UK (in the United benefits of ISO 9001 certification accrue to Kingdom), ESI Open CFD (in the United Kingdom) and ESI external as well as in-company stakeholders. Nordics AB (in Sweden). Outside the Company, certification guarantees that ESI Group In addition, since their creation in 2018, the “Welcome Days” have provides products and services that meet the needs of its clients, included a session on Quality in the agenda in order to understand while it continues to evaluate and improve its processes. Within the meaning of evolving under a Quality Management System and the Company, certification calls on employees to actively engage the approach to process improvement. in an overall consistent management system. ESI Group is also involved in an ISO 27001 certification project, Since 2010, ESI Group has extended the scope of its certification and is implementing an information security management system using a global system common to all its subsidiaries. Since risk that, through appropriate risk management, guarantees the management and quality management are closely linked, this confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. This project worldwide certification is a sign of confidence in the quality of the considers specific demands of clients, particularly those from the solutions that the Group offers its customers and guarantees that automotive sector as of TISAX. The TISAX (Trusted Information particular attention is paid to excellence and to the alignment of Security Assessment Exchange) certification was created on the all the Group’s processes. ESI Group’s objective is to have full initiative of the VDA (Association of the German Automotive global certification by 2021. The roadmap is updated every year Industry). This standard is based on the requirements of ISO to identify new entities to bring under the Group, taking account 27001 and adapted to the specificities of the automotive sector to of their impact on business, new acquisitions and the assecure exchanges between various players. In 2019, ESI Group associated risks and opportunities. got the TISAX certification for, ESI MECAS (Czech Republic) and ESI GmbH (Germany) and will be extended to ESI Hispania In 2019, the global certification applied to 95.31% of the (Spain) in 2020. workforce. Global certification is now successfully applied in Europe, Asia and the United States, within the ESI Group parent company and ESI Group – Communication on Progress 15 5.3. MAINTAIN LONG TERM, TRUST-BASED RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS AND ECOSYSTEM By developing the partnership / Outcomes: ecosystem that respects the Group’s values its commitments, ESI Group remains fully responsible for all outside subcontractors. ESI contributes to the Sustainable In this regard, the subcontractors are subject to the same rules Development Goal 12: “Ensure and verifications as any other employee of the Group. sustainable consumption and To provide its customers with quality products, ESI Group production patterns”, as well as goal 17: “Strengthen the means monitors and regularly evaluates all suppliers influencing quality of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for through a questionnaire completed in-house to assess the sustainable development”. supplier based on the service provided. A list of approved ESI Group has a wide range of internal skills that cover its suppliers is made available for this purpose on the intranet and software Edition activity on the one hand and its services updated periodically. activities on the other one. However, when it is necessary to The Company now includes an environmental criterion (energy mobilize resources outside its usual scope of business, or when consumption for operation, local purchasing, possibility of specific expertise is recommended, ESI Group may occasionally recycling the product, etc.) in the purchasing procedure of its use external contractors. suppliers and subcontractors. Training on responsible purchasing have been planned for the most important buyers. To date, one / Policies: person has completed this training. Develop a partnership ecosystem that respects the Group’s ESI Group also takes care not to create a situation of dependence values and commitments. on suppliers and subcontractors. 6. BEING AN ETHICAL AND COMMITTED COMPANY Partnerships are an integral part of the Group’s strategy to To remain at the leading edge of innovation, the Group invested facilitate and promote Virtual Prototyping while acting 31.4% of its revenues in R&D in 2019. sustainably. Innovation makes it possible to resolve the multiple constraints The Group considers its main stakeholders to be its employees, and pressures that weigh on all manufacturers – to develop a customers, suppliers, and industry and academic partners, but safer, more efficient and more environmentally friendly product, also its investors and shareholders. faster and at a lower cost. The innovative Virtual Prototyping solutions offered by ESI Group allow us to approach these everInnovation, which is at the core of ESI Group’s business, is also present economic goals. a key issue of CSR. Innovation continually improves production processes and shortens the design period and the time it takes ESI Group strongly believes that its ability to innovate and to develop more efficient and more reliable new products. research is a key factor in its differentiation and hence its competitiveness, two key drivers for sustainable growth. 6.1. GUARANTEE SOLID AND DIVERSIFIED GOVERNANCE Nowadays, as the world has become more The Group strives to maintain a mixed governance, represented complex and companies must be able to by independent and competent directors who are fully involved in constantly adapt, strong and effective the Company’s projects, while ensuring compliance with the laws governance has become a real necessity. ESI on remuneration and transparency rules. Group attaches particular importance to governance issues. It ensures the coherence and sustainability of the Company’s strategy, ensuring the best framework to serve the interests of investors. 6.2. ACT ETHICALLY AND RESPONSIBLY – ETHICS CHARTER The Ethics Charter applied across the Group is A three-member Ethics Committee is responsible for creating an in line with the principles of Sustainable environment where employees can adhere to the Ethics Charter Development Goal 16: “Promote peaceful and and ensure that its principles are upheld by everyone, every day. inclusive societies for sustainable The Committee listens to and assists employees so that they can development, provide access to justice for all discuss any issue involving the implementation of and compliance and build effective, accountable and inclusive with the Ethics Charter. It also works to make sure that all Group institutions at all levels”. subsidiaries apply the principles set out in the Charter. This Committee meets regularly, at least once a year, to discuss ethics issues and come up with corrective measures, if necessary. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 16 Whistle-blowing c policy a Any person employed l within ESI, within ESI, or anyclient, or any client,supplier, supplier,partner partner party who or third party a suspects who suspectsor informedofofaapossible orisisinformed possiblebreach breach of this of charter this charter or na violation or a violation thethe of of law byby law the theCompany, Company, ororone of one its its of employees, employees, dhashasa aduty dutytotoreport it. While While it is natural reportit. natural to to be be reluctant to report abuse, to report everyone is abuse, everyone isstrongly encouragedto stronglyencouraged do todo In 2016, the Group issued its Ethics Charter to promote silence can so, as silence have highly can have highlydetrimental consequencesfor detrimentalconsequences the forthe observance of its values and confirm its commitment to the main Company. The The use of the use of the whistleblowing whistleblowing procedure procedure described described rules of conduct that the Group wants to see applied internally. This Ethics Charter reaffirms the legal, regulatory and internal below is neither mandatory nor exclusive. provisions relating to the respect of fundamental rights at work, The procedure for reporting abuse is as follows: professional integrity, the elimination of discrimination, and the prohibition of child labor and forced labor. It is based on the ◗ the first contact is the local/regional HR correspondent or the observance of the ethical rules promoted by the conventions of direct manager; the International Labor Organization. The Ethics Charter was ◗ in the event of a conflict of interest involving the HR correspondent disseminated to all employees and is available in six languages or the direct manager, contact the HR Director of the division on the Group’s internal and external websites. or group or the N+2 manager; A new version of the Charter has been communicated to all ◗ otherwise, contact the Ethics Committee directly at the following employees in 2018. This version strengthens the Group’s address: ethics@esi-group.com. position on corruption, facilitation payment and other frauds, in The Company is committed to handling requests, quickly and the context of the French law “Sapin II”. genuinely, in a confidential and ethical manner. The Ethics Charter contains the policies and procedures inherent This procedure is secure and guarantee the strict confidentiality in the following business conduct: of the whistle-blower, the facts that are the subject of the report and the persons concerned. The use of this procedure in good ◗ Relations with our business partners: establish transparent faith, even if the facts subsequently turn out to be inaccurate, and loyal business dealings with clients, deal honestly and fairly shall not expose the author of an alert to sanctions. On the other with all clients no matter the size of their company, provide quality hand, any abusive denunciation may lead to disciplinary products and services that meet the needs of its customers; sanctions and/or legal proceedings. ◗ Actions taken to prevent corruption: prohibition of any form of corruption in its relations with its business and institutional partners and with the administration, no financial or in-kind General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) gratuities may be given with a view to obtaining an advantage, nor may such gratification be received to benefit a company or Regarding the European Union data protection regulations, person, if an employee makes facilitation payments or influencewhich are supervised in France by the CNIL (Commission peddling in the course of their professional activities, he is likely nationale informatique et libertés), ESI Group, as a French to be subject to criminal penalties and its contract of employment company, must comply with them. will be terminated, prohibition to receive, give, promise or solicitate facilitation payments or influence-peddling undue In 2016, ESI Group launched an GDPR project and since then, benefits with a view to granting, obtaining or maintaining a several measures have been put in place: contract or any other advantage; ◗ a regularly updated treatment register; ◗ a public privacy policy available on the Group’s digital platforms ◗ Fraud and money laundering: comply with laws on fraud and (websites, applications, etc.); money laundering, conduct business only with reputable partners, be vigilant regarding any payments made, in order to ◗ internal procedures to respect the rights of individuals and to detect any irregularities, especially concerning partners whose manage incidents; business conduct may raise suspicion, ensure that the ◗ policies to guarantee data security “Implementation of ISO accounting and tax declarations sent to the authorities are 27001 certification: ongoing”; complete and reflect the reality of each subsidiary; ◗ a contract to guarantee and control intergroup transfers; ◗ Compliance with antitrust laws: prohibition of any exchange of ◗ an impact analysis relating to data protection; confidential information and any arrangement – formal or ◗ employee awareness via an E-Learning platform: https://www. informal – or attempt to enter into arrangements with competitors iitr.de/; which seek to fix prices or conditions of sale, to share a market ◗ “Candidatus” recruitment platform to control compliance in or to boycott a particular market actor, prohibition of abusing a dominant position or a monopoly and also from acquiring or the processing of applications. “Implementation in France”. maintaining a dominant power other than by recognized 8 legitimate means such as patents, skills, superior know-how or As part of its continuous improvement approach, at the end of geographical location. 2019, the Group has been equipped with a “Metacompliance” tool that allows the following: ◗ E-Learning: to set up training dedicated to cybersecurity; ◗ Phishing: to simulate phishing attacks and raise awareness among our users; 9 ◗ Privacy: to improve monitoring of GDPR compliance through a complete, visual and interactive interface. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 17 6.3. SET UP INITIATIVES TO INTERACT WITH CIVIL SOCIETY (GIVE-BACK) As a pioneer in innovation in the automotive sector, the By developing ID4CAR cluster has appointed Vincent Chaillou, Chief partnerships with Operating Officer of ESI Group, as the new President of the various digital ID4CAR in February 2018, after a regular attendance to its players, ESI Group Board of Directors since 2012. The aim of this cluster is to is once again increase the competitiveness of the sustainable vehicles and contributing to the transportation sector in western France through innovation. following Sustainable Development Goals (4, 5 & 17, Through this presidency, ESI Group contributed to the respectively): “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education development of the strategic plan for the automotive industry. and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”, “Achieve These plans are developed at the initiative of the CNI so that gender equality and empower all women and girls” as well as each CSF (strategic committee of the sector) develops its own “Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the transformation plan towards the Industry of the Future in global partnership for sustainable development”. general and particularly digitalization, by involving the entire value chain contributing to the sector. ESI Group is convinced that it is by investing with various players in the digital community that the Group will strengthen its position ESI is also one of the founding members of the Excelcar as a leading player in digital transformation and leader in virtual association. Created in 2014, the aim of this structure is to engineering. revitalize and create jobs around a FabLab technical platform of R&D excellence in Bretagne (France) dedicated to the / Policies: automotive industry under the impetus of PSA. This initiative is supported by The Union des Industries et des Métiers la In order to facilitate collaboration and encourage industrial Métallurgie of Ille-et-Vilaine and Morbihan (UIMM 35-56), for innovation, the Group makes sure to create and maintain quality the purpose of stimulating the automotive industry in Brittany relationships with various players in the digital community, at the around PSA Rennes, which has announced its strategic plan industrial, academic and associative levels. for the coming years. ESI participates in the AM2 innovation platform specifically for developing a digital simulation and Virtual Prototyping channel for new multi-material and / Outcomes: composite architectures, with priority given to the automotive The Company is an active member of TECH IN France (formerly industry. AFDEL, the French association of software publishers), which Again, in the transportation sector, ESI is an active member of helps promote the software publishing industry and develop IRT Railenium whose main mission is to lengthen the lifecycle digital simulation, and which currently represents over 400 of railways infrastructure and capitalize on the rapid members. In so doing, ESI Group is strengthening its position in international development of its new products. Involving a France as a leading player in digital transformation and is broad consortium of manufacturers and research bringing in its vision for virtual engineering as well as its organizations, in 2011, ESI Group was selected by the economic and social values. Investissements d’Avenir (Grand Emprunt) Program. ESI Group participates in several competitiveness clusters, ESI also assists the mechanical engineering field and principally in France. These clusters provide the proximity promotes its activities. The Company is a member of the needed for collaborative work with major industrial players and Board of Directors of the Association Française de Mécanique research and development organizations in order to bring highly (AFM), a body for information, dialogue and discussion for the innovative products to market. Located all over France, these mechanical engineering community (industry professionals organizations are as follows: Aerospace Valley (Toulouse), and technology transfer organizations, teachers and ASTech Paris Région (Île-de-France), Nuclear Valley researchers) and representing French mechanical (Burgundy), Mov’eo (Normandy and Île-de-France), I-Trans engineering to its foreign counterparts. (Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Picardy), iD4CAR (Nouvelle Aquitaine, Bretagne et Pays de la Loire), Systematic (Île-de-France), When it comes to the aeronautics sector, ESI actively Minalogic (Grenoble and Rhône-Alpes), Pôle SAFE (Provenceparticipates in initiatives from the Council for Civil Aeronautics Alpes-Côte d’Azur) and Pôle ViaMeca (Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes). Research (CORAC) undertaken as part of the Plan d’Investissement d’Avenir. In 2014, ESI was invited by the Since 2013, ESI Group is present on the campus and the Board seven top French aeronautics companies, which are members of Directors of Ter@tec, Europe’s largest intensive computing of GIFAS, to join the Usine Aéronautique du Futur center, based 20 km outside Paris at the Saclay platform in Île(Aeronautics Factory of the Future) platform as an associate de-France, alongside the CEA (the atomic and alternative energy member. This major initiative was launched to transform commission), a major player in research, development and production facilities in the fast-moving aeronautics industry, innovation. Today, ESI Group is involved in several collaborative which must deal with an unprecedented increase in projects under the leadership of the System X IRT (Institute for requirements. As a result, ESI participated in the development Technological Research). of a plan and is already contributing to four major projects that ESI Group is also a member of the Executive Committee of the aim to spread the use of Virtual Prototyping and increase Systematic Paris Region Competitiveness Cluster and of AS development of manufacturing processes for the future, such Tech Paris Region, two local competitiveness clusters with a as additive manufacturing or manufacturing of large global influence, which anime the collaborative research in the composite materials. ESI also participates in other CORAC Île-de-France ecosystem, respectively in the digital sector and plans, like those for the DEPACE platforms for the Composite the aerospace industry. Aircraft of the Future, the SEFA platform to develop the Cockpit of the Future, and the plans for the Helicopter of the Future, in order to strengthen French excellence in these fields. In this way, ESI helps to make commercial aircraft cockpits safer and more comfortable, and thus keep cost margins under control for manufacturing important parts in helicopter transmissions boxes. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 18 ESI Group is also an active member of the Nuclear Valley cluster, ESI is also a player of the Alliance Industrie du Futur for the which helps to restore the competitiveness of the nuclear development of key technologies for the industrial industry on the international market by providing its expertise in transformation. Thus, ESI is the top-tier partner of the SOFIA virtual reality to facilitate the replacement of existing equipment program aiming to develop the additive manufacturing sector or its maintenance. in France (Solutions pour la Fabrication Industrielle Additive Métallique). The additive manufacturing, a numerical process, Since 2013, several initiatives have emerged to design the Usine gives an essential role to Virtual Prototyping, which positions de Demain (Factory of the Future) and to use it to drive naturally ESI as a key player of this sector. competitiveness and attractiveness for the region. ESI Group participates in the Nouvelle France Industrielle, a national Regionally, ESI Group is part of the Aerocampus Aquitaine initiative, and contributes, on this basis, to the work of the Cluster which is the first European expert’s network that Alliance Industrie du Futur . answers the training needs of companies in the aeronautic and aerospace sectors. The Aerocampus training center uses Thereby, ESI contributes to several working groups that focus, in ESI IC.IDO, ESI’s virtual reality solution, together with the particular, on developing and promoting key technologies of the Institute of Aeronautic Maintenance (IMA). Industry 4.0. ESI Group has worked with the Nouvelle-Aquitaine Regional ESI Group has coordinated the “Promotion of Existing Council to create the “SMART 4D” simulation community Technological Supply” group since its creation. In this regard, the within the Digital Aquitaine cluster. This group brings together Group is working with its peers to structure and circulate the a number of industrial, academic and institutional players from French supply, in particular by jointly creating with the French the region. It has led to the creation of the first interdisciplinary Chamber of Commerce and Industry the first national directory digital community dedicated to simulation, HPC, virtual of Suppliers of Solutions for the Industry of the Future (Offreurs prototyping and immersive experience to support industries de Solutions Industrie du Futur – OIF). This tool will boost the and future applications. technological supply and its deployment within the industry both in France and internationally. Through its action in this working At the international level, ESI Group is involved in promoting group, ESI Group has also contributed to launching the Créative French know-how in the technological field of the Industry of Industrie trademark in partnership with Business France. ESI’s the Future. IC.IDO virtual reality solution was selected to illustrate the Value Chain Digitalization Technologies trademark when it was launched by the current President of the Republic of France, Emmanuel Macron, at the “Salon de Hanovre” in April 2016. 7. BEING AN ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PLAYER Considering the nature of its activity – distribution of software and ◗ to limit emissions of greenhouse gases associated with sales of consulting services – the Group believes its impact on travel by Group employees; the environment to be very limited. All of its activities are carried ◗ to limit the impact related to waste electrical and electronic out in offices. However, the Group has still pledged to work equipment (WEEE). towards limiting its environmental footprint. Scope: France, Germany, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Spain, The main environmental challenges identified by the Group are: United Kingdom, Italy, Tunisia, United States, Brazil, China, ◗ to reduce energy consumption in its buildings and India, Japan and South Korea. data centers; 7.1. DEVELOPDEVELOP SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS From the outset, by developing / Policies: innovative Virtual Prototyping products, ESI Group has sought to ESI is committed through its solutions to helping its customers to: measure the impact of its solutions ◗ reduce time-to-market; on society. Indeed, ESI’s solutions ◗ reduce total product weight; enable reductions in the number of physical prototypes, which are costly and require large amounts ◗ reduce waste associated with prototyping and manufacturing; of energy, raw materials and time, and bringing more ◗ improve useful life of products; ◗ reduce the environmental footprint of products; ◗ improve the safety of the products. ESI Group contributes to through this challenge to the Sustainable Development Goal 9 of the United Nations “Build 9 resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation”, as well as goal 12: “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 19 / Outcomes: vehicle, whose weight, and particularly the weight of the battery, becomes a central issue. Tighter regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and recycling requirements, higher fuel prices and consumers’ growing ◗ Reduced waste associated with prototyping and manufacturing: environmental concerns are all boosting demand for more Students from the Czech Technical University in Prague (ČVUT), environmentally friendly products. Reducing one’s environmental Czech Republic, were able to avoid physical crash tests of their footprint now drives industry innovation. All the sectors where race car thanks to ESI Virtual Performance Solution (VPS), using ESI Group operates are working to improve their environmental only virtual tests of the material to validate the model. This performance by manufacturing more environmentally friendly enabled them to move swiftly to the design optimization of the products, developing more ecological manufacturing processes, crash absorber structure. The capability of VPS to complete and reducing or eliminating physical prototypes. multiple simulations on a single core model allowed the team to thoroughly examine various measurements. The End to End By successfully combining advanced manufacturing processes solution supported the project goals, which were met entirely with the most innovative materials, such as composites, ESI’s within the allotted time and budget. solutions bring customers the following advantages: ◗ Improved useful life of products: the creation of a Hybrid TwinTM ◗ Reduced time-to-market: with ESI ProCAST, Nissin Kogyo, based on the virtual prototype to recreate the behavior of a who develops, manufactures, and sells brake equipment for windmill in operation and in its environment helps to ensure the twoand fourwheeled, could successfully cast complex shapes maintenance and to reduce its cost (-47%). The predictive after an analysis using precise finite element technology. All maintenance and the repairs optimization allow an increased possible defects were predicted with the highest accuracy. By reliability of windmills. introducing ESI ProCAST on a full-scale basis, Nissin Kogyo ◗ Reduced gas emissions: Thanks to ESI PAM-STAMP solution, reduced their development time and trial production, allowing Kirchhoff Automotive was able to integrate ultra-high strength them to reach the market faster. steel, which caused a spring back issue, into the conception ◗ Reduced total product weight: using ESI’s Virtual Seat Solution, and forming process of its components more quickly. This new the company Expliseat has developed the lightest seat ever material offers a lightweight option to traditional steels and can certified by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). This thereby contribute to reduced CO2 emissions. titanium seat is 50% lighter than the lightest models currently available on the market (8 kg to 10 kg). This significant weight As such, ESI Group’s digital prototypes can significantly reduction could result in an estimated 3% to 5% reduction in reduce consumption of raw materials and energy and help fuel us-age, saving $300,000 to $500,000 per aircraft per year. achieve compliance with environmental standards for new ◗ Likewise, the use of Virtual Performance Solution by ESI experts products as shown in these examples. Furthermore, the new helps to design lighter vehicles to help vehicle manufacturers Hybrid TwinTM concept of the Group targets product in their weight reduction challenge. This challenge is even predictive performance and maintenance, to optimize repairs, more present today with the acceleration towards the electric facilitate certification update, and minimize re-calls. 7.2. REDUCE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE GROUP Reduce greenhouse gas emissions / Outcomes: As ESI Group operates both in France and internationally, and as its activity is within the To limit travels, the Group updated its travel policy. This policy tertiary sector, transport is the main source of its is global in scope and adapts to local specificities. Employees greenhouse gas emissions. ESI Group’s actions are encouraged to travel by train rather than by plane for trips of meet the Sustainable Development Goal 13 “Take less than three hours. In France, a car policy also applies to urgent action to combat climate change and its people with a company car (as the French vehicle fleet is mainly impacts”. comprised of vehicles under three years old). A car policy is also defined in the German site of Neu-Isenberg. In 2015, ESI Group began to redraft its “Good Driver Charter” to incorporate / Policies: limitations on, among other things, engine power and CO2 In order to reduce its carbon footprint, ESI Group is committed emissions. This policy is initially applicable to French employees to a process of: but should be extended to all ESI sites. During the first quarter ◗ limit emissions resulting from business travel by train and by of 2019, a new tool was implemented to centralize travel plane; requests and employee expenses throughout the Group. This ◗ limit CO2 emissions from company car travel; tool will facilitate administrative procedures and, above all, will ◗ develop the use of web conferencing tools. allow a better monitoring of travel across the whole ESI Group. 9 ESI Group – Communication on Progress 20 In 2019, emissions resulting from business travel by French, Ensure a more sustainable consumption American and German employees by train and by air totaled 986 kg per employee, an increase of 15% compared 2018. It should ESI Group believes that environmental be noted that two out of seven members of the Executive responsibility should be a priority for all Committee are based outside France. Also, data are provided by companies and strives to reduce its the travel agencies responsible for booking the trips. Any environmental impact and to manage its bookings made directly by employees are not accounted as resources in a more sustainable way and information are not available. contributes to the same Sustainable Development Goal as the previous section (13): “Take urgent action to combat climate In 2019, 45 employees in France had a company car, 46 in change and its impacts”. Germany, 33 in the Czech Republic, five in Spain, five in Italy and two in Switzerland. In Japan, India and China, only one person had a company car. There were no company cars in the / Policies: United States, in Tunisia or Brazil in 2019. The granting rate of company cars is higher in Germany due in particular to the higher The main environmental issues in which ESI is involved are: proportion of salespeople and to German culture which ◗ limiting energy consumption; encourages this type of compensation. ◗ limiting paper consumption and transitioning to the use of recycled paper; The estimate of annual CO2 emissions from company car travel in France was 146,637.7 kg or 3,258.6 kg per company car, with ◗ limiting water consumption; a 5.4% decrease compared to last year. ◗ develop a waste recycling process all over the sites; ◗ constantly raise its employees’ awareness of measures taken Overall, business travel by French employees generated 436.8 to avoid wasting energy, and thereby to reduce its tons of CO2 in 2019, a decrease of 11.5% per employee. environmental impact. As for company cars in the Czech Republic, the estimated emissions in 2018 were 98 tons of CO2, with an average of 2,970 / Outcomes: kg per car, a decrease of 7% compared to 2018. Energy consumption Finally, for Germany, the estimate of emissions related to trains and airplanes amounts to approximately 165 tons of CO2 (for the In 2019, electricity consumption at the Rungis site totaled three entities), down 13% compared to 2018 (two entities). 452,027 kWh, an average of 1,412.6 kWh per employee, a Vehicle-related consumption amounts to 1,766 kg of CO2 per decrease of 3% Thus, a better energy consumption vehicle, a slight decrease of 5%. management can be possible. On the Ter@tec campus where ESI has been involved since 2012, the installation of the PoD in Among the measures taken over the past several years, the 2016 (Point of Delivery – a high density mobile data center that adoption of Gelato, a service allowing subsidiaries to locally can house up to 3,500 server nodes) increased the energy order documents they need, has allowed the Group to save consumption (+24.24% in 2017 and +10.45% in 2018). For the paper thanks to this print-on-demand plantroom. From the Lyon site, consumption amounted to 50,678.09 kWh in 2019. adoption of this solution in May 2018 and until the beginning of For the other French sites, electricity consumption is not March 2020, Gelato helped the Company to avoid 1,954,376 km available, as it is either included in the rental or collective of delivery distances, representing a decrease of 70% of the charges. distances previously made to deliver brochures and other documents. This is equivalent to a saving of 2,625 kg of paper Average electricity consumption per employee came to and 11,019 kg of CO2 emissions. 3,247.15 kWh for the sites in France (Rungis site only), the Czech Republic, Tunisia, China, South Korea and the UK, In order to limit the transportation footprint, the Group also representing a slight decrease of 3% compared to 2018. In provides employees with web conferencing tools to encourage Germany, electricity consumption came to 392,234 kWh in 2019 digital collaboration between employees in different sites, without and has doubled compared to last year, in view of the inclusion having to travel. Some meeting rooms are also equipped with of a third German site in the analysis scope. Moreover, energy audio and/or videoconferencing systems to facilitate remote consumption in the United States is not measurable as the 8 meetings. Also, from October 2019, all workstations have been facilities are leased. Energy usage is included in the utility fees, equipped with the Teams , a Microsoft software (which replaces which include factors other than electricity, and is re-evaluated Skype Enterprise internally), enabling more efficient online annually. Within the 2019 reporting scope, ESI Group uses meetings (audio + video) for up to 250 people. renewable energy production at its Swiss site, where hydropower is used for electricity and thermic energy for heat. On average in 2019, around 300 audioconferences via “Teams” The Swiss office is located in a Minergie-certified building. and “Skype Enterprise” were organized per day within the Group Minergie is a Swiss association whose objective is to reduce (which is almost doubled from last year), with an average energy consumption in buildings by proposing rational energy duration of 115 minutes per call. consumption and the use of renewable energies. 9 ESI Group – Communication on Progress 21 To minimize energy consumption, the Group has installed LED Evolution of annual paper consumption lights at its Rungis, Paris and Ter@tec offices in France and at its offices in India. In addition, during upgrades of certain per employee workspaces in France, the Group has given preference to lighting (in number of reams of 500 sheets) with low power consumption, removed hot water tanks from restrooms, and refurbished air conditioning systems. Motion sensors have been installed for lighting systems in Tunisia, in 1.05 San Jose in the USA, and also in ESI Software in Germany. In Japan, the lights automatically turn off after a while. Furthermore, an energy audit has been realized in 2017 on the 1.1 2.9 Others three German sites of the Group, in Neu-Isenburg, Stuttgart and 1.4 Dresden. The result shows that the sites are good energy quality. China 2.9 3.2 It should be also noted that the Spanish office in Madrid is part of South 1.4 a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 1.4 Korea certification project, led by the owner of the main building. 1.9 3.5 Switzerland France Paper consumption 4.4 3.9 Everyday use by employees is the main source of paper consumption. Everyday use by employees is the main source of paper consumption. Paper consumption per employee (in number of reams of 500 sheets) 4.4 3.9 3.5 3.2 2.9 2.9 2.1 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.22 1.2 1.4 1.4 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.98 0.85 0.9 1.0 0.4 0.4 United Japan Czech France Germany SwitzerUnited Italy India Tunisia South Spain China Brazil States Republic land Kingdom Korea 2018 2019 All over the study perimeter average paper consumption in 2019 In early 2017, employee representatives were elected in a fully was a relatively low with about 1.7 reams of paper used per electronic voting process, preventing the need to print ballots for employee, with a decrease of 15% compared to 2018. This the nine offices in France. Annual evaluations were also average could have been lower in 2019; it is partially explained performed electronically in 2018 using the Loopline Systems by the inclusion of all French sites in the analysis, unlike last year. tool. Thus, paper consumption in France went from 1.9 in 2018 (Rungis only) to 3.5 reams (all French sites). ESI also offers its employees in France the possibility to create a safe on Digiposte to dematerialize HR documents such as pay Paper consumption is higher in Japan, with a decrease of 11% slips. in 2019. In China, paper consumption increased by 11.2% in In addition, the use of a new local printing and delivery tool, 2019, in view of the large and exceptional number of tenders and called Gelato, allows subsidiaries to locally order the necessary local projects that required paper printing. quantity of documents they need. Ultimately, this tool saves paper by printing on demand, which allows ordering only what However, Japan made 100% of its prints with recycled paper, is needed and on a local basis. followed by Spain on 50% of its prints and China on 35%. More than 70% of the countries included in the scope have Finally, the Group has decided to stop printing its Universal automatically set up black and white and double-sided printing. Registration Document in paper format, reflecting ESI’s desire ESI Group also continues its electronic documents program by to continue reducing paper consumption and avoid unnecessary 9 implementing IT tools and processes to reduce the use of paper use and waste of paper. As indicated in Chapter 9 of this and energy consumption related to printing. Dematerialization document, the Universal Registration Document will be has been established for many documents, including travel available in electronic version on the Company’s website and orders, leave requests and offer reviews. The invoices and will be available for consultation at headquarters upon request. purchase order processing is done via a tool called Yooz. In addition, SharePoint, a Cloud-based service for electronic document archiving and storage, was installed in 2016 ESI Group – Communication on Progress 22 Water consumption All the German, American, Czech, Japanese, Spanish, Italian The Company’s business is not very water intensive as it does and Swiss sites are also equipped with bins for sorting waste. It not require water for production. ESI Group’s water is therefore is planned to extend this measure to all European sites in the solely for sanitary use and is drawn from urban networks. future. When it comes to other specific waste, notably waste of electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), ESI Group It is difficult to perform an accurate assessment of water attaches great importance to the environmental management of consumption. The Group is the lessee of all of its offices, and the its IT equipment, in terms of both its use and its recycling. water consumption of each site is included in rental charges and The Group’s IT equipment mainly comprises desktop and laptop can therefore not be broken down in detail. However, as for the computers, servers, copiers and printers. The Group sites for which we have information (Rungis site in France, ESI cannibalizes computer hardware (uses parts of one machine to Mecas in the Czech Republic, the Spanish and Chinese sites), repair another) whenever possible to give a second life to some the average water consumption in 2019 was of 7.46 m3 per faulty equipment. employee, a decrease of 7.23% compared to last year. For the Rungis site in France, water consumption rose from 132 m3 in In France and the United States, end-of-life or obsolete 2018 to 1,182 m3 this year – this increase is mainly due to the hardware is collected by an authorized provider that manages move to a new building in 2019, with different equipment (more the processing of electronic waste. In Germany, the Cleaning toilets, cafeteria, etc.). and Facilities Management Department, in coordination with the IT Departments, is tasked with collecting used electronic Water consumption is not measurable in other sites, as it is either equipment. Waste management is then passed on to the local included in the annual rental or collective charges, where authority of each city. In Spain, an instruction explains where parameters other than water consumption are taken into account. obsolete electronic equipment must be taken in order to be recycled. Waste disposal and recycling Furthermore, on request to our supplier in France, printer cartridges are collected and recycled via a completely ecological Due to its activity, ESI Group mainly produces non-hazardous chain. waste, as well as paper, cardboard and plastic. To the best of its knowledge, the Group does not generate any hazardous waste, Lastly, in the entire environmental scope, except Tunisia, ink except waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). cartridges, batteries, defective light bulbs and fluorescent tubes In 2014, recycling bins were introduced on the Lyon site, the are recovered by our various suppliers. Containers are available second biggest site in France, as it was done in 2013 on the to staff for this purpose in offices. Rungis site. Thus almost 100% of the French workforce is aware of this action in the daily life. In France, at the Rungis and Lyon sites, ESI is working with Elise, Raising employee awareness a waste collection and recycling company that provides stable employment for people with integration difficulties, particularly During summer 2018, ESI produced a short video clip for all due to disability. In 2019, Elise recovered 868.5 kg of waste, employees on simple ecofriendly actions to adopt at work including (https:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUIdRRLDgRk). In 2019, 653.5 kg of paper. Recycling this waste saved 16,375.5 liters of a new online discussion group has been created on our internal water, 4,932.8 kWh of energy and 13.3 trees. communication platform “Chatter”, regarding environmental issues. This has enabled employees to share eco-responsible actions carried out in their professional and/or personal environment, all over the world. 8. REPORTING 8.1. REPORTING METHODOLOGY Scope The Group’s ambition is to gradually expand the scope of Data collection and consolidation coverage until it achieves full and reliable coverage of its subsidiaries. In line with its commitments, in 2019, ESI Group The Company has implemented a differentiated data collection continued its actions to increase the collection and analysis of and consolidation process according to the themes. Social indicators internationally. reporting is covered by an HR officer who works with local HR ◗ Scope of social reporting: representatives. The corporate communication team is Since 2012, ESI’s Human Resources Information System has responsible for environmental and societal reporting through been upgraded to Sales Force for all countries, with local local professional representatives. The Group plans to gradually management of all payroll systems in order to take into broaden the scope until it covers every subsidiary in a reliable account local specificities. Social data thus represents 100% manner. of the workforce. ◗ Scope of environmental reporting: The available data are sorted into three geographic areas Since 2018, the Company has integrated Italy and Brazil to corresponding to the Company’s business divisions: broaden the scope of environmental data reporting. As a result, ◗ Americas = Brazil and United States; environmental data are now provided by France, Germany, the ◗ Asia-Pacific = China, India, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Czech Republic, Japan, the United States, Tunisia, India, Thailand and Vietnam; Switzerland, China, Spain, the United Kingdom, South Korea, Italy and Brazil, representing 99% of the workforce. ◗ Europe, Middle East and Africa = Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Russia, Spain, Sweden, ◗ Scope of societal reporting: Switzerland and Tunisia. Societal information is provided at a global level. Hence, the reporting scope represents 100% of ESI’s headcount since 2016. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 23 8.2. REPORT OF THE INSPECTING ORGANIZATION Period from February 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 To shareholders, Following the request received from ESI Group (referred to hereinafter as “the entity”) and in our capacity as an independent third-party body with an accreditation granted by the COFRAC under registration No. 3-1081 (available on www.cofrac.fr), we hereby present our report on the consolidated statement on non-financial performance for the period from February 1, 2019 to January 31, 2019 (referred to hereinafter as the “Statement”), presented in the Group’s management report in accordance with the statutory and regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the [French] Code of Commerce. Entity’s duty The Board of Directors has a duty to draw up a Statement that complies with statutory and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of the policies applied in view of these risks together with the results of those policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been drawn up according to the authoritative accounting pronouncements used, (referred to hereinafter as the “Pronouncements”) by the entity whose significant elements available upon request from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined in the provisions of L. 822-11-3 of the [French] Code of Commerce and the profession’s Code of Conduct. Moreover, we have set up a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures aiming to ensure that rules of conduct, professional ethics and the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions are complied with. Duty of the independent third-party body We have a duty, on the basis of our work, to formulate a reasoned opinion expressing a conclusion of a moderate level of assurance as to: ◗ the Statement’s compliance with the provisions set out in Article R. 225-105 of the [French] Code of Commerce; ◗ the sincerity of the information furnished in application of 3° of I and of II of Article R. 225-105 of the [French] Code of Commerce, namely the results of the policies, including key performance indicators and actions relating to the main risks, referred to hereinafter as the “Information”. However, we have no duty to give an opinion on: ◗ whether the entity has complied with other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, including, matters relating to the vigilance plan and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; ◗ compliance of products and services with applicable regulations. Nature and scope of the work We carried out the work in accordance with standards that apply in France and that determine the ways in which the independent thirdparty body carries out its mission, and with international standard ISAE 3000. We carried out our work between March 30, 2020 and April 17, 2020 for a period of approximately eight days/person. We held three interviews with people in charge of the Statement. We carried out the work enabling us to evaluate the extent to which the Statement complies with the regulatory provisions and the sincerity of the Information: ◗ we informed ourselves of the activity of all of the companies falling within the scope of the consolidation, of the exposure to the main corporate and environmental risks linked to this activity, and of its effects on human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion together with the policies that ensue and their results; ◗ we looked into the appropriateness of the Pronouncements with a view to their relevance, exhaustiveness, reliability, neutrality and comprehensive nature, taking into account, where necessary, the sector’s good practices; ◗ we checked that the Statement covered each category of information provided under III of Article L. 225-102 1 on corporate and environmental matters and whether human rights were being complied with and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; ◗ we checked that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks linked to the activity of all of the companies falling within the scope of the consolidation, including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks created by business relations, products or services as well as policies, actions and results along with key performance indicators; ◗ we checked, where relevant in view of the main risks or policies presented, that the Statement presents information set out in II of Article R. 225-105; ESI Group – Communication on Progress 24 ◗ we looked into the selection and validation process of the main risks; ◗ we enquired about the existence of internal verification and risk management procedures set up by the entity; ◗ we looked into the coherence of results and of key performance indicators used in view of the main risks and policies presented; ◗ we checked that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, namely all of the companies falling within the scope of consolidation in accordance with Article L. 233-16 with the limits set out in the paragraph 3.1 The methodology and 3.4.3 Being an environmentally friendly player of the 2019 Universal Registration Document of ESI Group; ◗ we studied the information-gathering process set up by the entity aiming to obtain information that is exhaustive and sincere; ◗ with regard to key performance indicators and other quantitative results that we consider to be the most important, we implemented: analytical procedures consisting of checks to ensure that the data collected was consolidated correctly and that its evolution was coherent; detailed tests on the basis of surveys, consisting of checks to ensure definition and procedures were applied correctly and of checks linking data to supporting documentation. This work was carried out with a selection of contributing entities(1) and covered between 14% and 100% of the consolidated data of the key performance indicators and results selected for these tests(2); ◗ we consulted documentary sources and held interviews to corroborate what we considered to be the most important qualitative information (actions and results); ◗ we looked into the overall coherence of the Statement with reference to our knowledge of the companies as a whole falling within in the scope of the consolidation. We consider that the work carried out and, exercising our professional judgment, enables us to formulate a conclusion of a moderate level of assurance; a higher level of assurance would have required more extensive verification work. In view of the fact that sampling techniques were used and that there are other limits inherent to the functioning of any system of information and internal control, we cannot rule out totally the risk that a significative anomaly in the Statement has not been detected. Conclusion On the basis of our work, we did not note any significant anomaly of such a nature as to cast any doubt on the fact that the statement of non-financial performance complies with the applicable regulatory provisions and that that Information, as a whole, has been presented with sincerity, in accordance with the Pronouncements. Lyon, on April 23, 2020 FINEXFI Isabelle Lhoste Partner (1) Social indicators: ESI Group. Environmental indicators: ESI site in Lyon, Rungis, Tunisia and Czech Republic. (2) Developing talent and encouraging leadership and collaborative management, Promoting diversity and reducing inequalities, Contributing to the well-being of employees and ensuring the quality of life in the workplace, Limiting the impact of the Group’s locations. ESI Group – Communication on Progress 25 www.esi-group.com FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA This document is based on a non-binding “free” translation of the 2019 Universal Registration Document of ESI Group, from French into English, and has no legal value other than an informative one. Should there be any difference between the French and the English version, only the text in French language shall be deemed authentic and considered as expressing the exact information published by ESI Group. French limited company (société anonyme) with a share capital of €18,055,476 Registered office: 100/102, avenue de Suffren, 75015 Paris – France Paris Trade and Company Register (RCS) number: 381 080 225 Tel.: +33 (0)1 41 73 58 00 26
