Ethos Ethos (noun /ˈiː.θɒs / iː.θɑːs /word of Greek origin) the set of beliefs, ideas, etc. about the social behavior and relationships of a person or group. Joint Address 2 Contents A Snapshot of 2019 5 Targets and Progress 6 1. Getting to know Energean 8 Our History 10 Our Climate Ambition 12 2. Towards a Sustainable Business Model 14 Our Governance Structure 14 Business values and corporate principles 15 Our Sustainable Business Model 16 Our Supply Chain 18 Memberships 19 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Materiality analysis 22 Material topics and their boundaries 24 3. Axioms and ethical synergies 27 Ensuring regulatory compliance 28 4. Symbiosis 31 Safeguarding Occupational Health & Safety And Wellbeing 32 Increasing the implementation of water efficiency innovations 34 Ensuring emergency preparedness 36 Reducing greenhouse gases and other air emissions 38 Reducing (non-renewable) energy consumption 40 Growing the share of natural gas in the product portfolio 41 5. Metamorphosis 43 Building and maintaining community relations 44 6. Economic acme 51 Generating economic value / economic performance of the 52 company 7. Anthropocentric 55 Safeguarding human rights at work 56 Modern Slavery Statement 59 8. Energean in numbers 62 About this report 72 GRI Content Index 73 SASB Content Index 76 United Nations Global Compact 78 Our Offices 79 Energean Energean @Energean GRI 102-10 / GRI 102-14 both our local communities and vulnerable groups in the areas in Operational Progress and Other Key Events Joint which we operate. Initiatives of which we are particularly proud are the “We Can – We Care” programme, which saw executives of 2019 marked another transformational year for Energean. In our company supporting and participating with our local citizens Israel, our flagship Karish development project continued to Address with disabilities in basketball games, and our Crowdfunding for progress well. Physical completion was at 72% by year-end and a Special School in Kavala, for which we were presented with an the project on track to deliver first gas into the Israeli domestic award at the “Bravo” Sustainability Dialogues & Awards 2019. We market in 1H 2021. We completed the drilling of the three Karish continuously invest in, and engage with, our local communities, Main development wells that will deliver the first gas sales and, establishing mutually beneficial relationships that enhance our post period end, demonstrated the ability of these three wells contribution to society. to produce at rates sufficient to fill our 8 Bcm/yr FPSO. We also Overview made a >1.2 Tcf (>25 Bcm) discovery at Karish North, further demonstrating the attractiveness of our acreage, and increased Energean continued its strong growth trajectory in 2019, Health and Safety management firm Gas Sales and Purchase Agreements to 5.0 Bcm/yr, which developing from a newly listed independent E&P company in is expected to increase to 5.6 Bcm/yr on receipt of the Karish 2018 into a leading FTSE 250 player. We remain focused on North CPR. Karen Simon During 2019, Energean continued to deliver upon its exemplary Non-Executive Chair our core geographical area, the Mediterranean, and gas as a HSE record with one million hours free of Lost Time Incidents In July 2019, we agreed to acquire Edison E&P for $750 million, transition fuel. Following close of the Edison E&P transaction, in Energean sites plus four million man-hours on the FPSO plus $100 million of contingent consideration, a landmark we expect to have close to 800 mmboe of 2P reserves and construction yard in China. We at Energean believe that achievement in advancing Energean as the leading gas-focused 2C resources, of which 80% is gas, and a clear path to more protecting the environment and the health and safety of our staff E&P player in the Mediterranean. We raised $865m of funding than 130 kboe/d of production in 2022, again of which 80% and stakeholders is a key factor in the overall success of our for the acquisition, demonstrating that capital remains available is gas. Our gas-focused strategy allows us to play our part in business and we are committed to continually improving in all for the right E&P companies, with the right assets and the right supporting the global fuel transition away from coal and oil, in aspects of HSE. ESG credentials. Once the acquisition is complete, we will have the drive to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and protect our acquired a high-quality portfolio of assets and a strong operating environment for future generations. In line with this commitment, we have established a team that will support the day-to-day operations of the enlarged comprehensive and integrated Health and Safety Management group going forwards. System that is aligned with the requirements of international ESG Stewardship standards and European safety directives. It is based on triedMore recently, the COVID-19 pandemic and OPEC+ price war and-tested, internationally recognized best practices in the E&P have put us into uncertain times, but we are well-placed to Mathios Rigas industry, structured around a classic “Plan-Do-AssessAdjust” weather the challenges and, through this period, our number Chief Executive Officer Stewardship of ESG is central to Energean’s vision of creating cycle. one priority remains the health and safety of our colleagues the E&P company of the future; one that excels is all aspects of and stakeholders. As such, we have taken swift and decisive ESG. Our ESG goals are always at the forefront of our growth and actions to protect our people, whilst maintaining focus on operations and, to this end, we have formally linked Executive > Governance our longer-term business objectives; once the Edison E&P pay to ESG goals from 2020. Furthering our commitment to transaction is completed, around 70% of our production will be ESG, we are creating a new Sustainability and Climate Change At Energean, we seek to fulfil our vision by adhering to a set of sold under long-term gas sales agreements that insulate our Department that will focus on optimising our goals and values that encompasses: future revenues against oil price volatility. Following completion performance in this key area that is changing quickly and ever • Responsibility in all of our actions and areas where we Dear Shareholders, of the Edison E&P transaction, we will continue to own and growing in its importance to all of our stakeholders. conduct our business operate the majority of our asset base, and are well-funded for all of our projects. This will ensure that we can respond quickly We are delighted to share Energean’s second • Excellence in everything we do, deploying best practices and appropriately to the macro environment and take the right to achieve profitable and sustainable growth annual Sustainable Development Report, > Environmental decisions to protect our business and our stakeholders. demonstrating our unwavering commitment to We are reducing our environmental footprint by setting science• Integrity, respecting our stakeholders, employees and business, promoting transparency and accountability, in sustainable development and our ESG based carbon intensity reduction targets. Not only were we the all cultivating a unique corporate sustainability culture first E&P company in the world to commit to net zero by 2050, In conclusion, and in recognition of the support and contribution principles. We are committed to delivering but we will also be setting near-term targets on a rolling threeof our employees to the success of the company, we would like • Commitment to a talented workforce, investing in our results, not just promises, and, during 2019, our year basis. We are targeting an initial 70% reduction over 2019 – people’s development to express our deep gratitude to all of you for your hard work and dedicated teams have continued to deliver 2022. Energean views continuous improvement based on near commitment to implementing our values in all aspects of your The work of the Board and Management Team will continue, work. We look forward, alongside all of you, to further developing strong and tangible progress towards our term goals to be essential to delivering upon the net zero target over the coming years, to ensure that Energean is well positioned as quickly as possible and we envisage being able to accelerate Energean into the E&P company of the future, focusing on social, environmental and governance targets in the 2050 target in the coming years. Energean also continues to advance the energy transition, embrace technological sustainable development and creating shared value for all of our what is an evolving and challenging energy to participate proudly to the United Nations Global Compact innovation and meet society’s changing expectations of energy stakeholders. landscape. We are extremely proud to be part and is committed to continuously supporting the initiative companies. Our people are core to delivering upon this aim, and to ensuring that we maintain and advance our Corporate of an organisation that has fulfilled upon a wide and its principles. Finally, Energean, will conclude its first CDP Governance standards. As a Board, we believe it is extremely submission to the Climate Change questionnaire by 2020. Karen Simon range of ESG goals. Achievements that we are important that we continue to develop our organisational Non-Executive Chair most proud of include our commitment to capabilities, continue to develop a diverse and inclusive culture reducing greenhouse gas emissions to net zero, > Social and enhance governance and compliance with the ongoing embedding of our values and code of conduct. Mathios Rigas receiving an “A” rating from MSCI, and Managing our social impacts is a core element of our ESG Chief Executive Officer appointing the company’s first female priorities and supporting local communities is one of the main Chairman to the Board of Directors. pillars of our Corporate Social Responsibility policy. We support 02 03 Awards and Ratings A snapshot Energy New Company Energy of the Year Company of the of 2019 M&A Deal of the Year Year The MSCI ESG Rating places Energean above 63% of the industry’s companies A Energean was one of the top 20 companies out a total of 212 industry peers C+ In category BRAVO Society Environment – Human Rights Net Zero GHG emissions by 2050 Partnerships Zero Oil spills UNGC signatory or environmental damages Israel Nature and Parks Authority 89% Teamed up with the Israeli Paralympic Committee of water withdrawn in production sites was and support 3 Paralympic swimmers recycled Teamed up with the ISO 14001 Management Body of the Nestos River Certification of production and exploration activities Signed a “Protocol of Industrial Relations” with National and Local Italian Unions Health & Safety 10 MM man hours Strategic Partnership with Chemecon without LTIs in the whole “Energean Power” (Non-Profit Organization of Young Chemical Engineers) FPSO development and construction project Society 1 MM man hours 23 internships without LTI in all Energean sites to college students People 6,377 portions Female chair and increased female participation in the BoD of surplus food from Energean’s daily lunch was saved and offered as donation, through the (22%) and in the Senior Management (42%) collaboration with the NGO “Boroume” World Environment Day 2019: Energean sponsors Sharks Live Viewing Employees and Contractors from 6 Scholarships granted Viewpoint of Hadera, Israel (June 2019) 17 different countries for foreign Universities through our collaboration with the Bodossaki Foundation 04 05 Targets 2020 Targets & Progress > Achieve an Energean employees Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) less than 0.51 (peers average value, IOGP 2018). > Achieve a Contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) equal or less than 0.64 (peers Targets 2019 Progress average value, IOGP 2018). Occupational > Achieve an Energean employees Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) less than 1.15 Provision of innovating toxic hoods (peers average value, IOGP 2018). health & safety capable of protecting the persons visiting 100% or working in our onshore installations and wellbeing > Achieve a Contractors Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) equal or less than 2.41 without having direct access to breathing (peers average value, IOGP 2018). apparatus distributed to operations and Occupational maintenance departments. > Create and implement a common H&S management system throughout all group, including Crisis Management and Occupational H&S management. health & safety Replacement of the offshore breathing apparatus purchased during the > Achieve certification of production sites’ H&S systems to ISO 45001. beginning of the operations with new modern design apparatus suitable for providing the greatest possible protection 80% against potential toxic environment, to > Energean plans to maintain its strong and long-standing relationships with the local all personnel working in our offshore communities it operates in. installations. Community > The company will aim to extent its collaborations with organizations, institutions, Relations and NGOs and will strive to create new ones, especially with those involved with environmental aspects and subjects. Energean realizes that collaboration and working with others is the only way things can move forward. 100% Creation of collaborations and relationships with educational institutions, environmental organizations and NGOs. > Participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Enforcement of the cooperation with the Community Kavala Fire Service and the Kavala Airport > Implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Change Financial relations 100% Fire Service by organizing common drills Air quality and Disclosure (TCFD). to exchange knowledge and experience in the techniques that should be applied greenhouse > Reduce our Carbon Emissions Intensity in Scope 1 and Scope 2 by more than 50% when dealing with fires caused by liquid gas emissions following Edison’s acquisition. fuels, in order to promote our social responsibility. > Quantify the medium and long-term plan activities in order to meet company’s low carbon future commitment. > The Supply Chain due diligence process will extend to include Human Rights 90% De-rating of the steam boilers due to assessments. lower needs, in order to lower NOx Supply Chain emissions. > Energean is planning to implement a Code of Conduct for suppliers, underlining the Air quality and importance of respecting the key principles of sustainability in the Supply Chain. 66% Revamping of the Gas Turbine 1 exhaust greenhouse system in order to reduce the NOx emissions. gas emissions 100% Accreditation for Environmental International Standard ISO 14001 for all Energean’s exploration and production of > The Supply Chain due diligence process will extend to include Human Rights hydrocarbons existing installations. assessments. > Energean is planning to implement a Code of Conduct for suppliers, underlining the Governance importance of respecting the key principles of sustainability in the Supply Chain. > Formally link Executive pay to ESG goals from 2020. > Creation of a new Sustainability and Climate Change Department. 06 07 GRI 102-1, 102-2, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7, GRI 102-45 1. Getting to know ENERGEAN RESERVES AND RESOURCES GROWTH Energean 841 Energean Oil & Gas (LSE:ENOG, FTSE 250, TASE:‫גאנא‬, TA-35) is a London-based independent Working Interest mmboe 602 E&P company focused on developing resources in the Mediterranean. Energean is committed to sustainable development and to become a net zero emitter by 2050. The company also aims to 406 contribute to the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals through its day-to-day operations and a wide range of sustainable development initiatives. 301 237 Including the recently acquired Edison E&P, Energean operates a mixture of production, development and exploration assets and runs projects in eight countries in the Med with an excellent HSE track record. 11 17 24 30 58 2 5 7 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020E The company’s portfolio is gas weighted (80%) and consists of 602 mmboe 2P reserves and 2C resources, exclusive of the Edison E&P assets. Our reserve and resource base has increased at a ENERGEAN 2P CAGR of 67% between 2008 and 2019. ENERGEAN 2C EDISON 2P & 2C CROATIA GREECE Inclusive of Edison E&P (excludes Algeria and the North Sea assets), the Company produced around 60 kboe/d PRODUCTION PRODUCTION and had approximately 841 MMboe of 2P reserves and 2C resources in 2019. DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT EXPLORATION EXPLORATION The Company’s flagship development assets are the multi-Tcf Karish and Tanin fields, offshore Israel. The Karish and Tanin leases are operated by Energean’s subsidiary, Energean Israel, which has a 100% working interest. Energean ITALY CYPRUS Israel is owned by Energean (70%) and Kerogen Capital (30%). Energean Israel also holds a 100% working interest in PRODUCTION GAS SUPPLY PROJECT nine highly prospective exploration licences offshore Israel. DEVELOPMENT EXPLORATION According to the Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc.’s (NSAI) Competent Persons Report (CPR) as of 30 June 2019, ISRAEL the Karish and Tanin fields contain 2P reserves of approximately 1.46 Tcf of gas and 29 MMbbls of light oil net to MALTA DEVELOPMENT Energean (approximately 287 MMboe). In addition, the fields contain an estimated 26 MMboe of net 2C resources. EXPLORATION EXPLORATION The Company also announced a gas discovery in the Karish North structure in April 2019. The Karish North CPR confirmed 2C resources of 175 MMboe (84% gas) net to Energean, representing a 32% uplift on previous estimates. EGYPT MONTENEGRO EXPLORATION PRODUCTION Subject to finalisation of the NSAI CPR report, as per DeGolyer and MacNaughton CPR, Karish North contains 175 DEVELOPMENT EXPLORATION mmboe net to Energean 2C resources (84% gas). Energean is on track to start producing from the Karish field in 1H 2021. Including Karish and the (to be) acquired Edison E&P portfolio, Energean’s daily production will reach approximately 130,000 boepd by 2022 (approximately 80% gas). Energean assets In Greece, Energean had 54 mmboe 2P reserves and 59 mmboe 2C resources as of end-2019. Edison E&P assets* In addition, the Company has significant exploration potential in its licences held in Israel, the Adriatic, and Western Greece, which will provide the basis for future organic growth. *Subject to close Edison E&P acquisition. 08 09 Our History > Multi-year offtake agreement signed between BP and Energean > Aegean Energy S.A. announced Oil & Gas for the entire oil production the purchase of 100% of Eurotech’s 2007 2008 from Prinos 2010 2013 2014 shares, majority shareholder of > Aegean Energy S.A. initiated a new Kavala Oil S.A. development plan for Prinos North > Aegean Energy S.A. changed its > Energean Oil & Gas achieved > Purchased the Energean Force and Epsilon fields name to Energean Oil & Gas extension of the concession licence > Aegean Energy S.A. begins to for the Prinos Oil Field area provide internships to College students. > Third Point investment as equity supporter > Awarded two offshore blocks in > Acquired 100% interest in Karish Montenegro and Tanin fields, offshore Israel, from > Repsol farms in to Energean’s Delek Drilling and Avner Ioannina and Aitoloakarnania Blocks, 2015 2016 2017 > Creation of a Corporate Social > Completed a 3D seismic survey > Secured USD75 MM EBRD RBL onshore Western Greece Responsibility Team in the Prinos Oil Field facility as well as agreed USD20 MM > Awarded five new exploration > Energean begins to support Cultural Events finance for exploration assets blocks offshore Israel in Greece (Dodoni Festival, Ioannina) > Kerogen Capital 50% investment in > Signed 12 GSPA agreements for Energean Israel. the sale of 4.2bcm/year of gas > Increased shareholding in Energean Israel February: April: > Signed extended and updated > Beginning of collaboration with “Boroume” USD180 MM RBL Senior facility for to 70% (Kerogen Capital hold the remaining (‘We Can”), an NGO that fights food waste > Gas discovery in Karish North > Commenced our drilling programme the Greek assets 30%) throughout Greece. offshore Israel > First oil delivered from the Epsilon > Achieved First Steel Cut on the Energean > Energean begins to collaborate with Extended Reach Well > Delivered the largest oil and gas > Energean’s first environmental initiative: IPO in London for four years, raising Power FPSO Hull The cleaning of the Main Port seabed of Environmental Government Bodies: May: i) Greece: Management Body of Delta 2018 2019 USD460 MM, and started trading > Energean Israel Limited (Energean Kavala, Greece > Publication of Energean’s first ever Nestos, Lakes Vistonida – Ismarida on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange plc 70%) signed an MoU with INGL for and Thassos Island, ii) Israel: Israel’s Sustainability Report > Energean’s first voluntary beach clean-up in (TASE) through a secondary listing the transfer of near-shore and onshore Nature and Parks Authority. Greece (Rapsani Beach, Kavala) > Energean becomes a proud signatory of > Signed USD1.275bn of project infrastructure, resulting in cash inflow of March: the United Nations Global Compact. approximately NIS369 million (US$98 > Energean’s first initiative to support people financing to develop the Karish field > Beginning of collaboration > Beginning of collaboration with the Israel million) with disabilities: Organized a wheelchair with “Etgarim”, an NGO for the Paralympic Committee. > Took FID on the Karish and Tanin basketball game in Kavala, Greece for the development > 13th GSPA signed, increasing total gas rehabilitation of disabled adults and > Joined Maala, a non-profit, CSR standardsrights of people with disabilities children in Israel sales contracted to 4.6bcm/year setting organization in Israel June: > Signed a GSPA with Israel’s MRC Alon October Tavor for the sale of approximately 0.5 > Beginning of program that awards > Announced successful results from academic scholarships to college students > Agreed to sell Edison E&P’s Norwegian Bcm/yr, or up to 8 Bcm over the term of for studying abroad and UK subsidiaries to Neptune Energy the contract. Supply will commence at production measurement performed for $250 million plus up to $30 million Karish first gas and the contract term is during clean-up of the Karish Main-02 > Energean’s first voluntary beach clean-up contingent consideration for a period of 15 years from the date of development well. The well flowed at a in Montenegro (Bar Beach, Bar). signature 2020 > Energean formally linked Executive maximum rate of 120 million standard November July: December pay to ESG goals cubic feet per day (Mmscf/d) of gas, > Completed the successful appraisal of limited only by the capacity of the surface > Agreed to acquire Edison E&P for $750 the Karish North discovery, confirming best > Became the first E&P company globally > Announcement of Energean’s first million plus $100 million contingent to commit to net zero emissions by 2050 Climate Ambition Strategy equipment. estimate gross recoverable resources of 0.9 consideration Tcf (25 BCM) plus 34 million barrels of light > Announced that the Edison E&P > LOI signed with DEPA for the potential > $265 million of new equity raised from oil / condensate (combined c.190 mmboe) transaction is expected to exclude the sale of 2BCMA in the context of the East shareholders on LSE and TASE Algeria asset, with the total transaction > Energean appoints a woman as Chair for Med Pipeline project > Beginning of collaboration with the Israel the first time in the company’s history consideration to be adjusted to account Paralympic Committee for this 10 11 Our Climate Ambition Medium-term plan by 2035: > Innovation projects for using industrial carbon emissions to produce goods Energean pledges to Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 > Further increase the use of low carbon energy Our Personnel Engagement on Climate Change Ambitions Remuneration of senior executives linked to specific carbon emissions targets and ESG rating. Zero carbon electricity Hydrogen Biofuels Our Strategy to Net-Zero emissions by 2050 Short-term plan next 5 years: Long-term plan by 2050: > Get engaged in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2020 > Carbon Capture Storage and Utilization > Disclosure of climate related information following the Task Force on Climate> Reforestation, Afforestation and Forests Conservation related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations in 2020 > Negative Emissions Technologies > Engage with organizations working on the transition to a low carbon future > Support and motivate costumers and contractors to a low carbon utilization future Increase the efficiency of production installations by optimizing performance Scope 1 Fuel combustion on site > Increase the use of low or zero carbon electricity Commitment to net-zero Direct emissions emissions by 2050 > Strengthen our low carbon portfolio by increasing gas production to 80%, following Strategy for net-zero from own close of the Edison E&P transaction operations Scope 2 Purchased electricity > Reduce our carbon emissions intensity by 70% by 2022, following close of the Indirect emissions Edison E&P transaction Short-term Carbon Intensity Reduction Plan Commitment to use our 70 3-years rolling best endeavors to reach 60 2019 2022 value-chain net-zero Estimated Reduction: emissions by 2050 50 70% Strengthen transition to a low 40 carbon future by producing 30 mainly gas Scope 3 Not owned or controlled Minimize our indirect activities Indirect emissions sources and sold products 20 -50% -10% -30% emissions 10 Engage with our customers to 0 support and motivate them to 2019 2020 2021 2022 a low-carbon future Carbon Intensity Scope 1 & 2 (kgCO2e/boe) based on 100% Net production of operated sites 12 13 GRI 102-18, GRI 102-23 2. Towards a Board Committees Sustainable Business Model The Board has established three committees made up principally of Independent Non-Executive Directors. All appointments to these committees are for an initial period of up to three years and may be extended by no more than two additional three-year periods. These committees are: • Audit and Risk Committee • Nomination & Environment, Social & Governance (ESG) Committee Our Governance Structure • Remuneration Committee Board of Directors The terms of reference of the committees have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct. A copy of each committee’s terms of reference is available from the Company Secretary and can also be found at our website: www.energean.com. Karen Simon Mathios Rigas Panos Benos Non-Executive Chair Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Business values and corporate principles GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 Andrew Bartlett Stathis Topouzoglou David Bonanno Energean, showcasing its commitment to operating at the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director highest standards of integrity and corporate governance, Our Corporate Principles Director has established a framework to ensure compliance and evaluate the effectiveness of its systems. Energean > Being Ethical and Responsible employs various methods in order to do so, such as Ohad Marani Robert William Peck Amy E. Lashinsky maintaining an internal control system, and assessing risk > Being Transparent and Accountable Independent Independent Independent related to governance, HSE and operational issues as well Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director as data security. We ensure transparency through publicly > Creating an attractive Workplace and being reporting our performance and continuously trying to an Employer of Choice expand our reporting. Senior Management Our company’s Core Operating Principles are outlined > Mitigating Environmental Impacts and in Energean’s Code of Conduct (the “Code”). The Code Minimizing our Footprint outlines our company’s guidelines for ethical behaviour Dr. Stephen Moore Angelos Mastrantonis Nick Witney and daily business conduct. It applies to the Board of > Supporting Local Communities Chief Growth Officer Group HR Manager, Commercial Director Directors, all employees, Energean’s affiliated companies, Greece Country Manager controlled joint ventures as well as contractors, agencies > Supporting the United Nations Global or consultants who act as our agents or work on our behalf. Compact Principles Through the Code Energean instils personal responsibility Russell Poynter Vincent Reboul-Salze Kate Sloan to all its people to act in accordance with its requirements General Counsel & EPCIC Project Director Head of Investor Relations & and ethical values. Anyone that has a concern is Company Secretary Equity Capital Markets encouraged to report it and seek help and guidance from Anti-corruption and bribery policy their Managers and responsible Departments. At Energean no form of bribery or corruption is tolerated and upholding the laws in all the areas where we operate is Maria Martin Stella Lena Vassilis Tsetoglou of very high importance for us. Our Anti-corruption and Head of Corporate Group Financial Controller HSE Director Whistleblowing Finance bribery policy outlines our responsibilities and the Energean recognizes that a culture of openness and responsibilities of our partners and contractors in accountability is essential in preventing illegal or unethical maintaining our position on bribery, and provides detailed actions from occurring. In this vein, Energean has created guidance on the general prohibitions and requirements of Dennis Anestoudis Ilia Rigas Exploration Manager Head of Corporate Social a Whistle-Blowing policy, which takes into account the our company. It sets out unacceptable behaviours, each Responsibility Whistleblowing Arrangements Code of Practice issued by person’s responsibilities, the relevant complaint the British Standards Institute and Public Concern at mechanism, reporting and monitoring processes, ensuring Work. our framework is properly communicated and enforced. Regional Managers The Whistle-Blowing Policy applies to all individuals working at all levels of the organization, including senior managers, officers, directors, employees, consultants, contractors, trainees, homeworkers, part time and fixed Shaul Zemach Dr. Konstantinos Petar Djurovic term workers, casual and agency staff. It ensures that no ISRAEL Nikolaou MONTENEGRO Country Manager GREECE General Manager person raising a concern in good faith will suffer any Vice President detrimental treatment. Our policy aims to ensure that staff will feel able to voice their concerns openly under the policy. 14 15 Inputs Business Activities 2019 Outcomes Our Sustainable Business Model Outputs Performance (Contribution to the SDGs) Financial Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing 0 Employees Injured Capital Exploration Growing the share of natural gas in the product portfolio 80% Gas-weighted Manufactured Capital Development Production Reducing greenhouse gases and other air emissions 47.7k tCO e Direct emissions 2 Reducing (non-renewable) energy consumption 731 TJ Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources Intellectual Capital $76 million Generating economic value / Business Support Services economic performance of the company Direct economic value generated > Human resources management and administration Human > Health, Safety and Environmental Safeguarding human rights at work 0 Incidents of discrimination Capital management > Operations > Business development Increasing the implementation of water 89% of water withdrawn in production sites efficiency innovations > Corporate finance and financial control was recycled Social and > Research and development Relationship Capital > Quality assurance Building and maintaining community relations 0 Significant disputes with local > Legal department communities and indigenous people > Marketing > Procurement and supplier management Ensuring emergency preparedness 0 Spills Natural > Corporate social responsibility Capital management Ensuring regulatory compliance 0 Incidents of corruption 16 17 GRI 102-9 Our CYPRUS 2% ISRAEL 9% Supply Chain DENMARK 2% MONTENEGRO 2% Energean Suppliers and Contractors Energean collaborates directly with approximately 3,000 suppliers and contractors globally, plus thousands more in our wider GREAT BRITAIN 13% UNITED STATES 2% by Country supply chains, sourcing specialist oil & gas equipment, material and services, including vendors, service providers and contingent labour. We aim to promote a sustainable supply chain that meets Energean stakeholder expectations, responsible sourcing is a priority for our business and we strongly believe that our suppliers and contractors play a key role in the success of our business. GREECE 61% OTHER 9% In addition to efficiency and operational excellence, Energean focuses on creating prosperity and encouraging our suppliers to meet the highest standards of safety, social and environmental performance. Our supply chain is one of our most powerful tools for creating prosperity in the local communities and we aim to source non-specialist goods and services from local businesses and communities, in the countries we operate in. Energean operates to the highest standards of corporate governance and our suppliers and contractos are expected to act and operate in accordance with Energean HSE, ethical and corporate social responsibility standards. In 2019, Energean developed a more systematic, risk based approach, to managing certain supply chain risks, by implementing a due diligence process that helps us identify risks across our supply chain. Specifically, a third party risk management process has been implemented, which aims to enable counterparty evaluation, with respect to: EUROPE 86% Energean Suppliers NORTH AMERICA 3% > Integrity aspects by examining the identity of the beneficial owner, employment and close family relationships with government and Contractors officials and politically exposed persons as well as any legal enforcement proceedings. ASIA 10% by Continent AFRICA 1% > Financial aspects by examining financial position and creditworthiness. > Anti-corruption and bribery compliance by performing an anti-corruption due diligence on counterparties at risk in order to assess their integrity, professional reliability and reputation. > HSE credentials, standards and records. Furthermore, our standard procurement contracts include key contractual provisions that seek to ensure that our suppliers and GRI 102-12, GRI 102-13 contractors comply with the international laws on human rights, anti-slavery and compliance and preserve our auditing rights to Memberships these respects. Whenever a risk assessment process is involved in order for this risk management model to be applied, Energean uses as risk indicators the geographic location, the scope of work, the compensation structure, or the value of the contract, to evaluate whether the third party and the business relationship under review present a high, medium, or low risk, which will trigger the level Energean actively supports initiatives that aim to > Signatory of the United Nations Global Compact of due diligence to be applied. address the most significant issues of the Oil & Gas > Gas Industry Advisory Committee of the Eastern Industry. For this reason, Energean is a member of Mediterranean Gas Forum In 2020, the Supply Chain due diligence process will extend to include Human Rights assessments. Audits have been scheduled for 1H 2020 to monitor compliance with the respective contractual provisions related to modern slavery statements and several industry associations and participates in > Association of Public Companies in Israel implementation of due diligence procedures to include more in depth labour rights assessments is planned to be initiated. forums where problems and challenges of the > Manufacturers Association in Israel industry’s future are discussed and analyzed, in an > Israel Greece Chamber of Commerce Finally, Energean is planning to implement a code of conduct for suppliers, which among other objectives will seek to underline unbiased and credible way. In that way Energean > Maala – Israel’s CSR leading NGO and UNGC the importance of respecting the key principles of sustainability in the supply chain. National Chapter contributes and shares its knowledge and best practices to the best interest of the industry and the > Union for Oil & Gas (under Manufacturers Assoc.) in Israel Targets in 2020 wider economic growth. > Institute of Energy in Southeastern Europe (IENE) > The Supply Chain due diligence process will extend to include Human Rights assessments. > Greek Energy Forum > Energean is planning to implement a Code of Conduct for suppliers and contractors, > British Hellenic Chamber of Commerce underlining the importance of respecting the key principles of sustainability in the > American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce Supply Chain > Institute of Environment & Energy (starting 2020) 18 19 GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 Stakeholder Engagement Energean’s stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that are reasonably expected to be substantively influenced by the organization’s activities, or those reasonably expected to influence Energean’s ability to implement its strategy or achieve its objectives. Key topics and concerns that have a significant impact for our stakeholders, are analyzed throughout the current Sustainability Report, while specific information on each material topic is included in the following chapters. Local Business Industry Suppliers & Communities Partners Customers Associations Employees Contractors Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement E-mail / Weekly E-mail / Daily E-mail / Monthly E-mail / Monthly E-mail / Daily Telephone Contact / Daily Telephone Contact / Weekly Telephone Contact / Monthly Telephone Contact / Monthly Telephone Contact / Weekly Telephone Contact / Daily Announcements / Weekly Announcements / 2-3 times per year Personal Contact – Meetings / Annually Personal Contact – Meetings / Annually Announcements / Monthly Announcements / Monthly Personal Contact Meetings / Weekly Personal Contact – Meetings / Every other Surveys / Annually Surveys / Annually Personal Contact Meetings / Monthly Personal Contact Meetings / Once or Surveys / Once a year month Reports / Quarterly Reports / Quarterly Surveys / Once a year twice a year Surveys / Annually Newsletters / Annually Reports / 2-3 times a year Surveys / Once a year Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern > Creation of employment > Safeguarding occupational health & > Reducing greenhouse gases and > Safeguarding human rights at work > Safeguarding occupational health & > Safeguarding business ethics and > Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, safety and wellbeing establishment of transparent safety and wellbeing > Provision of employee training, VOCs) eliminating forced labor etc.) > Ensuring emergency preparedness relationships with host governments > Safeguarding human rights at work certifications and employee > Ensuring data security > Generating economic value / > Ensuring data security > Ensuring regulatory compliance (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, development > Safeguarding occupational health & economic performance of the > Generating economic value / > Safeguarding occupational health & eliminating forced labor etc.) > Minimizing waste and increasing the safety and wellbeing company economic performance of the safety and wellbeing > Increasing the implementation of implementation of Circular Economy > Building and maintaining community > Safeguarding occupational health & company > Generating economic value / water efficiency innovations (e.g. practices relations safety and wellbeing > Safeguarding human rights at work economic performance of the reuse, recycling and discharged > Ensuring emergency preparedness > Provision of employee training, (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, company wastewater treatment) > Ensuring regulatory compliance certifications and employee eliminating forced labor etc.) > Ensuring emergency preparedness > Protecting and preserving biodiversity development > Ensuring emergency preparedness Shareholders Rating agencies, Banks Governments & Thought Leaders NGOs & Investors Media & Financial institutions Regulatory Authorities & Academia Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Types of Communication & Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement E-mail / Weekly E-mail / As necessary E-mail / Monthly E-mail / Monthly E-mail / Weekly E-mail / Monthly Telephone Contact / Monthly Telephone contact / As necessary Telephone Contact / Weekly Telephone Contact / Weekly Telephone Contact / Weekly Telephone Contact / Every 3 months Announcements / 2-3 times per year Personal contact – Meetings / Quarterly Announcements / Monthly Personal Contact Meetings / Monthly Announcements / Monthly Announcements / Monthly Personal Contact – Meetings / Annually Conference calls / Semi-annualy Personal Contact Meetings / Monthly Reports / Daily Personal Contact Meetings / Weekly Personal Contact Meetings / Twice a Surveys / Annually RNS Announcements / As necessary Surveys / Once a year Surveys / Once a year Surveys / Once a year year Media Announcements / As necessary Press Conferences / Once or twice a year Reports / Daily Surveys / Once a year Annual Report / Annualy Reports / Monthly Indirectly via stockbrokers / As necessary Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern Topics of Concern > Ensuring emergency preparedness > Generating economic value / > Building and maintaining community > Safeguarding business ethics and > Safeguarding occupational health & > Reducing greenhouse gases and > Generating economic value / economic performance of the relations establishment of transparent safety and wellbeing other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, economic performance of the company > Ensuring emergency preparedness relationships with host governments > Ensuring regulatory compliance VOCs) company > Ensuring regulatory compliance > Ensuring data security > Protecting and preserving biodiversity > Ensuring emergency preparedness > Safeguarding occupational health & > Building and maintaining community > Safeguarding occupational health & > Ensuring regulatory compliance > Minimizing waste and increasing the > Ensuring data security safety and wellbeing relations safety and wellbeing > Safeguarding occupational health & implementation of Circular Economy > Safeguarding business ethics and > Creation of employment > Ensuring regulatory compliance > Safeguarding human rights at work safety and wellbeing practices establishment of transparent > Protecting and preserving biodiversity > Reducing greenhouse gases and (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, > Ensuring emergency preparedness relationships with host governments > Minimizing waste and increasing the other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, eliminating forced labor etc.) > Ensuring regulatory compliance implementation of Circular Economy VOCs) > Safeguarding business ethics and practices establishment of transparent relationships with host governments 20 21 Materiality Map GRI 102-46, GRI 102-49 Materiality Analysis 14 Influence on stakeholder assessments & decisions 2 As per the GRI Standards, the topics to be included in the sustainability report are those that can reasonably 15 be considered important for reflecting the organization’s economic, environmental, and social impacts, or 4 16 influencing the decisions of stakeholders. 11 13 17 In order to define these topics, we conducted a materiality analysis, with the involvement of both the 7 12 10 5 upper management and the stakeholders of the company. The approach was based on the GRI Standards 9 and is described below. 1 3 6 8 Phase A Phase B Identification of relevant topics Prioritization of topics The first step of the process was to prepare a list of identified The next step was to prioritize the identified relevant sustainability relevant topics for the company, relevant to our industry and topics. The prioritization was performed against the significance business model and also of concern to our stakeholders. The of the environmental, social and economic impacts and according following actions were performed to this end: to the significance of these topics to our stakeholders. Significance of economic, environmental & social impacts > An online media review for the reporting year on topics related to For the prioritization against the significance of the environmental, the company’s activities and the expectations of the company’s social and economic impacts, Energean prioritized the United stakeholders, in order to identify significant changes, developments, Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) to which its issues that occurred during the reporting year. business model has the greatest impact. Following this 1 Creation of employment prioritization, the topics linked to the UN SDGs that were prioritized 2 Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing > A review of the sustainable development topics that are sector were deemed as those having the most significant impacts. For specific, as well as international standards such as GRI, SASB, 3 Provision of employee training, certifications and employee development the prioritization of the topics according to their significance to our TCFD, UN SDGs, with the aim to identify topics that are material to stakeholders an e-survey was launched. 4 Safeguarding human rights at work (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, eliminating forced labor etc.) our industry as well as to sustainable development in general. 5 Generating economic value / economic performance of the company The new topics that were identified are “Growing the share of > A review of the publicly available sustainability reports of peer 6 Growing the share of natural gas in the product portfolio natural gas in the product portfolio”, “Reducing (non-renewable) companies, to identify topics that are commonly reported. energy consumption” and “Safeguarding human rights at work 7 Safeguarding business ethics and establishment of transparent relationships with host governments (e.g. equal opportunities, diversity, eliminating forced labor etc.) 8 Reducing (non-renewable) energy consumption 9 Reducing greenhouse gases and other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) Phase C 10 Increasing the implementation of water efficiency innovations (e.g. reuse, recycling and discharged wastewater treatment) Validation of results 11 Protecting and preserving biodiversity The results were reviewed and validated by the upper management and are presented in the materiality map which follows. 12 Minimizing waste and increasing the implementation of Circular Economy practices 13 Building and maintaining community relations 14 Ensuring emergency preparedness 15 Ensuring regulatory compliance 16 Ensuring data security 17 Improving supplier social and environmental performance 22 23 GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 The table below presents the material topics prioritized against both GRI 103-1 the significance of their economic, social and environmental impacts Material topics and and the significance for stakeholders’ assessments and decisions in Generating economic value / economic performance of Why are these topics ascending order. According to the GRI standards, it is not recommended to conclude on a combined assessment for both axes the company but rather define the material topics as the most significant either for material? We are a full-cycle E&P business focused on delivering on our economic their boundaries the stakeholders or in terms of significance of impacts. This is the commitments to our stakeholder groups. Our economic contribution not reason why the topic “Ensuring regulatory compliance” is included in only focuses on our direct stakeholders such as our employees, the material topics as being the third most important topic for the stakeholders even though in the combined assessment its overall contractors, and suppliers and partners, but extends to the communities in score is lower. which we operate through our direct and indirect tax payments to governments and local social investments. Link to Sustainable Topic Boundary Safeguarding human rights at work Material Topic Energean, a global company with an international supply chain, is Development Goals (Entities which may cause or be associated with the impacts) Safeguarding Occupational Health & Safety and Wellbeing committed to safeguarding human rights throughout the full scope of its operations. Impacts on human rights may occur at any stage of our It is Energean’s utmost responsibility to provide a safe working environment operations and at any part of our supply chain. If human rights are not for its employees and contractors. If health and safety incidents occur, our respected, our people may be affected, and our reputation may be severely Safeguarding occupational > Energean people as well as society in general may be significantly affected. Should damaged leading to financial loss. Furthermore, we may face legal health and safety incidents occur, our company could face regulatory and consequences as well as a lack of trust in our business relationships and in health & safety and wellbeing > Suppliers and Contractors financial implications while our business continuity may be disrupted, the communities within which we operate. causing delays and having a negative impact on our reputation and social license to operate. In recognition of our responsibility towards our Increasing the implementation of water efficiency employees, contractors and the wider local communities we operate in, innovations Growing the share of natural > Energean our company maintains an integrated Health and Safety Management System, the basis of which is to ensure a safe working environment for our Water is essential to our operations, as significant water amounts are gas in the product portfolio > Business Partners people and those affected by our Group activities. required during our production processes. Therefore, proper and responsible water management processes are highly important to Growing the share of natural gas in the product portfolio Energean. Energean recognizes its responsibility to protect access to > Energean clean water, which is an established human right. In this context, Energean Reducing greenhouse gases > Suppliers and Contractors Undeniably, oil and gas are critical in today’s energy and economic has established various controls in an effective and responsible water systems. However, increasing societal demands on oil and gas companies management approach, which aims to avoid potential impacts to the and other air emissions > Business Partners are questioning their business models and asking them to contribute to marine environment. In case water is not properly managed, we may face > Customers tackling climate change. Energean is committed to contributing to the regulatory and financial implications, and our relationships with the local energy transition through its business model and primary output of communities we operate in may be severely impacted. extracting and producing fuels. We consider gas as a transition fuel, the Reducing (non-renewable) > Energean way forward to the sustainable growth of both society and business. We Building and maintaining community relations have made it a strategic priority to delivering lower-carbon fuels and energy consumption > Suppliers and Contractors becoming a primarily gas-focused company. Inaction in this regard is not Establishing strong and mutually beneficial relationships with the an option; it would be detrimental to our sustainable development and communities we operate in, is something we highly value. We monitor the existence, as well as to our social license to operate. Over the coming impact of our operations on the local and host communities and undertake > Energean years, pressures including regulatory ones, will only increase on all industry initiatives in order to address any concerns. Energean takes further action, Generating economic value / > Rating Agencies actors to contribute to the transformation of the energy sector, and thus not simply to coexist in the local environment, but to actually contribute to > Banks & Financial Institutions Energean has commenced transitioning its business model and an improved standard of living. As part of the Oil & Gas industry, which is economic performance of the > Suppliers and Contractors part of debate on its impacts on the local communities and their contributing to the global needs for clean energy access and cleaner air. company > Business Partners ecosystems, we actively manage relevant risks and take advantage of > Customers Reducing greenhouse gases and other air emissions opportunities in order to create shared value for all. We try to avoid potential disruption of our efforts, which would lead to a deterioration of the Energean is focused on reducing emissions generated regularly or relationships that we have managed to establish with the local stakeholders, Safeguarding human rights at > Energean potentially through our company’s operations, such as combustion damage to our reputation and the ultimate loss of our social license to emissions (e.g. flared hydrocarbons, emissions from stationary devices operate. work > Suppliers and Contractors and mobile sources), vented emissions (e.g. from floating roof tanks) and fugitive emissions (e.g. unintended equipment leaks). Such emissions Ensuring emergency preparedness may occur across the scope of our onshore and offshore facilities. Potential unintended impacts that could occur include a deterioration of For an oil and gas company like Energean, it is of critical importance to Increasing the implementation > Energean the environment local to our operations as well as a negative impact on our always be fully prepared for emergencies, in order to ensure the safety of relationships with local stakeholders. In addition, our company may face our people, the safety of the local communities of our operations, and the of water efficiency innovations > Suppliers and Contractors operational, reputational and regulatory issues related to the management protection of the environment. An oil spill, a release of hydrocarbons or of greenhouse gases and other air emissions such as NOx, Sox and VOCs. other hazardous substances or any other potential critical incident can We have established various controls and monitoring systems in order to have serious implications on our people, on the environment, on our > Energean meet our objectives in terms of emissions reduction and to continuously reputation and social license to operate. Energean has established a safety Building and maintaining improve our performance in alignment with the targets set by the culture across our operations through the implementation and continuous > NGOs improvement of safety management systems and policies, in order to international community. community relations > Local Communities prevent emergency incidents which could be caused within our supply > Media Reducing (non-renewable) energy consumption chain. Through these policies and systems Energean ensures the effective response of its personnel and contractors in case of critical incidents. Responsible energy management is essential to Energean, as it is a top priority for our company to contribute to the sustainability agenda of our Ensuring regulatory compliance Ensuring emergency > Energean international community and to the Paris Agreement. Our energy management activities are part of our comprehensive Environmental Energean operates in an inherently hazardous industry subject to preparedness > Suppliers and Contractors substantial regulation. Compliance with the applicable laws and regulations Management System, which covers all our facilities and activities. Impacts may occur at any point throughout our value chain, as energy is consumed is fundamental to our business. Energean implements various controls in at our office buildings and onshore facilities, as well as at our offshore order to ensure compliance to the rapidly changing regulatory environment facilities and during the use of equipment. Through our efforts on efficient it operates in. Potential impacts of non-compliance include safety impacts > Energean energy management we aim to reduce our carbon emissions, ensure on our personnel, suppliers and contractors, severe impacts to the Ensuring regulatory compliance efficient resource management and avoid placing further strain on the environment, as well as loss of our social license to operate in the countries > Governments & Regulatory Authorities planet’s fuel resources. of our operations, further to potential legal and financial liabilities. 24 25 Axiom 3. Axioms and Ethical Synergies (noun /ˈæk.si.əm/ word of Greek origin) a statement or principle that is generally accepted to be true Ethical (adjective /ˈeθ.ɪ.kəl/ /ˈeθ.ɪ.kəl/ word of Greek origin) relating to beliefs about what is morally right and wrong Synergy (noun /ˈsɪn.ə.dʒi/ word of Greek origin) the combined power of a group of things when they are working together that is greater than the total power achieved by each working separately 27 Material Topic GRI 103-2, GRI 419-1, GRI 205-3 SASB EM-EP 530a.1 With regards to the prevention of marine pollution, the main legislative More specifically in Israel, due to the fact that the Karish FPSO will be UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 framework we adopt and comply with includes, but is not limited to, the located in a complex geopolitical location, enhanced security and Ensuring following: defence measures as required by law and under the lease requirements will be taken to ensure its protection. > International convention for the prevention of pollution from regulatory compliance ships (MARPOL) Energean will be responsible for general security measures, in accordance with Israeli Defence Force (IDF) guidelines, while regulatory > Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 concerning the registration, authority for defence systems lies with the IDF and will, by law, be led by evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals (REACH) the Israeli Navy acting as the government regulatory defence entity. Our Management Approach > Treaty on oil pollution preparedness, response and cooperation Our Group carries out various actions in order to mitigate such risks. (OPRC) These include: Energean’s core principle is compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in every country where we operate and constitutes a central pillar of our Corporate Culture and Business Ethics Policy. Regulatory compliance must be followed by all employees, contractors and business partners across > Directive for the safety of offshore oil and gas facilities (2013/30/ > Compliance with the HSE & SR policy our operations. We are unequivocally committed to laws, regulations, decrees and any other binding decisions and documents that have been signed EC) by the States in which we operate. In addition, we abide by regulations and decisions set by the United Nations and the European Union, especially in > Monitoring of and adhering to changes in the regulatory terms of the environment, health and safety and employment rights. Our Legal Department is available for consultations and guidance on the correct > Barcelona Convention environment actions to be taken. In collaboration with other functions, it continuously reviews our performance and monitors compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as best practice in the industry. > Agreement on the conservation of cetaceans in the Black Sea, > Active monitoring of the political, economic and social Mediterranean Sea and contiguous Atlantic (ACCOBAMS) situation in historically sensitive geopolitical environment We have established a risk management framework to evaluate regulation and compliance risk. More information on the framework and the principal where Energean operates risks and uncertainties we have identified can be found within Energean’s Annual Report (pages 58 to 78). Our Audit and Risk Committee is responsible > UN convention on the law of the sea (UNCLOS) to review the Group’s overall risk assessment processes and identify and manage new types of risk in collaboration with the company’s Compliance > Continuous improvement of the HSE Management System function. In order to ensure compliance with financial reporting requirements, the Committee receives regular regulatory updates. Furthermore, the > Stockholm convention on persistent pollutants (POPs) Committee maintains the oversight of the Group’s system of internal controls and the work of the outsourced internal audit function. Specifically, the > ISO 14001 Accreditation for all production installations Committee approves the role and mandate of the internal audit function, including the approval of the annual internal audit plan and monitoring the On biodiversity protection, the main legislative frameworks that we effectiveness of the function. adopt and comply with are the following: > Continuous monitoring of air quality improvement, by setting and monitoring relevant performance objectives Governance risks and compliance and targets. > Convention on migratory species (CMS or Bonn convention) > Competence assurance and assessment scheme Energean monitors and addresses human rights, health and safety, Energean maintains a Corporate Major Accident Prevention policy > Internal and external annual training > Convention on biological diversity (CBD) environmental risks, as well as risks related to corruption, bribery and (CMAPP), recognizing that the nature of Energean’s offshore oil and gas fraud. In order to do so, it has established a range of policies including the operations may result in major accidents, outlines Energean’s responsibility > Birds directive (2009/409/EC) > Health monitoring and personal fitness programme Corporate Culture and Business Ethics Policy, the Anti-Corruption and to comply with the Offshore Safety Directive and with the Seveso Directive, Bribery or “ABC” Policy, and the Whistleblowing Policy. Energean’s Board to control risks of major accidents and to continuously improve such > Habitats directive (92/43/EEC) Energean has not identified any incident regarding non-compliance with and Executive Management maintain oversight of the risks related to controls. The policy includes Energean’s commitment to achieve high laws and/or regulations, in the social, environmental and economic area, these areas, provide leadership and ensure ethical standards are standards of Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) performance and to > Other conventions, such as the Bern and Ramsar conventions during the reporting period. maintained. make available all necessary resources to achieve these goals. More information on this policy, as well as on our “Stop Work” policy can be found in the section “Ensuring emergency preparedness”. For more information on the environmental legislative framework, please visit Energean has not identified any confirmed incidents of corruption and Energean complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the www.energean.com thus no relevant actions needed to be taken during the reporting period. Code”), issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), which is available at www.frc.org.uk. The way Energean applies the principles of We establish and continuously monitor procedures and instructions for the Code and our corporate governance arrangements are outlined safe operation in order to be able to adapt to changes in operations, Financial compliance within our Annual Report 2019 (pages 86 to 114). The Board has once regulations, industry standards and technology. Our procedures take into again reviewed its compliance with the Code and confirms that it account all employees and contractors who are monitored to ensure The Directors of the company have the responsibility to ensure and continues to comply with all the provisions. compliance. Energean provides regular internal and external safety confirm that Energean’s financial statements comply with applicable law training so that all employees and contractors are informed and aware of and legislations. The Group undergoes internal and external audits on its As part of the Company’s ABC compliance program and within the their compliance expectations. financial statements, during which compliance reviews against the context of the ABC Policy, the Company has recently introduced a third International Financial Reporting Standards are carried out. party risk management procedure to support the Company’s relevant Environmental compliance functions (i.e. contracts & procurement department, CSR, commercial Legal and regulatory risks and opportunities team) in conducting third-party due diligence on potential associated As mentioned in the Health & Safety compliance section, the Health, parties with a view to mitigating the risk of becoming involved in Safety, Environmental & Social Responsibility Policy provides details on Energean is committed to full compliance with all relevant laws. corruption through Company’s counterparties. Energean’s compliance requirements and the relevant responsibilities. Our Regarding the formation of new policy and laws, Energean responds to system includes monitoring key environmental parameters in order to all consultations, as for example the UN climate change working group, Health & Safety compliance ensure full compliance with environmental laws and regulations. This is to which our HSE Director is currently contributing. done through systematic observation, verification and documentation, Compliance with all applicable health and safety legislation and with the ultimate goal to identify and implement corrective and preventive As part of its risk assessment process, Energean has identified Health, regulations is a fundamental requirement for Energean. In order to actions. Thorough review and assessment of the applicable environmental Safety and Environmental Risks as principal risks. As the Group operates protect the health and safety of our employees, contractors and the regulatory framework is carried out prior to the initiation of any of our in an industry that is inherently hazardous and subject to comprehensive general public, we have established an integrated Health and Safety projects. regulation, and even through the Group considers that it has adequate Management System (H&S MS), aligned with international standards, procedures in place, there can be no assurances that these will be indeed safety directives, and European regulations, which covers all our The main environmental legislative frameworks that we have adopted and adequate. Failure to mitigate such risks may result in loss of life, injury, or company offices and premises and all activities at project locations and comply with are the following: adverse impacts on our people and the environment, and may give rise operational sites. We aim to obtain accreditation of our production sites to significant liabilities. systems according to the international standard ISO 45001. > Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impacts of certain public and private projects on the environment (EIA Directive) Relevant risks include, among others, risk of increased compliance Our Health, Safety, Environmental & Social Responsibility Policy costs, risks associated with changes in policy, risk linked to the loss of stipulates that Energean shall comply with all relevant laws, standards > Water framework directive (WFD), 2000/60/EU financial incentives, reputation risks, risks of strategy misalignment to and best practices. It clearly states that the policy applies to all staff and the legal and regulatory environment, and risks of not being aligned with contractors, who should be fully aware of and comply with this policy. > Marine strategy framework directive (MSFD), 2008/56/EC the expectations of our stakeholders. In terms of opportunities, Energean monitors compliance to the policy and takes corrective action compliance with the legal and regulatory environment can lead improved For more information on our Management Approach, please as necessary. In addition, it places an emphasis on continuous community relations. refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the > Directive 2008/98/EC on waste (Waste Framework Directive) report. 28 29 4. Symbiosis Symbiosis (noun /ˌsɪm.baɪˈəʊ.sɪs / word of Greek origin) interaction between two different organisms living in close physical association, typically to the advantage of both. a relationship between people or organizations that depend on each other equally. 31 Material Topic GRI 103-2 Training SASB EM-EP-320a.2 As regular training on occupational H&S-related topics is critical for the proper and safe execution of work carried out by our employees Safeguarding Occupational Health & Safety and our contractors, we ensure appropriate and regular training is provided to all employees. Energean has established a competence and assurance management scheme based on the company’s ongoing needs. H&S training is provided to all employees and and Wellbeing contractors either annually or bi annually and internal training sessions of at least eight hours are provided to our personnel every year. Risk management In order to identify and assess risks associated with H&S aspects within our operations, we employ a stringent process that includes Our Management Approach consultations, on-site inspections, modelling procedures, literature review and other methods. In general, risks are managed so far as is reasonably practicable, ensuring that they are within the ‘acceptable’ or ‘tolerable’ level under ALARP (As Low As Reasonably Energean is committed to operating at the highest standards of HSE for its employees, partners, the general public, and the environment. Practicable). Energean has established a ‘Stop Work’ policy, according to which any person employed and/or contracted by Energean As mentioned in our Code of Conduct, Energean’s priority is to ensure that all our people return home safe and well at the end of every shall immediately stop work in case that any employee, a company asset or the local environment is at risk. No fault shall be placed on working day and that all accidents that potentially affect stakeholders and the company are prevented. In order to prevent potential health and safety incidents, we promote the establishment of a wider health and safety culture to all of our employees, contractors and any employee that calls for a Stop Work order, even this order proves to be unnecessary upon further investigation, and work resumes suppliers, and carry out a vast array of actions including implementing H&S investment plans and providing regular training to our only if approval is provided taking into account all the relevant safety aspects. employees. How do we evaluate our performance? Our company continuously monitors key HSE performance indicators and we have continued to deliver upon our exemplary HSE track record, with one million hours free of Lost Time Incidents in Energean sites plus four million man-hours on the FPSO construction yard Internal and external audits, reviews, regular inspections and compliance checks are the activities carried out within Energean in order in China. In 2019, Energean drilled 4 Deepwater wells offshore Israel with a best in class HSE record. In our efforts to achieve and to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations, European directives and international standards. Key performance indicators are maintain high standards of HSE performance, we provide the necessary resources and equipment (e.g. Personal Protective Equipment) monitored continuously, and we focus on improving our performance constantly. The completion of risk assessments and the to our people for them to carry out their work safely, we implement an annual health programme and ensure the availability of medical availability of Permits to Work are required prior to the initiation of tasks. Reporting accidents and incidents is carried out through a fitness certificates for all our employees and contractors. detailed process with ensures the thorough investigation and the timely implementation of the relevant Corrective And Preventive Energean has established an internal process to assess the Actions (CAPAs). H&S Policy and Management System performance of the HSE Committee in 2019. The Committee will be subject to an external evaluation in 2020. Energean has established and maintains a comprehensive and integrated Health and Safety Management System (H&S MS) It is within the Committee’s responsibility to review internal audit that is aligned with the requirements of international standards reports of the HSE department as well as the follow up of action and European safety directives and is based on continuous points from the audit. In addition, the Committee reviews the improvement. Our system is governed by the Health, Safety, external sustainability related reporting of the company and Environmental (HSE) & Social Responsibility (SR) policy, which focuses on developing the external reporting related to sets out the corporate values, standards and expectations in sustainability further. The Committee conducts visits to our sites terms of HSE & SR aspects related to the company’s employees, and operations in order to evaluate the management of HSE partners, stakeholders, general public, environment and aspects in practice. sustainable development. In addition, as per our Code of Conduct, the Management System demonstrates to all employees and Supplier screening contractors Energean’s core business principles and philosophy. The system is based on international best practices for our Energean implements a systematic screening process of our industry and it is based on a ‘Plan-Do-Assess-Adjust’ cycle. Our contractors and suppliers, in terms of health and safety system is complemented by specific procedures and guidelines, performance, to ensure the adoption of our H&S culture across all method statements and records of compliance. Energean aims of our operations and supplies. We continuously monitor the HSE to certify its H&S Management System against the international performance of our suppliers and contractors, including monitoring standard ISO 45001 in the future. indicators such as Lost Time Injuries Frequency (LTIF) and Total Recordable Injuries Rates (TRIR). Indicatively we mention that our Leadership contractors’ Lost Time Injuries Frequency (LTIF) and Total Recordable Injuries Rate (TRIR) during 2019 was 0.29 and 0.88 Our CEO has the overall responsibility and accountability for respectively, considering 1 million hours worked, while relevant health and safety (H&S) and takes all the necessary steps to peers’ KPIs in 2018 were 0.64 and 2.41. ensure that our company operates to the highest level of H&S performance. In this effort, our CEO is supported by our HSE Compliance Seminar on Basic Life Support and the use of an Automated External Defibrillator (BLS/AED Seminar) Committee which evaluates the effectiveness of the Group’s policies and systems for identifying and managing environmental, It is of paramount importance for Energean to be compliant with all health, safety and security risks as well as matters relating to applicable H&S legislation. Energean ensures compliance with Targets for 2020 equality, diversity, business ethics and corporate social local laws and European legislations within all the company offices, > Achieve an Energean employees Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) less than 0.51 (peers average value, IOGP 2018). responsibility. The establishment of the HSE Committee premises, project locations and operational sites. Compliance is > Achieve a Contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) equal or less than 0.64 (peers average value, IOGP 2018). showcases Energean’s top management commitment towards monitored through thorough internal audits and inspections as > Achieve an Energean employees Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) less than 1.15 (peers average value, IOGP 2018). safeguarding health, safety and environmental aspects across well as regular audits by third party organizations. Energean > Achieve a Contractors Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) equal or less than 2.41 (peers average value, IOGP 2018). our business operations. encourages its employees to raise issues in good faith if they become aware of breaches of the Company’s policies and Code of > Create and implement a common H&S management system throughout all group, including Crisis Management and Occupational H&S management. The HSE Committee carries out two meetings per year. The Conduct and operates on a “No Retaliation Policy” which protects Committee regularly collaborates with the HSE Director and the individuals who raise concerns. > Achieve certification of production sites’ H&S systems to ISO 45001. Head of CSR and reports proceedings to the Board of Directors. For more information on our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. 32 33 Material Topic GRI 103-2 UNGC PRINCIPLE 8, 9 Energean continuously monitors its onshore and offshore water discharges in the company’s production sites in Greece, in order to meet the requirements of the above mentioned frameworks and continue the company’s excellent track record of operating in sensitive marine environments without causing environmental damage. Furthermore, we achieved having zero environmental impact of our Increasing the implementation of operations offshore Israel and Montenegro in line with national and international environmental standards. water efficiency innovations Our production activities in our onshore and offshore facilities result in water discharges which include: > Produced water, which arises from oil extraction > Oily water (usually rainwater) which falls on surfaces and machinery and potentially acquires high concentrations of grease and oil Our Management Approach > Utility water, including cooling water Effective water management is at the core of Energean’s operations. Energean recognizes the importance of global water resources and aims to reduce the impact of its operations upon water resources, through adopting We recycle and reuse water withdrawals for production, cooling, firefighting and utilities. Furthermore, we ensure proper and responsible responsible practices and management systems. We continue to develop our ISO 14001 accredited Environmental treatment of our discharged wastewaters. In order to do so, we monitor and measure all our discharges to the marine environment, with Management System, in line with all applicable national laws and European directives. In order to ensure water use intensity being one of the Key Performance Indicators that we monitor. During our daily worksite checks we monitor water usage, water pollution incidents, washouts of stormwater and spills. compliance, we monitor the applicable regulatory framework for water management, which includes: Energean is focused on investing in innovations in order to improve water efficiency. Our main priority is to ensure proper and sustainable > The Water Framework Directive use of water resources, preventing any form of pollution. We take action so that for all our projects we implement the most advanced innovations for the efficient use of water resources in line with best practices in our sector. > The Marine Strategy Framework Directive Energean carries out Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) prior to the initiation of each project covering both our > The Barcelona Convention onshore and offshore activities. Our ESIAs analyse the management of water resources during all project phases, including construction, operations, and abandonment. These studies additionally outline our mitigation measures, such as for example avoiding accidents > The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) using good practice codes, collision avoidance and fuel handling and transfer procedures. They also stress Energean’s requirement that all staff and contractors shall undertake training and maintain good housekeeping standards. Wastewater management, monitoring and reporting requirements are further analysed within our Pollution Prevention Plans and our Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Plans. Our facilities include open drains and closed drains systems. Open drains systems collect surface waste liquids and allow their intakes to be vented to the atmosphere. Closed drains systems are fully contained drains, hard piped, which ensure drainage through all the facilities necessary before reprocessing or safe disposal to the environment. Through these systems, we prevent unintentional discharges of untreated fluids to the marine environment. In line with the relevant environmental permits and set limits, we treat and clean produced water from our projects from oil, hydrogen sulphide and other pollutants prior to discharge. Energean has established a grievance mechanism in order to handle complaints related to the environment, including water management issues. The responsible Environmental Officer, with the HSE Director who is involved as necessary, address such complaints raised by stakeholders and ensure that the necessary actions are put into place. Energean recognizes the social, economic and political implications of its operations and aims to protect water resources and minimize its impact on the environment that it operates in. In terms of protecting marine and terrestrial biodiversity, Energean has established an Environmental Management & Monitoring Plan (ESMMP) which, among others, specifies our practices and processes to conserve or enhance biodiversity. In addition, we have developed a Biodiversity Wildlife Management Plan, which covers ecology and wildlife training, protocols to protect marine mammals, pre-construction ecological surveys and wildlife inspections, habitat and species protection during construction and the relevant monitoring and reporting. Throughout our operations, we take into account regulations and directives such as the Bonn Convention, the Ramsar Convention, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Birds and Habitats Directives. In the summer of 2019, in Northeastern Greece, Energean signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Management Body of Nestos River Delta, Lakes Vistonida Ismarida and Thassos Island for the maintenance of the Management Body’s biodiversity monitoring telemetric stations. For more information on our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. 34 35 Material Topic GRI 103-2, GRI 306-3 SASB EM-EP-160a.2, SASB EM-EP-540a.2 UNGC PRINCIPLE 7 Our policy states that Energean shall control the risks of major accidents arising from our onshore and offshore oil & gas operations so far as reasonably practicable, ensuring that such risks are within the “acceptable” or “tolerable” ALARP (As Low As Reasonably Practical) Ensuring levels. Energean has developed a systematic and structured approach to achieve this, through our HSE Management system, which governs the following aspects: Emergency Preparedness > Organization, Personnel & Training, including evaluating the effectiveness of personnel and contractor competency programs; > Identification and Evaluation of Major Hazards, with the active involvement of all employees; Our Management Approach > Operational Control, including key required measures to prevent hazards from arising, mitigating consequences and ensuring Energean is committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions for all workers in its business and avoiding health and safety effective recovery; risks to third parties. In order to deliver on this commitment, our company implements an operational framework including control > Management of Change, covering both permanent and temporary changes; mechanisms and detailed procedures and instructions which are continuously developed, monitored and reviewed. As per our Health, Safety, Environmental & Social Responsibility Policy, Energean maintains emergency procedures designed to enable the company to > Planning for Emergencies, such as on-site emergency plans, cooperation with local Fire Authorities, the implementation of respond to and recover from any Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) emergency, crisis and associated business disruption, which scenario drills; are regularly tested for their effectiveness. Our employees should be aware of the procedures that apply to their area of work in case of an emergency, and should ensure that visitors are also familiar with them. > Monitoring Performance, through established Key Performance Indicators reported quarterly to Country Managers and the BoD; At Energean, we recognize that the nature of our business, offshore oil and gas operations, may give rise to major accidents that could potentially have significant adverse environmental impacts. It is our responsibility to control the risks of major accidents and to > Regular Audit and Review to assess the degree of implementation and the effectiveness of the CMAPP and the HSE Management continuously improve our controls in line with advancements in technology and good oilfield practices. Therefore, we have developed system, including reviewing capabilities and goals in terms of major accident hazard management. and implement a Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP), approved by the Board, which outlines our responsibilities and commitments. Energean has developed a detailed Contingency Plan for each of our projects which outlines a course of action for the mobilization of personnel and equipment that may be required to handle a serious emergency. We accept that our system may result in overreaction or Our CMAPP recognizes our responsibility to comply with the Offshore Safety Directive 2013/30/EU and the Seveso Directive 2012/18/ unnecessary actions, as our main priority is to do everything possible to provide a safe working environment and to minimize the EU. Furthermore, it outlines our responsibility to protect and preserve the health and safety of people and good environmental conditions. possibility of causing damage or injuries to third parties. The plan includes the oil spill response plan of each facility, procedures on The policy highlights our commitment to achieving high standards of HSE performance and to ensuring the availability of all necessary training and safety drills, as well as managing Personal Protective Equipment for our employees and contractors. It includes procedures resources to fulfil our commitment. to be followed both for minor incidents, such as injuries, damages to facilities or pollution such as rubbish and solid debris, as well as major incidents such as fires. The policy outlines the responsibilities in order to create a safe working environment. Energean’s Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible to ensure compliance of the CMAPP with the applicable legislation, our core values, our Code of Conduct and corporate strategy. The We determine the level of risk associated with our facilities through performing Quantitative Risk Assessment (QRA) studies. The BoD of each of Energean’s subsidiaries is responsible to ensure that their systems and activities comply with the CMAPP while, each purpose of the QRA is to provide a numerical estimate of the level of risk to people, associated with identified and defined major Country Manager is responsible for country-wide implementation of the CMAPP as well as monitoring and reporting compliance to the accidents. The QRA provides a means to compare the derived risk levels against industry-accepted criteria and also provides a baseline policy. against which potential risk reduction measures can be assessed. Our QRA enables us to demonstrate that individual and total facility risk levels have been managed to be ALARP and to define a number of oil spill scenarios, model them deterministically, and assess potential environmental impacts. It is Energean’s policy to maintain a safe and secure environment against risk or exposure to personal harm, property damage or adverse effects to the environment. In this context, we have established a “Stop Work” policy, according to which work should stop if any employee, company asset or the environment is at risk. This policy applies to all our personnel and contractors. More information on this policy is provided in the material topic “Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing”. Energean has also established a Marine contingency plan, which aims to set the necessary procedures in order to handle specific incidents, such as oil spills, pipeline and tanker leaks and non-controlled abnormalities of the production platforms and applies to all our onshore and offshore facilities. We ensure that all personnel including employees and contractors receive regular and comprehensive training on the use of oil spill-fighting equipment and that all our facilities are fully equipped with the necessary technology and tools to combat critical incidents. The Marine contingency plan takes into account all employees, partners, local communities, local authorities and other relevant stakeholders. Energean has never had to put its emergency response procedures into practice, but we remain ready to act in the potential event of an accident and/or any other emergency. Energean’s operations resulted in zero spills during the reporting period, continuing our track record of zero environmental incidents during the years of our operations. Visit on the Stena DrillMAX of Israel’s Minister of Energy, Mr. Yuval Steinitz, during the drilling of the Karish North exploration well (March 2019). For more information on our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. 36 37 Material Topic GRI 103-2 SASB EM-EP-110a.3 UNGC PRINCIPLE 8, 9 In terms of reporting, Energean intends to report emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Through this process, Energean aims to obtain a clear understanding of our company’s emissions and enable our company to enhance its emission reduction Reducing greenhouse gases efforts. We are already disclosing Scope 1 and 2 emissions and we are in the process of standardizing emissions calculations and reporting processes for Scope 3 emissions as per CDP requirements. and other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) Energean has established a comprehensive set of plans which include management, monitoring and reporting processes related to greenhouse gas emissions and form the basis of our Environmental Management System, which is aligned to ISO 14001 across our operations. These are: Our Management Approach > Health, Safety, Environmental & Social Responsibility Policy, setting our commitment towards safeguarding the environment and reducing emissions. Energean is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions We are aligned with the policy requirements set in the countries and aims to minimize its impact on air quality across its of our operations in terms of emissions reductions. In Israel, as > Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Plan, which, as well as specific processes to be carried out including relevant training and operations. Our company has set ambitious targets and aims to per government policy published in 2018, emissions in energy awareness requirements. become a leading E&P company not only in terms of reducing production are to be reduced with reducing the use of polluting carbon emissions but in sustainability in general. Currently, fuel products by 2030. According to the policy, a fuel mix of 80% > Pollution Prevention Plans for our projects, addressing emissions and dust management. around 80% of our portfolio is gas, in alignment with our goal to natural gas and 20% or more from renewable energy sources in transition our portfolio to natural gas. the electricity production sector should be targeted. > Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA), carried out prior to the initiation of each project, in which the key environmental issues and potential impacts are identified across all the project phases. Within the ESIAs, emissions to air during the construction, During the reporting period, Energean became the first E&P Energean has also set ambitious goals regarding carbon intensity operation and abandonment phases of each project, are investigated, both for our onshore and offshore facilities. company in the world to commit to net zero carbon emissions by reduction. According to our near-term carbon intensity reduction 2050. One way through which we aim to achieve this goal is to plan for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we estimate a reduction of > Environmental Management Plans, approved by the Greek government as part of our relevant Environmental Impact Assessment, reduce absolute GHG emissions. We additionally aim to balance about 70% by 2022, following first gas from Karish and integration which outlines processes to manage environmental impacts resulting from our operations. a measured amount of carbon releases with an equivalent of the Edison E&P portfolio. amount sequestered or offset or buying enough carbon credits Energean has implemented a Continuous Monitoring (CEM) System to monitor parameters such as temperature, pressure drop, H2S to account for the difference. We are also looking into Hydrogen We calculate our Scope 1 emissions including the seven GHGs and combustible gases within our existing plant locations. Our central environmental station in the wider area of Thasos and Kavala production, Negative Emissions Technologies (NETs), Carbon under the Kyoto Protocol for our production facilities using heat monitors atmospheric emission levels and various meteorological parameters alongside 12 stations monitoring the total sulphation of Capture and Storage (CCS), reforestation and afforestation and fuel benchmarks and undergo a verification process of our the atmosphere on a monthly basis. The station specifically monitors: projects and are evaluating their feasibility and effectiveness in calculations by an independent body. We take into account order to potentially incorporate them in our operations. combustion of gas mixtures for the production of thermal energy > Concentration of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) for our processes and combustion of gas mixtures and fuels for Energean also participates in the Oil & Gas Assessing Lowmechanical purposes and utilities. In addition, we measure and > Concentration of sulphur dioxide (SO2) Carbon Transition Technical Working Group (ACT TWG) which, take into account gas mixture net heating value, composition and according to the Paris Agreement Goals, focuses on developing volume. Regarding Scope 2 emissions, we apply the location> Concentration of total hydrocarbons (HCT) methodologies to determine the degree of alignment of a based method and consider the electrical energy purchased and company with a world having a well-below 2oC rise scenario. This consumed throughout all our company premises by using > Concentration of methane (CH4) is performed through a holistic sectorial approach, considering country level grid electricity factors provided by electrical power both quantitative and qualitative indicators. The ultimate goal is supply administrators. > Concentration of non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) to obtain insights on the company’s current and future ability to reduce its climate impact. > Measurements of meteorological parameters (wind direction and speed, ambient temperature, relative humidity) Energean is committed to complying with the relevant regulatory requirements in order to reduce greenhouse gases and other air emissions. In order to do so, we ensure that our HSE policy is aligned with the local and national, legal and regulatory requirements across the full scope of our operations. Energean addresses the applicable statutory limit values for pollutants according to the air quality limits established by the European Union and is compliant with the applicable European directives, such as the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry annual reporting on SOx/SO2 emissions. Regarding emissions from vessel operation, we ensure that all vessels utilized in our projects meet the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) requirements pertaining to emissions in the atmosphere. We have taken steps to eliminate the need for unintentional flaring, given that flares are sources of continuous emissions and may cause significant environmental impacts. Our compliance with internal and external requirements is challenged during frequent audits by local and state authorities. Targets in 2020 > Participate in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) > Implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Change Financial Disclosure (TCFD) > Reduce our Carbon Emissions Intensity in Scope 1 and Scope 2 by more than 50% following Edison’s acquisition > Quantify the medium and long-term plan activities For more information on the quantitative evaluation of our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. 38 39 Material Topic Material Topic GRI 103-2 GRI 103-2 UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 9 UNGC PRINCIPLE 8 Reducing (non-renewable) Growing the share of natural gas Energy Consumption in the product portfolio Our Management Approach Our Management Approach It is one of our top priorities at Energean to protect the environment Companies active in the oil and gas industry are facing increasing societal and environmental pressures and demands to contribute to and minimize our impact on the planet. Our business model is the energy transition through their business models and operations and to take part in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement. In based on contributing to meet the world’s growing energy needs this context, Energean considers sustainable development integral to our corporate philosophy and core to our organization. This is in ways that are economically, environmentally and socially responsible. Energean embraces the values of sustainable evident though our corporate purpose and vision. Our purpose is to create long-term value for all our stakeholders and help deliver the development and has integrated energy efficient practices within energy transition through a focus on gas, a lower-carbon fuel, which is considered the fuel of the future. Our vision entails becoming the all its activities, in order to deliver on our commitments in this leading sustainable, gas-focused and innovative independent E&P company in the Eastern Mediterranean. regard. As mentioned in our Health, Safety, Environmental & Social Responsibility Policy, we shall conduct business taking Our purpose and vision have been integrated within our strategy, which entails developing a balanced portfolio of gas assets. Our into consideration the efficient use and conservation of energy strategic focus on gas has led us to place our oil field assets in the Prinos Area under strategic review. This means that production from and resources. Prinos will be maintained through rig-less activities and investment will remain limited as our company decides where to allocate capital In order to deliver on our commitment to address our throughout the wider portfolio in the best manner. environmental responsibilities throughout our value chain and be compliant with the applicable national and European legislation, During 2019, Energean agreed to acquire Edison E&P for $750 million plus $100 million of contingent consideration. This acquisition Energean has established an ISO 14001 accredited Environmental enables us to scale up our operations, diversify our portfolio and acquire a material presence in eight countries across the Mediterranean. Management System (EMS) which enables us to manage our Gas accounts for 80% of Edison E&P’s portfolio, further contributing to our strategic priority of having a gas-weighted portfolio. responsibilities, enhance our energy efficiency and minimize our energy consumption. Within the scope of this system, Energean analyses and reviews energy use and energy consumption data Energean continues to see strong demand for its gas, and its flagship project is the 2.2 Tcf Karish and Tanin development offshore from various sources. Energy use intensity, both electrical and Israel. Our strategic investment in this project aims to transform our business and enable us to attain our leadership position in the thermal, is one of the Key Performance Indicators that we Eastern Mediterranean as a sustainable and gas-focused company. It is envisaged that the Karish and Tanin project will produce first monitor on a continuous basis as part of our EMS. gas in 1H 2021. Energean established within the reporting period Energy Energean’s portfolio is currently 80% gas-weighted (excluding Algeria and UK). Our near-term primary objective is to deliver the Karish Management Teams in the production installations with the project, integrate Edison and discover more gas through further exploration drilling in the region of the Mediterranean. According to our responsibility to conduct annual Energy Analysis & Reviews in order to identify energy issues and opportunities for performance estimations, we expect a reduction of approximately 70% by 2023 on our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, following first gas from Karish optimization. These teams calculate the contribution of each and the integration of the Edison E&P portfolio. specific energy consumption to the total energy consumed, in order to evaluate the significance of energy consumption. For more information on the quantitative evaluation of our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. Following this analysis, the most significant sources of energy consumption are identified, which are defined as those that exceed 2% of the total energy consumption. Energean is then able to focus its efforts on optimizing these significant sources through the implementation of a regression analysis which aims to identify differences between actual and expected consumption based on statistical data. During 2019, we carried out several actions in order to lower our energy consumption and improve the energy efficiency of our operations. Firstly, we carried out a detailed inspection of our steam networks, which resulted in the elimination of steam losses. In addition, we downgraded our steam boilers and reduced our cooling water pumps consumption through cleaning the cooling water lines. Furthermore, we continued replacing conventional light lamps with LED lamps. During the reporting period, we also commenced the revamping and downgrading of a sour gas compressor medium voltage motor. For more information on the quantitative evaluation of our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. Energean’s FPSO “Energean Power” 40 41 5. Metamorphosis Metamorphosis (noun /ˌmet.əˈmɔː.fə.sɪs/ word of Greek origin) a complete change the process of transformation and development from an immature/young form to an adult form in two or more distinct stages 43 Material Topic GRI 103-2 G4 OG10 > Ensuring zero spillage incidents. SASB EM-EP-210b.1, SASB EM-EP-210b.2 > Sponsoring the 2019 Finswimming European Senior Championship in Ioannina, Greece. Building and maintaining > Supporting the 2019 Panhellenic High School Basketball Championship of Greece & Cyprus, in Kavala, Greece. > Being the Gold Sponsor of the 2nd “Apostolos Pavlos” International Swimming Meet in Kavala, Greece. Community Relations Quality education Our Management Approach Energean believes that inclusive education is vital in order to develop innovative solutions to the world’s problems. With sustainable development at the forefront of our company’s values, Energean aims to provide a high level of educational opportunities to support future generations. Oil and Gas is an everEnergean aims to have a positive impact on the communities it operates in. Teamwork and collaboration are at the forefront of Energean’s evolving market and we believe investing in the education of the youth of today will enhance their outcomes tomorrow. Over the course of the last year, company values. Therefore, we believe that building trust and relationships within communities is integral to our progression as a Company. Energean initiated the following actions: We monitor how our operations influence the well-being of our host communities, in order to focus our activities on improving local quality of > Became a strategic partner with Chemecon (a non-profit association of Young Chemical Engineers). life, and maintaining our social license to operate. > Offered paid internships to 23 college students. By investing in communities, we seek the establishment of mutually beneficial relationships between our Company and the local communities > Provided scholarships and academic financial aid to 7 college students. in which we operate. We consider the provision of solutions to the social issues that our communities are facing to be a joint effort, in which > Awarded 5 academic scholarships in collaboration with the Bodossaki Foundation. trust is key. In the long run, it is Energean’s goal to make these solutions as sustainable as possible. > Provided guided tours to college professors and students of our onshore facilities (“Sigma Plant”) at Nea Karvali, Kavala, Greece. > Supported the “Protecting the sea” educational program on marine life and environment in Fordis Village, Israel. As a whole, the energy industry’s impact on natural resources as well as local communities and their ecosystems is subject to scrutiny and debate. Energean believes in creating shared value among its stakeholders as well as implementing responsible practices, controlling the management of risk while still maintaining the ability to seize business opportunities in a changing environment. Our CSR policy, which is embedded in our company values and guided by international standards and best practices, is fundamental in how our business functions. Energean is always seeking to improve its sustainable development agenda by collaborating with governments, the Gender equality private sector and the civil society in order to progress on a global, regional, national and local level. Energean believes in progress towards gender equality and women’s empowerment and their equal opportunities for leadership. This is supported in Energean’s Corporate Governance structure: > Proud to announce Karen Simon as the Company’s new Chairman who is an advocate for creating leadership opportunities for women. > Welcomed Amy Lashinsky to Energean’s Board of Directors as an Independent Non-Executive Director. > Percentage of female representation in Energeans work force: BOD 22.2% , Senior Management 41.7% ,Middle Management 24% , other No poverty Employees 12%. In partnership with NGOs, Energean strongly values the support of less fortunate and vulnerable people. We strive to combat poverty and are always seeking new ways to give back to society. In 2019, Energean: > Supported the NGO in Greece “Together for Children” through the CSR initiative “I give because I care”. Energean donated children’s items, food, personal hygiene products, cleaning and school supplies, as well as clothes. Reduced inequalities Energean’s slogan “We all can, we all care” reflects our aim to empower people with special needs and disabilities, to promote inclusion and to encourage everyone to work towards a world of reduced inequalities. Over the reporting period, Energean has implemented the following actions to convey the message that living with a disability should not hold anyone back from living a full life: Zero hunger > Proudly opening the crowdfunding project for the creation of a multi-sensory room in a Special School, the School of Special Vocational Education and Training of Kavala, Greece. The room was presented on December 3rd 2019, which marks the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Energean has established long-lasting support networks with NGOs in their fight to prevent hunger by supporting poor and vulnerable people who have limited > Energean was recognised and received an award at the “Bravo! Sustainability Dialogue & Awards 2019” for the CSR activity “We can – We care”. We access to good food and proper nutrition. organized a basketball game/event with and for our fellow citizens with disabilities alongside a crowdfunding initiative for a Special School in Kavala, Greece. Specifically, our company: > Energean supported the 2nd International Wheelchair Basketball Tournament “Rebound of Friendship” in Kavala, Greece. > Continued the support of the Association of Paraplegics and Disabled People in the Prefecture of Ileia, Greece. > Continued the donation of surplus lunch food from the Athens office to “Boroume” (“We Can” a non-profit organisation that fights food waste by organizing the distribution of surplus food for charity throughout Greece). > Teamed up with the Israeli Paralympic Committee in Support of the 2019 Basketball Cup Final for the disabled by raising public awareness through social media and by sharing companywide invites. > Under Energean’s initiative, Oilfield Hospitality Services (OHS), the food supplier of our drilling rig in the Gulf of Kavala, offers meal portions daily to the Non-Profit Organization “Likno Agapis” (“Cradle of Love”). The food is distributed to families of the local community of Kavala in need. > Supported 3 Paralympic swimmers in Israel in their journey to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games via monthly scholarships and social media awareness. > Donated supermarket gift vouchers for the Easter table to families in Kavala. > Energean offered a grant to the two Paralympic swimmers who qualified for the 2020 Tokyo Games at the London World Championships. > Our Company had representation and showed support to both local and international events hosted by the European Paralympic Committee. > Continued offering support to “Etgarim” (Hebrew for “Challenges”), an NGO in Israel for the rehabilitation, empowerment and social integration of children and adults with disabilities, through outdoor sports. Energean was one of two supporters of the “Start Fresh” Haifa Sailing Club. Fifteen students at risk were granted the opportunity to participate in educational and challenging sailing activities. Good health and well-being > Energean donated concert tickets to parents and caregivers of children with cancer, in collaboration with Rachashei Lev (Whispers of the Heart), an NGO Energean cares about the good health and wellbeing of all people, from its employees to the citizens of local communities. By providing premium health support centre for cancer-stricken children and their families in Israel. insurance packages to its employees, and by promoting health initiatives in the local communities, Energean seeks to offer a helping hand to people in need. > Energean purchased wine from the Tulip Winery (an open community and home for adults with cognitive, developmental and emotional disabilities). The In this context, Energean responded to local needs through: income from the purchased branded bottles serves towards the benefit of the village residents. > Energean supported “Access Israel”, a non-profit organisation that promotes accessibility and inclusion in order to improve the lives of people with > Continuing our excellent HSE performance with more than 4 million man-hours with no Lost Time Injuries (LTI) in the Zhoushan shipyard in China, where disabilities and the elderly. On December 3rd (the International Day for People with Disabilities), at an Elementary School near Haifa, North Israel, Energean we are building the hull of the “Energean Power” FPSO. Furthermore, we celebrated more than 1 million man-hours without LTI in all Energean sites. engaged in an event held by “Access Israel”, which demonstrated the challenges people living with disabilities experience on a daily basis. SDG 3 Continued on next page “Building and maintaining community relations” continued on next page 44 45 Building and maintaining community relations Continued Our Performance both preventive and mitigation measures. In designing, constructing, operating and decommissioning structural elements or components, It is of significant importance to us that we constantly try to address the Energean takes into consideration safety risks to third parties. During any of needs of the local communities through our social contributions. Therefore, the stages of its projects, Energean avoids impacts on ecosystem services Sustainable cities and communities we value feedback on all our initiatives and activities. Our CSR department and implements mitigation measures where necessary. Our company takes works hard on building upon day-to-day interactions with the communities all necessary measures to prevent community exposure to disease and Energean has always focused on supporting the sustainable development of the local communities in which it operates. Our activities work towards and our staff strives to provide greater support as well as works towards implements emergency preparedness and response procedures. We ensure safeguarding and protecting the heritage of these sites. During the reporting period, Energean initiated and supported the following actions: improved methods of assessing needs. One of our main goals is to inspire adequate security is provided to our personnel and our property and take all > Donated all necessary firefighting equipment for a large-scale Fire Service response training drill at Energean’s onshore facilities in Kavala, Northeastern the local community and raise awareness for our actions among our necessary measures so that the provision of security services is in alignment Greece. employees. Therefore, we urge our employees to engage with our upcoming with the applicable laws and regulations. On a high level, Energean is activities. compliant with the IFC’s Performance Standard 4. > Support of the 3rd Dodoni Festival (a Cultural Summer Festival in Ioannina, Greece). > For the sixth consecutive year, the Great Sponsors of “Kalpakia 2019” (a Cultural Event of Historical Remembrance for the WWII Battle in Kalpaki, > Performance Standard 5 — Land Acquisition and Involuntary During the 2019 period there were no recorded disagreements with the Ioannina, Greece). Resettlement: Energean takes care to avoid or minimize physical and/or communities in which we operate or their local people, concerning the use of > Collaboration with the Hof HaCarmel Regional Council promoting community and environmental projects, such as, “Blue Flag Beach” and Marine Sports land, marine or other cultural heritage areas. We believe trust is key to us economic displacement resulting from its operations. We liaise with involved to connect the community to the marine environment and sports. retaining our social licence in the future, thus we are always striving to communities as part of our stakeholder engagement processes and we are > Proudly advocating for the Carmel Sailing Community by hosting races and lectures throughout the year. improve our relationship with the local communities. reachable via points of contact and the company’s website for specific concerns. To this extent, Energean is in alignment with the IFC’s Performance > Energean is supporting the Israel Nature and Parks Authority in protecting and conserving Israel’s nature, landscapes and heritage sites. Standard 5. No significant actual negative impacts of Energean’s operations have been reported and there have been zero significant disputes with local communities during the reporting period. > Performance Standard 8 — Cultural Heritage: Energean complies with applicable law on the protection of cultural heritage and has established a chance finds procedure for cultural heritage. Energean maintains constant Process to manage risks and opportunities associated with community Climate action rights and interests dialogue with the communities it operates in which includes concerns on Energean is committed to taking action against the threat of climate change. With weather events becoming more extreme and the impact of global warming, cultural heritage. In this vein, Energean is aligned with the IFC’s Performance Energean is implementing climate change policies. In the reporting period, Energean has: Standard 8. Energean’s business model and operations are based on creating shared value for all its stakeholders, whilst looking to maximize the impact on the > Joined the “Business Ambition for 1.5 Degrees Centigrade: Our Only Future” ahead of the 25th annual UN Climate Change Conference, in Madrid, Spain. community / local partners. Implementing responsible practices, managing > Committed to becoming a net-zero emitter by 2050. risks and grasping opportunities related to community needs and > Committed to reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and to Task Force on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). expectations are fundamental to Energean. In this effort, Energean maintains an ongoing open and active dialogue with all its stakeholders, including members of the communities it operates in. Upon understanding the needs and expectations of its stakeholders, Energean implements actions in order to contribute to their satisfaction. Life below water Energean takes care to identify and implement relevant actions throughout Energean aims to increase awareness that careful management of our ecosystems and marine coast is key feature to a sustainable future. We encourage our the life cycle stages of its operations, from exploration, through to production staff not only to practice the prevention of pollution, but also act towards the remediation and the restoration of the existing pollution beyond Energean’s and decommissioning. Energean’s specific activities in supporting the operational boundaries. Our staff took part in the following actions throughout the reporting period: communities it operates in are thoroughly analyzed within the scope of the material topic “Building and maintaining community relations”. These include > On June 5th, the World Environment Day, we sponsored and engaged in a beach and seabed clean-up accompanied by an educational environmental activities that contribute to the following: lecture to elementary school students in Montenegro’s Zukotrlica Beach and the Marina of Bar. > Sponsored live drones to capture footage of sharks near Israel’s Hadera ECI power plant during the weekends and other events to ensure visitors are > Economic aspects, such as combating poverty aware of the flourishing marine environment around the plant. > Environmental aspects, through its environmental commitments and initiatives and protection of the marine and terrestrial life in its areas of operation, including activities to raise awareness within the local community on environmental issues. Life on land > Social aspects, such as providing access to food and proper nutrition, Energean believes successful sustainable development is grounded upon shared values and principles. Inclusive partnerships provide inspiration, information protecting the health and safety of our host communities, promoting the and guidance towards contributing to a better and more sustainable future for all. To date, Energean has: rights of people with special needs disabilities, offering educational opportunities. > Organised and performed a beach clean-up at the Delta of the Nestos River, in North-eastern Greece. The event took place on June 5th, World Environment Day, and on the same day Energean signed an MoU in collaboration with the management body of Delta Nestos, Lakes Vistonida – Ismarida and Thassos Island, for the maintenance of Biodiversity Telemetric Stations of the area. > Cultural aspects, such as through supporting cultural festivals and protecting cultural heritage areas, or cultural events initiated by our > “Saving Olly”, the rescue, adoption and care of an injured owl found by the team on the Stena DrillMAX drill rig above the Karish Field, in collaboration company’s partners. with Israel’s Nature and Parks Authority. Energean has established numerous partnerships in order to further support the communities it operates in. We collaborate on a regular basis with governments, the private sector and the civil society in order to identify their views and needs on specific topics. We investigate a vast array of topics Partnerships for the goals which include, but are not limited to, non-technical delays, availability of Targets in 2020 adequate infrastructure and access to clean water and land. Energean believes successful sustainable development is grounded upon shared values and principles. Inclusive partnerships provide inspiration, information and guidance towards contributing to a better and more sustainable future for all. To date, Energean has: > Energean plans to maintain its strong and longWithin its projects, Energean is in line with “Good International Industry standing relationships with the local communities it > Joined Maala, a non-profit, CSR standards-setting organisation in Israel. Maala’s CSR Index is an ESG rating system used as an assessment tool, Practice”, exercising professional skill, diligence, prudence and foresight. operates in. benchmarking Israeli companies on their CSR performance. Energean is persistently strengthening its position as a member of the CSR community in Energean reports the extent to which it operates in alignment with the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards on > The company will aim to extent its collaborations with Israel, and since 2019 the company grew as an active and engaged member of the organization and within the CSR community alongside Israel’s leading companies. In 2020, Energean will be ranked among the 25% of the largest companies in Israel. Environmental and Social Sustainability: organizations, institutions, and NGOs and will strive to create new ones, especially with those involved > Announced becoming a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Energean is committed to abiding by the UNGC’s principles in the > Performance Standard 4 — Community Health, Safety, and Security: with environmental aspects and subjects. Energean areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Energean evaluates the risks and impacts to the health and safety of realizes that collaboration and working with others is impacted communities during the life-cycle of its projects and establishes the only way things can move forward. 46 “Building and maintaining community relations” continued on next page 47 Building and maintaining community relations Continued Greece Prior to commencement of the project, several meetings were held with local Fishermen Associations and the competent Ministry of Although in a recession for almost 10 years, the country has upgraded Rural Development and Agriculture. The whole affair was well the E&P activity by proceeding with international tenders and awards organized and civilized and the local fishermen representatives of new licenses to companies and JVs offshore in Western Greece, understood and accepted the concepts and the proposed procedure as well as in the Ionian Sea and Crete. The main risk for the E&P as well as the amount of compensation stating that they recognize activity occurs from the volatility in the markets, that usually affect Energean’s efforts to engage with the community & to minimize the more projects that are dealing with tough bureaucratic environments impact of the project to the fullest extent possible. and delays, as well as the wider discussion regarding climate change. Nontechnical delays Although no E&P projects have been postponed or delayed in Greece due to environmental/climate change issues, it is possible that this Prinos, Greece situation will have an impact on the implementation of such projects in several aspects (bureaucratic procedures to worsen, pressure Energean’s development plan continued with no issues related to the from the public opinion for more strict regulation and legislation etc.) local community. In its areas of operations, Energean has been trying to mitigate risks Katakolo, Greece by implementing a strategy based on the following: In April 2019, the Greek State via the Pyrgos Forrestal Authority > Adoption of the latest EU directions and legislation related to the rejected an objection that was submitted by a land owner in June E&P activity. 2017 against the ownership of the land selected for the Katakolo development ERD. The submission of the objection prevented any World Environment Day: Nestos River Delta Beach Clean Up (June 2019) > Implementation of carbon emissions reduction plans. substantial progress in the project and the procedures were stalled. > Continuous training of its staff and implementation of response In May 2019, new regional government and local authorities were drills to make sure that all its facilities and operations are working elected in Western Greece and the Municipality of Pyrgos respectively. properly and in accordance with our core principle “SAFETY The new authorities requested an extension in the duration of the FIRST”. public consultation that was in progress in respect with the ESIA. Finally, in December 2019, Western Greece’s Regional Council > Work closely with its shareholders to make them realise the expressed positive sentiment to the company’s ESIA for the Katakolo benefits the activity has to the local communities as well as to FDP (the first regional positive sentiment ever for a drilling of a well in mitigate any potential impact on their daily life. Western Greece) and so the public consultation concluded successfully. Energean now waits for the final approval to be granted > Being always open to participate in public discussions with focus by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. on E&P projects in order to present and explain all the aspects of its operations and establish a continuous dialogue with the local Ioannina, Greece and scientific communities. Energean holds a 40% Working Interest in the Ioannina licence, Montenegro operated by Repsol which holds the remaining 60%. During 2019, a 2D In March 2017, Energean signed a Concession Agreement onshore seismic survey has been successfully completed with no (hereinafter: PCC) with the State of Montenegro regarding delays related to the local community or any bureaucratic issues. hydrocarbons exploration and exploitation in offshore blocks 4219Energean sponsors the 2nd International Wheelchair Basketball Tournament “Rebound of Friendship” 26 and 4218-30. In order to fulfil the mandatory work programme as Montenegro in Kavala, Greece (September 2019) defined by the PCC, in February 2019 Energean carried out a 3D geophysical (seismic) survey in the said two offshore blocks located In Montenegro, there were no project delays or shutdowns during the in the Adriatic Sea. reporting period. Based on the analysis of the existing relationships between the Israel project activities, environment, local communities and Energean’s stakeholders, the relevant Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) In Israel, there were no project delays or shutdowns during the has provided an evaluation of the potential impacts resulting from the reporting period. Energean’s development plan continued with no project. issues related to the local community. Due to the location of two offshore blocks, it was ascertained that the conduct of the 3D geophysical survey may cause certain temporary interferences to the fisheries activities within the area of the 3D geophysical survey. As a result, the relevant EIA has defined mitigation measures identified to manage interaction with fisheries activities, including the negotiation of the disturbance allowance to the Montenegrin professional fishermen for the loss of access to fishing grounds and disturbance or displacement of fishing activities For more information on our Management Approach, please refer to the potentially resulting from the project implementation. chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. Energean sponsors the 2019 Israeli Offshore Regatta by Carmel Sailing Community NGO that develops the sailing community in the northern district of Israel (October 2019) 48 49 Economy 6. Economic Acme (noun /iˈkɒn.ə.mi/ word of Greek origin) the system of trade and industry by which the wealth of a country or region is made and used Acme (noun /ˈæk.mi/ word of Greek origin) the highest point of achievement 51 Material Topic GRI 103-2 Generating economic value / economic performance of the company 1. Optimising Production We aim to optimise production from our existing low-cost production base, reducing per unit costs to Our Management Approach grow operating and free cash flow. In 2019, and subject to the completion of the Edison E&P transaction, we delivered working interest production of 59.7 kboepd, of which 3.3 kboepd was produced by Energean. Energean’s focus is on discovering, developing and monetising gas in the Eastern Mediterranean to deliver value to all of our stakeholders and, to this end, we are currently at another transition point in our history, in which we are converting our historic success in growing reserves and resources, into growth in production and cash flows. Sustainability and ESG are at the core of this focus and, aligned with this, we distribute value both directly to the areas in which we operate as well as indirectly throughout our supply chain. Energean’s balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets, consists of operations in Israel, Greece and Montenegro. Once the Edison E&P transaction, and associated onward sale of the UK and Norwegian subsidiaries, is complete, we will add Egypt, Italy, Croatia and Malta to our Mediterranean, gas-focused portfolio. Our flagship project is the Karish and Tanin development, which will monetise more than 2.3 Tcf of gas resources with first production commencing in 1H 2021. 2. Developing Reserves Our vision is to be the leading, sustainable, gas-focused and innovative E&P player in the Easter Mediterranean. We will deliver value to We are focused on developing Israel’s offshore gas resources and, during 2019, we drilled four deepwater our stakeholders through our core strategic goals of optimising production, developing reserves, adding more hydrocarbons and portfolio integration, and by applying our strategic pillars of risk mitigation, operational excellence, effective project execution, disciplined wells with a best-in-class HSE record. Our flagship Karish project is at an advanced stage and, at yearcapital allocation and ESG stewardship. end 2019, physical completion stood at 72%. The proposed acquisition of Edison E&P will add 239 Core components of our investment case are: mmboe of 2P reserves and, following completion of the transaction, we will being allocating capital to the most value accretive assets across the portfolio. > Low cost production, underpinning stable, long term cash flows > Proven and experienced position as an offshore operator > Strategic positioning in an industry hotspot, including the only FPSO in the Eastern Mediterranean > A leading position in ESG and HSE, and transition fuel-focused portfolio > Experienced management team and independent Board with a successful track record of value creation 3. Adding More Hydrocarbons > World-class technical partners and strong financial backing We are highly selective in our approach to adding hydrocarbons, either through organic or inorganic means. The proposed acquisition of Edison E&P will increase 2P reserves to 580 MMboe, and in 2019 we discovered 25 bcm of gas and 34 MMbbl of liquids in Karish North. We were awarded four new licences offshore Israel and saw an uplift in 2P reserves and 2C resources in Greece, following upward revisions at Katakolo and Epsilon. 4. Portfolio integration We successfully raised $865 MM in financing for the proposed acquisition of Edison E&P and agreed to sell Edison E&P’s North Sea assets for $250 million of firm consideration plus up to $30 million of contingent consideration. Once the acquisition is complete, we will be focused on integrating the two businesses, Energean and Edison E&P, to create the leading independent E&P company in the Eastern Mediterranean. In 2019, we placed our Prinos assets in Greece under strategic review in order to better understand where to allocate capital and generate the best returns across our enlarged portfolio. For more information on the quantitative evaluation of our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, The hearty handshake and the CEOs’ smiles: it’s the dawn of a new era! Mathios Rigas, Energean, and Nicola Monti, Edison E&P, at the event at the end of the report. hosted by Energean on July 10th 2019, for the acquisition of Edison E&P. 52 53 7. Anthropocentric Anthropocentric (adjective / ˌæn.θrə.pəˈsen.trɪk / word of Greek origin) considering humans and their existence as the most important and central fact in the universe 55 Material Topic GRI 103-2, GRI 406-1, GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1, GRI 412-2, GRI 414-1 SASB EM-EP-210a.1., SASB EM-EP-210a.3, SASB EM-EP-510a.1, SASB EM-EP-210a.2 Corporate Culture and Business Ethics Policy > Competition and Fair Dealing: taking advantage of opportunities UNGC PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 discovered through the use of corporate property for personal gain is Energean’s Corporate Culture and Business Ethics Policy (“Ethics Safeguarding human rights also strictly prohibited. Policy”) which applies to all employees and each of the company’s subsidiaries and joint ventures. This policy provides a framework for > Corporate Opportunities: these are protected. at work our employees to help them and guide them in making responsible choices and act using their best judgement. The policy stipulates the > Competition and Fair Dealing: fair dealing is encouraged and noncompetitive behaviour is not permitted. basic principles of operation and states that all employees shall abide Our Management Approach by the law and act in a highly principled and socially responsible > Discrimination and Harassment: Energean is firmly committed to manner in all areas of Energean’s business. providing equal opportunity and will not tolerate any illegal Upholding and promoting human rights within Energean’s sphere of influence is one of our core commitments. We protect and advance human rights as they are defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR) and the core conventions of the International The core values outlined in our Ethics Policy remain the same as last discrimination or harassment based on race, colour, religion, sex, Labour Organization’s conventions on labour. Energean’s Corporate Principles, our Code of Conduct and other relevant Group policies national origin or any other protected class. year. These values are: outline our commitments towards safeguarding human rights across our operations. 1. Integrity: to act honestly and consistently in interactions with > HSE: Energean is committed to ensuring the health and safety of all As per our Code of Conduct, our aim is to: business partners. Anti-bribery clauses are included in others, and to act ethically and with consideration for others; our employees and the people who could be impacted by our > promote respect for human rights, including compliance with contractual agreements with our suppliers and partners. activities, as well as the protection of the environment in which we applicable laws and regulations; > adhere to corporate policies; Our policy sets out our due diligence procedure prior to the 2. Collaboration: to collaborate and support one another and to work and respect for the interests of the communities in which we appointment of intermediaries and business partners. According work, and we have HSE policies in place to enable this. share knowledge to ensure the success of all; > value diversity with equal opportunities for all; to this policy, such appointments are subject to the approval of > eliminate any kind of discrimination in investment decisions; the Compliance Officer, who reviews the required documentation and conducts further due diligence as necessary. The extent of 3. Communication: to promote open, honest and proactive There have been no incidents of discrimination during the reporting > contribute, directly or indirectly, to the general wellbeing of the period. any further due diligence required and the ultimate decision as to communication within Energean; communities within which we work. whether to approve an appointment, an engagement in a joint venture or any other business combination with any business 4. Contribution: to contribute actively towards the improvement Energean makes an annual commitment to antislavery in its UNGC Signatory partner is informed by the existence of any of the following “red of results, performance and efficiency; business. Specific clauses on compliance with the modern slavery flags”: To demonstrate our commitment towards safeguarding human legislation were introduced in 2019 to be included in its supplier rights within our operations, we became within 2019 a signatory > location risk such as where the intermediary has no physical 5. Responsibility and Respect: to take responsibility for one’s contracts. Suppliers are also requested to make a formal commitment of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Though becoming presence in the relevant country or where business is to be a UNGC signatory, Energean shows its commitment to abiding transacted in a country with a poor corruption record; own work and give credit to others for their help; in accordance with the following principles: compliance with laws, by the UNGC’s principles in the areas of human rights, labour, > transactional risk such as transactions or proposed anti-corruption, health and safety and environmental protection. environment and anti-corruption. appointments which do not make economic sense or which are 6. Challenge: in the framework of continuous improvement, to set Energean also carries out pre-selection screening of suppliers on a opaque and difficult to understand; aggressive goals, and take a challenge on a daily basis; risk basis. Starting from 2019 this pre-qualification due diligence Diversity and equal opportunities > financial risk such as where the intermediary requires the procedure applies to prospective vendors and allows evaluation of payment of cash or offshore or unusually high payments; and 7. Question Authority: to acknowledge the right, and exercise We are committed to offering equal opportunities to our the vendor integrity, financial information, HSE, disclosures of any workforce and have established a merit-based recruitment and > general risk such as suspiciously close ties to government the obligation, to ask questions, including questions of management; relations to public officials and the existence of any compliance evaluation system. Energean supports diversity and continuously officials, previous allegations of corruption or unethical behaviour policies and procedures. Energean has designed a process to tries to create an inclusive working environment, in which all or a lack of proportionality between the proposed work and fees. 8. Performance: to focus on delivering superior performance, by people feel valued and are not subject to unlawful and unfair conduct post-award audits of suppliers on a risk basis. Based on the being proactive, maintaining the tempo of decision making and discrimination. We have created a highly diverse workforce in Energean has established a structured system on raising above mentioned policies and procedures, Energean has not always thinking about improving the results of work activities; terms of gender and we employ people from various countries. concerns, which is set out in our Company’s Whistleblowing identified any significant risk of incidents of child labor and forced or policy, which takes into account the Whistle blowing At Energean, we carry out multiple activities each year which aim Arrangements Code of Practice issued by the British Standards 9. Reward: to exercise continuous thinking and good judgement, to compulsory labor within its operations. Regarding HSE performance, to support persons with disabilities. Our constant efforts to Institute and Public Concern at Work. It outlines that any concerns be invaluable to Energean. Energean applies a systematic process for the selection and safeguard human rights and promote a culture of inclusiveness related to bribery, corruption, or other topics should be raised management of suppliers and contractors, from the pre-qualification have been recognized, as illustrated from the “BRAVO Society with the Compliance Officer. Our Ethics Policy outlines what is expected from every Energean stage at the outset of this process to the monitoring and audit of HSE Human Rights” award Energean was presented in 2019. Specifically, the award concerned the activities “We Can – We employee in terms of business ethics. These requirements include, performance during the provision of supplies, work and/or services. Care”: Playing Basketball with and for our fellow citizens with but are not limited to, the below: The exact percentage of new suppliers screened using social criteria disabilities, along with “Crowdfunding for a Special School in is not currently available. We will consider disclosing this information Kavala”. We are very proud for this recognition and focus on > Regulatory compliance: obeying the law both in letter and in spirit in future reports. further contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals is core to Energean. through additional activities in the future. Energean has a collective 39-year history of operating onshore and Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy > Conflicts of Interest: these are prohibited, except as approved by offshore facilities with a stellar record in upholding human rights in the board of directors. the workplace. Safe and healthy working conditions, the freedom of Energean upholds all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption and comply with the UK Bribery Act 2010. We have association and collective bargaining and non-discrimination and > Insider Trading and Share Code Dealing: Energean has a strictly established an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy outlining our equal treatment on the basis of religion, ethnicity and gender are zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. According to enforced Share Dealing Code and the Inside Information Disclosure fundamental for Energean to build mutually satisfactory and lasting this policy, the prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and Policy. relationships with its human capital. Proud signatory of the UN Global other forms of corruption are the responsibility of all those working for us or under our control, including our suppliers and Contact a principle-based framework for businesses, stating ten “Safeguarding human rights at work” continues on the next page 56 57 Safeguarding human rights at work Continued principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency Modern Slavery statement International’s Corruption Perception Index is zero. Energean is commited to upholding the ILO conventions freedom of association (No. 87), collective bargaining (No. 98), forced labor (No. 29, No. 105), child labor (No. 138, No. 182), fair wages (No. 100), and discrimination (No. 111) This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and has been Energean also delivers training initiatives and refresher courses approved by the Board of Energean Oil & Gas plc (“Energean” or the “Company”). for Energean onshore and offshore personnel. Thanks to these courses, the percentage of the staff working in the onshore and offshore facilities trained in Health and Safety in the workplace Introduction reached over 99%. The total number of employees, contractors and partners trained in our production facilities reached 700 Energean has a zero-tolerance approach to slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking. persons while the 1% not trained represents 5 office personnel We understand that our business, including our supply chain, may be exposed to the potential risk of occurrences and 1 office contractor. The total number or training hours of modern slavery. We are committed to acting ethically and to putting in place effective policies, processes, provided to all Energean employees in all premises were 4,114. training and controls to safeguard against any form of modern slavery taking place within our business or supply chain. Energean is an independent oil and gas exploration and production (“E&P”) company focused on the exploration, development and production of oil and gas assets in the Eastern Mediterranean, including Greece, Israel and the Adriatic. The About Energean Energean Group’s most significant development assets are Energean has recently grown in a significant manner. On 21 March 2018, the Company was admitted to the main located outside Israel’s territorial waters, in the Israeli Exclusive market of the London Stock Exchange and secured a US$1.6 billion financing for the Karish development, Economic Zone (EEZ), where both the Karish and Tanin offshore offshore Israel. Energean operates a significant portfolio of production, development and exploration assets in gas fields are located. the Eastern Mediterranean region. Along with its predecessors in its producing assets in Greece, Energean has The Tanin Lease area contains a sequence of undeveloped gas a collective 36-year history of operating onshore and offshore assets with a stellar record in relation to respecting fields and exploration prospects in the Levantine Basin and is and upholding human rights in the workplace. located north of Israel’s EEZ approximately 110km offshore Israel while the Karish Lease area is located approximately 75km offshore Israel. Governance, Policy and Standards In recent years, the Israeli government has been working on Energean has in place a corporate culture and business ethics policy, a whistleblowing policy and an anti-bribery legislation to eradicate the uncertainty surrounding application of and corruption policy, which form an integral part of its corporate governance. These policies set out how local laws outside Israel’s territorial waters, in the Israeli EEZ, Energean expects its employees to conduct themselves in the course of doing business, with appropriate where both the Karish and Tanin Leases are located. procedures in place for when an employee wishes to report any incidents that contravene the Energean ethos. Although the State of Israel, since its creation in 1948, has Targets in 2020 experienced different kind of organised violence, including non> SUPPLY CHAIN: In 2020 the Supply Chain due state and one-sided as such categories are defined according to diligence process will extend to include Human Approvals Rights assessments. Audits have been scheduled the Uppsala University Department of Peace and Conflict to be conducted to four (4) major contractors This statement has been approved by the Board of Energean Oil & Gas PLC. Research (UCDP), there is no active conflict contained to a region to monitor compliance with the respective or designated area that is proximate to the Company’s reserves. contractual provisions related to modern slavery statement. Energean is planning to implement a code of conduct for suppliers, which among other Energean has no proven or probable reserves that are located in objectives will seek to underline the importance of or near areas that are considered to be indigenous peoples’ land. respecting the key principles of sustainability in the Supply Chain. Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence > TRAINING: Energean will also continue with practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights, and training Energean staff and contractors in order to operation in areas of conflict is not applicable to the Company. implement our zero-tolerance approach towards modern slavery. For more information on the quantitative evaluation of our Management Approach, please refer to the chapter “Energean in Numbers”, at the end of the report. 58 59 Energean supports the 2019 Panhellenic High School Basketball Championship of Greece & Cyprus World Environment Day 2019: Beach and Seabed Clean Up, City and Marina of Bar Montenegro Kavala, Greece (April 2019) (June 2019) Energean supports 3 Paralympic swimmers in Israel Energean supports “Etgarim” (Israel), an NGO for rehabilitation of disabled adults and children through outdoor sports (February June 2019) Energean was the grand sponsor of the 3rd Dodoni Festival a summer Cultural Festival Energean donated firefighting equipment for a large-scale Fire Service response training drill at Ioannina, Western Greece (July September 2019) Energean’s “Sigma” onshore facilities in Kavala, Greece (January 2019) 60 61 62 8. Energean in numbers ENERGEAN IN NUMBERS “Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing” continued Ensuring regulatory SASB EM-EP-320a.1 Compliance 2019 GRI 419-1: Energean has not identified any incident regarding non-compliance with laws and/or Direct, full-time employees Contract employees 0 regulations, in the social and economic area, during the reporting period. Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 0 0.88 INCIDENTS GRI 205-3: Energean has not identified any confirmed incidents of corruption and thus no relevant actions needed to be taken during the reporting period. Fatality Rate 0 0 Near Miss Frequency Rate Safeguarding occupational health & safety (NMFR) 1.98 0.54 and Wellbeing Average number of health, safety and emergency 10.5 3.3 response training hours per GRI 403-2 person Short service employees are included. 2019 2018 2017 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR): The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost workday cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment cases) per 1,000,000 hours worked. Employees Injury Rate (IR, GRI 403-2): The number of fatalities and lost workday cases per 200,000 hours worked. Males Females Total Males Females Total Males Females Total Occupational Disease Increasing the implementation of Rate (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 water efficiency innovations (e.g. reuse, recycling and discharged wastewater treatment) Lost Day Rate (LDR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 52.83 0.00 47.97 16.76 0.00 15.68 GRI 303-3 Absentee Rate (AR)* 0.13 0.12 0.13 0.14 0.13 0.14 0.14 0.18 0.14 Recycled and reused water: a. Steam condensed at the end of its expansion cycle, and returned to the boiler for The countries for which the values of the indicator GRI 403-2 are applicable are: Greece, Israel, Montenegro, Egypt, UK, Cyprus, China, Indonesia, Singapore, Romania. re-use, b. the cooling water pumped from the sea and returned to sea. Total withdrawal water: all above plus the injection water, e.g. the water injected to the wells, the water used for steam production and the cooling water. 2019 2019 2018 2017 Employees Workers a. Total volume of water recycled Male Female Total Male Female Total and reused by the organization 8,363,527 8,333,968 8,369,082 Injury Rate (IR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 (m3) Total number of work 0 0 0 0 0 0 b. Total volume of water recycled and reused, as a percentage of 89 90 90 related fatalities the total water withdrawal (%) 2018 SASB EM-EP-140a.1 Employees Workers 2019 Male Female Total Male Female Total Percentage in regions with High or Quantity in cubic meters Extremely High Injury Rate (IR) 0.62 0.00 0.56 0.00 0.00 0.00 Baseline Water Stress Total number of work Total fresh water withdrawn 112,045 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 related fatalities Total fresh water consumed 112,045 100 2017 SASB EM-EP-140a.2 Employees Workers 2019 Male Female Total Male Female Total Quantity in cubic meters Injury Rate (IR) 0.82 0.00 0.77 0.00 0.00 0.00 Volume of produced water and 554,420 flowback generated Total number of work 0 0 0 0 0 0 related fatalities Water use intensity *Restatement for 2018 and 2017: The Absentee Rate has been recalculated. All employees are included in calculations. 2017 2018 2019 Absences include sickness as well as permitted leave absences such as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave, compassionate and any other leave. Seawater and potable water (m3/boe) 1.02 0.65 0.87 In the Injury Rate minor (first-aid level) injuries are not included. Only work-related injuries are included. In the calculation of lost days, we calculate calendar days. Lost day counts as the day after the accident. Volume recycled (%) 90 90 89 64 65 ENERGEAN IN NUMBERS “Increasing the implementation of water efficiency innovations” continued “Reducing greenhouse gases and other emissions” continued SASB EM-EP-140a.2 GRI 305-2: 2019 2019 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Percentage discharged 6% Average concentration Gas Quantity in tons (2019) Quantity in tons (2018) Quantity in tons (2017) Percentage injected 5% Hydrocarbon content in CO2 36,568 48,354 48,810 6.7(mg/l) Percentage recycled 89% discharged water GRI 305-4: SASB EM-EP-140a.3, SASB EM-EP-140a.4 Emissions intensity 2019 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there is public Direct (kg CO2/boe) 37.8 29.3 34.9 0% disclosure of all fracturing fluid chemicals used Indirect (kg CO2/boe) 29.0 31.2 45.5 Percentage of hydraulic fracturing sites where ground or surface water quality deteriorated 0% compared to a baseline GRI 305-7, SASB EM-EP-120a.1: Quantity in tons Quantity in tons Quantity in tons Ensuring Gases 2019 2018 2017 emergency preparedness NOx 31 30 28 SOx 1,437 2,257 2,092 0 GRI 306-3, SASB EM-EP-160a.2: Energean’s operations resulted in zero spills during the reporting period, continuing our track record of zero environmental incidents during the years of our operations. Volatile organic SPILLS 17 19 9 compounds (VOC) SASB EM-EP-160a.3 PM (soot) 0 0 0 2019 Total 1,484 2,305 2,130 Energean without Edison Energean with Edison Reported emissions have been calculated including all the operating plants of Energean. Direct emissions are based Percentage of proved (1P) reserves in or near on Prinos onshore and offshore installations, while indirect emissions are based on the purchased electricity from the sites with protected conservation status of 16.4% 13% electricity provider. endangered species habitat Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites SASB EM-EP-110a.1 with protected conservation status of endangered 14.5% 7% species habitat 2019 Percentage of 2P (proved and probable) reserves Gross global Scope 1 emissions percentage methane 0.25% in or near sites with protected conservation status 15.8% 10.7% of endangered species habitat Gross global Scope 1 emissions percentage covered under emissions91.44% limiting regulations SASB EM-EP-540a.1 2019 SASB EM-EP-110a.2 Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater 2019 consequence (Tier 1) 0 Amount of gross global Scope 1 emissions from: Direct GHG emissions in CO2-e Reducing greenhouse gases and other emissions (1) flared hydrocarbons 329 (2) other combustion 3,633.6 GRI 305-1: (3) process emissions 43,609 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (4) other vented emissions other vented emissions have not been estimated Gas Quantity in tons (2019) Quantity in tons (2018) Quantity in tons (2017) (5) fugitive emissions 120.4 CO2* 47,692 45,404 37,434 *This is CO2e including fugitive methane emissions. The consolidation approach used is the financial control. 66 67 ENERGEAN IN NUMBERS Reducing (non-renewable) Generating economic value / economic performance energy consumption of the company GRI 302-1 GRI 201-1 2019 Direct economic value generated 2019 ($’000) 2018 ($’000) 2017 ($’000) Total fuel consumption within the organization from non-renewable sources, Revenues 75,749 90,329 57,752 (in joules or multiples) Total 75,749 90,329 57,752 Source Consumption Unit Economic value distributed 2019 ($’000) 2018 ($’000) 2017 ($’000) FUEL GAS (MIXTURE NATIONAL GRID AND Operating costs 39,747 19,820 25,736 731 TJ PRODUCED)* Employee wages and *The emissions reported in Scope 1 include only operations and do not include fuels consumed for company owned cars. 36,495 35,583 25,053 benefits 2019 Payments to providers of capital 48,532 10,919 4,019 Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, Payments to government by country (in joules or multiples) United Kingdom 3,108 2,244 899 Source Consumption Unit Greece 14,726 14,122 11,770 Israel 2,737 2,205 535 SOLAR CELLS 0.2 TJ Montenegro 338 334 216 2019 Cyprus 263 612 227 Consumption in joules, watt-hours or multiples Egypt 77 77 118 Source Consumption Unit Community Investments 392 182 175 Total economic value distributed 146,416 86,098 68,748 Electricity 208 TJ Economic value retained 2019 ($’000) 2018 ($’000) 2017 ($’000) Energy use intensity Total -70,667 4,231 -10,996 2017 2018 2019 Electrical (MJ/boe)* 186 129 165 Safeguarding human rights at work Thermal (MJ/boe)* 578 484 579 GRI 405-1 Growing the share of natural gas Diversity of governance bodies and employees in the product portfolio 2019 2018 Male Female <30 30-50 >51 Male Female <30 30-50 >51 years years years years years years 2019 old old old old old old Share of natural gas in product portfolio 4.76% BoD Percentage of individuals Target of natural gas share in product portfolio for 2020 following Edison E&P acquisition 80% within the BoD 77.8% 22.2% 0.0% 22.2% 77.8% 88.9% 11.1% 0.0% 22.2% 77.8% Employees Building and maintaining Percentage of community relations employees in “Senior Management” level 58.3% 41.7% 0.0% 50.0% 50.0% 62.5% 37.5% 0.0% 12.5% 87.5% Percentage of employees in 76.0% 24.0% 0.0% 64.0% 36.0% 70.0% 30.0% 0.0% 60.0% 40.0% “Middle Management” level* 0 GRI G4-OG10: No significant actual negative impacts of Energean’s operations have been reported and there have been zero significant disputes with local communities during the reporting period. Percentage of employees in “Other Employees” 88.0% 12.0% 11.0% 67.0% 22.0% 90.9% 9.1% 11.6% 67.4% 21.0% DISPUTES level TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES = 393, including 2 Executive BoD Members. The 2 Executive BoD Members are not included in the Employees calculations above, but in the BoD calculations only. 68 69 ENERGEAN IN NUMBERS “Safeguarding human rights at work” continued “Our people” continued 0 GRI 406-1: There have been no incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Total number of employees by employment type INCIDENTS GRI 412-2: 2019 2018 2017 The percentage of the staff working in the onshore and offshore facilities trained in Health and Safety in the workplace reached over 99%. The total number of employees, contractors and partners trained in our Males Females Total Males Females Total Males Females Total production facilities reached 700 persons while the 1% not trained represents 5 office personnel and 1 office contractor. The total number or training hours provided to all Energean employees in all premises were 4,114. Permanent 338 54 392 372 43 415 360 32 392 Temporary 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 SASB EM-EP-210a.1: There is no active conflict contained to a region or designated area that is proximate to the Company’s reserves. Total 339 54 393 373 43 416 361 32 393 INCIDENTS *Reporting Disclosure includes data from the following countries: Greece, United Kingdom, Israel, Montenegro, Cyprus and Egypt. SASB EM-EP-210a.2: Energean has no proven or probable reserves that are located in or near areas that are considered to be indigenous peoples’ land. GRI 102-41 SASB EM-EP-510a.1: The percentage of the company’s (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries Collective bargaining agreements that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index is zero. 2019 2018 2017 Our Males Females Total Males Females Total Males Females Total People Percentage of total employees covered by collective 85,0% 46,3% 79,6% 87,7% 60,5% 84,9% 89,8% 75,0% 88,5% GRI 102-8 bargaining agreements Total number of employees by employment contract Employee Turnover Rate 2019 2018 2017 2018 2019 Males Females Total Males Females Total Males Females Total Management level 0% 0% Greece Permanent 302 24 326 345 25 370 341 24 365 Temporary 5 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees (includes all those that are not defined as 2.9% 3.3% management level) Total 307 27 334 345 25 370 341 24 365 The Turnover Rate refers to the % of employees that left from Energean voluntarily, within the certain calendar year. United Permanent 14 7 21 14 5 19 9 2 11 Kingdom Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 14 7 21 14 5 19 9 2 11 Activity Metrics Israel Permanent 11 13 24 6 7 13 3 1 4 Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 11 13 24 6 7 13 3 1 4 SASB EM-EP-000.A Montenegro Permanent 2 1 3 2 1 3 1 0 1 Quantity in Thousand barrels per day (Mbbl/day) or Million standard cubic feet per Production of: Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 day (MMscf/day) Total 2 1 3 2 1 3 1 0 1 (1) oil 3.3 kboepd Cyprus Permanent 4 2 6 4 2 6 3 1 4 Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (2) natural gas n/a Total 4 2 6 4 2 6 3 1 4 (3) synthetic oil n/a Egypt Permanent 1 4 5 2 3 5 4 4 8 (4) synthetic gas n/a Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Note: Excludes the to be acquired Edison E&P assets Total 1 4 5 2 3 5 4 4 8 SASB EM-EP-000.B, SASB EM-EP-000.C TOTAL Permanent 334 51 385 373 43 416 361 32 393 Temporary 5 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of offshore sites 11 Total 339 54 393 373 43 416 361 32 393 Number of terrestrial sites 7 *In 2019, there were around 36 contractors working for Energean, for Kavala Operations (18) and for the FPSO design/ construction (13). The rest were on a project basis (5). Note: Excludes the to be acquired Edison E&P assets The data included in this table corresponds to head count. 70 71 GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-51, GRI 102-52, GRI 102-53, GRI 102-54, GRI 102-56 GRI 102-55 About this GRI Report Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Information within the Report Page This is the second annual Sustainability Report of Energean providing an overview of our performance GENERAL DISCLOSURES in the three pillars of sustainability: environmental, social and economic. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE This Report, available also on Energean’s website (www.energean.com), has been prepared in accordance to the 102-1 Name of the organization Getting to know Energean 8 core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and it refers to the 2019 reporting period (January 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Getting to know Energean 8-9 1st, 2019 to December 31st, 2019). 102-3 Location of headquarters Our offices 79 102-4 Location of operations 8-9 The Report has been prepared by Energean, and reviewed internally, under the coordination of our Corporate Getting to know Energean 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 Social Responsibility Team, namely Ilia Rigas and Evangelos Leovaris, with the support of the Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) practice of EY (Ernst & Young) Greece. The graphic design of the report has 102-6 Markets served Getting to know Energean/ 2019 Annual 8 Report (p.14-17) been delivered by our Creative Assistant, Alexandra Iosif. We will consider including external assurance in Scale of the organization Getting to know Energean/ Anthropocenupcoming editions. Any restatements of information included in previous reports have been indicated within this 102-7 tric/ Energean in numbers/ 2019 Annual 8, 9, 69, 70 report in the respective sections. Report (p.124-126) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Energean in numbers 70-71 Your opinion is valuable to us and therefore we encourage any feedback or comment that can contribute to our effort for improvement. For more information about the Report and possible questions about its contents please 102-9 Supply chain Our supply chain 18-19 contact: Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 chain Joint Address 2-3 102-11 Precautionary approach Symbiosis 31-41 102-12 External initiatives 19 Memberships 102-13 Membership of associations 19 STRATEGY Ilia Rigas 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Joint Address 2-3 Head of CSR GRI 102: General Standard ETHICS AND INTEGRITY irigas@energean.com Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Business values and corporate principles 15 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business values and corporate principles 15 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 14-15 Our Governance Structure 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 14 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement 20-21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Energean in numbers 71 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 20-21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20-21 REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 Getting to know Energean 8 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality analysis 22-23 List of material topics Materiality analysis/ Material topics and Energean Oil & Gas PLC 102-47 24 their boundaries www.energean.com 102-48 Restatements of information 72 About this report 102-49 Changes in reporting 22 72 73 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Information within the Report Page GRI Standard Disclosure Information within the Report Page GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS REPORTING PRACTICE Safeguarding human rights at work 102-50 Reporting period 72 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 GRI 103: Management 102-51 Date of most recent report 72 103-2 The management approach and its components Axioms and ethical synergies 56-59 Approach 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Anthropocentric 56-59 GRI 102: About this report General Standard 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 72 GRI 405: Diversity and Disclosures 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 69 Equal Opportunity Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Energean in numbers 102-54 72 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Standards 406-1 70 taken 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 73-75 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 57 102-56 External assurance About this report 72 incidents of child labor Anthropocentric MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 409: Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 409-1 57 Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor Safeguarding occupational health & safety and wellbeing GRI 412: Human Employee training on human rights policies or 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 412-2 Energean in numbers 70 GRI 103: Rights Assessment procedures Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Symbiosis 32-33 GRI 414: Supplier New suppliers that were screened using social Approach 2016 414-1 Anthropocentric 57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-33 Social Assessment criteria GRI 403: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Increasing the implementation of water efficiency innovations Energean in numbers Occupational health 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 64 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 and safety 2016 work-related fatalities GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Symbiosis 34-35 Growing the share of natural gas in the product portfolio Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34-35 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 41 Energean in numbers GRI 103: GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused 65 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Symbiosis 41 Approach 2016 Building and maintaining community relations 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 Energean in numbers 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 Share of natural gas in the product portfolio 68 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 44-49 Reducing greenhouse gases and other air emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) Approach 2016 Metamorphosis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44-49 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 GRI 103: Number and description of significant disputes with Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Symbiosis 38-39 G4-OG10 Energean in numbers 68 local communities and indigenous peoples Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38-39 Ensuring emergency preparedness 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 66 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 67 GRI 103: Management Energean in numbers 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37 Approach 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 67 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36-37 Symbiosis Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other GRI 306: Effluents 305-7 67 306-3 Significant spills 37 significant air emissions and waste 2016 Reducing (non-renewable) energy consumption Ensuring regulatory compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Symbiosis 40 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 28-29 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 Axioms and ethical synergies 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28-29 Energean in numbers GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 68 GRI 205: 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 64 Generating economic value / economic performance of the company Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 419: Energean in numbers 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Material topics and their boundaries 24-25 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the GRI 103: Socioeconomic 419-1 64 social and economic area Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Economic Acme 52-53 Compliance 2016 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52-53 GRI 201: Economic Energean in numbers 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 69 performance 2016 74 75 SASB Content Index Topic Code Accounting metric Reference Topic Code Accounting metric Reference Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage methane, percentage covEM-EP-110a.1 p. 67 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, (3) near miss ered under emissions-limiting regulations frequency rate (NMFR), and (4) average hours of health, safety, and Amount of gross global Scope 1 emissions from: (1) flared hydrocarbons, EM-EP-320a.1 p. 65 Greenhouse Workforce emergency response training for (a) full-time employees, (b) contract EM-EP-110a.2 (2) other combustion, (3) process emissions, (4) other vented emissions, p. 67 employees, and (c) short-service employees Gas and (5) fugitive emissions Health & Emissions Safety Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope EM-EP-110a.3 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance p. 38-39 Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of EM-EP-320a.2 p. 32-33 against those targets safety throughout the exploration and production lifecycle Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding N2O), (2) SOx, Air Quality EM-EP-120a.1 (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) particulate matter (PM10) p. 67 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries that Business EM-EP-510a.1 have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption p. 70 (1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) total fresh water consumed, percentEthics & Perception Index EM-EP-140a.1 p. 65 age of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Transparency Description of the management system for prevention of corruption Volume of produced water and flowback generated; percentage (1) EM-EP-510a.2 p. 15, 28-29, 64 and bribery throughout the value chain EM-EP-140a.2 discharged, (2) injected, (3) recycled; hydrocarbon content in discharged p. 65 Water water Management Management Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there is public discloof the Legal EM-EP-140a.3 p. 66 EM-EP-530a.1 and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors p. 28-29 sure of all fracturing fluid chemicals used & Regulatory affecting the industry Environment Percentage of hydraulic fracturing sites where ground or surface water EM-EP-140a.4 p. 66 quality deteriorated compared to a baseline Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary Containment Critical InEM-EP-540a.1 p. 66 (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1) Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, volume in Arctic, volcident Risk EM-EP-160a.2 p. 37, 66 Management Description of management systems used to identify and mitigate ume impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10, and volume recovered EM-EP-540a.2 p. 36-37 catastrophic and tail-end risks Biodiversity Impacts Production of: (1) oil, (2) natural gas, (3) synthetic oil, and (4) synthetic Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near sites with EM-EP-000.A p. 71 EM-EP-160a.3 p. 66 gas protected conservation status or endangered species habitat Activity metrics EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites p. 71 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near areas of EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites p. 71 EM-EP-210a.1 p. 70 Security, conflict Human Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near indigenous Rights & EM-EP-210a.2 p. 70 land Rights of Indigenous Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence practices with rePeoples EM-EP-210a.3 p. 56-59 spect to human rights, indigenous rights, and operation in areas of conflict Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities associated with EM-EP-210b.1 p. 44-49 community rights and interests Community Relations EM-EP-210b.2 Number and duration of non-technical delays p. 48 76 77 United Nations Our Global Compact Offices In 2019 Energean became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest voluntary Corporate Responsibility initiative with over 10.000 companies participating from LONDON TEL AVIV more than 160 countries. With this commitment, Energean aims to integrate the principles of the 3rd floor, Accurist House B.S.R. 3 Tower, 21st floor, UNGC within its operations. From 2019 onwards, Energean will start reporting on its continuous 44 Baker Street 9, Metsada St., London, W1U 7AL Bnei Brak 5120109 progress against the below principles on an annual basis. An overview of how Energean aligns its UNITED KINGDOM ISRAEL business model with each of the UNCG’s principles is provided below. Tel: +44 (0) 203 655 7200 Tel +972-3-6715000, Fax +972-3-6715099 Area UNGC Principles Reference Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of p. 32-33, 56-59, internationally proclaimed human rights; 64, 69-70 ATHENS HAIFA Human rights 32, Kifissias Avenue, Atrina Center Matam Building 1, Ground Floor p.32-33, 56-59, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 151 25 Marousi, Andre Sacharov 9, 64, 69-70 GREECE Haifa, 3508409 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Tel: + 302108174200, ISRAEL p. 56-59 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Fax:+ 302108174299 Tel: +972-4-629 5400 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; p. 57 Fax: +972-4-629 5449 Labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; p. 57 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and p. 56-59, 69-70 ABERDEEN KAVALA occupation. Regus Aberdeen Airport P.O. BOX 8, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Cirrus Building, 6 International Avenue 64006 Nea Karvali environmental challenges; ABZ Business Park Kavala, Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Dyce, Aberdeen AB21 0BH GREECE Environment p. 34-41, 61-68 responsibility; UNITED KINGDOM Tel: + 30 2510317201, Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Fax:+ 30 2510317204 friendly technologies. Anti Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, p. 15, 28-29, 64 corruption including extortion and bribery. NICOSIA PODGORICA 22 Lefkonos Street, 1st floor, George Washington Blvd. 102 2064, Strovolos, Nicosia, A78 4th floor CYPRUS The Capital Plaza Τel: +35722398398, 81000 Podgorica Fax: +35722398399 MONTENEGRO Tel. +382 20 675569 CAIRO Building 11, 273 Palestine Street New Maadi, Cairo EGYPT Tel: + 202 25166913 Fax: +202 25166914 Energean Energean @Energean 78 79
