19 2019 CONTENTS 5 Financial Highlights PART 1 Management’s Review 6 KIRKBI – A family-owned company 8 2019 At a Glance 10 Annual Review About KIRKBI 14 KIRKBI Fundamentals 16 How We Work with Sustainability* 32 Associated Foundations 34 Board of Directors 36 Executive Leadership Team LEGO Brand Group Activities 40 LEGO Brand Group 42 The LEGO Group 44 Merlin Entertainments 46 Trademarks 46 LEGO Ventures Investment Activities 48 Investment Activities 50 Renewables 52 Long-term Equity 54 Investment Real Estate PART 2 Consolidated Financial Statements 58 Consolidated Income Statement 59 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 60 Balance Sheet at 31 December 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 63 Cash Flow Statement 1 January – 31 December PART 3 Notes – the KIRKBI Group 64 Contents PART 4 Parent Company 98 Contents PART 5 Additional Information 110 Management’s Statement 112 Independent Auditor’s Report * Pages 16 – 31 comprise KIRKBI’s communication on progress in implementing the ten UN Global Compact principles. PART 1 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS PART 1 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS KIRKBI Group (m DKK) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income statement: Operating profit from LEGO Brand Group activities 11,791 12,220 11,944 14,136 14,044 Operating profit from investment activities 9,326 (551) 4,398 3,078 3,304 Total operating profit 20,601 11,352 16,002 16,885 16,997 Profit for the year 16,774 8,681 12,679 13,285 13,396 Balance sheet: Total assets 119,902 103,132 95,456 85,667 75,463 KIRKBI Group’s share of equity 96,807 82,514 76,305 66,407 56,295 Non-controlling interests 5,672 5,553 5,285 5,105 4,460 Liabilities 17,423 15,065 13,866 14,155 14,708 Cash flow statement: Cash flows from operating activities 9,049 11,191 10,253 12,516 12,076 Investment in property, plant and equipment, net (3,345) (2,394) (2,233) (7,572) (4,473) Investment in intangible assets (360) (57) (143) (92) (126) Employees: Average number (full-time) 16,631 15,523 16,909 17,136 14,241 Financial ratios (in %): Equity ratio 85.5 % 85.4 % 85.5 % 83.5 % 80.5 % Return on equity 16.4 % 8.4 % 15.0 % 17.8 % 21.9 % The Financial Highlights for 2019 are impacted by the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases as from 1 January 2019. Comparative figures for 2015 to 2018 have not been restated. Implementation of IFRS 16 Leases is described in note 1.3. Comparative financial information for 2015 to 2018 have been adjusted for reclassifications in the income statement. Financial ratios Financial ratios have been calculated in accordance with the “Guidelines and Financial Ratios” as issued by the Danish Society of Financial Analysts. Return on equity (ROE): Profit for the year (excl. non-controlling interests) x 100 Average equity (excl. non-controlling interests) Equity ratio: Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) x 100 Total liabilities and equity | 4 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 5 | PART 1 KIRKBI – A FAMILY OWNED COMPANY MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW PART 1 THE LEGO GROUP Revenue 38.5 bn DKK Founded by Ole Kirk Kristiansen in 1932. 75 % Profit for the year 8.3 bn DKK Based on the LEGO® brick, the company Investments 2.2 bn DKK provides unique play experiences for KIRKBI Employees (FTE) 16,112 children of all ages. – A family-owned company MERLIN Revenue 15.3 bn DKK Europe’s leading and the world’s ENTERTAINMENTS Profit for the year 1.1 bn DKK second-largest visitor attraction operator. 50 % Number of visitors 67 million Owns the LEGOLAND® parks which were LEGO Brand Group founded by Godtfred Kirk Christiansen in 1968 and the LEGOLAND® Discovery Centres, among other activities. KIRK KIRKBI KRISTIANSEN GROUP TRADEMARKS Royalty 1.5 bn DKK The LEGO® and LEGOLAND® trademarks. FAMILY 100 % OWNERSHIP 100 % 2019 KEY FIGURES LEGO VENTURES Operating profit (0.1) bn DKK LEGO Ventures explores investment 100 % Investments 0.3 bn DKK opportunities at the intersection of Play, Learning and Creativity to leverage and develop the original LEGO® Idea and 16,631 9.0 (bn DKK) support the LEGO® brand mission ‘to inspire 60,000 and develop the builders of tomorrow’. Full-time employees Cash flows from Operating activities 50,000 40,000 16.8 (bn DKK) 102.5 (bn DKK) RENEWABLES Borkum Riffgrund 1 KIRKBI supports the LEGO Group’s 30,000 31.5 % Capacity 312 MW commitment to balance global consumption of energy with renewable Profit for the year Total equity 20,000 Burbo Bank Extension energy from solar and wind and contri10,000 25 % Capacity 258 MW bute to a sustainable development in the world. 0 2014 87.5 2015 % 2016 2017 2018 Enerparc Inc. Capacity 100 MW Investment activities ASSOCIATED FOUNDATIONS INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO KIRKBI provides administrative support to associated foundations: • Long-term Equity (m DKK) 50,000 80,000 40,000 60,000 30,000 40,000 20,000 • Real Estate 20,000 10,000 • Private Equity • Quoted Equities 0 • Bonds and corporate 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 debt | 6 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 7 | PART 1 2019 AT A GLANCE MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW PART 1 2019 AT A GLANCE 2019 has been a very satisfactory year for the KIRKBI Group with progress in strategic priorities and strong results in the LEGO Group and the investment activities The owner family’s* mission for the LEGO® able future for the family ownership of Within Merlin Entertainments, the total brand is to Inspire and develop the the LEGO brand through generations. number of visitors grew by 1.0% to 67 builders of tomorrow. The family aims The KIRKBI strategy towards 2032 sets the million on a like-for-like basis and revenue to fulfill the mission, helping all children direction for KIRKBI’s responsibilities within grew by 3.6% in 2019 compared to grow and develop to their full potential each of the pillars of LEGO Brand Group, 2018. In the LEGOLAND® parks, revenue through play by dedicated efforts driven Investment activities, Support activities increased by 5.1%. In 2019, Merlin by the LEGO® branded entities. KIRKBI is and Sustainability. announced the opening of LEGOLAND the owner family’s private holding and New York to be 4th of July 2020. Merlin investment company founded to build a In 2019 KIRKBI signed up for UN Global also announced the planning of a new sustainable future for the family ownership Compact. As a signatory, KIRKBI will LEGOLAND park in Korea with targeted of the LEGO brand through generations. complete an annual Communication on opening in 2022. In addition, Merlin Progress (COP) submission starting from entered into an agreement with the In 2019, LEGO Brand Group launched the the financial year 2019, demonstrating Shanghai Jinshan District Government, vision for the LEGO brand towards 2032 progress in working towards the UN CMC Inc. and KIRKBI A/S to develop a across the LEGO® branded entities. The 2032 Global Compact’s ten principles. The LEGOLAND Resort in the Jinshan District of LEGO® brand vision and strategy expresses COP report is integrated into this 2019 Shanghai, China. the owner family’s vision, wishes and dreams annual report. As KIRKBI grows, we wish for the LEGO brand towards 2032 – the year to increase transparency towards all In 2019 KIRKBI completed the acquisition the LEGO brand turns 100 years old. our stakeholders on how we progress of U.S. solar company Enerparc Inc. which on raising the bar further on sustainable develops, builds and operates solar parks An important milestone was reached business operations and responsible in the United States. The acquisition marked later in the year, when KIRKBI together ownership and investments. a significant development in KIRKBI’s with a consortium of long-term investors long-term investment strategy within completed the take-private of Merlin 2019 HIGHLIGHTS renewables, which also includes ownership Entertainments. As the long-term owner Profit for the year for the KIRKBI Group stakes in the two off-shore wind farms Burbo of the LEGO® brand and as a strategic amounted to DKK 16.8 billion compared Bank Extension and Borkum Riffgrund 1. shareholder in Merlin Entertainments to DKK 8.7 billion last year. since 2005, KIRKBI has great pride and Operating profit from the investment Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, Chairman of the Board passion for the company and we are very In 2019, the LEGO Group made good activities was DKK 9.3 billion against a Søren Thorup Sørensen, CEO committed to ensuring that LEGOLAND® progress against its ambition to bring net loss of DKK 0.6 billion last year. The We would like to thank all employees Parks, LEGOLAND® Discovery Centres LEGO play to more children around the strong investment result was impacted for their dedicated contributions and and the other activities in Merlin Enterworld. It achieved top-line growth, while by strong financial markets following a professional support within a broad tainments reach their full potential and making significant investments in future very challenging 2018. Most significantly span of services and disciplines. We continue to deliver fantastic experiences growth initiatives. Revenue increased with quoted equities, private equity and real look forward to continuing the positive to visitors around the world. 6% to DKK 38.5 billion. All Market Groups estate performed well. The investment development of KIRKBI in 2020. delivered year-on year revenue growth, portfolio in KIRKBI increased to DKK 71 During 2019, KIRKBI has finalised a with established markets growing single billion by the end of 2019 from DKK 58 Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen new strategy towards 2032. KIRKBI has digits and China delivering strong double billion at the end of 2018. Chairman of the Board developed significantly over the past digit growth. Operating profit grew 2% years. The generational change from the to DKK 10.8 billion. This was achieved In 2019, KIRKBI increased its holding of Søren Thorup Sørensen 3rd to the 4th generation is well under after significant investments in projects shares in Landis+Gyr AG, Nilfisk A/S and ISS CEO way, LEGO Brand Group has developed focused on innovating play, innovating A/S. Furthermore, together with PAI, KIRKBI an ambitious LEGO brand strategy, and retail experiences, and expanding into increased the ownership in Armacell S.A., KIRKBI has grown in size. The overarching new markets. The operational cash flows which is a leading provider of insulation objective for KIRKBI is to build a sustainremained strong at DKK 9.6 billion. materials for technical equipment. * Camilla and Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen and their descendants | 8 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 9 | PART 1 ANNUAL REVIEW MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW PART 1 ANNUAL REVIEW INCOME STATEMENT to 50%. This transaction had a negative ships amount to DKK 72 million compared In 2019, the average number of full-time Investment activities The KIRKBI Group’s profit for the year impact on the financial performance of to DKK 34 million in 2018 reported within employees in the KIRKBI Group was 16,631 KIRKBI is a long-term investor and a 2019 amounted to DKK 16,774 million Merlin Entertainments due to transaction Administration costs. against 15,523 in 2018. These numbers one-year view for the investment against DKK 8,681 million in 2018. The costs and increased financing costs. are exclusive of the employees in Merlin activities is highly dependent on the profit excluding non-controlling interests KIRKBI’s share of profit for 2019 was DKK The 2019 financial results for the KIRKBI Entertainments. 97% of employees work in development in the financial markets for 2019 was DKK 14,682 million compared 135 million compared with DKK 567 million Group are considered strong and exceed the LEGO Group. and hence it is difficult to predict financial with DKK 6,655 million last year. in 2018. the expectations disclosed in the annual return for the investment activities. A report for 2018. The majority of employees in the LEGO normalised investment return for the KIRKBI’s financial result is mainly Royalties from the trademarks LEGO® Group and KIRKBI are subject to a KIRKBI Group would be an investment influenced by the performance of the and LEGOLAND® grew 7% from DKK 1,400 It is proposed to distribute dividends of Performance Management Programme, return between DKK 3.5 bn and DKK 5 bn, LEGO Group and financial return from the million to DKK 1,495 million in 2019 due DKK 200 million. which aims to link business objectives equal to an investment return between investment activities. to the increase in revenue from both the with individual employee objectives. 5% and 7%. LEGO Group and Merlin Entertainments. BALANCE SHEET This programme includes a tiered bonus The LEGO Group has had a strong Total assets for the KIRKBI Group scheme. Profit before tax financial performance for 2019. The LEGO Ventures continued to build the amounted to DKK 120 billion compared Based on the assumptions above on company achieved 6% revenue growth, organisation throughout 2019 and has to DKK 103 billion in 2018. The increase RISKS normalised investment returns, profit which was especially satisfactory given invested further into seven new start-ups in total assets of DKK 17 billion is mainly The KIRKBI Group’s risks primarily relate before tax for the KIRKBI Group for 2020 is the challenging operating environment, during the year. Result from the activities due to increased value of the investment to developments within the global toy expected to be in the level of DKK 15 – 16 with a global toy market declining 3% has been negative with DKK 114 million portfolio of DKK 13.5 billion. markets where the LEGO Group operates, billion. in 2019. The LEGO Group continued to compared to DKK -16 million in 2018, the market for family entertainment and make significant investments in initiatives mainly due to operating costs and fair Consolidation of the LEGO Group’s other leisure activities and the financial to drive future growth such as retail value adjustments of investments. activities led to an increase in assets of markets. experiences, innovating play and new DKK 2.5 billion, mainly from adoption geographies. After these significant Trademark costs and LEGO Brand Group of IFRS 16 regarding leases capitalising RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT investments, the LEGO Group delivered a administration costs have increased right-of-use assets with DKK 2.2 billion. ACTIVITIES 2% growth in result before tax compared from DKK 274 million in 2018 to DKK 514 The Parent Company does not engage to 2018. Result before tax from the LEGO million in 2019. The increase is mainly Total liabilities for the KIRKBI Group in research or development activities. Group increased to DKK 10,752 million due to contribution to the global brand increased to DKK 17.4 billion from DKK Group enterprises conduct research from DKK 10,510 million. Cash flow from campaign “Rebuild the World”. 15.1 billion. The increase in total liabilities and development within their respective operating activities remained strong at is mainly due to the implementation of business areas. DKK 9.6 billion. The global financial markets have develIFRS 16 regarding leases, which led to oped very positively throughout 2019, recognition of lease liabilities of DKK 2.2 EXPECTATIONS FOR 2020 Merlin Entertainments experienced an following a very challenging end of 2018. billion. Expectations for the KIRKBI Group’s finanorganic revenue growth of 3.6% during Increasing company valuations within cial performance for 2020, depend on 2019. The growth was driven by opening quoted and private equities, combined The KIRKBI Group’s equity ratio increased the development in the global economy eight new Midway attractions and new with disciplined asset management, to 85.5% from 85.4% end of 2018. in 2020 and individual development accommodation offers by adding 372 led to a strong result for the investment within its different operational entities. rooms across three parks. On the other activities for 2019. The return for 2019 PEOPLE RESOURCES Hence it is difficult to express clear hand, Merlin Entertainments disposed of investment activities was 14.9% where In the KIRKBI Group’s core activities, expectations of the result for the year. its two Australian ski resorts. In November all of KIRKBI’s asset classes performed employees are the single most important 2019, Merlin Entertainments was delisted positively. Profit from the investment resource. The KIRKBI Group’s results are LEGO Brand Group activities from London Stock Exchange and taken activities amounted to DKK 9,326 million accomplished thanks to the motivation Both the LEGO Group and Merlin into private ownership by a consortium compared to a loss of DKK 551 million in and commitment of its employees. As Entertainments expect single-digit of long-term investors comprising 2018. part of the overall corporate strategy, revenue growth rates for 2020, which will Blackstone Core Equity Advisors LLC, employees and management work also impact trademark royalties positively. Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Throughout 2019, KIRKBI has made together to continuously secure job KIRKBI expects that results before tax from and KIRKBI. Following the delisting, KIRKBI donations to, among others, Ole Kirk’s satisfaction and a healthy working LEGO Brand Group activities to be in the increased its ownership from app. 30% Foundation. Total donations and sponsorenvironment. level around DKK 12 billion. | 10 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 11 | PART 12 ABOUT FINANCIAL KIRKBI STATEMENTS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 ABOUT KIRKBI CONTENTS 14 KIRKBI Fundamentals 16 How we work with Sustainability* 18 Our Approach 20 Own Operations 26 Responsible Investing and Ownership 30 Our future Focus and Targets 2020 32 Associated Foundations 34 Board of Directors 36 Executive Leadership Team * Pages 16 – 31 comprise KIRKBI’s communication on progress in implementing the ten UN Global Compact principles. | 12 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 13 | PART 1 KIRKBI FUNDAMENTALS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 KIRKBI ACTIVE AND ENGAGED and responsible shareholders as well as FAMILY OWNERSHIP ambassadors and culture carriers of the THROUGH GENERATIONS family values. All owners are engaged in FUNDAMENTALS ” Through generations, active and different ways in the business of the LEGO engaged family ownership of the LEGO Brand Group, the LEGO branded entities, brand has been viewed by the owner KIRKBI and the associated foundations family as not only a task, but also as an – acting as members of the Board or As a family and owners of obligation to make a true difference in undertaking representative duties. KIRKBI is the owner family’s* private holding and investment company founded to build the LEGO® brand and the children’s lives. The ownership is rooted a sustainable future for the family ownership of the LEGO® brand through generations. in the family heritage, the values and the In addition, the fourth generation of LEGO® branded entities greater purpose of enabling children to the owner family has established a we fundamentally believe learn, grow and develop through play, programme for their children in the fifth that Children are our which is also reflected in the name ‘LEg generation named ‘The LEGO® School’. role models. Children The LEGO® brand mission is to Inspire and role models”, the mission, the vision, the • Protect, develop and leverage the GOdt’ – play well. Ole Kirk Kristiansen, the The LEGO School is not a school in the develop the builders of tomorrow. The LEGO® Idea, the values and the promises. LEGO brand across all the LEGO founder of the LEGO Group, was focused traditional sense. In fact, the purpose of are curious, creative owner family aims to fulfill the mission, branded entities. on providing quality play materials for the programme is to support the children in and imaginative. They helping all children grow and develop to The KIRKBI Fundamentals serve as the • Ensure a sound financial foundation children from the very beginning in the developing their own identity, as individuals embrace discovery and their full potential through creative play, compass in all our business activities for the family’s activities via responsible 1930s. He had a saying: ‘Only the best is and as part of a family community, around wonder. They have a by dedicated efforts driven by the LEGO® and outline how we are contributing to equity investments. Furthermore, good enough’, which he used to explain being future owners – in a fun, safe and natural hands-on, mindsbranded entities. enabling the owner family to succeed with ensure theme-based investing in how children deserve the best. The saying playful environment. the mission. order to maximise impact through is still used and referred to by employees on approach to learning. KIRKBI is the owner family’s private investing inspired by the family’s across all entities as the ‘LEGO® spirit’. The ongoing handover between third and These are precious holding and investment company with KIRKBI (TOWARDS 2032) wish to contributing to a sustainable fourth generation qualities that must be the purpose of building a sustainable During 2019, KIRKBI has defined the development in the world. Being an active and engaged owner of In 2016, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen and Thomas nurtured and stimulated future for the family ownership of the owner direction towards 2032. The • Ensure a support organisation, which the LEGO brand today is defined by the Kirk Kristiansen took the first formal steps in LEGO® brand through generations. KIRKBI owner direction is reflected in the KIRKBI is set up to deliver support for the owner family as having a deep interest the smooth handover as they swapped throughout life. Because, shares the same mission, promises, spirit Fundamentals, which has been adjusted family members across generations and engagement in how the family roles in the Board of Directors of LEGO people with a childlike and values as the LEGO branded entities. to clearly articu­late the purpose of KIRKBI as well as their private entities and enterprises develop, how the enterprises A/S where Thomas Kirk Kristiansen urge to learn are best as of today and in the future, as well as associated foundations. engage with children of all ages as well as became deputy chairman and Kjeld equipped to thrive in a This shared foundation for the family the fundamental objectives. Based on the • Pursue ambitious sustainability stakeholders in general, what the culture is Kirk Kristiansen took on the role as board fast paced and constantly enterprises is reflected in the LEGO® owner direction and KIRKBI Fundamentals, requirements for own operations like and how the values are lived and not member. On the board of the LEGO Idea Paper – a short internal document the KIRKBI strategy towards 2032 has and ensure responsible ownership least – caring for employees. Foundation, Thomas Kirk Kristiansen changing world. written by the Kirk Kristiansen family. The been outlined within each of the three and investments. became chairman and Kjeld Kirk LEGO Idea Paper describes the family’s fundamental objectives. Towards 2032, • Build and maintain a strong governance In short, active and engaged ownership is Kristiansen deputy chairman. The Kirk Kristiansen family fundamental belief that “Children are our it is KIRKBI’s responsibility to: model for all KIRKBI activities. about being guardians of how the family in the LEGO® Idea Paper enterprises do business. In 2017, LEGO Brand Group was established to protect, develop and leverage THE KIRKBI FUNDAMENTALS To ensure a continued active and the full potential of the LEGO brand and engaged family ownership of the LEGO support the continued family ownership brand, the family has carefully prepared through generations. Read more about for the smooth handover between the third LEGO Brand Group on page 40. MISSION Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow and fourth generation, which is ongoing. THE ORIGIN OF In 2019, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen stepped down THE KIRKBI NAME PURPOSE Building a sustainable future for the family ownership of the LEGO® brand through generations The owner family has decided that in each from the Board of Directors of LEGO A/S. generation one person should take the We work to protect, develop and We are committed to a longWe are dedicated to support the role as the most active owner. The most Today, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen is Chairman The company name KIRKBI leverage the LEGO brand across term and responsible investment owner family members as they active owner will, on behalf of the whole of the Board of Directors of KIRKBI A/S, reflects the family ownership and all the LEGO® branded entities strategy to ensure a sound financial prepare for future generations to FUNDAMENTAL family, be close to KIRKBI and the LEGO Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors heritage as it is a combination of foundation for the owner family’s continue the active and engaged OBJECTIVES activities as well as contributing to ownership as well as supporting branded entities. The family has agreed of the LEGO Foundation and Chairman of the family name ‘Kirk’ and the a sustainable development in the their private activities, companies that Thomas Kirk Kristiansen should from the Board of Directors of Ole Kirk’s Fond. city ‘Billund’ in Denmark. In 1932, world and philanthropic work this role represent the fourth generation. Thomas Kirk Kristiansen is Chairman of the Ole Kirk Kristiansen started making Board of Directors of the LEGO Foundation, wooden toys in his workshop in VALUES Imagination — Creativity — Fun — Learning — Caring — Quality Furthermore, the family has agreed that all Chairman of LEGO A/S and member of Billund, Denmark, and from 1934, owners in each generation are engaged the Board of Directors of KIRKBI A/S. he sold them as LEGO® toys. Play Promise People Promise Partner Promise Planet Promise Today, KIRKBI owns 75% of the PROMISES Joy of building, Succeed together Mutual value creation Positive impact LEGO Group. The remaining 25% is pride of creation owned by the LEGO Foundation. SPIRIT Only the best is good enough — always strive to do better * Camilla and Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen | 14 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 and their descendants ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 15 | PART 1 HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY In 2019, KIRKBI signed up to the United They define how we regard people and Our sustainability commitment – and Nations Global Compact – the world’s planet as an integrated and equal part our commitment to live up to the Ten largest voluntary network for sustainable of operating businesses and succeeding Principles of the UN Global Compact – is business conduct – and thereby commitwith the mission. guided by the ‘Promises’, which is a core ted to the Ten Principles of The Global part of the ‘KIRKBI Fundamentals’ guiding Compact. As KIRKBI grows, we wish to Although this year’s Communication on our business conduct and behaviour from increase transparency towards all our Progress report focus on KIRKBI’s sustainan ethical perspective. stakeholders on how we progress our ability efforts for 2019, during the year sustainability efforts. As a signatory to the we also took the opportunity to focus on In practice, we make a never-ending Global Compact, this report acts as our how we continue to raise the bar for our effort to ensure that our ‘Promises’ Communication on Progress. sustainability efforts in the very long term. are lived throughout our actions and KIRKBI has developed a strategy towards behaviour every day. Our promises to 2032 in which sustainability is a foundationplay, people, planet and partners are al layer for all business activities both within therefore also our response and promise KIRKBI’s main objective is own operations as well as investment and to the Ten Principles. to build a sustainable future ownership activities. for the family ownership of Søren Thorup Sørensen the LEGO® brand through Within own operations, we will pursue CEO ambitious requirements to become generations. We are driven by a sustainable company. Within the a strong set of values and a investment activities, we will continue purpose of enabling the owner to integrate environmental, social and family to inspire and develop governance factors into our investment approach and active ownership practices the builders of tomorrow. as we believe that companies which act responsibly are also the ones that create the most value in the long term. KIRKBI’s approach to sustainability is Furthermore, as part of the 2032 strategy, defined by the KIRKBI Fundamentals. we will pursue thematic investing focused The KIRKBI Fundamentals serve as the on increasing KIRKBI’s contribution to compass for all business activities. sustainable development in the world. | 16 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 17 | PART 1 OUR APPROACH ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 MISSION Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow PURPOSE Building a sustainable future for the family ownership of the LEGO® brand through generations OUR APPROACH We work to protect, develop and leverage the LEGO brand across all the LEGO® branded entities We are committed to a longterm and responsible investment strategy to ensure a sound financial We are dedicated to support the owner family members as they prepare for future generations to FUNDAMENTAL foundation for the owner family’s continue the active and engaged OBJECTIVES activities as well as contributing to ownership as well as supporting a sustainable development in the their private activities, companies world and philanthropic work THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT VALUES Imagination — Creativity — Fun — Learning — Caring — Quality Play Promise People Promise Partner Promise Planet Promise PROMISES Joy of building, Succeed together Mutual value creation Positive impact pride of creation HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the SPIRIT Only the best is good enough — always strive to do better protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human PLAY PROMISE JOY OF BUILDING. PRIDE OF CREATION FOCUS AREAS rights abuses. The Play Promise is closely integrated with • Take actions together to strengthen a the People Promise. As owners of the LEGO company culture, which is rooted in brand, we wish to guard and nurture the the statement ‘Joy of Building, Pride of LABOUR essential role of play in children’s and adults’ Creation’ and a playful mindset 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of wellbeing and development association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PEOPLE PROMISE SUCCEED TOGETHER FOCUS AREAS 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; To enable execution of the business strategy • Strengthen employee engagement and to build the long-term health of the and satisfaction reflected in the annual 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and company – we believe people and values employee engagement survey, PULSE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of make the difference • Continue to further define leadership employment and occupation. in the KIRKBI context and review the professional development program ENVIRONMENT PARTNER PROMISE MUTUAL VALUE CREATION FOCUS AREAS 7 Businesses should support a precautionary To build partnerships that enhance mutual • Further standardise the approach to active approach to environmental challenges; value creation, entail openness and trust – ownership, both in the voting practices, 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater partners should feel energised and inspired and in sustainability engagement of longenvironmental responsibility; and from their involvement with KIRKBI term equity investments 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PLANET PROMISE POSITIVE IMPACT FOCUS AREAS To create a positive impact on the planet • Further compile use-data on the real ANTI-CORRUPTION through responsible investments and estate portfolio and continue working ownership – a commitment to society to with sustainable building certifications 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all keep earning a trusted position • Manage the carbon emissions from its forms, including extortion and bribery. our own operations and assess the procurement practices for sustainability • Continue to grow renewable energy capacity | 18 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 19 | PART 1 OWN OPERATIONS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 OWN OPERATIONS CODE OF CONDUCT ENVIRONMENT While the KIRKBI Fundamentals describe The ‘Planet Promise’ is an integral KIRKBI FLIGHT DEPARTMENT the foundation for the KIRKBI Group, part of the KIRKBI Fundamentals. We KIRKBI has chosen to have private the KIRKBI employee Code of Conduct want to lead by example and are aviation as a part of the group’s business serves as a guide to making the right HUMAN RIGHTS: All employees are expected to take steps to thereby dedicated to minimising the operations. The decision is made to meet decision at all times, and is applicable protect human rights wherever we do business. environmental footprint. certain levels of security and efficiency. to all of our activities – both own KIRKBI has chosen to invest directly in operations and investing. Introduced In 2019, we have started this journey by its aircrafts, which means that KIRKBI is in 2018 with personalised training measuring and assessing the sustainability directly responsible for the associated provided to all employees, it has since impacts of our operations, which include emissions. This also means that we have been integrated into the onboarding the KIRKBI offices in Denmark and the direct ability and responsibility, material for new employees to ensure Switzerland, the vehicle fleet, and the through the fleet management and flight that all employees are familiar with its business travel. Highlights include: planning, to take actions to address contents. An internal whistle-blower line LABOUR: The KIRKBI Group will provide a professional, inspiring emissions. has been established in order to allow and safe workplace in accordance with mandatory legislation • baselining the CO2 emissions any non-compliances with this Code of and will show respect for all individuals and make active generated from the operations; We monitor fuel use and related carbon Conduct to be reported. The employee efforts to ensure a good and inclusive working environment, • certifying the Copenhagen building, in emissions and maximise CO2 efficiency in Code of Conduct formalises KIRKBI’s characterised by equality and diversity. We ensure freedom which the KIRKBI offices are located, to flight planning. In 2019, KIRKBI decreased policies related to human rights, labour, of association and respect our employees’ rights to collective the DGNB Buildings In Use scheme; the default flight speed of its aircrafts, as environment and anti-corruption. bargaining. The KIRKBI Group does not accept child labour, • standardising the collection of waste a means of reducing fuel use and related forced labour, or any form of human trafficking. data in the offices and facilitating the emissions. The following description of activities correct separation of waste types. and results split into own operations and Via our partners, KIRKBI will closely follow responsible investing and ownership. While we have worked to compile data developments in the Danish aviation KIRKBI’s own operations include the KIRKBI on the CO2 emissions generated by own industry, which in 2019, released its offices in Denmark and Switzerland, the operations in 2019, the complete data climate plan, including a commitment to vehicle fleet, and the business travel. set will not be finalised in due time to be climate neutrality by 2050. As a holding and investment company, included in this report. This information will the assessment of the risk within own be made available on www.KIRKBI.com ENVIRONMENT: The KIRKBI Group promotes environmentally operations is low and primarily within when it has been finalised. responsible business conduct in our investment management environmental impact and the impact and ownership practices. All employees must support the planet on employees, which are managed as We calculate the carbon footprint on an promise by encouraging steps to be taken to prevent and described in the relevant sections. The annual basis and assess every source of mitigate the environmental impact of activities and products. assessment of risk related to investment emissions for possible reductions. This has activities, including human rights and led to a careful inspection of the internal corruption risks are managed via the travel policy and the potential increase in approach to responsible investing and use of online meeting systems to replace ownership as described on page 26-27. some of the business travel. It also means that we continuously adjust the company car policy in order to encourage employees to select more efficient vehicles. ANTI-CORRUPTION: All employees must comply with local and international anti-corruption laws, principles, standards, and codes, and ensure transparency in all interaction. Abuse or misuse of entrusted power for private gains are not accepted. | 20 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 21 | PART 1 OWN OPERATIONS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 PEOPLE AND LABOUR A diverse group of people is needed In addition, the Play Promise is closely employees. We believe that focusing on KIRKBI’s Environmental, Health and Safety The figure below shows the gender to enable the owner family to succeed integrated with the People Promise. what develops, inspires and energises our Committee ensures a focus on those composition for the entire KIRKBI organisawith the mission to inspire and develop As owners of the LEGO brand, we people, as well as the competencies each aspects of our workplace and identifies tion and for people leaders. the builders of tomorrow. KIRKBI feel obliged to guard and nurture the person needs in order to reach individual areas of potential improvement. In addiOur workforce is comprised of an equal employs specialised and experienced essential role of ‘play’ in children’s and career goals and strategic goals, is critical tion to the work done by this committee, number of men and women. This gender professionals in a diverse set of fields. adults’ wellbeing and development. The to achieving motivation and satisfaction offers like access to fitness facilities, social balance is also reflected in the number of They are all dedicated to supporting Play Promise is to take actions together to and ultimately, sustainable strong business sports initiatives, health care specialists, people managers. the overarching purpose of building a strengthen a company culture, which is results. We believe that people developand healthy food in the canteens ensure sustainable future for the family ownership rooted in the statement ‘Joy of Building, ment is essential to retaining existing, and that KIRKBI provides its employees with In 2019, KIRKBI A/S reached the target to of the LEGO® brand though generations. Pride of Creation’ and a playful mindset. attracting potential employees. the best opportunities to take care of add a female member to the Board of With KIRKBI’s People Promise and our their physical and mental health. Directors with the election of Marie-Louise strong set of values, we want to unleash We believe that it is our people, our Once a year, we measure motivation, Aamund. The Board of Directors also plan the full potential of all KIRKBI employees determination to succeed together, and satisfaction and engagement across PEOPLE DIVERSITY to appoint another woman to the KIRKBI while succeeding together. We focus on our ability to live the KIRKBI Fundamentals the organisation in the PULSE survey. The In KIRKBI, we believe that a diverse board before 2024. enabling and developing employees’ that make the difference. responses are used to identify possible organisation and an inclusive working competencies and ensuring that the areas of improvement in teams and at environment represent an opportunity to Acknowledging that gender is only one people leaders have the right leadership PROFESSIONAL AND an organisational level. succeed in the long term. As a workaspect of diversity, we will continue to capabilities and continuously act as PERSONAL GROWTH place, KIRKBI is characterised by equality, work to ensure a diverse workforce at all strong role models. The KIRKBI Human Resource Annual The KIRKBI results are benchmarked inclusivity, and diversity. We recruit and levels of the organisation. Cycle is a framework that enables and against the Ennova Employee Index retain people with a variety of skills and In KIRKBI, we do this to enable execution maintains all employees’ competencies (GELx), Denmark. In 2019, the PULSE backgrounds, while ensuring a focus on of the business strategy and to build the through a focus on continuous developsurvey showed that KIRKBI maintains personal qualifications for the job. 60 long-term health of the company. ment while aiming to ensure satisfied and high motivation and satisfaction across 2000 motivated employees who thrive and the organisation, with a score of 82 out 40 succeed together. of 100. This gives us a strong position against the GELx benchmark in Denmark, 1500 20 The HR Annual cycle consists of three which has an average score of 74. core HR processes: 1000 0 KIRKBI also uses the E-NPS (Employee Motivation and satisfaction Engagement • A Performance Management Net Promoter Score) as an indicator of KIRKBI 2017 KIRKBI 2016 EEI* Benchmark 2017, Denmark 500 Programme (PMP) engagement and motivation. The E-NPS FACTS ABOUT KIRKBI • An Individual Development Plan (IDP) is based on the response from the PULSE PULSE SURVEY GENDER COMPOSITION IN KIRKBI • An annual employee engagement question; “I would recommend KIRKBI 100 as0 the highest score. Response rate 2019: 95% Number of employees 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 survey called PULSE as an employer to other people.” Here, The number of people in the KIRKBI the KIRKBI score is 69%, indicating that organisation is 202 (KIRKBI A/S, With a focused, measurable, and we have loyal, motivated, and engaged 100 100 KIRKBI AG and KIRKBI Invest A/S). effective Performance Management people. The average score in GELx Programme, we want to meet our most Denmark is 32%. The number of full-time employees 80 80 critical business objectives and increase in the KIRKBI Group was 16,631 motivation, inspiration, and satisfaction in Despite the strong score, and in line with (97% of the employees work in the 60 our daily work. In this continuous process, our spirit, we always strive to do better 60 LEGO Group). all employees work towards targets to ensure that KIRKBI is a healthy and that are both critical for success in their engaging workplace. 40 40 KIRKBI’s headquarter is in Billund. individual roles as well as linked to team objectives and the KIRKBI strategy. KIRKBI’s A HEALTHY WORK LIFE KIRKBI also has offices in Copen20 20 PMP process is linked to an incentive We want to make sure that KIRKBI has a hagen (Denmark) and in Baar program with the purpose of encouraging safe and healthy mental and physical (Switzerland). and rewarding successful performance. work environment. This includes focussing 0 0 The PMP process is linked with an Individuon our people’s wellbeing and ensuring Motivation and satisfaction Organisation People leaders al Development Plan, which is the personal that work-life is well balanced with life KIRKBI 2019 KIRKBI 2018 KIRKBI 2017 GELx Benchmark* 2019 Men Women and professional development plan for all after work. *GELx (Ennova Employee Index) is an international benchmark survey. | 22 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 23 | PART 1 OWN OPERATIONS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 BUILDING BILLUND – THE CAPITAL OF CHILDREN Billund is of great importance to KIRKBI A/S, LEGO A/S and the LEGO® brand. The story of the LEGO brand began in 1932 when Ole Kirk Kristiansen started making wooden LEGO® CAMPUS: A new gathering point for the entire LEGO Group. toys in his workshop in Billund. The toys were In October 2019, the first phase of the LEGO Campus in Billund sold as LEGO® toys from 1934. Today, Billund was inaugurated. When the construction is completed in 2021, counts almost 7,000 citizens and thousands of the campus will include 54,000 square metres and office space people commute to Billund every day. About for approximately 2,000 colleagues. Part of the construction will three million tourists come to the town every be dedicated to a “People House” an area with facilities such as year to pay the town’s many attractions a workshops, sports facilities, café, accommodation and much more. visit – such as the world’s first LEGOLAND Park The People House will be open to colleagues who work out of or LEGO® House the home of the brick. Billund on a daily basis as well as to colleagues who stay in Billund for a shorter or longer period of time. Billund is also where KIRKBI is headquartered and the owner family has been actively engaged in supporting the development of the town through generations. In 2015, KIRKBI initiated a vision plan for the development of the town together with Billund Municipality BUTIKSTORVET: A new downtown area with stores, offices, and Realdania. apartments, town nature and the ‘Playline’ connecting the buildings. The former retail square in Billund has undergone a major The result was the Billund City Vision, which change in 2019, as construction of six new buildings has begun. sets the framework for supporting and The tenants and owners will move in at the end of 2020, when strengthening Billund’s unique character as the construction is complete. Capital of Children, where children of all ages learn through play and are creative citizens of the world. The vision provides KIRKBI and our partners with a framework for urban and cultural planning in a town that is multifaceted despite its small size. KASTANIEHJØRNET: A residential property of 6,300 square metres A focal element in the vision is to mould in Billund’s midtown, comprising dementia apartments in greater cohesion between spaces for citizens, connection to Billund Municipality’s care home, council employees and visitors. One way to connect apartments to the non-profit housing association, and these spaces is to concentrate urban spaces apartments that will be administered by KIRKBI. The construction and include green environments in and of Kastaniehjørnet started in 2019 and will be finalised in 2021. around them. The so-called “Playline” a playful walk and bicycle path – will realise this concept and connect the different parts of the town. For KIRKBI specifically, the vision provides a The first two buildings at the LEGO® Campus framework for how Billund could develop, KLØVERMARKEN: A new office area in the former Modulex location were officially inaugurated in October 2019. and subsequently, how KIRKBI can support ‘Kløvermarken’ has been rebuilt to host some of the organisations KIRKBI is the owner of the building, which will the continued development of Billund – the that work for the development of the Capital of Children. CoC be the workplace for approximately 2,000 Capital of Children – through real estate and Playful Minds – the organisation which develops the programs LEGO® employees when completed in 2021. other activities. that shall make the city vision of Billund come to live – is one of The architecture of LEGO Campus reflects the tenants, which moved in when the building was inaugurated the LEGO® brand and values: Imagination, KIRKBI is currently engaged in several real in October 2019. CoC Living Lab includes an entrepreneurial creativity, fun, learning, caring and quality. estate projects in Billund – all of them supportenvironment for businesses and start-ups to create synergy and ing the City Vision. Four of KIRKBI’s current support knowledge-sharing and network among them. In addition, projects are: Billund Erhvervsfremme has also moved into the new premises. | 24 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 25 | PART 1 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING AND OWNERSHIP ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING AND OWNERSHIP KIRKBI’S APPROACH TO INVESTING RESPONSIBLY The contribution of KIRKBI’s investment which act responsibly are also the ones Below is outlined how we integrate track financial data as well as key operations. If these efforts fail, KIRKBI will activities to the overarching purpose of that are sustainable and value-creating environmental, social, and governance performance indicators on material divest the investment in the company. In building a sustainable future for the family in the long term. We execute responsible (ESG) considerations into the investment sustainability-related risks related to each 2019, we conducted four such engageownership of the LEGO® brand through investing by integrating environmental, process and active ownership practices. investment. Moreover, to underpin the ments via an external partner. generations is two-fold: social and governance (ESG) factors into This applies to all of KIRKBI’s investment long-term orientation and to contribute our investment approach and active activities. A set of guidelines for positively to the strategic direction and Another important way in which Through the investment portfolio, we are ownership practices. implementing these principles has been the management of material ESG-related KIRKBI applies its influence is by exercising committed to ensuring a sound financial established with the appropriate flexibility risks, we endeavour to engage actively shareholder voting rights at the annual foundation for the family’s activities via Second, as part of the new 2032 strategy, and recognition of differences among with the companies and investment general meetings of companies. In 2019, equity investments (long-term equity, we will also pursue further investments strategies and managers. For specific partners. This includes actively supporting we employed the services of external private equity, quoted equity), real focused on the owner family’s wish to elaboration on the integration of ESG in the pursuit of new business opportunities provider Institutional Shareholder Services estate investments and fixed income contribute to sustainable development the real estate investments, see page 29. and the mitigation of material risks within Inc. to assist the voting. KIRKBI has voted investments. The investment approach in the world. We look forward to sharing the focus areas of our Promises. at 100% of all annual general meetings is based on the belief that companies more about this area in the coming years. NEGATIVE SCREENING since April 2019. AND ESG INTEGRATION In 2019, we focused implementation In collaboration with the external efforts on active ownership throughout KIRKBI is represented on the boards of partners, KIRKBI assesses its potential the asset classes. As an active owner, four of the long-term equity investments. investments and monitors its portfolio for KIRKBI engages in a number of ways, Through board representation, KIRKBI the following: including: seeks to influence the strategic direction • Involvement with activities on our • Board representation and contribute to create sustainable negative list; • Shareholder communication with growth in portfolio companies. The • Company performance in areas board of directors and management primary focus areas as active owners and of material ESG risks and ability to • Voting at the annual general meetings representatives on the board are: manage these risks relative to industry • Strategy: Robustness and positioning peers; We will engage with companies in case for sustainable, long-term growth • Company involvement in notable ESG of controversies or breaches of interna• Financial discipline: Efficiency around controversies related to the company’s tionally agreed conventions and norms capital allocation and structure as well operations and/or products, possible (e.g. those of UN Global Compact). For as progress on selected KPI’s breaches of international norms and quoted equities, we, in collaboration • Corporate governance: The right principles such as the UN Global with an external partner, choose to first people and processes in place Compact, and performance with communicate with the company to • Sustainability: Continuous improvement respect to these norms and principles. understand what remedies are in place on sustainability measures is key for and what types of enhanced controls sustainable growth ACTIVE OWNERSHIP the company has implemented to As a responsible long-term owner and prevent further breaches. We attempt investor, we regularly monitor and to influence change in the company’s REPONSIBLE INVESTMENT PROCESS IN KIRKBI Negative screening ESG integration Active ownership | 26 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 27 | PART 1 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING AND OWNERSHIP ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 RENEWABLES REAL ESTATE Since 2012, investment in renewable While KIRKBI has historically had a focus energy has developed into a a solid on assessing and improving the sustainlong-term business area – this is fully ability footprint of the real estate investaligned with our sustainability and WIND ENERGY: In 2012, KIRKBI and William Demant Invest invested jointly in ments, 2019 had a focus on standardising DGNB CERTIFICATION: Sustainable building certification systems offer the financial ambitions; therefore, KIRKBI has Borkum Riffgrund 1, with KIRKBI owning 31.5%. Ørsted, the constructor and the approach to sustainability in the real possibility to measure, document, and compare the sustainability performance increased its focus on renewable energy operator of the wind farm, has retained 50% ownership. The capacity of estate portfolio activities. This meant the of buildings by applying a set of quantifiable criteria. DGNB is a German investments. Borkum Riffgrund 1 is capable of providing green energy corresponding to the release of a real estate-specific guideline certification system created by the German Sustainability Council and primarily consumption of 320,000 German households. to ESG integration and the licensing of used in Germany and its neighbouring countries. The certification has a large Through investments in renewables, KIRKBI a data collection software to ensure the presence in Denmark, where it has been adopted as the standard certification supports the LEGO Group’s commitment In 2016, KIRKBI and PKA invested jointly into Burbo Bank Extension with 25% complete and standardised collection system by the Green Building Council Denmark. The certification focuses not to balance global consumption of energy ownership each, while Ørsted, as constructor and operator, has retained 50% of use-data from all properties. The only on sustainability, but also on good technical and process quality, and its with renewable energy and contribute ownership of the wind farm. The capacity of Burbo Bank Extension is capable of overview of electricity, heat, water, and flexibility allows easy adoption for various building types. to a sustainable development in the providing green energy to 230,000 UK households. waste data that KIRKBI now has on the world, while at the same time delivering investment real estate portfolio will allow Source: https://sbi.dk/Assets/Guide-to-sustainable-building-certifications/Guide-to-sustainable-buildingattractive long-term returns. identification of areas for improvement certifications-August-2018-e-bog.pdf and engage tenants in an environmenKIRKBI’s renewables strategy targets tally efficient use of the buildings. direct minority as well as majority investments in solar energy and offshore 2019 also brought a focus on sustainable wind assets. The geographic focus is on building certification. Over the course of Northern Europe and North America. SOLAR ENERGY: In 2019, KIRKBI broke new ground as the company invested in the year, certification of four properties Current renewables investments include solar energy for the first time – namely in solar energy developer and indewas initiated – two in Denmark, one in part-ownership of two offshore wind pendent power producer (IPP), Enerparc Inc. Additionally, it was the first time Germany, and one in Switzerland, to farms, Borkum Riffgrund 1 and Burbo Bank that KIRKBI invested in renewables as a majority owner while the leadership the DGNB Buildings In Use scheme, with Extension, and solar energy developer, team of Enerparc Inc. owns a minority share. the achievement of one certification by Enerparc Inc. the end of 2019. Certification provides Since 2012, and until acquired by KIRKBI, Enerparc Inc. has been owned a third-party evaluation of the current Read more about renewables on page and governed as a US affiliate of Enerparc AG, headquartered in Hamburg, sustainability level of the properties, while 51. Germany, and founded in 2008. To date, Enerparc Inc. has constructed a the certification process helps to build large number of solar energy parks across a number of US states. Under KIRKBI in-house knowledge of sustainability issues ownership – after the acquisition on 2 July 2019 – 49 GWh of solar energy has in the real estate sector. been produced by the company’s solar parcs across North America until end of 2019. In 2019, KIRKBI joined the Copenhagen partnership, Energispring, which is focused on reducing energy-use of buildings as a means of supporting the city’s ambition to be CO2 neutral by 2025. By making this commitment, KIRKBI, like the partnership’s other partners, commits to leading the way in energy savings in the Copenhagen real estate portfolio. Read more about Investment Real Estate on page 54. In 2019, KIRKBI increased its focus on renewable energy and invested in the solar energy developer Innovation House in Billund and inde­pendent power built in 2012 was recently producer, Enerparc Inc. certified with the DGNB silver in California. certification for buildings in use. | 28 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 29 | PART 1 OUR FUTURE FOCUS AND TARGETS 2020 ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 FUTURE FOCUS AND TARGETS 2020 In the beginning of 2020, KIRKBI has launched a new business strategy towards 2032, which includes an increased focus on sustainability. The following highlights represent some of the key areas that KIRKBI will be focusing on in 2020. OWN RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS INVESTMENTS PLANET AND ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE AND PLAY When it comes to investments in 2020, Having completed a baseline of the With KIRKBI’s People Promise and the strong we will focus on further strengthening the operational carbon footprint gives us set of values, we want to unleash the full approach to active ownership, both in both a starting point from which to potential of all KIRKBI employees while the voting practices, and in the sustainaimprove as well as a methodology with succeeding together. Focus is on enabling bility engagement of the long-term equity which to track the progress. As a responand developing all employees’ competeninvestments. sible company that has a promise to cies and ensuring that all people leaders have a positive impact on the planet, we have the right leadership capabilities to With the owner family’s wish to contribute are committed to managing the carbon continuously be strong role models. to a sustainable development in the emissions from buildings and travel. world, KIRKBI will continue to further In 2020, we will work to further define leaderdevelop the scope for impact focused In addition, we recognise that the ship in the KIRKBI context and to review the investments in 2020. goods and services we purchase, professional development program. though limited, also have an impact Regarding KIRKBI’s real estate activities, on sustainability. As such, we are Like LEGO® builders around the world, in 2020 will be focused on further compiling committed in 2020 to look beyond KIRKBI we thrive on making things happen use-data. This will allow us to identify our own operations and to assess the and we know that there is often more areas of potential improvement in the procurement practices for sustainability. than one solution to a challenge. The Play structure and operations of the buildings. Promise is to take actions to strengthen We will continue working with sustainable a company culture, which is rooted in building certifications, both of, in-use the statement ‘Joy of Building, Pride of properties, as well as of new buildings THE UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Creation’ and a playful mindset. and major renovations. The pages 16 – 31 comprise our will contribute positively to all relevant SDG4 Quality eduction ‘Communication on Progress’ report goals to succeed with our mission as Ensure inclusive and equitable and has been submitted to the UN outlined by our fundamentals. quality education and promote Global Compact. lifelong learning opportunities for all Although all 17 goals provide As a signatory to the UN Global an overview of those issues most SDG12 Responsible consumption Compact we will continue to demonpressing to global society, there are and production strate our progress toward sustainable in particular two key goals we can Ensure sustainable consumption and business operations and responsible impact through our own operations production patterns ownership and investments. and investments – both financial investments and LEGO Brand Group Read more at LEGO.com and In these efforts, KIRKBI supports the UN entities – and through the work of the LEGOfoundation.com Sustainable Development Goals and associated foundations: | 30 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 31 | PART 1 ASSOCIATED FOUNDATIONS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 ASSOCIATED FOUNDATIONS Learning-through-Play empowers children 25% ownership of the LEGO Group and it The LEGO Foundation started new Ole Kirk’s Fond is a charitable foundation One of the projects that Ole Kirk’s Fond have further developed the building plans to become creative, engaged, lifelong is primarily through this ownership that the partnerships to scale up playful parenting and its purpose is to improve the quality supported within the social area in 2019 for the project and the preparation of the learners and develop the holistic skills LEGO Foundation funds its activities. in Bhutan, Guatemala, Rwanda, Serbia, of life of children and their families. A addresses the lack of systematic and building site has begun. that serve them, their communities and and Zambia. It also initiated a research caring approach and the right of all uniform help for children growing up as society throughout a lifetime. The LEGO For the second year running, the LEGO study investigating how playful learning children to be children were key motivarelatives to mentally ill parents. An estimated Ole Kirk’s Fond also supported the building Foundation is working to change the Foundation announced a humanitarian can contribute to developing teacher tors for LEGO® founder Ole Kirk Kristiansen. 70% of children in this position does not of a new children’s hospice in Western hearts and minds of those who influence grant of USD 100 million to be paid out and educator training programmes in Ole Kirk’s Fond was established in his receive any help. The project named “Ask Denmark, ‘Strandbakkehuset’, where children’s lives, through programmes, over the coming years. In 2019, the collaboration with the University Colleges memory and to fulfil the values and the the Children” is carried out in a partnership families with children facing serious or research and advocacy, to make sure donation was awarded to the Internain Denmark. caring philosophy that he represented. with the Danish Mental Health Foundation terminal illness can stay and get respite they embrace the transformative power tional Rescue Committee and went to and Children’s Welfare, and it aims to ensure during a difficult time in their lives. The of play. support close to one million children, Total grant commitments and expenses Ole Kirk’s Fond supports cultural, that all children will get equal rights and first sod for the construction was cut in caregivers and teachers affected by for the LEGO Foundation amounted to church-related, humanitarian and access to support. October and the hospice will have room As part of the ongoing commitment to crises in Ethiopia and Uganda to ensure DKK 2,039 million in 2019 (2018: DKK 1,310 educational purposes, and has a dedifor four families when it is expected to giving children better opportunities to that children aged 3-12 years still have million). cated focus on the social area, in which In 2016, Ole Kirk’s Fond joined forces open in November 2020. reach their full potential, the owner family the opportunity to learn through play and five focus areas have been identified with the Capital Region of Denmark has entrusted the LEGO Foundation with develop the skills needed to thrive. in 2019: Children as relatives to sick and Rigshospitalet to build a new public Donations from Ole Kirk’s Fond amounted to parents; children in families with alcohol hospital called ‘BørneRiget’ that sets new DKK 134 million in 2019 (2018: DKK 133 million). and drug abuse; vulnerable families with standards for the treatment of children, new born children and toddlers; children adolescents, pregnant women and their and young people failing to thrive, and families. In 2019, the partners in the project, children exposed to violence and abuse. together with engineers and architects, The QATO Foundation is an independent need of help: and projects to educate Foundation has supported the construction charitable foundation that works to improve children as the next generation of animal of this new enclosure, in which the stable animal welfare. With a special focus on caretakers, to create empathy for animals will be the largest of its kind in Europe. The animals that are in human custody, QATO and a profound understanding of their elephants will move into the new facilities in Foundation supports the creation of longneeds. June 2020. term and sustainable solutions to fight the problems that cause poor animal welfare. In 2019, the QATO Foundation supported the The QATO Foundation also supported relocation of four Danish circus elephants. Dyrenes Beskyttelse’s Animal Nature School. Working internationally and with many A proposed national act prohibiting wild The project is targeted at children, who different animal species, projects supported animal performance in circuses, sent learn to understand and care for typical by the QATO Foundation are diverse. Theese the four elephants on retirement. As the pet animals and go on excursions out into ©International Rescue Committee include: Scientific studies to increase the elephants are unable to go back to a local nature, where they learn about Danish understanding of animal behavior and life in the wild, it was decided to build a wildlife. health: projects run by animal welfare state-of-the-art elephant enclosure in the organisations to support animals in urgent Danish zoo, Knuthenborg Safaripark. QATO | 32 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 33 | PART 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kjeld Kirk Niels Jeppe Fonager Peter Thomas Kirk Marie-Louise Kristiansen Jacobsen Christiansen Gæmelke Kristiansen Aamund Chairman of the Board and member Deputy Chairman of the Board Member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Board since 2001 Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Board since 2019 since 1974 and member since 2008 CEO of Maj Invest Holding A/S Chairman of the Board of Danske Shareholder of KIRKBI A/S and Country Director, Google Denmark Majority shareholder of KIRKBI A/S CEO of William Demant Invest A/S Spil A/S, The Loevenholm Foundarepresenting the fourth generation Chairman of the Board of Haldor tion, Nature Energy Biogas A/S, Velliv of the owner family Chairman of the board of Eco President and CEO of the LEGO Chairman of the Board of Founders Topsøe A/S fmba and The Green Museum Innovation Group 1979-2004 A/S, Jeudan A/S, Nissens A/S, Chairman of the Board of LEGO A/S, Vision RT Ltd., the Thomas B. Thrige Deputy Chairman of the Board of Member of the Board of Velliv the LEGO Foundation and Great Independent Board Member of DSV Chairman of the Board of Koldingvej Foundation and Össur hf Novo Nordisk A/S Pension & Livsforsikring A/S, FællesNorthern A/S and Board Member of Navico 2, Billund A/S and Ole Kirk’s Fond. fonden and Askov High School Deputy Chairman of the Board of Deputy Chairman of the Board Member of the Board of Novo Deputy Chairman of LEGO Brand Advisory Board Member of UN the LEGO Foundation and Board of Demant A/S and ABOUT YOU Holdings A/S Member of the Board of RepresentGroup and Board member in three Women Denmark member in Capital of Children Holding GmbH atives of The Danish Central fully owned subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S Playful Minds A/S and four fully owned Member of the executive manageBank, Hedeselskabet, Velliv and subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S Member of the Board of Boston ment of Maj Invest Equity A/S, Det Sydbank A/S Executive Management member of Holding A/S and Sennheiser Kgl. Vajsenhus and Emlika ApS Kirk og Kirk Holding ApS and manageCommunications A/S ment roles in three subsidiaries | 34 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 35 | PART 1 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM ABOUT KIRKBI PART 1 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Kurt Carstensen Sidsel Marie Kristensen Steen Pedersen Chief Financial Officer Head of Legal Head of Global Real Estate Employed in KIRKBI since 2011 Employed in KIRKBI since 2016 Employed in KIRKBI since 2013 Born: 1961 Born: 1975 Born: 1960 Education: MSc in Finance and Education: Master of Law, Aarhus Education: BSc in Civil Engineering, Accounting, University of Southern University, 2000. Master in International Technical University of Denmark, 1986. Denmark, 1990. State Authorised Public and European Business Law, University Executive MBA, Scandinavian InterAccountant of Leuven, 2007 national Management Institute, 2003. Executive education at INSEAD, Wharton Other management positions Other management positions and London Business School Chairman of the Board of Kvist Member of the Board of Merlin Industries A/S. Member of the Board of Entertainments Ltd., Motion JVCO Ltd., Other management positions Isabellafonden (and two fully owned Koldingvej 2, Billund A/S, and twelve Member of the Board of five fullysubsidiaries), Søstrene Grenes Holding subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S. Executive owned subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S. ApS (and two fully owned subsidiaries), position in five subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S Executive position in five subsidiaries of Dansk Skorstensteknik A/S, Great KIRKBI A/S Northern A/S, CoC Playful Minds A/S, and thirteen subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S. Executive position in six subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S Thomas Lau Schleicher Søren Thorup Sørensen THE LEADERSHIP TEAM INCLUDES Chief Investment Officer Chief Executive Officer FIVE MEMBERS. FROM THE LEFT: Employed in KIRKBI since 2010 Employed in KIRKBI since 2010 Kurt Carstensen Chief Financial Officer Born: 1973 Born: 1965 Sidsel Marie Kristensen Education: MSc in Finance and Education: MSc in Accounting and Audit. Head of Legal Accounting, Aarhus School of Business, State Authorised Public Accountant 1998 Steen Pedersen Other management positions Head of Global Real Estate Other management positions Deputy Chairman of the Board of LEGO Member of the Board of Välinge Group A/S and member of the Board of Falck Thomas Lau Schleicher AB, Boston Holding A/S, Nilfilsk Holding A/S, Merlin Entertainments Ltd., Motion Chief Investment Officer A/S, and two subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S JVCO Ltd., Landis+Gyr Group AG, Ole Kirk’s Fond, ATTA Fonden, Koldingvej 2 Søren Thorup Sørensen Billund A/S, Boston Holding A/S (chairChief Executive Officer man) and six fully-owned subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S. Executive position in four subsidiaries of KIRKBI A/S | 36 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 37 | PART 1 BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 BUSINESS AREAS CONTENTS LEGO Brand Group Activities 40 LEGO Brand Group 42 The LEGO Group 44 Merlin Entertainments 46 LEGO Ventures Investment Activities 48 Investment Activities 50 Renewables 52 Long-term Equity 54 Investment Real Estate | 38 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 39 | PART 1 LEGO BRAND GROUP BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 The LEGO Brand Group is managed in a partnership between Jørgen Vig Knudstorp (Executive Chairman) and Thomas Kirk Kristiansen (Deputy Chairman) together with a small team. LEGO BRAND GROUP The purpose of LEGO Brand Group is to protect, develop and leverage the full potential of the LEGO® brand and to ensure active and engaged family ownership of the LEGO® branded entities through generations. The LEGO® brand, driven by the LEGO 1) The owner family’s vision and mentality, Based on the brand strategy process, the Group, has developed rapidly. Over 2) Brand observations, owner’s vision for the LEGO brand in 2032, the past decades, the LEGO Group has 3) Insights and trends and, is to be: expanded its global presence and the 4) External stimulus. LEGO brand has become not only a A global force for establishing and well-known but a highly trusted and strong From these four lenses, six distinct potential innovating Learning-through-Play brand across global markets. ways to radically stretch the brand were identified and explored. In developing Global, because the owner family wants The LEGO brand is also a part of a larger these ”Brand Directions”, it became clear to reach every child in the world. ecosystem of brands due to partnerships that the idea around ‘The Playful Learning A force, because the family wants to and licensed agreements. As more Brand’ held deep truth. The underlying make a true difference in children’s lives, strategic opportunities arise, it is essential data indicated that play, and LEGO® which requires a push and leadership. the brand is safeguarded. Play, is more relevant than ever, that Establishing, because the family recogcreative skills and creative expression are nises that the journey has only just begun, 2019 HIGHLIGHTS busy world, there is a growing desire together to strengthen integration of the In light of the development of the LEGO highly sought after at all ages – however and the importance of Learning-throughAn important milestone in the LEGO® for friends and families to spend quality LEGOLAND® experience with other LEGO brand, the LEGO Brand Group works to difficult to attain in some markets and Play is not yet fully established. brand vision was reached in 2019, when time together, which together with the branded experiences to ensure a unified ensure that the future of the LEGO brand geographies, and that there is a deep Innovating, because the LEGO brand and KIRKBI together with a consortium of continued growth in global tourism brand experience across touchpoints is managed with care and that the LEGO societal need to re-think and re-invigorate society as such constantly learn about new long-term investors comprising Blackstone and greater spend on leisure activities, and to elevate all LEGOLAND® branded brand remains true to the Owner Family’s learning and education. ways of learning-through-play and finally, Core Equity Partners and Canada Pension supports the long-term growth prospects experiences for all visitors, building on overall mission to inspire and develop the Learning-through-Play, which is the Owner Plan Investment Board, completed the of location-based entertainment. Merlin Entertainment’s focus on service, builders of tomorrow. While beginning with distinct insights, Family’s philosophy reflecting their strong take-private of Merlin Entertainments. As satisfaction, recommendation NPS, loyalty trends and opportunities, one clear belief that the best way for children to the long-term owner of the LEGO brand The private ownership model allows for and engagement. LEGO Brand Group exercises the ownercommon thread and conclusion were grow and develop is through play. and as a strategic shareholder in Merlin greater collaboration, investment and governance of the LEGO brand through ultimately found: The LEGO® Idea Paper, Entertainments since 2005, KIRKBI has growth to leverage these trends to deliver the boards of the relevant entities. an internal document, which describes There are at least six different ways in which great pride and passion for the company. long-term sustainable growth whilst ensurthe original LEGO® Idea, with its play, the LEGO brand should be perceived in ing that children, families and friends get THE 2032 LEGO® BRAND VISION creativity and learning proposition is 2032 in addition to what it is known for Together, the Consortium and Merlin the fantastic, rewarding experience they AND STRATEGY unique and more relevant than ever. Fully today, such as creativity and inspiration Entertainments are leaders in locationexpect from Merlin and the LEGO brand In 2019, LEGO Brand Group launched the delivering on this core idea represents – reflecting the mission to “Inspire and based-entertainment experiences and at every touch point they encounter. 2032 LEGO® brand vision and strategy an opportunity to make a difference for develop the builders of tomorrow”. play. Whether at home, work or leisure, internally across the LEGO® branded children and families across the world, people today seek brand experiences Following the closing of the transaction, entities. The brand vision and strategy today and in the future, which the owner These are the six brand characteristics for that enhance their lives, reflect their LEGO Brand Group, LEGO Group and have been explored through four lenses: family holds firmly in their hearts. the 2032 LEGO brand: values and help them live well. In a Merlin Entertainments work closely DELIVERING ESSENTIAL LIFE PERSONALISING PLAY COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY A UNIFIED ECOSYSTEM DIGITAL PLAY IS A NEW CORNERSTONE – DEEP SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT SKILLS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY The LEGO® brand engages all individuals The LEGO® brand is in a leading position in OF TOUCHPOINTS SAFE & ROOTED IN THE BRICK FOR FAMILIES AND CHILDREN The LEGO® brand represents a set of skills with a childlike curiosity based on our ability terms of running a zero-impact operation. The LEGO® brand offers immersive and The LEGO® brand provides a safe, The LEGO® brand brings people together that are critical to successfully navigate to personalise and adapt all interactions to This cuts across energy consumption, waste fully integrated experiences across all meaningful refuge for children in the to play across cultural, geographical and thrive in an uncertain, fast paced skill and affinity levels management, sustainable materials and touchpoints. This allows fans to pursue digital landscape where children can and generational boundaries and works and ever changing world: creativity, circular use of products their passion points in an unbroken and actively engage in shared creativity and to ensure children’s access to learn and curiosity, critical thinking, collaboration frictionless fashion wherever and whenever creation with offset in the LEGO® brick develop through play and engagement they engage with the brand | 40 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 41 | PART 1 THE LEGO GROUP BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 THE LEGO GROUP ABOUT THE LEGO GROUP The LEGO Group is owned 75% by KIRKBI partners as part of efforts to strengthen its Based on the world-famous LEGO® brick A/S, and the remaining 25% is owned by e-commerce and digital presence. and the philosophy of Learning-throughthe LEGO Foundation through Koldingvej Play, the LEGO Group provides unique 2, Billund A/S. Finally, the LEGO Group continued its play experiences for children of all ages. efforts to have a positive impact on the HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 environment and society that children will Through creative play, the LEGO Group In 2019, the LEGO Group made good inherit. It launched LEGO® Replay in the aims to inspire and develop the builders progress against its ambition to bring United States. This is a step towards creating of tomorrow and nurture the skills to help LEGO play to more children around the a circular business model for LEGO bricks. future generations thrive and develop. world. It achieved top-line growth, while The trial programme encourages people When children play, they learn. They making significant investments in future to donate LEGO bricks which are no longer learn lifelong skills like problem solving, growth initiatives. used for distribution to children in need. communication, and collaboration, which are more critical than ever. A study Revenue increased with 6% to DKK 38.5 CEO by the World Economic Forum estimates billion compared with DKK 36.4 billion in Niels B. Christiansen, President and Chief that given the pace of change, 65% 2018. All Market Groups delivered yearExecutive Officer of kindergarten children will hold jobs on-year revenue growth, with established that have not yet been invented. The markets growing single digits and China EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM only way we can prepare children is delivering strong double digit growth. Niels B. Christiansen, President and Chief to give them skills, that can be applied Executive Officer universally. Operating profit grew 2% to DKK 10,752 Marjorie Lao, Chief Finanical Officer million compared to DKK 10,510 million Julia Goldin, Chief Marketing Officer Play is an effective way to develop these in 2018. This was achieved alongside Loren I. Shuster, Chief People Officer and skills from a young age, and LEGO® play investments in projects focused on Head of Corporate Affairs is especially powerful as it offers children innovating play, innovating retail experiCarsten Rasmussen, Chief Operations endless possibilities. Just six two-by-four ences online and instore, and expanding Officer LEGO bricks can make 915 million into new markets. Claus Flyger Pejstrup, Senior Vice President different combinations. And they are LEGO Retail made with such precision that they stick Cash flow for the year continues to Eric Maugein, Executive Vice President together like glue, but come apart easily remain strong, delivering an operating Market Group APAC so they can be built, unbuilt and rebuilt cash flow of DKK 9.6 billion against DKK Skip Kodak, Senior Vice President Market In 2019, the LEGO Group opened its first flagship store in Beijing, China the company’s third flagship store to open in China since 2016. Located at into whatever a child can imagine. 9.8 billion in 2018. Group Americas Wangfujing Street, one of the most popular shopping and entertainment areas in Beijing, the 626-square-meter store will become a center for the local LEGO® community by providing creative and fun LEGO® experiences through groundbreaking store design and immersive play experiences. The LEGO Group was founded by the China remains a strategic growth market BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kirk Kristiansen family in 1932 and has for the LEGO Group. In 2019, the LEGO Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, Chairman ever since then been headquartered in Group expanded its presence in tier three Søren Thorup Sørensen, Deputy Chairman Billund, Denmark. Production facilities are and four cities and now has 146 retail Eva Berneke located in Denmark, the Czech Republic, stores in 35 cities, including flagship stores Jørgen Vig Knudstorp Hungary, China and Mexico, and the in Beijing and Shanghai. During 2020, the Jan Thorsgaard Nielsen 5 YEARS’ PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS company has main offices in Enfield, Group plans to open an additional 80 Kåre Schultz (m DKK) (m DKK) 2019 2018 USA, London, UK, Shanghai, China, and stores in more than 20 new cities. It also Singapore. strengthened collaboration with local 40,000 Revenue 38,544 36,391 Result before tax 10,752 10,510 30,000 Profit for the year 8,306 8,076 Equity 22,183 21,753 20,000 Cash flow from operating activities 9,645 9,847 Investments (2,173) (1,502) 10,000 Average number of employees (FTE) 16,112 15,050 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue Operating profit (EBIT) Ole Kirk Kristiansen, Founder of the LEGO Group | 42 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 43 | PART 1 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS ABOUT MERLIN Plan Investment Board completed the Western China. The resort is scheduled to ENTERTAINMENTS take-private of Merlin Entertainments. As open by 2023. Merlin Entertainments is Europe’s the long-term owner of the LEGO® and leading and the world’s second-largest LEGOLAND® brand and as a strategic The construction of the LEGOLAND® New visitor attraction operator. At the end shareholder in Merlin Entertainments since York resort is progressing with a planned of December 2019, Merlin operates 130 2005, KIRKBI has great pride and passion opening in July 2020. Furthermore, an attractions, 20 hotels and six holiday for the company. Following the closing of agreement was reached with the local villages in 25 countries across four contithe transaction in November 2019, KIRKBI province for the funding of LEGOLAND nents. The aim for Merlin Entertainments is now a 50% owner of the company with Korea with planned opening in 2022. is to create a high growth, high return, the Blackstone/CPPIB owning 50%. family entertainment company based on The LEGOLAND Parks revenue increased strong brands and a global portfolio that HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 by 5.1%, driven by the continued roll out is naturally balanced against the impact Total number of visitors grew by 1.0% to 67 of new accommodation offsetting a of external factors. Merlin Entertainments million and revenue grew organically by decline in like-for-like revenue of 1.1%. delivers memorable experiences to 67 3.6% in 2019 (52 weeks basis). Growth was Midway attractions saw revenue growth million visitors worldwide. driven by a combination of eight new of 4.0% reflecting like-for-like growth of Midway Attractions, 372 rooms for new 0.7% and positive contribution from New Merlin Entertainments operates through accommodation offerings and a 0.8% Business Development. Resort Theme three operating groups: LEGOLAND® like-for-like growth. During 2019, Merlin Parks experienced revenue growth of Parks, Resort Theme Parks and Midway disposed of its two Australian ski resorts. 5.6% with like-for-like growth of 4.1% and Attractions, which include a number contribution from new accommodation. of international brands such as SEA Operating profit for the underlying trading LIFE, Madame Tussauds, the Dungeons, (like-for-like without exceptional items BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEGOLAND® Discovery Centres and The from delisting and discontinued operaNick Varney, CEO Eye. tions) was GBP 342 million compared with Anne-Francoise Nesmes, CFO GBP 357 million in 2018. Joseph Patrick Baratta II Midway Attractions are high quality, Peter Farrell Wallace predominantly indoor attractions located Profit for the year for Merlin decreased Lori Anne Hall-Kimm Masters of Flight, The LEGO® Movie World, LEGOLAND® Florida Resort. in city centres, shopping malls or resorts in 2019 to GBP 124 million from GBP 220 Jørgen Vig Knudstorp providing visits of shorter duration. Resort million in 2018. The decrease in profit Søren Thorup Sørensen Theme Parks are nationally recognised is mainly due to the delisting of Merlin Sidsel Marie Kristensen branded resorts generally aimed at Entertainments, which increased the level families, teenagers and young adults. of financing and thereby interest charges as well as significant transaction costs in The eight LEGOLAND® resorts across 2019. 5 YEARS’ PERFORMANCE Europe, USA and Asia offer a unique (m GBP) LEGO® themed experience for families The strategy to expand the LEGOLAND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS with children. As multi-day destinations, Parks’ footprint continued throughout (m GBP) 2019 2018 they include innovatively themed 2019. Merlin Entertainments entered into 2,000 accommodation and attractions based a Heads of Terms Agreement with the Revenue 1,740 1,653 on interactivity, imagination and family Shanghai Jinshan District Government, 1,500 EBITDA 496 562 fun. Also, in the 23 LEGOLAND® Discovery CMC Inc. and KIRKBI A/S to develop a Centres across Europe, USA and Asia, LEGOLAND Resort in the Jinshan District Profit for the year 124 220 families with young children are offered of Shanghai, China. The schedule for the 1,000 Equity (419) 1,739 an indoor, interactive and immersive project is still to be determined, but the Cash flow from operating activities 463 532 LEGO® branded experience. project is not expected to open until after 2023. Furthermore, Merlin Entertainments 500 Visitors (millions) 67 66.4 In 2019, KIRKBI together with a consortium entered into a partnership agreement Ownership of Merlin Entertainments 50.0 % 29.6 % of long-term investors comprising funds with Global Zhongjun Cultural Tourism 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 KIRKBI’s share of profit for the year (m DKK) * 135 567 advised by Blackstone Core Equity Development Co. to build and operate a Advisors L.L.C. and Canada Pension LEGOLAND Resort in Sichuan Province in Revenue EBITDA *Includes Motion JVCO Ltd. | 44 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 45 | PART 1 TRADEMARKS AND LEGO VENTURES BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 TRADEMARKS KIRKBI A/S, through its subsidiary LEGO LEGO trademark amongst consumers in Juris A/S, is the owner of the LEGO® new markets, to which the LEGO Group trademarks and LEGOLAND® trademarks, business is expanding. which are in turn licensed to The LEGO Group and Merlin Entertainments In 2019, LEGO Juris A/S invested in respectively. The trademark portfolio strengthening the LEGO® brand with owned by LEGO Juris A/S is constantly contributions to “Rebuild the World”, monitored and developed to meet the the first global brand campaign in more commercial needs of its licensed users in than 30 years. The campaign has been the short to longer term perspective, and very well received and has successfully significant efforts are spent to address attracted new consumers to the brand. misuse and infringements of the LEGO trademarks and LEGOLAND trademarks by third parties, both online and offline. LEGO Juris A/S is also supporting initiatives aimed at building awareness of the LEGO VENTURES LEGO Ventures explores investment opportunities at the intersection of Play, Learning and Creativity to leverage and develop the original LEGO® Idea and support the LEGO® brand mission ‘to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow’. Following LEGO Brand Group’s work INVESTMENT APPROACH Klang Games, Dream, Hualala, and around the brand strategy process, one LEGO Ventures focuses on investment SuperAwesome. Investments spanned from clear common thread and conclusion opportunities within four key spaces: North America, to Europe, to Asia, and were ultimately found: The LEGO® Idea, ranged from companies aiming to improve with its play, creativity and learning • Education Technology – Bringing art literacy among students to developing proposition is unique and more relevant playfulness into every classroom internet safety protocol for children. LEGO than ever. Fully delivering on this core • Life skills for the 21st Century – Ventures also established a Value Creation idea represents an opportunity to make a Preparing the heroes of tomorrow team in 2019, which works to share expertise difference for children and families across • New Play Spaces – Rethinking play and knowledge between the LEGO Brand the world, today and in the future. LEGO experiences for modern day realities Group’s entities and LEGO Ventures’ Ventures is founded on the belief that the • Creative Making – Unleashing every portfolio companies. An in-house Incubation LEGO Idea can be used for far more than child’s creative super powers Studio will begin operating in 2020, which will we can presently imagine and the purpose explore, build, launch, and scale new ideas of LEGO Ventures is to explore opportuniThe LEGO Venture investments are that align with the LEGO Idea. The team has ties in the intersection of play, learning and managed by a dedicated in-house team. grown in the past year with new members creativity – opportunities, which leverage on the investment, marketing, value and develop the LEGO Idea and support HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 creation, and incubation teams, resulting in the LEGO® brand mission ‘to inspire and In 2019, LEGO Ventures invested in seven a total of 14 dedicated team members at develop the builders of tomorrow’. companies: Monti Kids, Thrively, HOMER, the end of 2019. | 46 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 47 | PART 1 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES 60,000 50,000 40,000 The purpose of KIRKBI’s investment portfolio is to deliver long-term growth of capital through 30,000 attractive risk-adjusted returns of the investments ultimately, building a sound financial foundation to support the Mission. 20,000 10,000 0,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES mutual value creation Read more about the Promises on Within the private equity portfolio, an INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO Investment AT YEAR-END portfolio The investment portfolio contains equity • Focusing on transparent investment page 14. underlying strong year both driven by the (m DKK) investments, real estate and fixed structures in order to be comfortable preferred buyout funds and co-investincome investments. The purpose of with the underlying risk and return HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 ments was fuelled by a strengthening 80,000 KIRKBI investments is to build a sound factors In 2019, the consolidated investment of the USD. During 2019, KIRKBI made 5,000 financial foundation for the owner activities yielded a positive return of DKK two new fund commitments and made family’s enterprises and activities through Furthermore, as part of the updated 9.3 billion and the investment portfolio one new co-investment with a preferred 4,000 60,000 attractive risk adjusted returns for the 2032 strategy, in the future KIRKBI will also ended at DKK 71 billion. partner. long term, as well as sufficient financial pursue thematic investing. Such thematic 3,000 40,000 flexibility and diversification at all times. investing is focused on maximising Despite increasing concerns with regards During 2019, KIRKBI decided to expand Based on a belief in value creation KIRKBI’s impact and contribution towards to the timing of the next recession, its focus within renewables to include an 2,000 through long-term focus as well as a a more sustainable development in the declining economic growth, and investment in the US solar park developer 20,000 long-term illiquidity premium, we expect world. generally declining sentiment following Enerparc. With the investment in Enerparc 1,000 long-term investments to be a growing political uncertainty, the year proved to Inc., KIRKBI is taking an even more active 0 0.000 part of the total portfolio. RESPONSIBLE INVESTING be a very strong year for KIRKBI’s investrole in the global buildout of renewables, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 AND OWNERSHIP ments, in particular driven by continued which underlines the commitment to Investment portfolio (1.000) Across the core capital portfolio, KIRKBI’s Within the investment activities, KIRKBI appreciation of equity valuations. contribute positively to the global energy 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 investment objectives are to: aspires to create value through responsitransition agenda through our investment ble ownership and investments. On the back of this, a return of 14.9% was activities. 5 YEARS’ PERFORMANCE • Obtain attractive risk-adjusted returns generated within the KIRKBI investment (m DKK) and capital preservation for the long run To fulfil the inherent responsibility in the portfolio predominantly caused by Effective from 2019, renewables have • Secure financial flexibility and liquidity for Fundamentals, KIRKBI has made separate increasing company valuations within been included within the investment the owner family, the LEGO Group and Promises. These promises include an quoted and private equities. All asset activities. 8,000 LEGO Brand Group activities. aspiration to ensure high ethical standards classes performed satisfactorily. • Ensure high environmental, social and across the investment portfolio. 6,000 governmental (ESG) standards in KIRKBI Within long-term equity, KIRKBI has throughinvestments As such, Environmental, Social and out the year increased the ownership in 4,000 Governance factors are fundamental ISS, Nilfisk, and Landis+Gyr. In December The investment portfolio is actively parts of assessing the attractiveness and 2019, we signed a transaction to acquire managed by a dedicated team within performance of an investment. Not only Armacell in partnership with PAI, one of 2,000 KIRKBI, who delivers on the objectives in the due diligence phase, but also as the preferred private equity partners. PAI through a set of guidelines, which define part of the ongoing ownership, as KIRKBI will control the majority (55%) and KIRKBI 0 the investment approach. Through will encourage and work closely with will be a significant minority investor (45%). ACROSS THE PORTFOLIO, KIRKBI’S investments and ownership, KIRKBI is: companies, properties and partners to improve the management of material In 2019, KIRKBI acquired one new INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES ARE TO: (1,000) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • An ambitious and active business risks in order to protect the value and investment property located in Hamburg owner of the companies we invest in enhance long-term returns. (Germany). It is a mixed-use property of • Obtain attractive risk-adjusted returns and Operating profit from investment portfolio • Long-term focused and value-driven app. 27,900 square metres lettable spaccapital preservation for the long run • Making investments and driving In addition to the assessment of ESGes used partly as musical theatre (app. • Secure financial flexibility and liquidity for the active ownership that live up to the factors, we exclude investments in certain 60% of space) and partly as offices and Kirk Kristiansen family, the LEGO Group and responsibility approach industries such as tobacco, armament, retail. In addition, the full redevelopment LEGO Brand Group activities FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS • Working with partners with high gambling and adult entertainment. of Haselstrasse 18 in Baden (Switzerland) • Ensure high environmental, social and (m DKK) 2019 2018 integrity and aiming to engage in The investments are regularly screened was completed and the redevelopment governmental standards in KIRKBI investments long-term relationships with them, for their compliance with international of Ridlerstrasse in Munich (Germany) Operating profit from investment activities 9,326 (551) whenever partnerships contribute to conventions and norms. continued. | 48 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 49 | PART 1 RENEWABLES BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 The wind farm Borkum Riffgrund 1 is located in the North Sea. RENEWABLES Through investments in renewables, KIRKBI supports the LEGO Group’s commitment to balance global consumption of energy with renewable energy, while at the same time delivering attractive long-term returns. ABOUT RENEWABLES more Americans. KIRKBI is engaged in ABOUT BURBO BANK EXTENSION KIRKBI’s renewables strategy targets working closely with the Enerparc Inc. In 2016, KIRKBI and PKA invested jointly into investments in solar, onshore wind and team to support the company’s future Burbo Bank Extension with 25% ownership offshore wind assets. The geographic growth in U.S. solar power generation, for each and Ørsted retained 50% ownership focus is on Northern Europe and North which the demand is strong. and has handled the construction and America. Since 2012, investments into operations of the wind farm. Burbo Bank renewable energy have developed into Also during 2019, the two wind farms Extension is located approximately seven a solid long-term business case – this is Burbo Bank Extension and Borkum Riffgrkilometres off the coast of Liverpool in the fully aligned with the sustainability as well und delivered a stable financial return UK. The wind farm consists of 32 MHI Vestas as financial ambitions. Therefore, KIRKBI with Borkum Riffgrund producing 993 GWh 8 MW turbines with a total capacity of 258 has increased its focus on renewable and Burbo Bank producing 952 GWh. MW and is capable of providing green energy investments. Under KIRKBI’s share of ownership, total energy to 230,000 UK households. The wind 599 GWh of wind and solar energy has farm was officially opened in May 2017. Current renewables investments include been generated in 2019. two offshore wind farms, Borkum Riffgrund ABOUT ENERPARC INC: 1 and Burbo Bank Extension, and solar ABOUT BORKUM RIFFGRUND 1 In 2019, KIRKBI acquired Enerparc Inc. energy developer, Enerparc Inc. In 2012, KIRKBI and William Demant Invest operating as a US affiliate of Enerparc invested jointly in Borkum Riffgrund 1, with AG, the Germany-based parent compaKIRKBI is represented on the Boards of KIRKBI owning 31.5%. Ørsted has retained ny. Founded in 2012 Enerparc Inc. Directors in all three energy providers to 50% ownership and has handled the specialises in developing, engineering, support the strategic development. construction and operations of the wind building and operating distributed utilifarm. Borkum Riffgrund 1 is located in ty-scale photovoltaic (PV) projects. With HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 Germany, approximately 54 kilometres currently over 100 MW of power gener2019 became the year when KIRKBI from shore and 37 kilometres from the ating capacity in the U.S., Enerparc entered the area of solar energy as an island Borkum in the North Sea. The wind Inc. supports the transition of commeracquisition of US-based solar developer farm consists of 78 Siemens 4 MW turbines cial energy supply to renewable forms of Enerparc Inc. was completed. KIRKBI took with a total capacity of 312 MW and is power by connecting large-scale solar PV ownership of a significant majority stake capable of providing green energy corresystems to the grid. Enerparc Inc. is based in the company that has established an sponding to the consumption of 320,000 in Oakland, California and operates more operational, commercial and scalable German households. The wind farm was than 30 solar power projects in 19 states platform to bring solar power to many officially opened in October 2015. across the U.S. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (m DKK) 2019 2018 Profit for the year 421 389 Cash flow from operation 665 616 Carrying amount 6,056 5,245 | 50 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 51 | PART 1 LONG-TERM EQUITY BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 For more than 120 years, Landis+Gyr has been an industry leader in sustainable energy management providing smart meters and advanced grid infrastructure technologies as well as solutions with the overarching mission of managing energy better. LONG-TERM EQUITY It is a priority for the KIRKBI Group to grow the long-term equity ownership with an aim of owning significant minority stakes of high-quality companies with a long-term potential for growth and value creation. ABOUT KIRKBI’S LONG-TERM HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 North America, Latin America and Pacific, EQUITY OWNERSHIP KIRKBI’s long-term equity portfolio serving thousands of both public and A part of KIRKBI’s investment strategy amounts to DKK 13.3 billion end of 2019. private sector customers. ISS A/S is listed on is focused on active ownership of OMX Nordic Stock Exchange. significant minority stakes in high quality During 2019, KIRKBI has increased its companies with a long-term potential ownership position in ISS, Nilfisk, and KIRKBI owns 16.6 % of ISS A/S. for value creation. KIRKBI has a strategy Landis+Gyr. In December 2019, KIRKBI of being represented on the boards of signed a transaction to increase the Nilfisk A/S the companies we are owners of within ownership to 45% of the shares in Nilfisk is a global market leader for long-term equity in order to be a strong Armacell, a global leader in flexible foam professional cleaning equipment with owner and support the companies in for the equipment insulation market and sales in more than 100 countries and 16 relation to their long-term growth and a leading provider of engineered foams. production sites. Nilfisk offers an extensive ongoing development. portfolio of high quality products through KIRKBI’S PORTFOLIO the brands Nilfisk® and Viper. Nilfisk was HOW WE ENGAGE AS OWNERS OF LONG-TERM EQUITY during 2017 demerged from NKT A/S and Our primary focus areas as active owners INVESTMENTS thereby separately listed on Copenhaand representatives on the Board of Falck A/S gen Stock Exchange. Nilfisk has a yearly Directors of long-term equity ownership Falck’s activities are directed at preventing revenue around 1 billion EUR and has stakes are grouped into four categories: accidents and disease; providing around 5,600 employees. assistance in situations of emergency, 1. Strategy accidents and need; and helping people KIRKBI owns 20.3% of Nilfisk. The company’s robustness and move on with their lives after illness or positioning for long-term growth as well accidents. Falck has more than 30,000 Välinge as 3-5 year value creation planning employees. Falck provides ambulance Välinge is an R&D and IP company 2. Financial discipline services to the general public and works in with particular strength in wood-based The company’s efficiency around close collaboration with the authorities on technologies and the flooring and furniture capital allocation and structure as well five continents. Operating more than 2,500 industries. Founded in 1993, Välinge Landis+Gyr Armacell company to 45% in 2019 in line with the as progress on selected KPIs ambulances, Falck has the world’s largest pioneered the concept of floating click Landis+Gyr is the leading global provider of Armacell manufactures advanced investment strategy of being a long-term 3. Governance international ambulance fleet. floors and today, over 1billion square integrated energy management solutions engineered foams that are applied in owner of market-leading companies. The Ensuring the right people and metres of flooring is sold with click systems for the utility sector. Offering one of the a wide range of technical applications, transaction closed during March 2020. competencies are present in the KIRKBI owns 28.6% of Falck A/S. every year, reducing the time and effort broadest portfolios of products and services including commercial and residential board and management team as needed for floor installation as well as to address complex industry challenges, the building equipment, as well as equipment well as ensuring, that the company’s ISS A/S easing the environmental burden of the company delivers comprehensive solutions and solutions for the wind power, energy, systems and procedures are at all The ISS Group was founded in Copenhagen hundreds of millions of liters of glue used for the foundation of a smarter grid, includindustrials, transport and sports & leisure times appropriate and supportive in 1901 and has grown to become one of for installations in the past. The present ing smart metering, distribution network sectors. In developing innovative thermal, for the company’s long-term the world’s leading Facility Services compatechnology base covers fields related to sensing and automation tools, load control, acoustic and mechanical systems, Armacell’s development nies. ISS offers a wide range of services such floor locking, furniture, surface materials analytics and energy storage. Landis+Gyr products and solutions improve overall 4. Sustainability as: Cleaning, Catering, Security, Property and treatments, production processes operates in over 30 countries across five energy efficiency, acoustic comfort and Focusing on the company’s continuous and Support Services as well as Facility and tools, digital printing and ink, and continents. With sales of approximately USD vibration control on a global scale. With improvements to ensure sustainable Management. ISS has approximately thermoplastic core materials. 1.7 billion, the company employs app. 6,000 24 manufacturing facilities worldwide, growth via continuous progress within 500,000 employees and local operations in people with the main mission of helping the Armacell employs over 3,000 people. environmental and social areas. more than 50 countries across Europe, Asia, KIRKBI owns 48.3% of Välinge. world manage energy better. KIRKBI has been an investor in Armacell KIRKBI owns 15.2% of Landys+Gyr. since 2016 and increased its stake in the | 52 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 53 | PART 1 INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE BUSINESS AREAS PART 1 In 2019, Haselstrasse 18 in Baden, Switzerland, was comprehensively redeveloped into an office building INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE The focus for the KIRKBI Group’s real estate investments is to maintain and increase the real estate portfolio with sound and high-quality properties with a long-term value potential. ABOUT KIRKBI’S REAL ESTATE All real estate investments are evaluated is a mixed-use property of ca. 27,900 INVESTMENTS based on their long-term potential, square metres lettable space in the In KIRKBI, we believe in value creation where both the return component and Altona district of Hamburg, used partly through a long-term focus, and thus, a the environmental impact are of high as musical theatre and partly as offices growing real estate footprint is a strategic importance. and retail. The property is fully let to a choice. multitude of tenants, of which the theatre KIRKBI’s focus on assessing and improving part accounts for the largest. The focus of the KIRKBI Group in terms the environmental footprint of the properof real estate investments is to maintain ties supports the Planet Promise to create In 2019, KIRKBI also completed the and increase the real estate portfolio a positive impact – an integrated part of comprehensive redevelopment of with sound and high-quality properties the KIRKBI Fundamentals. An increased the property Haselstrasse 18 in Baden, as well as looking at redevelopment focus on sustainability is also guaranteed Switzerland, an office building of app. opportunities with a long-term value through KIRKBI’s strategy towards 2032. 6,400 square metres. The property was potential, primarily within the office and pre-let to a single tenant, occupying the retail sectors. KIRKBI currently has a portfolio of 24 real entire property. estate capital investments located in KIRKBI PRIMARILY INVESTS IN Copenhagen (Denmark), London (Great FIVE LOCATIONS Britain), Baar, Olten, Cham, Baden and KIRKBI’s current real estate strategy Rapperswil (Switzerland), Munich and identifies five locations for the future real Hamburg (Germany). The total size of the estate capital investments: portfolio by the end of 2019 measured more than 280,000 square metres of • Copenhagen space. • London • Munich HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019 • Hamburg In 2019, KIRKBI acquired one new • The German speaking investment property, Neue Flora, located part of Switzerland in Hamburg (Germany). The building Photo: C.F. Møller Architects | 54 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 55 | PART 21 CONSOLIDATED MANAGEMENT´SFINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PART 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS PART 2 Consolidated Financial Statements 58 Consolidated Income Statement 59 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 60 Balance Sheet at 31 December 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 63 Cash Flow Statement 1 January – 31 December PART 3 Notes – the KIRKBI Group 64 Contents PART 4 Parent Company 98 Contents PART 5 Additional Information 110 Management’s Statement 112 Independent Auditor’s Report | 56 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 57 | PART 2 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PART 2 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT OF COMPRESTATEMENT HENSIVE INCOME (m DKK) Notes 2019 2018 (m DKK) Notes 2019 2018 LEGO Group 2.2 10,752 10,510 Profit for the year 16,774 8,681 Merlin activities 2.3 172 600 Royalties 1,495 1,400 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME LEGO Ventures 2.4 (114) (16) Items that may be reclassified to the income statement: Trademark and administration costs (514) (274) Exchange differences, foreign subsidiaries and associates 466 (66) Operating profit from LEGO Brand Group activities 2.1 11,791 12,220 Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges (76) (43) Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges associates 2 Operating profit from investment activities 3.1, 3.2 9,326 (551) Tax on entries directly in equity 1 19 Administration costs (516) (317) Total operating profit 20,601 11,352 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (33) 19 Financial items (15) (71) Other equity movements in associates (316) (2) Profit before tax 20,586 11,281 Other comprehensive income for the year 42 (71) Tax on profit for the year 5.1 (3,812) (2,600) Total comprehensive income 16,816 8,610 Profit for the year 16,774 8,681 Appropriation to Appropriation to Parent company shareholders 14,682 6,655 Parent company shareholders 14,693 6,592 Non-controlling interests 8.5 2,092 2,026 Non-controlling interests 8.5 2,123 2,018 16,774 8,681 16,816 8,610 Please refer to note 1.4 for a Standard Consolidated Income Statement for the KIRKBI Group. | 58 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 59 | PART 2 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER PART 2 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER ASSETS (m DKK) Notes 2019 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (m DKK) Notes 2019 2018 Non-current assets EQUITY Goodwill, trademarks, patents and other intangible rights 6.3 2,245 1,955 Share capital 8.4 200 200 Software 185 147 Retained earnings 96,607 82,314 Development projects 13 93 KIRKBI Group’s share of equity 96,807 82,514 Intangible assets 6.2 2,443 2,195 2,245 Non-controlling interests 8.5 5,672 5,553 Property 6.4 8,458 7,183 Total equity 102,479 88,067 Plant and equipment 6.4 7,981 8,111 Other fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 6.4 2,429 1,937 LIABILITIES Fixed assets under construction 6.4 2,795 3,243 Non-current liabilities Right-of-use assets 6.5 2,249 Borrowings 2,269 1,932 Property, plant and equipment 23,912 20,474 Lease liabilities 6.5 1,715 Deferred tax liabilities 5.2 1,065 979 Investment real estate 3.3 8,577 7,537 Pension obligations 8.6 209 161 Investments in associates 2.3 4,443 4,454 Provisions 4.4 354 338 Receivables from associates 644 658 Other long-term liabilities 4.3 314 232 Other securities at fair value 2.4 277 103 Total non-current liabilities 5,926 3,642 Finance leases 2.5 1,399 1,372 Other investments 111 109 Current liabilities Prepayments 142 Borrowings 1,725 1,904 Deferred tax assets 5.2 757 630 Lease liabilities 6.5 510 Other non-current assets 16,208 15,005 Trade payables 3,718 3,497 Current tax liabilities 492 336 Total non-current assets 42,563 37,674 Provisions 4.4 15 58 Other short-term liabilities 4.3 5,037 5,628 Current assets Total current liabilities 11,497 11,423 Inventories 4.1 2,824 2,716 Trade receivables 4.2 7,334 6,929 Total liabilities 17,423 15,065 Other receivables 2,383 2,431 Prepayments 379 253 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 119,902 103,132 Current tax receivables 384 633 Securities 3.4 62,371 49,880 Cash 1,664 2,616 Total current assets 77,339 65,458 TOTAL ASSETS 119,902 103,132 | 60 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 61 | PART 2 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER PART 2 STATEMENT CASH FLOW STATEMENT OF CHANGES 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER IN EQUITY Retained KIRKBI compreGroup’s NonShare hensive share of controlling Total (m DKK) capital income equity interests equity (m DKK) Notes 2019 2018 Balance at 1 January 2019 200 82,314 82,514 5,553 88,067 Profit before tax 20,586 11,281 Income tax paid (3,448) (3,155) Profit for the year 14,682 14,682 2,092 16,774 Reversals of items with no effect on cash flows 4.5 (6,949) 1,789 Other comprehensive income for the year 11 11 31 42 Changes in working capital 4.6 (1,140) 1,276 Total comprehensive income for the year 14,693 14,693 2,123 16,816 Cash flows from operating activities 9,049 11,191 Dividend (400) (400) (2,004) (2,404) Acquisition of securities, net (3,674) (5,309) Balance at 31 December 2019 200 96,607 96,807 5,672 102,479 Acquisition of intangible assets (360) (57) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (3,356) (2,818) Balance at 1 January 2018 200 76,105 76,305 5,285 81,590 Sale of property, plant and equipment 11 424 Acquisition of associates (153) Profit for the year 6,655 6,655 2,026 8,681 Cash flows from investing activities (7,532) (7,760) Other comprehensive income for the year (63) (63) (8) (71) Total comprehensive income for the year 6,592 6,592 2,018 8,610 Dividend paid to shareholders (400) (400) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests (2,004) (1,750) Acquisition of non-controlling interests New borrowings 435 316 Equity-settled share-based transactions in associates 17 17 17 Repayments of borrowings (16) (748) Dividend (400) (400) (1,750) (2,150) Payment of lease liabilities (484) Balance at 31 December 2018 200 82,314 82,514 5,553 88,067 Cash flows from financing activities (2,469) (2,582) Net cash flows for the year (952) 849 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2,616 1,767 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1,664 2,616 Accounting policies The consolidated cash flow statement shows cash securities, intangible assets, property, plant and flows for the year broken down by operating, equipment, fixtures and fittings as well as fixed investing and financing activities, changes for the asset investments. period in cash and bank overdrafts and cash and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year. Cash flows from financing activities comprise proceeds from borrowings, repayment of Cash flows from operating activities are calculatinterest-bearing debt and dividend paid to ed indirectly as the profit for the year adjusted for shareholders and non-controlling interests. non-cash items, income taxes paid and changes in working capital. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank overdrafts etc. that can readily be convertCash flows from investing activities comprise ed into cash reduced by short-term bank debt. payments relating to acquisitions and disposals of | 62 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 63 | PART 3 THE KIRKBI GROUP THE KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 THE KIRKBI GROUP CONTENTS Section 5 – Taxes 81 5.1 Income tax expense PART 3 Notes – The KIRKBI Group 82 5.2 Deferred tax Section 1 – Basis for preparation 66 1.1 Significant accounting estimates and Section 6 – Intangible assets and property, judgements plant and equipment 66 1.2 Basis of reporting 83 6.1 Depreciation and amortisation 67 1.3 Effects of new and amended accounting 84 6.2 Intangible assets standards 85 6.3 Impairment test 68 1.4 Standard consolidated income statement 85 6.4 Property, plant and equipment 87 6.5 Leases Section 2 – Operating profit from LEGO Brand Group activities Section 7 – Risk management 69 2.1 Definition of LEGO Brand Group activities 88 7.1 Contingent liabilities and other obligations 69 2.2 The LEGO Group 88 7.2 Financial risks 70 2.3 Investments in associates 89 7.3 Derivative financial instruments (Merlin Entertainments Ltd.) 91 7.4 Financial assets and liabilities 71 2.4 Other securities at fair value (LEGO Ventures) 72 2.5 Finance leases Section 8 – Other notes 92 8.1 Expenses by nature Section 3 – Operating profit from investment activities 92 8.2 Employee expenses 73 3.1 Definition of investment activities 93 8.3 Auditors’ fee 73 3.2 Operating profit from Investment activities 93 8.4 Share capital 74 3.3 Investment real estate 94 8.5 Non-controlling interests 75 3.4 Securities 94 8.6 Pension obligations 77 3.5 Joint arrangements 95 8.7 Related party transactions 95 8.8 Post balance sheet events Section 4 – Working capital 96 8.9 Group structure 78 4.1 Inventories 78 4.2 Trade receivables PART 4 Parent Company 79 4.3 Other liabilities 98 Contents 79 4.4 Provisions 80 4.5 Reversals of items with no effect on cash flows PART 5 Additional information 80 4.6 Changes in working capital 108 Contents | 64 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 65 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 SECTION 1 – BASIS FOR PREPARATION Associates are entities, where the KIRKBI Group has • Assets and liabilities for each subsidiary are significant influence but which it does not control, translated into DKK at the closing rate at the generally represented by a shareholding of between balance sheet date. 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Associates classified • Income and expenses for each subsidiary are 1.1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS as LEGO Brand Group actitivities are accounted translated at average exchange rates. for using the equity method of accounting and are • Differences deriving from translation of the foreign When preparing the annual report, it is necessary accounted for using the equity method and which initially recognised at cost. Assoicates classified as subsidiaries’ opening equity to the exchange that management makes a number of accounting companies are accounted for using fair value investments are valuated using fair value through the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date, estimates and judgements that affect the reported through the income statement. income statement (IFRS 9). and differences owing to the translation of the amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported income statements of the foreign subsidiaries amounts of revenues and expenses. It is management’s assessment that the assumptions The KIRKBI Group’s share in joint operations is from average exchange rates to balance sheet are reasonable. recognised in the consolidated balance sheet date exchange rates are recognised in other Estimates and judgements used in the determination through recognition of the KIRKBI Group’s own relative comprehensive income. of reported results are continuously evaluated. Long-term equity share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Management bases the judgements on historical Valuation of unlisted long-term equity investments experience and other assumptions that management is based on estimates and assumptions as regards Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised assesses are reasonable under the given circumthe fair value of each individual company. The fair gains on transactions between group companies are 1.3. EFFECTS OF NEW AND AMENDED stances. Actual results may differ from these estimates value is estimated using a valuation model based on eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless ACCOUNTING STANDARDS under different assumptions or conditions. relevant multiples of a set of comparable companies, the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the pro-forma adjusted operating income and adjusted asset transferred. Subsidiaries’ accounting policies have Effects of new and amended accounting standards The following accounting estimates and judgements net interest bearing debt. The valuation is performed been changed where necessary to ensure consistency All amended standards and interpretations issued by are those which management assesses to be material by internal portfolio managers. with the policies adopted by the KIRKBI Group. IASB and endorsed by the EU effective as of 1 January for the annual report. 2019 have been adopted by the KIRKBI Group. The most subjective parameter in the valuation model Non-controlling interests include third-party Investment in associates is the multiples from comparable companies. If the shareholders’ share of equity and the results for the From 1 January 2019, the KIRKBI Group has adopted The KIRKBI Group’s investment in entities in which it multiples were reduced by 1.0x point, it would have a year in subsidiaries which are not 100% owned. the following new standards: has significant influence, is accounted for using either negative effect on profit before tax of around DKK 0.4 * IFRS 16 Leases the equity method or fair value through profit and loss billion, which is described in note 3.4. The part of the subsidiaries’ results that can be * IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income tax treatments depending on the classification of each single entity. attributed to non-controlling interests forms part of the It is management’s assessment that the assumptions income statement for the year. Non-controlling interests’ IFRS 16 LEASES Entities, in which the KIRKBI Group has significant and estimates are reasonable. share of equity is stated as a separate item in equity. Description influence and which are considered a LEGO Brand IFRS 16 has been implemented as of 1 January 2019. Group activity are accounted for using the equity Real estate investments Amounts and qualitative information that are The standard supersedes existing leases guidance in method. Based on this judgement for instance Merlin Within other non-current assets the valuation of considered unimportant for the accounting user are IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations. Entertainments is accounted for using the equity investment real estate requires estimates and omitted. method. judgements on future cash flows, yields and market Implementation values for similar properties. The most subjective FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The KIRKBI Group adopted IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 Entities, in which the KIRKBI Group has significant parameter is the yield used in the calculation. If the Functional and presentation currency using the modified retrospective approach according influence, which are defined as an investment activity yield in the calculations increases by 1% point, the Items included in the financial statements of each of to which comparative figures are not restated, but are accounted for using fair value through the impact on profit before tax would be negative with the KIRKBI Group’s entities are measured using the presented in accordance with the previous IFRS income statement and accounted for in accordance around DKK 1.6 billion. Please refer to note 3.3 for a currency of the primary economic environment in standard on leases (IAS 17). Right-of-use assets have with IFRS 9, which goes for investments in Falck A/S, description of the impact on each geografical area. which the entity operates. The consolidated financial been presented as a separate line in the balance sheet. Välinge Group AB and Nilfisk A/S. It is management’s assessment that the estimates are statements are presented in Danish kroner (DKK), reasonable. which is the functional and presentation currency of For existing leases, classified as operating leases under Please refer to the KIRKBI Group Structure for a the Parent Company. IAS 17, lease liabilities have been measured at the complete overview of which companies are present value of the remaining lease payments. Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated For existing leases, classified as finance leases under into the functional currency using the exchange IAS 17, the carrying amount of lease liabilities and 1.2. BASIS OF REPORTING rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. right-of-use assets at 1 January 2019 equals the Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from carrying amount of lease liabilities and lease assets at The consolidated financial statements of the KIRKBI Group statement due to changes in the reporting structure of the settlement of such transactions and from the 1 January 2019. have been prepared in accordance with International the KIRKBI Group, and the comparative figures in the translation at balance sheet date exchange rates of Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU income Statement have been adjusted accordingly monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The main practical expedients applied in and additional Danish disclosure requirements. without changing total net profit for the year. currencies are recognised in the income statement, implementing the standard have been: except when deferred in equity as reserve for • No reassessment of excisting lease contracts have This section introduces the KIRKBI Groups accounting CONSOLIDATION PRACTICE exchange rate adjustments. been made at the commencement date policies. A more detailed description of accounting Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on • Contracts, not previously determined to contain a policies is presented in the respective notes. which control is transferred to the KIRKBI Group. They are Group companies lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4, have de-consolidated from the date on which control ceases. The results and financial position of subsidiaries not been reassessed at the commencement date Apart from the changes due to implementation of that have a functional currency different from • Allowing not to recognise right-of-use assets and new standards as described in note 1.3, accounting Subsidiaries classified as investments are valuaed using the presentation currency are translated into the related lease liabilities for excisting leases ending policies are unchanged from last year. Some fair value through the income statement (IFRS 9). presentation currency as follows: within 12 months of 1 January 2019 reclassifications have been made in the income | 66 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 67 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 Impact SECTION 2 – OPERATING PROFIT FROM LEGO Implementation of IFRS 16 has not had a significant KIRKBI Group, the implementation of IFRS 16 has had no BRAND GROUP ACTIVITIES effect on the KIRKBI Group’s balance sheet. The effect impact on the income statement of the KIRKBI Group. has occured mainly from the LEGO Group, where most off-balance operating leases under IAS 17 have The operating lease commitments at 31 December now been capitalised. 2018 disclosed in the Annual Report 2018 and lease 2.1. DEFINITION OF LEGO BRAND GROUP ACTIVITIES liabilities recognised in the opening balance at 1 As the result before tax within the LEGO Group is January 2019 in accordance with IFRS 16 can be LEGO Brand Group activities are defined as activities activities and ownership of and assets leased to presented in one line in the income statement of the specified as follows: related to the LEGO® brand, which inlude ownership of Merlin Entertainments Ltd as owners of the LEGOthe LEGO Group, trademark royalties, LEGO Ventures LAND® parks and LEGOLAND® Discovery Centres. (m DKK) 2019 Operating lease commitments disclosed in the notes at 31 December 2018 2,260 Commitments not part of the notes 31 December 2018 160 Accounting policies Net profit before tax from LEGO A/S, a company method. Changes to the carrying amount of the Other adjustments 43 in which the KIRKBI Group has significant influence, investment are charged into operating profit from Discounting effect (311) is fully consolidated into the Operating profit from Merlin activities. Assets owned by the KIRKBI Group Lease Liability recognised at 1 January 2019 2,152 the LEGO Group. and leased to Merlin Entertainments are included in operating profit from Merlin activities. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Merlin Entertainments Ltd., in which KIRKBI The KIRKBI Group follows the guidelines in IFRIC 23 for accounting for uncertain income tax positions and the owns 50%, is accounted for using the equity implementation of the interpretation standard has not resulted in any change to the net amount of tax positions. 2.2. THE LEGO GROUP 1.4. STANDARD CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (m DKK) 2019 2018 The KIRKBI Group presents its consolidated income statement will give a transparent and clear picture of statement, as an alternative performance measure profitability, development and direction of the KIRKBI Reconciliation to the Annual Report for the LEGO Group: (APM) as management believes that an APM gives the Group’s activities. Profit before income tax 10,752 10,510 most accurate picture of the company’s holding and included as Operating profit from LEGO Group investment activities. The internal management reporting for the KIRKBI Group is also, in line with the annual report, presented as an APM. KIRKBI’s activites includes ownership of industrial Tax on profit for the year (2,446) (2,434) companies within different industries and operation To fulfill IFRS requirements of presenting a standardised included in Tax on profit for the year of a large investment portfolio. Management does consolidated income statement, it is presented below Net profit for the year 8,306 8,076 not believe that a standardised consolidated income without further descriptions or notes. Included as non-controlling interests, 25 % (2,076) (2,018) (m DKK) 2019 2018 Revenue 40,549 38,267 Accounting policies Production costs (10,042) (9,945) The KIRKBI Group controls, through its 75% ownerThe non-controlling share of the LEGO Group Gross profit 30,507 28,322 ship of LEGO A/S, the LEGO Group. Hence the is presented as Non-controlling interest in the LEGO Group is fully consolidated into the income income statement and as non-controlling interests Sales and distribution costs (12,094) (10,744) statement and balance sheet of the KIRKBI Group. under equity. Administrative expenses (3,723) (2,917) Other operating expenses (2,175) (2,214) Operating profit 12,515 12,447 Profit from associated companies 135 567 Financial items, net 7,936 (1,733) Profit before tax 20,586 11,281 Tax on profit for the year (3,812) (2,600) Profit for the year 16,774 8,681 | 68 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 69 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 2.3. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS LTD.) Accounting policies The KIRKBI Group’s investment in entities in which At each reporting date, the KIRKBI Group deter(m DKK) 2019 2018 the group has significant influence is allocated to mines whether there is objective evidence that either LEGO Brand Group activities or investment the investment in associate is impaired. If there is Net profit from Merlin activities includes: activities. Please refer to section 1.1 for a such evidence, the KIRKBI Group calculates the Share of profit from Merlin Entertainments / Motion JVCO Ltd. 135 567 description of significant accounting estimates amount of impairment as the difference between and judgements. the recoverable amount of the associate and its Profit from assets leased to Merlin Entertainments 37 33 carrying value and then recognises the loss in the Operating profit from Merlin activities 172 600 Merlin Entertainments, which is part of LEGO Brand income statement. Group activities, is accounted for using the equity Investments in associates defined as a LEGO Brand Group ownership to 50%. The KIRKBI Group does not control method. Under the equity method, investments The carrying amount of associated companies activity includes the ownership of Merlin Entertainments. the investment in Merlin Entertainments and hence the in associates are initially recognised at cost. The allocated to LEGO Brand Group activities is investment is classified as an investment in associates. carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to classified in the balance sheet as Other non-curThe KIRKBI Group has during 2019 acquired further 20.4% The ownership of Merlin Entertainments is structured recognise changes in the share of the net assets of rent assets. of the shares in Merlin Entertainments, bringing total through the holding company Motion JVCO Ltd. the associate since the acquisition date. (m DKK) 2019 2018 Cost at 1 January 2,569 2,573 Acquisitions 153 2.4. OTHER SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE (LEGO VENTURES) Disposals (4) Cost at 31 December 2,722 2,569 LEGO Ventures explores investment opportunities at the portfolio of LEGO Ventures’ investments consists of 11 intersection of Play, Learning and Creativity to leverage investments end of 2019 (2018 four investments). Value adjustment at 1 January 1,885 1,517 and develop the original LEGO® Idea and support the Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 243 (55) LEGO® brand mission. LEGO Ventures typically invests into For LEGO Ventures’ investments classified as associated IFRS 16 impact (257) start-ups and private growth companies. companies, please see note 8.9. Dilution (59) (10) KIRKBI has made seven investments during 2019 Share of profit 135 567 categorised as LEGO Ventures’ investments, and the Share of comprehensive income (83) 54 Dividend (143) (188) (m DKK) 2019 2018 Value adjustment at 31 December 1,721 1,885 Operating profit from LEGO Ventures consists of: Carrying amount at 31 December 4,443 4,454 Change in fair value of financial assets (83) Operational costs (31) (16) General information on associates Net result (114) (16) Merlin Entertainments Ltd. As of 31 December 2019, KIRKBI has invested Fair value: Company name (owned through Motion JVCO Ltd.) in bonds and term-loans issued by Merlin Fair value 1 January 103 Entertainments with a value of DKK 4,975 Investments during the year 257 103 Country UK million (in 2018 DKK 0 million), reported within Change in fair value of financial assets (83) Ownership / Votes 50% securities as current assets. Fair value at 31 December 277 103 Functional currency GBP Fair value measurement hierarchy: Financial information of Merlin Entertainments Ltd./Motion JVCO Ltd. Not based on observable market data 277 103 (m DKK) 2019 2018 277 103 Revenue 15,255 13,960 Profit for the year 1,070 1,902 KIRKBI Group’s share of profit for the year 135 567 Total assets 67,538 31,154 Total equity 22,481 14,382 KIRKBI Group´s share of equity 11,241 4,264 Elimination of goodwill in Motion JVCO Ltd. (6,988) Goodwill 190 190 Carrying amount of associates 4,443 4,454 | 70 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 71 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 Accounting policies SECTION 3 – OPERATING PROFIT Subsidiaries, associates and other financial assets Fair value meassurement of each single investment FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES that fall into LEGO Ventures are recognised in will, individually, be based on latest knowledge accordance with IFRS 9 at fair value through the which could be latest valuation rounds of the 3.1. DEFINITION OF INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES income statement. The KIRKBI Group’s valuation company in new capital rounds with for instance of LEGO Ventures investments are based on i) length of runway before the company runs out The KIRKBI Group invests in mortage bonds, KIRKBI’s portfolio managers with the purpose of individually assessments carried out by KIRKBI’s of funds, ii) assessment of the likelihood of the government bonds, corporate debt, quoted creating long-term value for the KIRKBI Group. portfolio managers. LEGO Ventures’ investments company’s ability to raise new external funding, iii) equities, private equity, real estate and larger equity KIRKBI’s investment portfolio amounts at year-end are initially recognised at fair value and subsecommercial and operational performance against investments. These investments are managed by 2019 to DKK 71.0 billion (2018 DKK 58.2 billion). quently adjusted to fair value. KIRKBI’s expectations at the time of investment. Accounting policies The investment portfolio has been designated as either LEGO Brand Group activities or investment financial assets at fair value through the income activities. Please refer to section 1.1 for a 2.5. FINANCE LEASES statement as the portfolio is managed and evaludescription of significant accounting estimates ated on a fair value basis in accordance with the and judgements. Finance leases are related to KIRKBI being owner of the physicial infrastructure KIRKBI Group´s investment strategy. Securities are assets in the LEGOLAND® park in Nagoya, Japan. measured at fair value, which equals listed prices The entities Falck A/S, Välinge Group AB, and or internationally accepted valuation models for Nilfisk A/S, all associated companies, are allocat(m DKK) 2019 2018 private equity. Realised and unrealised gains and ed to KIRKBI’s investment portfolio and thereby losses (including unrealised foreign exchange rate managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in Repayment within 1 year 41 40 gains and losses) are recognised in the income accordance with the KIRKBI Group’s investment Repayment between 1 and 5 years 164 158 statement. Transactions are recognised at the strategy. The investment portfolio are valued at trade date. fair value through the income statement and Repayment after 5 years 1,730 1,712 accounted for in accordance with IAS 28. Gross investment in finance leasing: 1,935 1,910 The KIRKBI Group’s investment in entities in which Hereof unearned future finance income (536) (538) the group has significant influence is allocated to Net Investment in finance lease 1,399 1,372 Repayment within 1 year 21 20 Repayment between 1 and 5 years 86 82 3.2. OPERATING PROFIT FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Repayment after 5 years 1,292 1,270 Operating profit from investment activities consists of: Net investment in finance lease 1,399 1,372 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Accounting policies Gain or loss on financial assets 8,151 (1,386) KIRKBI’s leasing operations comprise solely of payment excluding cost of services is recorded as Net income from Investment real estate (note 3.3) 743 446 finance lease on property and infrastructure repayment of principal and interest income. The Operating profit from joint arrangements (note 3.5) 432 389 assets. A finance lease is reported as receivable income allocation is based on a pattern reflection 9,326 (551) from the lessee in the balance sheet at an amount a constant periodic return on the net investment equal to the net investment in the lease. The lease outstanding in respect of the finance lease. The investment portfolio consists of the following items from KIRKBI’s balance sheet Investment real estate (note 3.3) 8,577 7,537 Receivables from associates 658 Securities (note 3.4) 62,371 49,880 Other receivables 53 84 71,001 58,159 | 72 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 73 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 3.3. INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE Accounting policies Investment real estate is measured initially at cost, at which the property can be exchanged between including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial knowledgeable, willing parties under current market (m DKK) 2019 2018 recognition, investment properties are stated at the conditions. The cash flow estimates are determined expected fair values from a net cash transaction at on the basis of the market rent for each property. Net income: the balance sheet date. The required rate of return (yield) on a property is dertermined on the basis of its location, type, Rental income 392 366 Fair value is determined by management using possible uses, layout and condition as well as on the Direct expenses (59) (114) approved valuation methods based on the capital terms of lease agreements, rent adjustment and the Net result from operation 333 252 value calculated on expected cash flows. If current credit quality of lessees. market prices for comparable properties are Fair value adjustments: available, these will be incorporated as part of the The return-based model used is: fair value valuation. Rental income Gain on disposals 50 + vacant rents Fair value adjustment for the year, net 225 63 Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair  operating costs such as taxes, Exchange adjustment to real estate for the year, net 185 81 values of investment properties are included in the insurances and utilities Fair value adjustments: 410 194 income statement in the period in which they arise. maintenance administration Net income from Investment real estate 743 446 Valuation method: = Net cash flow The fair value is assessed by the KIRKBI Group’s / Yield real estate team at year-end on the basis of a = Capitalised fair value Fair value: return-based model. Valuations rely substantially on vacant rents Fair value at 1 January 7,537 7,267 non-observable input and are based on cash flow + Deposits Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 185 81 estimates and on the required rate of return (yield) +/corrections for known circumstances Additions, new real estates 549 397 calculated for each property that reflects the price = Fair value Additions, improvement of existing real estate 171 93 Disposals (364) Transfer to properties (90) Fair value adjustment for the year, net 225 63 3.4. SECURITIES Fair value at 31 December 8,577 7,537 Securities consist of mortage bonds, corporate * Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for debt, quoted equities, private equity and identical assets (level 1) Effect of 1% point Investment properties are stated at fair value, investments in associated companies. Associated Yield Yield increase in yield using the following yields based on location: companies classified as investment activities and * Inputs other than quoted prices included within 2019 2018 (mDKK) included in Securities are listed in note 8.9. Seculevel 1 that are observable for the assets either Copenhagen, Denmark 4.00 5.25 % 4.00 5.25 % (269) rities can be purchased and sold in established directly or indirectly (level 2) markets. London, UK 4.75 5.50 % 4.50 5.25 % (307) * Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on Baar, Switzerland 4.25 5.00 % 4.25 5.00 % (452) All securities and investments recognised under observable market data (level 3) Hamburg, Germany 5.25 % 5.25 % (142) Securities are classified as “financial assets at fair Munich, Germany 3.75 4.00 % 3.75 4.25 % (414) value through the income statement” are reported (1,584) at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy for: 2019 % of % of investments investment in (m DKK) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total rated DKK or EUR Mortage bonds 5,490 5,490 100 % AAA 100 % Corporate debt 7,465 3,811 11,276 19 % inv. Grade 74 % Equities 29,399 29,399 n/a 45 % Private equity and unquoted equity 16,206 16,206 n/a 33 % Fair value 42,354 3,811 16,206 62,371 | 74 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 75 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 2018 Accounting policies Subsidiaries, associates and other financial accepted valuation models for private equity. % of assets that fall into Securities are recognised in Realised and unrealised gains and losses (including % of investments investment in accordance with IFRS 9 at fair value through profit unrealised foreign exchange rate gains and losses) (m DKK) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total rated DKK or EUR and loss. Investments are initially recognised at fair are recognised in the income statement as operatvalue and subsequently adjusted to fair value. Fair ing profit from investment activities. Transactions are Mortage bonds 8,759 8,759 100 % AAA 100 % value equals active market data or internationally recognised at the trade date. Corporate debt 4,493 4,493 45 % inv. Grade 94 % Equities 23,403 23,403 n/a 50 % Private equity and unquoted equity 13,225 13,225 n/a 26 % Fair value 36,655 13,225 49,880 3.5. JOINT ARRANGEMENTS For descriptions of credit risk, and foreign exchange risk please refer to note 7.2, where risks from a group Profit from joint arrangements are pro-rata consolidated into perspective are considered low. the income statement as investment activities, covering: (m DKK) 2019 2018 Change in values not based on observable market data (level 3) Borkum Riffgrund 1 278 295 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Burbo Bank Extension 154 94 Operating profit from joint arrangements 432 389 Fair value 1 January 13,225 11,748 Change in fair value of financial assets 2,260 1,800 Additions 3,350 4,636 The operating profit from joint arrangements can be split into: Disposals (2,629) (4,959) (m DKK) 2019 2018 Fair value 31 December 16,206 13,225 Revenue 838 806 Operation costs (167) (182) Financial instruments, which are priced using For unquoted equities (long-term equity), valuation Depreciation (233) (227) non-observable input, include private placement is based on a valuation model using input such Financial items (6) in private equity funds and private placement in as relevant multiples of a set of comparable Special items (8) unquoted equities (long-term equity). companies, pro-forma adjusted operating income Operating profit from joint arrangements 432 389 and adjusted net interest bearing debt. For private equity, valuation is based on IPEV (International Private Equity and Venture Capital) Investments in unquoted long-term equity are Non-current assets from joint arrangements: valuations guidelines, which set out the principles for stated at fair value using a valuation model based Property, plant and equipment 5,168 5,245 determining the price for which independent parties on the following inputs: would trade the shares. The fair value would not vary significantly if one or more inputs were changed. Accounting policies 2019 2018 The offshore windfarms Borkum Riffgrund 1 offshore secures the parties with control over the output Windpark A/S GmbH & Co. OHG and Burbo from the joint arrangement. Accordingly, Borkum Extension Ltd. are companies whose legal form Riffgrund 1 offshore Windpark A/S GmbH & Co. Pro-forma adjusted operating income Individual Individual confers separation between the parties to the OHG and Burbo Extension Ltd. are classified as joint Multiples for comparable companies 13.6x 16.6x 13.9x 16.7x joint arrangement and the companies themselves. operations in the KIRKBI Group, and consolidated Adjusted net interest bearing debt Individual Individual Furthermore, there are no contractual arrangeon a pro rata basis. ments or any other facts and curcumstances that indicate that the parties of the respective joint Cost comprises acquisition price and estimated The most significant input for the valuation model For financial information about associates accountarrangements have rights to the assets and oblicosts for decommisioning. Depreciation is calcuis the multiples for comparable companies. If this ed for using fair value through profit and loss please gations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement. lated using the straight-line method to allocate the multiple decreased by 1.0x, the fair value would be see below; However, there is a contractual arrangement that cost of each asset until decommisioning. reduced by around DKK 385 million. Share capital KIRKBI (m DKK) Financial Year Currency (million) Profit for the year Equity ownership Falck A/S 2018 DKK 67 (915) 1,876 28.6% Välinge Group AB 2018 SEK 0.147 42 2,430 48.3% Nilfisk A/S 2018 EUR 73 10 148 20.3% | 76 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 77 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 SECTION 4 – WORKING CAPITAL The KIRKBI Group has no single significant trade determining the Group’s granting of credit. debtor, nor are the trade receivables concentrated KIRKBI’s risk relating to trade receivables is in specific countries. KIRKBI has fixed procedures for considered to be moderate. 4.1. INVENTORIES Accounting policies (m DKK) 2019 2018 Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair for lifetime expected credit losses. Provisions for value equal to the transaction price, and subsebad debt are made on the basis of an individual Raw materials and components 199 163 quently measured at amortised cost less allowance assessment of the risk relating to each receivable. Work in progress 1,202 1,139 Finished goods 1,423 1,414 2,824 2,716 4.3. OTHER LIABILITIES The cost of inventory recognised as an expense in operating profit from the LEGO Group 7,787 7,441 (m DKK) 2019 2018 including write-down of inventories to net realisable value (expense) 25 5 Liabilities related to wages and other charges 1,700 1,802 Other current liabilities 3,651 4,058 Accounting policies 5,351 5,860 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and work in progress comprises the purchase price net realisable value. Cost is determined using the of materials and direct labour costs plus indirect first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. production costs. Indirect production costs include Specified as follows: indirect materials and wages, maintenance and Non-current 314 232 The cost of raw materials, consumables and depreciation of plant and machinery, factory Current 5,037 5,628 purchased goods comprises the invoice price plus buildings and other equipment as well as expenses 5,351 5,860 delivery expenses. The cost of finished goods and for factory administration and management. Accounting policies redemption value are recognised in the income Other liabilities are measured at amortised cost statement over the period of the borrowings using unless specifically stated otherwise. the effective interest method. 4.2. TRADE RECEIVABLES Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless (m DKK) 2019 2018 net of transaction expenses incurred. Borrowings the KIRKBI Group has an unconditional right to defer are subsequently measured at amortised cost. settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after Trade receivables (gross) 8,174 7,762 Any differences between the proceeds and the the balance sheet date. Provisions for bad debts: Balance at the beginning of the year (833) (586) Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (21) (9) 4.4. PROVISIONS Change in provisions for the year 5 (247) Realised losses for the year 9 9 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Balance at the end of the year (840) (833) Restructuring 1 Trade receivables (net) 7,334 6,929 Decommisioning windfarms 216 213 Other 153 182 Provisions at 31 December 369 396 All trade receivables fall due within one year. The of receivables falling due within one year from the nominal value is considered equal to the fair value balance sheet date. Specified as follows: Non-current 354 338 The age distribution of gross trade receivables is as follows: Current 15 58 (m DKK) 2019 2018 369 396 Not overdue 7,278 6,844 Provision for decommisioning of windfarms relates to regarding leased premises and employee related 0 60 days overdue 358 523 obligation to restore the areas with expected cash provisions comprising retirement packages and outflows more than 20 years from now. severance. 61 120 days overdue 11 34 121 180 days overdue 14 8 Other provisions consist of various types of More than 180 days overdue 513 353 provisions, primarily provisions for asset retirement 8,174 7,762 | 78 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 79 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 Accounting policies SECTION 5 – TAXES Provisions are recognised when the KIRKBI Group Further provisions for restructuring expenses are identifies legal or constructive obligations as a only recognised when the decision is made and result of past events and it is probable that it will announced before the balance sheet date. lead to an outflow of resources that can be reliably Provisions are not made for future operating losses. 5.1. INCOME TAX EXPENSE estimated. In this connection, the KIRKBI Group makes the estimate based upon an evaluation of Provisions are measured at the present value of (m DKK) 2019 2018 the individual, most likely outcome of the cases. In the estimated obligation at the balance sheet cases where a reliable estimate cannot be made, date. Current tax on profit for the year 3,853 2,522 these are disclosed as contingent liabilities. Deferred tax on profit for the year (6) 54 Effect of change in tax rate 3 Other (2) 54 4.5. REVERSALS OF ITEMS WITH NO EFFECT ON CASH FLOWS Prior year adjustments (33) (33) 3,812 2,600 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Income tax expenses are specified as follows: Calculated 22 % (22 %) tax on profit for the year before income tax 4,529 2,482 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,333 1,713 Gain / loss on disposals 99 (1) Tax effect of Fair value adjustments investment real estate (225) (63) Higher/(lower) tax rate in subsidiaries (199) 15 Revaluation of securities etc. (9,185) 725 Non-taxable income (757) (773) Net movements in provisions 21 (151) Non-deductible expenses 146 789 Net income from associates 8 (434) Effect of change in tax rate 3 (6,949) 1,789 Adjustment of tax relating to previous years (33) (33) Other 126 117 3,812 2,600 4.6. CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Effective tax rate 18.5 % 23.0 % (m DKK) 2019 2018 Inventories (108) (223) Accounting policies Trade and other receivables (483) (321) The tax expenses for the period comprise current items recognised in other comprehensive income. and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income In this case, tax is also recognised in other compreTrade and other payables (549) 1,820 statement, except to the extent that it relates to hensive income. (1,140) 1,276 | 80 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 81 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 5.2. DEFERRED TAX SECTION 6 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (m DKK) 2019 2018 Deferred tax, net at 1 January (349) (396) Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 9 11 6.1. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION Income statement charge 23 30 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Charged to other comprehensive income 10 Effect of change in tax rate 9 (3) Intangible asset amortisation 113 87 Other (1) Property, plant and equipment, depreciation and impairment 1,712 1,626 Deferred tax, net at 31 December (308) (349) Right-of-use assets, depreciation 508 2,333 1,713 Classified as: Deferred tax assets 757 630 In 2019, the KIRKBI Group did not recognise impairrecognised impairment losses of DKK 52 million (2018 Deferred tax liabilities (1,065) (979) ment losses on intangible assets (2018 DKK 0 million). DKK 25 million) recognised within administration costs. (308) (349) On property, plant and equipment the KIRKBI Group Deferred Deferred Deferred Accounting policies (m DKK) tax asset tax liability tax net Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line The residual values and useful lives of the assets are method to allocate the cost of each asset to reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each 2019 its residual value over its estimated useful life as balance sheet date. Non-current assets 102 (1,116) (1,014) follows: Receivables 89 (1) 88 Gains and losses on disposals are determined by Inventories 322 (105) 217 Buildings 25-50 years comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount Provisions 233 (1) 232 Installations 10-20 years and are recognised in the income statement. Plant and machinery 2-25 years Other liabilities 185 (16) 169 Other fixtures, fittings, tools 3-10 years Offset (174) 174 and equipment Tax loss carry-forwards 757 (1,065) (308) 2018 Non-current assets 105 (1,013) (908) Receivables 88 (1) 87 Inventories 248 (127) 121 Provisions 199 (1) 198 Other liabilities 172 (26) 146 Offset (189) 189 Tax loss carry-forwards 7 7 630 (979) (349) Tax loss carry-forwards Tax assets relating to tax loss carry-forwards are capitalutilised in the future. There are no tax losses carry-forward ised based on an assessment of whether they can be end of 2019 (DKK 7 million in 2018 expires after 5 years). Accounting policies Deferred tax on temporary differences arising as a deferred tax asset at the expected realisable between the tax bases of assets and liabilities value. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to and their carrying amounts is provided in full in the extent that it is probable that future taxable the consolidated financial statements, using the profits will be available against which the temporary liability method. differences can be utilised. Deferred tax reflects the effect of any temporary Any changes in deferred tax due to changes in tax differences. To the extent calculated deferred tax rates are recognised in the income statement. is positive, this is recognised in the balance sheet | 82 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 83 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 6.2. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill, trade6.3. IMPAIRMENT TEST marks, patents and other intangible Development 2019 (m DKK) rights Software projects Total Impairment test of trademarks (m DKK) 2019 2018 Annual impairment test is carried out of the carrying Cost at 1 January 2,177 478 93 2,748 amount of trademarks with indefinite useful lives. The LEGO Group 1,831 1,831 Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 4 1 5 impairment test in 2019 did not give rise to recognising any impairment losses. Additions 302 45 13 360 The recoverable amount is based on the value in use, Disposals (1) (1) The carrying amount of trademarks at 31 December is which is calculated by means of the realised net cash Transfers 93 (93) related to the cash-generating operational units and flows from trademark royalties for the current year using a Cost at 31 December 2,483 616 13 3,112 breaks down as follows: discount rate (WACC) of 8 % (2018 8 %). Amortisation and impairment losses at 1 January (222) (331) (553) Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (3) (1) (4) Accounting policies An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by Amortisation for the year (13) (100) (113) Assets that are subject to depreciation and which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its Disposals 1 1 amortisation are tested for impairment whenever recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is events or changes in circumstances indicate that the higher of the fair value of an asset less expenses Amortisation and impairment losses at 31 December (238) (431) (669) the carrying amount may not be recoverable. to sell and the value in use. For purposes of assessing Intangible assets under development and intangiimpairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels Carrying amount at 31 December 2,245 185 13 2,443 ble assets which are not subject to amortisation are for which there are separately identifiable cash tested for impairment at each reporting date. flows (cash generating units). Goodwill, trademarks, patents and other intangible Development 2018 (m DKK) rights Software projects Total Cost at 1 January 2,164 516 71 2,751 6.4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 10 10 Other fixtures, Fixed Plant and fittings, tools and assets under Additions 3 54 57 2019 (m DKK) Property equipment equipment construction Total Disposals (70) (70) Transfers 32 (32) Cost at 1 January 9,110 14,240 3,612 3,243 30,205 Cost at 31 December 2,177 478 93 2,748 Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 88 148 38 72 346 Additions 242 588 265 1,541 2,636 Amortisation and impairment losses at 1 January (201) (324) (525) Disposals (17) (404) (203) (624) Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (10) (1) (11) Reclassification to financial leases (44) (44) Amortisation for the year (11) (76) (87) Transfer from investment real estate 90 90 Disposals 70 70 Transfers 1,229 237 530 (1,996) Amortisation and impairment losses at 31 December (222) (331) (553) Cost at 31 December 10,698 14,809 4,242 2,860 32,609 Carrying amount at 31 December 1,955 147 93 2,195 Depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January (1,927) (6,129) (1,675) (9,731) Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (19) (14) (22) (55) Accounting policies Depreciation for the year (284) (1,084) (292) (1,660) Goodwill, trademarks, patents non-current assets at historical cost less accumulated Impairment losses for the year (52) (52) and other intangible rights amortisation and any impairment loss. Amortisation Reclassification to financial leases 38 38 Acquired patents and other intangible rights are is provided on a straight-line basis over the expected Disposals 4 399 176 (65) 514 capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred. useful life which is normally 5–10 years. Other These costs are amortised over the shorter of their development costs are recognised in the income Depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December (2,240) (6,828) (1,813) (65) (10,946) estimated useful lives and the contractual duration. statement. An annual impairment test of the intangible fixed assets under construction is performed. Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 8,458 7,981 2,429 2,795 21,663 The carrying amount of goodwill, trademarks, patents and other intangible rights is allocated to Borrowing costs related to financing development Including assets held under finance leases 6 6 the cash generating assets at the acquisition date projects that take a substantial period of time to and is tested for impairment at that level. complete and whose commencement date is on or Property, plant and equipment in general after 1 January 2009 are included in the cost price. Obligations related to the purchase of property, plant Software and development projects and equipment of DKK 1,149 million exists at 31 De­cemResearch expenses are charged to the income Licences, patents and other rights ber 2019 (DKK 2,287 million at 31 December 2018). statement as incurred. Software and development Acquired licences, patents and other rights are projects that are clearly defined and identifiable capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred. and which are expected to generate future These costs are amortised over the shorter of their economic profit are recognised as intangible estimated useful lives and the contractual duration. | 84 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 85 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 Other fixtures, Fixed 6.5. LEASES Plant and fittings, tools and assets under 2018 (m DKK) Property equipment equipment construction Total Right-of-use assets Company Cost at 1 January 8,676 13,936 3,513 1,979 28,104 Rental of cars and other Exchange adjustment to year-end rate 14 (49) 33 72 70 2019 (m DKK) premises assets Total Additions 157 403 101 1,667 2,328 Disposals (55) (177) (65) (297) Cost at 1 January Transfers 318 127 30 (475) Change in accounting policy at 1 January 1,883 269 2,152 Cost at 31 December 9,110 14,240 3,612 3,243 30,205 Additions 410 119 529 Disposals (48) (31) (79) Depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January (1,666) (5,225) (1,423) (7) (8,321) Exchange rate adjustments 54 54 Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (9) 13 (26) (22) Reclassifications of financial leases 86 86 Depreciation for the year (236) (1,083) (282) (1,601) Cost at 31 December 2,385 357 2,742 Impairment losses for the year (25) (25) Disposals 9 166 56 7 238 Depreciation at 1 January Depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December (1,927) (6,129) (1,675) (9,731) Depreciation for the year (401) (107) (508) Disposals 42 14 56 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 7,183 8,111 1,937 3,243 20,474 Exchange adjustment to year-end rate (1) (2) (3) Reclassification of financial leases (38) (38) Including assets held under finance leases 6 6 Depreciations at 31 December (398) (95) (493) Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 1,987 262 2,249 Accounting policies Cost Lease liabilities Land and buildings comprise mainly factories, wareself-constructed assets comprises direct expenses The KIRKBI Group leases various assets such as office houses and offices. Property, plant and equipment for wage consumption and materials. Borrowing buildings, store buildings, warehouses, company cars etc. are measured at cost, less subsequent depreciation costs related to financing self constructed assets Total and impairment losses, except for land, which is that take a substantial period of time to complete measured at cost less impairment losses. and whose commencement date is included in Lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet as follows: the cost price. Non-current liabilities 1,715 Cost comprises acquisition price and expenses Current liabilities 510 directly related to the acquisition until the time when the asset is ready for use. The cost of Total lease liabilities 2,225 Please refer to note 1.3 for disclosure of the impact of adoption of IFRS 16 on the consolidated financial statements. Accounting policies The right-of-use asset and corresponding lease The KIRKBI Group applies the short-term lease liability will be recognised at the commencement recognition exemption for lease contracts that, at date, the date the underlying asset is ready for use. the commencement date, have a lease term of The lease terms may include options to extend or 12 month or less for all classes of underlying assets, terminate the lease when it is reasonbly certain that and the exeption for lease contracts for which the KIRKBI will exercise that option. underlying asset is of low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets Right-of-use assets are measured at cost correare recognised as expenses on a straight-line basis sponding to the lease liability recognised, adjusted over the lease term. for any lease incentives received. The lease liabilities are measured at the present value of lease Right-of-use assets normally have the following payments to be made over the lease term. The lease terms: lease payments are discounted. Rental of premises 3-50 years Depreciations is done following the straight-line Company cars 3-5 years method over the lease term or the useful life of the Other assets 2-7 years assets. In 2018 and prior, finance leases were recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 17. | 86 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 87 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 SECTION 7 – RISK MANAGEMENT focused investment beliefs and the focus on the for the LEGO Group. These forward contracts are portfolio consequences provide the foundation for a mainly classified as hedges and meet the accounting sustained long-term investment strategy. requirements for hedging of future cash flows. 7.1. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS Financial risk management The foreign exchange risks of the investments are For the KIRKBI Group, the concept of risk is divided managed centrally from the parent Company. The Contingent liabilities and other obligations into two sub-concepts: overall risk management guidelines have been approved by the Board of Directors and include the (m DKK) 2019 2018 • Short-term risk of temporary loss of capital – KIRKBI Group’s treasury and investment policy. i.e. quotation risk Remaining obligations in investment projects 7,393 8,810 • Long-term risk of permanent loss of capital – The most significant exchange risks are in the currenGuarantees 2,909 2,414 i.e. capital loss risk cies of USD, CHF and GBP. A negative 10 % change in Operating lease obligations 2,260 the USD currency would effect the income statement Other obligations 1,297 1,508 As a long-term investor, the most important risk to avoid is of the KIRKBI Group negatively by DKK 1.8 billion 11,599 14,992 the permanent loss of capital. However, as the financial and reduce equity by DKK 1.7 billion. A negative investments function as a liquid buffer to cover obliga10 % change in the CHF currency would effect the tions and non-financial risks, the financial investment income statement negatively by DKK 0.6 billion and Remaining obligations in investment projects are Security has been given in land, buildings and portfolio is subject to short-term quotation risk. would also reduce equity by DKK 0.6 billion. For GBP mainly commitments to private equity funds and real installations at a net carrying amount of DKK 3,079 a negative 10 % change in the currency would not estate constructions. million (DKK 2,866 million in 2018) for the mortgage Credit risk impact the income statement significantly, but would loans. Financial instruments are entered into with counterreduce equity by DKK 1.3 billion. Gurantees mainly relate to bank guarantees for parts with investment grade level ratings. commitments. The KIRKBI Group has utilised tax losses in non-Danish The KIRKBI Group’s foreign exchange risk is considered jurisdictions in the Danish joint taxation until 31 DecemSimilarly, the KIRKBI Group only engages with insurto be moderate. Lease contracts previosly classified as off-balance ber 2004. The deferred tax of this amounts to DKK 80 ance companies with investment grade ratings. leases under IAS 17 have now been capitalised, million, of which DKK 0 million has been recognised Interest rate risk recognising right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. as a provision for deferred tax. The amount of DKK 80 For banks and financial institutions, only independentThe KIRKBI Group’s interest rate risk relates mainly to million is not expected to be recaptured. ly rated parties with an acceptable long-term rating the portfolio of core fixed income and corporate Other obligations consist of service and license are accepted. Credit risk regarding trade receivables debt instruments. With the current interest rate levels agreements. is disclosed in note 4.2. The credit risks of the KIRKBI and the composition of the portfolio, an increase of Group are considered to be moderate. 1% in the interest rate would negatively effect the income statement with DKK 0.2 billion. The KIRKBI Foreign exchange risk Group’s interest rate risk is considered low. 7.2. FINANCIAL RISKS The foreign exchange risk for the KIRKBI Group is mostly related to net inflows in the LEGO Group and Liquidity risk The financial risks of the KIRKBI Group are managed which investment parameters are to be applied such investments denominated in foreign currencies. Liquidity is managed centrally and is continuously centrally from the Parent Company as well as as limits on issuer, duration, credit rating, country, or assessed. It is ensured that, at any given time, decentralised by the operating companies. The economic sector. The LEGO Group’s foreign exchange risk is managed sufficient financial resources are available. Based overall risk management guidelines have been centrally in LEGO System A/S based on a foreign on cash and the liquid investment portfolio of bonds approved by the Board of Directors and include the The guidelines are reviewed regularly to reflect exchange policy approved by the Board of and quoted equities, the liquidity risk is considered KIRKBI Group’s treasury and investment policy related changes in market conditions, the KIRKBI Group’s Directors. Forward contracts and options are used insignificant. to securities. The KIRKBI Group’s risk management activities and financial position. A separate and to hedge purchases and sales in foreign currencies guidelines are established to identify and analyse the independent risk management function reviews risk faced by the KIRKBI Group, to set the appropriate managers’ compli­ance with the mandates and the risk limits and controls to monitor the risks and ensure adequacy of the mandates to risks and exposures adherence to limits. facing the KIRKBI Group. 7.3. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The overall purpose of the investment portfolio is to Investment approach and asset allocation Total hedging activities directly in the income statement. This includes the create economical value in accordance with the The KIRKBI Group’s activities consist of holdings in The derivatives used by the KIRKBI Group mainly time value of options. KIRKBI values, i.e. to LEGO Brand Group assets such as the LEGO Group, relate to the LEGO Group. The LEGO Group uses a • Protect the investment portfolio in the long run LEGO Ventures and Merlin Entertainments as well as number of derivatives to hedge currency exposure. All changes in fair value of hedging of assets and • Support LEGO Brand Group activities through investments within the areas of real estate, long-term The hedging activities are categorised into hedging liabilities (fair value hedging) are recognised directly delivering a stable growth of capital with an equity, renewables, private equity, quoted equities of forecast transactions (cash flow hedges), and in the income statement. attractive risk-adjusted return and fixed income. hedges of assets and liabilities (fair value hedges). • Avoid negative spill-over effects on the LEGO® Hedging of forecast transactions brand, the LEGOLAND® brand and reputation The overall purpose implies a portfolio strategy The changes in fair value of the financial instruments The main hedging of forecast transactions relates to • Ensure high ethical standard in investments and based on firm and conservative investment qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised USD where the LEGO Group is hedging for a period engagements principles and beliefs learned and built over time. directly under other comprehensive income until the up to 12 months. For 2019, a total of DKK 2.7 billion Combined with the financial strength of KIRKBI and hedged items affect the income statement. (2018 DKK 2.7 billion) has been recognised as forecast Therefore, the investment policy includes, among continued success of the LEGO Group, it allows KIRKtransactions in USD qualifying for hedge accounting. other items, guidelines and ranges for which investBI to have an asset allocation focused on long-term The changes in fair value of the financial instruments The fair value adjustment for USD directly in the ments are considered to be eligible investments and ownership of equities. However, the clear long-term not qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised income statement is below DKK 100 million and is not | 88 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 89 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 considered material to the consolidated KIRKBI Group for USD directly in the equity of the consolidated 7.4. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES income statement. KIRKBI Group is below DKK 100 million and is not considered material. Financial assets and liabilities by valuation category Hedging of balance sheet items 2019 2018 The main hedging of balance items relates to USD Cash flow hedges for which where the LEGO Group is hedging for a period up to hedge accounting is not applied Fair value Fair value two months. For 2019, a total of DKK 0.9 billion (2018 Cash flow hedges for which hedge accounting is not through through DKK 0.7 billion) has been recognised as hedging of applied are insignificant in the consolidated KIRKBI income Amortised income Amortised balance sheet items in USD. The fair value adjustment Group figures. (m DKK) statement cost statement cost Financial assets: Accounting policies Derivative financial instruments are initially criteria for hedging future cash flows are recognised Investment real estate 8,577 7,537 recognised in the balance sheet at fair value and in other comprehensive income. Income and Receivable from associates 644 658 are subsequently measured at fair value. Derivative expenses relating to these hedge transactions LEGO Ventures investments 277 103 financial instruments are recognised in other are transferred from equity when the hedged Finance leases 1,399 1,372 receivables and other current liabilities. item affects the income statement. The amount is Other investments 111 109 recognised in financial income or expenses. Changes to the fair value of derivative financial instruTrade and other receivables 9,717 9,360 ments which meet the criteria for hedging the fair In case of settlement of a derivative designated Securities 62,371 49,880 value of a recognised asset or a recognised liability as a cash flow hedge, the accumulated fair value Cash 1,664 2,616 are recognised in the income statement together with adjustment remains in equity until the hedged Total financial assets 71,225 13,535 58,178 13,457 any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no Financial assets measured at fair value through liability attributable to the hedged risk. longer expected to take place, any accumulated income statement by level: fair value adjustments are transferred from equity The effective portion of changes to the fair value to the income statement under financial income or Level 1 – Fair value based on listed prices in active markets 42,354 37,313 of derivative financial instruments which meet the expenses. Level 2 – Fair value based on valuation techniques with observable market data 3,811 Level 3 – Fair value with significant input from data not obervable in the market 25,060 20,865 71,225 58,178 Amortised Amortised (m DKK) cost cost Financial liabilities: Borrowings (current and non-current) 3,994 3,836 Trade payables 3,718 3,497 Other liabilities (current and non-current) 5,351 5,860 Total financial liabilities 13,063 13,193 Accounting policies The KIRKBI Groups investment activities (please see techniques with observable market data (level 2) section 3 page 73) and LEGO Ventures investments or internationally accepted valuation models (level are meassured at fair value through income state3). All other recognised financial assets and liabilities ment, which equals listed prices (level 1), valuation are measured at amortised cost. | 90 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 91 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 SECTION 8 – OTHER NOTES 8.3. AUDITORS’ FEE (m DKK) 2019 2018 8.1. EXPENSES BY NATURE Fee to Deloitte: Statutory audit of the financial statements 3 3 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Other assurance engagements Tax assistance 1 1 Raw materials and consumables 5,603 5,401 Other services 4 4 Employee expenses 7,047 6,482 8 8 Depreciation and amortisation 1,963 1,329 License and royalty expenses 2,777 2,689 Fee to PwC: Other external expenses 10,317 9,716 Statutory audit of the financial statements 12 10 Trademark and administration costs 514 274 Other assurance engagements 1 1 Total operating expenses from LEGO Brand Group activities 28,221 25,891 Tax assistance 9 14 Other services 14 16 Administration costs 516 317 36 41 Total operating expenses from KIRKBI Group 28,737 26,208 Total auditors´ fees 44 49 Research and development costs charged during the year 768 689 8.2. EMPLOYEE EXPENSES 8.4. SHARE CAPITAL (m DKK) 2019 2018 The share capital consists of: (m DKK) Each ordinary A share of DKK 1,000 gives 1,000 votes, Wages and salaries 6,820 6,190 while each ordinary B share of DKK 1,000 gives 1 vote. Termination benefit and restructuring (1) (16) 1 A-shares of DKK 1,000 or multiples thereof Dividend has been distributed at DKK 2.00 per share Pension costs, defined contribution plans 255 255 199 B-shares of DKK 1,000 or multiples thereof (2018 DKK 2.00). Other expenses and social security costs 519 453 200 Total shares at 31 December 2019 7,593 6,882 Within the last 5 years, there have been no changes in the share capital. Average number of full-time employees 16,631 15,523 Accounting policies Executive Management and Board of Directors: Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period Salaries and other remuneration 23 21 in which they are adopted at the Annual General Short-term incentive plans 2 3 Meeting. Long-term incentive plans 17 42 24 Since the Executive Management only consists of Incentive plans comprise a short-term incentive one member, the remuneration of the Executive plan based on yearly performance and a long-term Management and the Board of Directors is disclosed incentive plan related to long-term goals regarding collectively with reference to § 98b (3) of the Danish value creation. Financial Statements Act. Accounting policies Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid employees of the KIRKBI Group. Where the KIRKBI annual leave and sick leave, bonuses and non-monGroup provides long-term employee benefits, the etary employee benefits are accrued in the year in costs are accumulated to match the rendering of which the associated services are rendered by the the services by the employees concerned. | 92 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 93 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 8.5. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS pension obligations towards current or past employIn the KIRKBI Group, a net obligation of DKK 209 million ees. The pension plans in the Danish companies and (DKK 161 million in 2018) has been recognised relating Information about the KIRKBI Group’s subsidiaries which have some of the non-Danish companies are defined to the KIRKBI Group’s obligations towards current or non-controlling interests. contribution plans. In the KIRKBI Group, DKK 224 past employees concerning defined benefit plans. million (DKK 201 million in 2018) has been recognised The obligation is calculated after deduction of the in the income statement as costs relating to defined plan assets. In the KIRKBI Group, DKK 19 million (DKK Non-controlling part Koldingvej 2, Billund A/S Other contribution plans. 20 million in 2018) was recognised in the income Subsidiary LEGO A/S Other statement and DKK 35 million (DKK 28 million in Defined benefit plans: 2018) has been recognised in other comprehensive (m DKK) 2019 2018 2019 2018 In defined benefit plans, the KIRKBI Group is obliged income. All defined benefit plans relate to the LEGO to pay a certain pension benefit. The defined benefit Group and no new employees will be included in the Statement of comprehensive income plans include employees in Germany and in the UK. defined benefit plans. in subsidiary Revenue 38,544 36,391 396 371 Accounting policies Net profit (loss) for the year allocated Costs regarding defined contribution plans are by a qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit to the parent company shareholders 8,306 8,076 133 53 recognised in the income statement in the periods in Method. When the benefits of a plan are increased, Total comprehensive income allocated which the related employee services are delivered. the portion of the increased benefit relating to past to the parent company shareholders 8,430 8,039 133 53 service by employees is recognised as an expense in Net obligations in respect of defined benefit the income statement over the vesting period. To the Balance sheet in subsidiary pension plans are calculated separately for each extent that the benefits are vested, the expense is Non-current assets 16,705 12,754 1,459 1,327 plan by estimating the amount of future benefits recognised in the income statement immediately. Current assets 18,241 18,731 112 118 that employees have earned in return for their Total Liabilities (12,763) (9,732) (209) (168) service in the current and prior periods; that benefit Actual gains and losses are recognised in other compreis discounted to determine its present value, and hensive income in the period in which they occur. Equity 22,183 21,753 1,362 1,277 the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. Discount rates are based on the market yield of high Net pension assets are recognised to the extent Cash flow in subsidiary quality corporate bonds in the country concerned that the KIRKBI Group is able to derive future Cash flow from operating activities 9,645 9,847 48 55 approximating to the terms of the KIRKBI Group’s economic benefits in the way of refunds from the Cash flow from investing activities (2,162) (1,492) (44) (35) pension obligations. The calculations are performed plan or reductions of future contributions. Dividend to shareholders (8,000) (7,000) (34) Ownership interest of non-controlling interests 25 % 25 % 6-49 % 6-49 % Total 8.7. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Consolidation into the KIRKBI Group (m DKK) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 KIRKBI A/S’ related parties comprise Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, Transactions related to sales of products and services Sofie Kirk Kristiansen, Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, Agnete Kirk between associates and the KIRKBI Group amounted to Thinggaard and the Board of Directors and the ExecDKK 713 million (DKK 697 million in 2018), which was paid Carrying amount 1 January 5,439 5,179 114 106 5,553 5,285 utive Management of KIRKBI A/S. Related parties also on normal market terms. comprise subsidiaries and associates. Related parties Share of net profit allocated to the non-controlling interests 2,076 2,018 16 8 2,092 2,026 further comprise companies where the mentioned There were no transactions with the Board of Directors shareholders have significant influence. or the Executive Management besides transactions Non-controlling interests of net profit 2,076 2,018 16 8 2,092 2,026 related to the employment except for the circumstanKjeld Kirk Kristiansen, Sofie Kirk Kristiansen, Thomas ces described above. Share of comprehensive income allocated Kirk Kristiansen and Agnete Kirk Thinggaard have as to non-controlling interest 31 (8) 31 (8) shareholders significant influence in KIRKBI A/S. For information about remuneration to the Board of Non-controlling interests of total Directors and the Executive Management, see note 8.2. comprehensive income 2,107 2,010 16 8 2,123 2,018 In the financial year, a limited number of transactions related to services took place between the owners of Loans, receivables and commitments related to KIRKBI A/S and the KIRKBI Group. These services were associates are specified in the KIRKBI Group’s balance Other adjustments: paid on normal market terms and the total fee paid to sheet. Dividend paid (2,000) (1,750) (4) (2,004) (1,750) KIRKBI A/S amounts to DKK 18 million (2018 DKK 24 million). Carrying amount 31 December 5,546 5,439 126 114 5,672 5,553 In the financial year interests paid to owners of KIRKBI A/S amounted to DKK 12 million (DKK 18 million in 2018). 8.6. PENSION OBLIGATIONS 8.8. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Defined contribution plans: of the salary) to the independent insurance compaIn defined contribution plans, the KIRKBI Group nies responsible for the pension obligations. Once the During the period from 31 December 2019 and occurred that could have significant effect on the recognises in the income statement the premium pension contributions for defined contribution plans until adoption at the annual report, no events have annual report for 2019. payments (e.g. a fixed amount or a fixed percentage have been paid, the KIRKBI Group has no further | 94 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 95 | PART 3 NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP NOTES – KIRKBI GROUP PART 3 8.9. GROUP STRUCTURE Subsidiaries (fully consolidated into the KIRKBI Group) KIRKBI A/S LEGO A/S, 75% (Denmark) KIRKBI Invest A/S, 100% (Denmark) KIRKBI Invest A/S (Denmark) Denmark Americas Denmark Subsidiaries (accounted for using fair value LEGO A/S LEGO do Brasil Comercio e Distribuicâo de Brinquedos Ltda KIRKBI Anlæg A/S through income statement) LEGO System A/S LEGO Canada Inc. KIRKBI Operationel Support ApS Enerparc Inc., 87,5% (USA) LEGO Security Billund ApS LEGO Mexico S.A. de C.V KIRKBI Real Estate Investment A/S Administración de Servicios LEGO, S. de R.L. de C.V. LEGO Juris A/S Joint Operations (accounted for using Europe LEGO Operaciones de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mølholm-Klinikken Ejendom ApS pro-rata consolidation) LEGO Handelsgesellschaft mbH LEGO Real Estate, S.A. de C.V. Neue Flora Invest A/S Boston Holding A/S, 63% (Denmark) LEGO Belgium n.v. LEGO System Inc. K & C Holding A/S Borkum Riffgrund I Offshore Windpark A/S GmbH & Co. LEGO Production s.r.o. LEGO Brand Retail Inc. Blue Hors ApS OHG, 50% (Germany) LEGO Trading s.r.o. LEGO Bricklink Inc. Schelenborg Gods ApS KIRKBI Burbo Extension Holding Ltd. (United Kingdom) Oy Suomen LEGO Ab Privathospital Mølholm P/S, 91% Burbo Extension Holding Ltd., 25% (United Kingdom) LEGO SAS Asia, Africa and Australia HCM A/S, 51% Burbo Extension Ltd., 25% (United Kingdom) LEGO Brand Retail S.A.S LEGO Australia Pty. Ltd. Privatmedicinsk Klinik Mølholm A/S LEGO GmbH LEGO Education Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Associates (accounted for using the equity method) LLD Share Verwaltungs GmbH LEGO Trading (Beijing) Co Ltd. Europe Founders A/S, 33.3% (Denmark) LEGO Hungária Kft. LEGO Toy Manufacturing (Jiaxing) Co., Ltd. Blue Hors GmbH Merlin Entertainments Ltd., 50% (United Kingdom) LEGO Manufacturing Kft. LEGO Toy (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. KIRKBI AG Motion JVCO Ltd., 50% (United Kingdom) LEGO S.p.A. LEGO Commerce (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. KIRKBI Real Estate AG LEGO Norge A/S LEGO Hong Kong Limited KIRK AG Associates within investment activities (accounted for LEGO Polska Sp. z.o.o. LEGO Company Ltd. Valbella Resort AG using fair value through income statement) LEGO Lda. BrickLink Limited KIRKBI Estates Ltd. Falck A/S, 28.6% (Denmark) LEGO Romania S.R.L. LEGO India Private Limited KIRKBI Real Estate Investment GmbH Nilfisk A/S, 20.3% (Denmark) LEGO Ltd. LEG GODT India Private Limited Einsteinstrasse GmbH, 90% Välinge Group AB, 48.3% (Sweden) LEGO S.A. LEGO Japan Ltd. Elsenheimerstrasse GmbH LEGO Sverige AB LEGO Trading (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Maxor 4 GmbH, 94% Associates within LEGO Ventures (accounted for using LEGO Schweiz AG LEGO New Zealand Ltd. fair value through income statement) LEGO Netherland B.V. LEGO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Asia Peppy Pals AB, 25.3% (Sweden) LEGO Turkey Oyuncak Tiearet Anonim Sirketi LEGO South Africa (Pty.) Ltd. LLJ Investco KK Evolve Additive Solutions, Inc., 27.8% (USA) LEGO Ukraine LLC LEGO Korea Co. Ltd. LEGO Park Holding UK Ltd. SohoBricks LLC LEGO Lifestyle International Ltd. LEGO Trading (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. LEGO Company Limited LEGO Middle East FZ-LLC | 96 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 97 | PART 4 PARENT COMPANY PARENT COMPANY PART 4 PARENT COMPANY CONTENTS PART 4 Parent Company 100 Income statement and statement of comprehensive income 1 January – 31 December 100 Balance Sheet at 31 December 101 Balance Sheet at 31 December Parent Company 102 Statement of changes in Equity 102 Cash flow statement 1 January – 31 December 103 01 Significant accounting policies 103 02 Employee expenses 103 03 Financial expenses 104 04 Tax on profit for the year 104 05 Property, plant and equipment 105 06 Investments in subsidiaries 105 07 Non-current liabilities 105 08 Deferred tax 105 09 Contingent liabilities and other obligations 106 10 Related party transactions PART 5 Additional information 110 Management’s statement 112 Independent auditor’s report | 98 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 99 | PART 4 PARENT COMPANY PARENT COMPANY PART 4 INCOME STATEMENT & COMPREHENSIVE INCOME BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER PARENT COMPANY (m DKK) Note 2019 2018 (m DKK) Note 2019 2018 Dividend from investments in subsidiaries 6,000 5,250 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Other net income 27 17 EQUITY Administration costs 2 (477) (307) Share capital 200 200 Operating profit 5,550 4,960 Retained comprehensive income 52,230 47,001 Proposed dividend 200 200 Financial expenses 3 (12) (13) Total equity 52,630 47,401 Profit before tax 5,538 4,947 LIABILITIES Tax on profit for the year 4 96 48 Non-current liabilities Profit for the year 5,634 4,995 Borrowings 7 143 154 Other long-term liabilities 7 137 93 Statement of comprehensive income Total non-current liabilities 280 247 Profit for the year 5,634 4,995 Other comprehensive income after tax (5) 1 Current liabilities Total comprehensive income for the year 5,629 4,996 Borrowings 7 10 10 Banks 3 Proposed distribution Payables to subsidiaries 257 193 Dividend 200 200 Trade payables 54 73 Transferred to retained comprehensive income 5,429 4,796 Other short-term liabilities 204 142 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,629 4,996 Total current liabilities 528 418 Total liabilities 808 665 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 53,438 48,066 (m DKK) Note 2019 2018 Contingent liabilities and other obligations 9 ASSETS Non-current assets Property 652 499 Other fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 18 15 Fixed assets under construction 1,157 913 Property, plant and equipment 5 1,827 1,427 Investments in subsidiaries 6 47,408 36,342 Other investments 13 13 Deferred tax assets 8 5 1 Other non-current assets 47,426 36,356 Total non-current assets 49,253 37,783 Current assets Receivables from subsidiaries 2,783 9,801 Current tax receivables 1,356 438 Other receivables 44 41 Cash 2 3 Total current assets 4,185 10,283 TOTAL ASSETS 53,438 48,066 | 100 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 101 | PART 4 PARENT COMPANY PARENT COMPANY PART 4 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY NOTE 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Retained The annual report of the Parent Company KIRKBI A/S distributed exceeds the comprehensive income of the comprehenProposed has been prepared in accordance with International subsidiaries in the period the dividend is declared, an (m DKK) Share capital sive income dividend Total Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by impairment test is performed. the EU and additional requirements of the Danish 2019 Financial Statements Act. for reporting class C Investments in subsidiaries Equity at 1 January 200 47,001 200 47,401 enterprises (Large). Investments in subsidiaries are measured at acquisition cost. The acquisition cost includes the fair value Profit for the year 5,434 200 5,634 The accounting policies for the Parent Company of the purchase consideration plus direct purchase Other comprehensive income for the year (5) (5) and for the KIRKBI Group are identical except for the costs. following: Total comprehensive income for the year 5,429 200 5,629 If there is an indication of impairment, impairment Dividend from investments in subsidiaries testing is carried out as described in the accounting Dividend (200) (200) (400) Dividend from investments in subsidiaries is recognised policies for the consolidated financial statements. Equity at 31 December 200 52,230 200 52,630 in the income statement of the parent company in Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable the year the dividends are declared. If the dividend amount, it is written down to the recoverable amount. 2018 Equity at 1 January 200 42,405 200 42,805 NOTE 2. EMPLOYEE EXPENSES Profit for the year 4,795 200 4,995 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Other comprehensive income for the year 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,796 200 4,996 Wages and salaries 320 190 Pension costs 5 4 Dividend (200) (200) (400) Other staff costs and social security costs 2 1 Equity at 31 December 200 47,001 200 47,401 Employee expenses 327 195 Including fee to Executive Management and Board of Directors 41 23 CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER Number of employees 145 122 (m DKK) Note 2019 2018 Operating profit 5,550 4,960 Since the Executive Management only consists of Incentive plans comprise a short-term incentive Interest paid (12) (16) one member, the remuneration of the Executive plan based on yearly performance and a long-term Management and the Board of Directors is disclosed incentive plan related to long-term goals regarding Income tax (paid)/received (826) 298 collectively with reference to § 98b (3) of the Danish value creation. Reversals of items with no effect on cash flows 71 27 Financial Statements Act. Changes in working capital 7,122 (4,307) Cash flows from operating activities 11,905 962 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (433) (541) NOTE 3. FINANCIAL EXPENSES Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries 2,734 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Investment in subsidiaries (13,800) Disposal of fixet assets 1 Interest to subsidiaries 1 Other investments (13) Other interest and exchange losses 11 13 Cash flows from investing activities (11,498) (554) 12 13 Dividend paid to shareholders (400) (400) Repayments of borrowings (11) (10) New borrowings 3 Cash flows from financing activities (408) (410) Net cash flows (1) (2) Cash at 1 January 3 5 Cash at 31 December 2 3 | 102 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 103 | PART 4 PARENT COMPANY PARENT COMPANY PART 4 NOTE 4. TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (m DKK) 2019 2018 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Current tax on profit for the year (85) (53) Cost at 1 January 36,342 36,342 Changes in deferred tax (4) (3) Additions (Conversion of receivable from subsidiaries) 13,800 Adjustment of tax relating to previous years, current tax (7) 8 Disposals (2,734) (96) (48) Cost at 31 December 47,408 36,342 Income tax expenses are specified as follows: Calculated 22% (22%) tax on profit for the year before income tax 1,218 1,089 Subsidiaries Domicile Currency Nominal capital Ownership/Votes % Non-taxable income (1,320) (1,150) Non-deductable costs 13 5 LEGO A/S Denmark DKK 20,000,000 75% Adjustment of tax relating to previous years (7) 8 KIRKBI Invest A/S Denmark DKK 132,000,000 100% (96) (48) NOTE 7. NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Due between 2 NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (m DKK) Total debt Due within 1 year and 5 years Other fixtures, fittings, tools and Fixed asset under Borrowings 153 10 41 2019 (m DKK) Property equipment construction Total Other long-term liabilities 137 137 290 10 178 Cost at 1 January 614 17 913 1,544 Additions 1 5 427 433 Disposals (1) (1) NOTE 8. DEFERRED TAX Transfer 183 (183) Cost at 31 December 798 21 1,157 1,976 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January 115 2 117 Deferred tax, net at 1 January 1 (2) Depreciation for the year 31 1 32 Change in deferred tax 4 3 Disposals Provision for deferred tax, net at 31 December 5 1 Depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 146 3 149 Classified as: Carrying amount at 31 December 652 18 1,157 1,827 Deferred tax assets 5 1 Deferred tax liabilities Other fixtures, 5 1 fittings, tools and Fixed asset under 2018 (m DKK) Property equipment construction Total Cost at 1 January 614 15 374 1,003 NOTE 9. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS Additions 2 539 541 (m DKK) 2019 2018 Cost at 31 December 614 17 913 1,544 Remaining obligations in investment projects 429 874 Depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January 92 2 94 Guarantees for group enterprises´ balances with credit institutions 2,126 1,778 Depreciation for the year 23 23 Liabilities operational lease contracts 8 Depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 115 2 117 Total 2,555 2,660 Carrying amount at 31 December 499 15 913 1,427 Security has been given in land, buildings and installaThe Parent Company is the KIRKBI Group’s administrations at a net carrying amount of DKK 157 million (DKK tion company in relation to the Danish tax authorities in 165 million in 2018) for the company’s mortgage loans. as far as national, joint taxation is concerned. | 104 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 105 | PART 4 PARENT COMPANY PARENT COMPANY PART 4 NOTE 10. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS KIRKBI A/S´ related parties comprise Kjeld Kirk of KIRKBI A/S and KIRKBI A/S. These services have Kristiansen, Sofie Kirk Kristiansen, Thomas Kirk been paid on normal market conditions and the Kristiansen, Agnete Kirk Thinggaard and the Board of total fee paid to KIRKBI A/S does not exceed DKK Directors and the Executive Management of KIRKBI 7 million (2018 DKK 6 million). A/S. Related parties also comprise subsidiaries and associates and Boards of Directors and Executive There were no transactions in the financial year with Management in these companies. Related parties the Board of Directors or the Executive Management further comprise companies where the mentioned besides transactions related to employment, except shareholders have significant influence. from the circumstances described above. Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, Sofie Kirk Kristiansen, Thomas For information of remuneration to the Board of Kirk Kristiansen and Agnete Kirk Thinggaard have as Directors and the Executive Management, see shareholders significant influence in KIRKBI A/S. note 2. In the financial year a limited number of transactions Transactions with subsidiaries and associates have related to services took place between the owners included the following: (m DKK) 2019 2018 Rental income 62 41 Sale of services 99 89 Financial expenses (1) Rental expenses (9) (7) Purchase of services (44) (36) Loans, receivables and commitments related to subsidiaries and associates are specified in the balance sheet. | 106 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 107 | PART 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PART 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS PART 5 Additional information 110 Management’s statement 112 Independent auditor’s report | 108 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 109 | PART 5 MANAGEMENT’S STATEMENT MANAGEMENT’S STATEMENT PART 5 MANAGEMENT’s STATEMENT Today, the Board of Directors and EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Executive Management have discussed and approved the annual report of KIRKBI A/S for the financial year 1 January – 31 December 2019. The annual report is prepared in Søren Thorup Sørensen, accordance with International Financial CEO Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and additional disclosure requirements in the Danish Financial Statements Act. In our opinion, the consolidated financial BOARD OF DIRECTORS statements and the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s financial position at 31 December 2019 and of the results of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s cash Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, flows for the financial year 1 January – 31 Chairman December 2019 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and additional disclosure requirements in the Danish Financial Statements Act. Niels Jacobsen, Deputy Chairman In our opinion, the management’s review includes a fair review of the development in the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations and economic conditions, the results for the year and the financial Jeppe Fonager Christiansen position of the Group and the Parent Company, as well as a review of the most significant risks and elements of uncertainty facing the Parent Company and the Group, in accordance with International Peter Gæmelke Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and additional disclosure requirements in the Danish Financial Statements Act. Thomas Kirk Kristiansen We recommend the adoption of the annual report at the annual general meeting of shareholders. Billund, 3 March 2020 Marie-Louise Aamund | 110 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 111 | PART 5 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT PART 5 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’s REPORT To the shareholders of KIRKBI A/S responsibilities in accordance with these and parent financial statements that give As part of an audit conducted in report to the related disclosures in the requirements. We believe that the audit a true and fair view in accordance with accordance with ISAs and the additional consolidated financial statements and OPINION evidence we have obtained is sufficient International Financial Reporting Standrequirements applicable in Denmark, the parent financial statements or, if We have audited the consolidated and appropriate to provide a basis for ards as adopted by the EU and additional we exercise professional judgement such disclosures are inadequate, to financial statements and the parent our opinion. requirements of the Danish Financial and maintain professional scepticism modify our opinion. Our conclusions are financial statements of KIRKBI A/S for the Statements Act, and for such internal throughout the audit. We also: based on the audit evidence obtained financial year 01.01.2019 31.12.2019, STATEMENT ON THE control as Management determines is up to the date of our auditor’s report. which comprise the income statement, MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW necessary to enable the preparation of • Identify and assess the risks of material However, future events or conditions statement of comprehensive income, Management is responsible for the consolidated financial statements and misstatement of the consolidated may cause the Group and the Entity to balance sheet, statement of changes management’s review. parent financial statements that are free financial statements and the parent cease to continue as a going concern. in equity, cash flow statement and Our opinion on the consolidated from material misstatement, whether due financial statements, whether due notes, including a summary of significant financial statements and the parent to fraud or error. to fraud or error, design and perform • Evaluate the overall presentation, accounting policies, for the Group as well financial statements does not cover the audit procedures responsive to those structure and content of the as the Parent. The consolidated financial management’s review, and we do not In preparing the consolidated financial risks, and obtain audit evidence that is consolidated financial statements statements and the parent financial express any form of assurance conclusion statements and the parent financial sufficient and appropriate to provide and the parent financial statements, statements are prepared in accordance thereon. statements, Management is responsible a basis for our opinion. The risk of not including the disclosures in the notes, with International Financial Reporting for assessing the Group’s and the Parent’s detecting a material misstatement and whether the consolidated financial Standards as adopted by the EU and In connection with our audit of the ability to continue as a going concern, resulting from fraud is higher than for statements and the parent financial additional requirements of the Danish consolidated financial statements for disclosing, as applicable, matters one resulting from error, as fraud may statements represent the underlying Financial Statements Act. and the parent financial statements, related to going concern, and for using involve collusion, forgery, intentional transactions and events in a manner our responsibility is to read the the going concern basis of accounting omissions, misrepresentations, or the that gives a true and fair view. In our opinion, the consolidated financial management’s review and, in doing so, in preparing the consolidated financial override of internal control. statements and the parent financial consider whether the management’s statements and the parent financial • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit statements give a true and fair view of review is materially inconsistent with statements unless Management either • Obtain an understanding of internal evidence regarding the financial the Group’s and the Parent’s financial the consolidated financial statements intends to liquidate the Group or the control relevant to the audit in order information of the entities or business position at 31.12.2019, and of the results and the parent financial statements or Entity or to cease operations, or has no to design audit procedures that are activities within the Group to express an of their operations and cash flows for the our knowledge obtained in the audit realistic alternative but to do so. appropriate in the circumstances, but opinion on the consolidated financial financial year 01.01.2019 31.12.2019 in or otherwise appears to be materially not for the purpose of expressing an statements. We are responsible for the accordance with International Financial misstated. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of opinion on the effectiveness of the direction, supervision and performance Reporting Standards as adopted by the the consolidated financial statements Group’s and the Parent’s internal control. of the group audit. We remain solely EU and additional requirements of the Moreover, it is our responsibility to consider and the parent financial statements responsible for our audit opinion. Danish Financial Statements Act. whether the management’s review Our objectives are to obtain reasonable • Evaluate the appropriateness of provides the information required under assurance about whether the consolidataccounting policies used and the We communicate with those charged with Basis for opinion the Danish Financial Statements Act. ed financial statements and the parent reasonableness of accounting governance regarding, among other matters, Aarhus, 3 March 2020 We conducted our audit in accordance financial statements as a whole are free estimates and related disclosures made the planned scope and timing of the audit with International Standards on Based on the work we have performed, from material misstatement, whether due by Management. and significant audit findings, including any Deloitte Auditing (ISAs) and the additional we conclude that the management’s to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s significant deficiencies in internal control that Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab requirements applicable in Denmark. review is in accordance with the report that includes our opinion. Reasona• Conclude on the appropriateness we identify during our audit. Business Registration No 33 96 35 56 Our responsibilities under those standards consolidated financial statements and ble assurance is a high level of assurance, of Management’s use of the going and requirements are further described the parent financial statements and has but is not a guarantee that an audit concern basis of accounting in in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the been prepared in accordance with the conducted in accordance with ISAs and preparing the consolidated financial audit of the consolidated financial requirements of the Danish Financial the additional requirements applicable statements and the parent financial statements and the parent financial Statements Act. We did not identify any in Denmark will always detect a material statements, and, based on the audit statements section of this auditor’s report. material misstatement of the managemisstatement when it exists. Misstateevidence obtained, whether a material We are independent of the Group in ment’s review. ments can arise from fraud or error and uncertainty exists related to events or accordance with the International Ethics are considered material if, individually or conditions that may cast significant Standards Board of Accountants’ Code Management’s responsibilities for the in the aggregate, they could reasonably doubt on the Group’s and the Parent’s of Ethics for Professional Accountants consolidated financial statements and be expected to influence the economic ability to continue as a going concern. (IESBA Code) and the additional the parent financial statements decisions of users taken on the basis of If we conclude that a material Thomas Rosquist Andersen Nikolaj Thomsen requirements applicable in Denmark, Management is responsible for the prepathese consolidated financial statements uncertainty exists, we are required State-Authorised Public Accountant State-Authorised Public Accountant and we have fulfilled our other ethical ration of consolidated financial statements and these parent financial statements. to draw attention in our auditor’s MNE-no. mne31482 MNE-no. mne33276 | 112 | ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 113 | PARENT COMPANY PART 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | 115 |
