TSX, NASDAQ STOCKHOLM: LUG Sustainability Report 2019 BUILDING A LEADING GOLD COMPANY THROUGH RESPONSIBLE MINING ABOUT US Colombia ABOUT LUNDIN GOLD Lundin Gold Inc. (Lundin Gold or the Company) is a Canadian mining company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stockholm. The Company is a member of the Lundin Group of Companies and headquartered in Vancouver, Ecuador Canada. Lundin Gold owns the Fruta del Norte underground mine in southeast Ecuador through Aurelian Ecuador S.A. Fruta del Norte (FDN) is among the largest and highest grade gold deposits in the world. The Company substantially completed development and construction of FDN and achieved commercial production in February 2020, ahead of schedule. Lundin Gold is a participant of the UN Global Compact and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals in its operations. Peru ABOUT THIS REPORT Fruta del Norte This is Lundin Gold’s fourth sustainability report. It has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Option, includes selected GRI G4 Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures, and reports in accordance with the Mining Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism (LPRM) Core Option. This report also serves as our third Communication of Progress in implementing INVESTOR RELATIONS: the Principles of the UN Global Compact (GC). The focus of this report is info@lundingold.com COMMUNICATIONS: Fruta del Norte, our principal asset, and covers the period from January 1 to ec.comunicaciones@lundingold.com December 31, 2019, unless noted otherwise. The GRI, GC and LPRM Indices for LOCAL PROCUREMENT (FDN): this report are available on our website: https://lundingold.com/ fdn.compras.locales@lundingold.com Please read also the cautionary note about forward looking information and www.lundingold.com statements presented at the end of this report. Unless otherwise indicated, all dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. We welcome your comments and questions via email to ec.comunicaciones@lundingold.com CREDITS AND COPYRIGHT The data, information, images and translation contained in this report were provided by or through Lundin Gold and Aurelian Ecuador S.A. Prizma LLC served as our GRI reporting consultant and Aurelian Ecuador S.A. provided graphic design services. The reproduction of this publication by any digital or printing means is prohibited without prior authorization by Lundin Gold. CONTENTS • About Us 2 Boosting Local Entrepreneurs 23 About Lundin Gold 2 Supporting Dairy and Agriculture 24 About this Report 2 Improving Community Health 24 Credits 2 Collaborating with Indigenous Peoples 25 • 2019 Performance Summary and 2020 Goals 4 • Our People 26 • Message from President and CEO, Ron Hochstein 6 Human Resources 26 • Operations and Exploration 8 Enabling Local Hiring 27 Mining in Ecuador 8 Workforce Transition Strategy 28 Fruta del Norte in Production 9 Training for Operations Program 29 Exploration 9 Gender and Diversity 30 2019 FDN Project Milestones 9 Promoting Respect 31 • Corporate Governance 10 Health and Safety 31 Key Corporate Policies 10 Health and Well-Being 32 Board 10 • Environmental Stewardship 33 Board Committees 11 Construction Footprint 34 Responsible Mining Policy 11 Biodiversity Conservation & Offsets 34 Memberships and Commitments 11 Flora and Fauna Rescue and Relocation 35 UN Global Compact 12 Partnership with Conservation International – Ecuador 35 UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 Water Management 36 EITI in Ecuador 12 Community-Based Monitoring 37 • Economic Performance 13 Waste Management 37 Payment Transparency 14 Environmental Compliance & Incident Management 38 Inclusive Procurement 14 Significant Spills 38 Case Study: Catering Las Peñas 16 Environmental Compliance 39 • Engagement & Partnerships 17 Cyanide Management 39 Community Roundtables 17 Tailings Management 40 Academic Partnerships 18 GHG Emissions 40 Co-existing with Artisanal Mining 19 • Archaeological Activities 41 Security and Community 20 • Our Material Topics 43 Addressing Grievances 20 • Forward Looking Statement 47 • Impact Investments 22 Education and Training 23 2019 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY AND 2020 GOALS 2019 Goals 2019 Performance 2020 Goals Key UN SDGs • Begin mine production, powerline • Produced and shipped 28,678 • Ramping up mine and mill to connected to national grid, ounces of gold name plate capacity CONSTRUCTION tailings storage facility completed, • Powerline connected to national • Complete paste plant, Zamora commence process plant grid and energized; tailings storage River Bridge, permanent mine commissioning, first gold production facility completed ventilation • Continue to apply our • Participated in four UN Global international corporate Compact Roundtables in Ecuador governance standards, develop CORPORATE • Ongoing engagement with UN • Published payment to governments and maintain partnerships, and disclose our performance GOVERNANCE Global Compact Roundtables (ESTMA1), sustainability reporting, and Communication of Progress for • Participate in Ecuador’s Global Compact emerging EITI multi-stakeholder forum • Seek to create new opportunities so as to reduce the socio-economic • During operations, focus on impacts of the transition from • Developed and implemented local supply chain development construction to operations for the a Transition Strategy, as FDN opportunities, including logistics SOCIAL communities that are closest to FDN transitioned from construction and transport LICENSE • Clear, positive and measurable to operations, benefitting local • Develop social impact impacts in local communities communities and supply chain assessment or evaluation due to Lundin Gold’s community framework investments • Successful integration of existing • Successful completion of the PCOM and local community trainees into training program (see below) • Support the development or COMMUNITY & the FDN workforce, thus bolstering • Commenced the integration of growth of local entrepreneurs the local economy existing and new local suppliers as ECONOMIC • Successful integration of existing FDN transitions from construction • Integrate majority of remaining DEVELOPMENT to operations graduated PCOM trainees into and new local suppliers as FDN our workforce transitions from construction to • Developed and implemented a operations Transition Strategy (see below) 1. ESTMA: Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act 4 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY AND 2020 GOALS 2019 Goals 2019 Performance 2020 Goals Key UN SDGs • Graduated 306 trainees from province of Zamora Chinchipe and integrated 71% into • Integrate majority of remaining • Successful completion of the workforce by end of year PCOM trainees in early 2020 Training for Operations Program • Supported upskilling, certification, and • Successfully complete transition TRANSITION TO (PCOM2) economic resilience opportunities support and demobilization OPERATIONS • Successful ramp-up of the Transition • Organized two “My Future Fairs” attended by • Continue to assist entrepreneurial Strategy over 400 workers and economic growth and • Developed seven feasibility and economic studies diversification initiatives for prospective entrepreneurial opportunities • Extensive internal and external investigations undertaken, and new Go / No-Go program • Integrate lessons learned from HEALTH March 2019 fatality successfully rolled out throughout the Company • TRIR3: < 0.7 & SAFETY • TRIR3 Goal: 0.7 • Awarded first place in Good Practices of • Reinforce Company safety culture Occupational Health and Safety by the IESS4 • TRIR3 0.69 • Community-based water monitoring program • Implement community-based water seeking implementation partner • Implement Community-based water monitoring, launch biodiversity ENVIRONMENTAL offset program, complete cyanide • Biodiversity offset program launched monitoring program STEWARDSHIP management plan aligned with • Cyanide Management Plan complete, aligned • Continue implementation of ICMC5, no significant spills, fees or with ICMC5 biodiversty offset program fines • No significant spills, fees or fines • Participating in four UN Global Compact Roundtables in Ecuador • Continue active engagement in UN • Ongoing engagement with the UN • Provided VPSHR training to 100% of security 6 Global Compact Global Compact personnel • Roll out a company-wide campaign • Consolidation of the VPSHR6 in support of our Fundamental HUMAN RIGHTS program for all security personnel • Functioning and utilized mechanism, received Principle of Respect and followed-up on 103 low-level grievances • Continuous improvement in the through our external Grievance Mechanism • Remain proactive, review and Lundin Gold Grievance Mechanism in 2019. This is 19 fewer than in 2018, though address grievances in a timely three such grievances did rise to the second manner level of our three-tiered severity matrix 2. PCOM: Programa de Capacitación para Operación Minera / Training for Operations Program; 3. TRIR: Total Recordable Incident Rate; 4. IESS: Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security; 5. ICMC: International Cyanide Management Code; 6. VPSHR – Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 5 MESSAGE FROM RON HOCHSTEIN, PRESIDENT AND CEO Dear Reader, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to share with you my reflections upon Lundin Gold’s 2019 sustainability performance. I am writing to you during the midst of the coronavirus outbreak. It is my sincere hope that when you read this, the world will have started to emerge from this crisis with as low a human cost as possible. Despite the challenges that we collectively face in 2020, it is clear that 2019 was a year of great accomplishments for Lundin Gold. We completed the construction of Fruta del Norte (FDN) and inaugurated the operational phase of the mine in mid-November, thus putting into production Ecuador’s first large-scale underground gold mine. Most importantly, as our key performance indicators detailed in the report show, we did this while continuing to uphold our three fundamental principles: working safely, environmental stewardship and respect. For Lundin Gold, a successful operation starts with our ongoing commitment to the health and safety of employees, contractors and local communities. As was reported in our 2018 report, on 1 March 2019 a landslide tragically took the life of Cristian Ochoa. We continue to honour Cristian’s legacy through the actions that we have taken to further strengthen our safety systems and by implementing procedures to help prevent such incidents from reoccurring. 2019 featured over 100,000 training hours, a Total Recordable Incident Rate of only 0.69, and over three million hours worked without lost-time injuries. Throughout 2019 we continued to take actions to be a good steward of the sensitive environment in which we operate. Inspections by the Ministry of Environment found us in compliance; one minor non-conformity that was registered through third-party audits has been addressed. Our rehabilitation efforts continued throughout the year concurrent with our ongoing construction activities. 2019 was also the first full year of our partnership with Conservation International Ecuador, and we have made good progress in identifying the location that will become a private protected area, which will serve as a biodiversity offset for FDN. With the commencement of operations at FDN, we have also included in this report additional information on our cyanide management and tailings facility management. As this information shows, we are committed to and have been implementing leading industry standards and protocols. 6 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Since our arrival in Ecuador in 2015, we have prioritized local communities to ensure Partnership has always been a key element of Lundin Gold’s sustainability strategy. Over that FDN has positive impacts upon the lives of those who are within our area of the past five years, many of our programs have been implemented with like-minded influence. Over the past five years, local stakeholders have repeatedly told us that organizations from Ecuador and beyond. One of the most important of these partners is employment and other opportunities for economic advancement are a priority. As a the Lundin Foundation. It is thanks to deep engagement of the Foundation with our staff result, we developed and implemented an integrated education and training strategy that we have been able to develop FDN in a manner that truly benefits local communities. to facilitate the entry of local community members into the FDN workforce. In 2019, As I look to 2020, I know that Lundin Gold, together with the entire country of Ecuador, our Training for Operations program culminated with the graduation of more than 300 will need to confront a range of challenges related to the novel coronavirus, while at mine and plant operators. All these graduates are from the Zamora Chinchipe province, the same time continuing to address more conventional sustainability challenges and which hosts FDN. By the end of the year a significant majority was already employed opportunities common to our mining operation. I am confident that FDN will be a key by Lundin Gold and many others will join in 2020. I take great pride in knowing that component in restarting the local economy. Lundin Gold is and will continue to be a these graduates are the first underground equipment plant operators from the region. committed and responsible stakeholder wherever we operate. I would also like to acknowledge and thank our entire workforce. At the end of 2019, this included 2,573 workers, including 778 contractors. Approximately 48% of our Sincerely, workforce was recruited from the province of Zamora Chinchipe, the region which hosts FDN. Overall, 92% of our workers were from Ecuador. Other economic opportunities continue to be created through our work to prioritize Ron Hochstein local suppliers. In 2019, our local procurement in the province of Zamora Chinchipe was more than $28 million and 63 percent of our total procurement was within Ecuador. RESPONDING TO COVID-19 New to this year’s report are data that align to the Local Procurement Reporting In late 2019, reports emerged of a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) causing serious health Mechanism. This multi-stakeholder effort is led by Engineers Without Borders Canada complications. By the first quarter of 2020, COVID-19 was widespread globally and had and seeks to provide standardized information on how a mining project prioritizes local reached Ecuador. The ramifications of COVID-19 on society in general, the mining industry in suppliers. Though our local procurement will change as FDN transitions to operations, Ecuador and on Lundin Gold in particular, have been significant. The Government of Ecuador we will continue to work with existing and new local suppliers to integrate them into moved swiftly to impose sweeping restrictions on the movement of goods and people to our supply chain. In this manner, FDN will remain a key driver of the local economy. deter the spread of the virus. Large-scale mining remains a new industry in Ecuador, and I am keenly aware that On 22 March 2020, Lundin Gold made the decision to temporarily suspend operations at we must continue to share information on our work at FDN with local communities. Fruta del Norte to help protect the health of its workers, supply chains, and local communities. During the suspension, a small team of dedicated employees has remained on site to ensure Throughout 2019, our commitment to community engagement has continued. The critical activities – including environmental safeguards – continue, and to mitigate the impact community roundtables remain a key element of this engagement and attracted 1,158 of the suspension so that FDN can resume operations safely when restrictions are lifted. participants in 2019. In 2020, together with local stakeholders, we look forward to refocusing the roundtables to reflect local priorities, making sure that they continue At the time of writing, we continue to coordinate our activities with the relevant government to be aligned with FDN now that it has entered the production phase. agencies in Ecuador and align these also with our core values of working safely, environmental stewardship, and respect. We remain committed to playing a key role in reactivating local In addition, we continued to work closely with the Ecuadorian chapter of the United economic activity, and we will continue to keep our stakeholders informed about the status Nations Global Compact through multiple working groups and roundtables. We are of our activities. committed to the Ten Principles, and this report represents our third Communication of Progress. I am very pleased to report that Global Compact Canada honoured Lundin Sign up to our social media platforms to learn more about our response to COVID-19 and to receive Gold in November 2019 with an award recognizing the strength of our training and operational updates. local procurement programs in bringing tangible benefits to local communities. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 7 OPERATIONS AND EXPLORATION MINING IN ECUADOR In recent years, Ecuador has been seeking to diversify its economy and reduce its dependence on oil and agricultural commodities by promoting a new and responsible large-scale mining sector. Revisions of the regulatory framework and the further definition of significant copper and gold deposits are changing the investment landscape, with the country now expecting a significant rise in mining investment over the coming years. According to the Ecuadorian government, mining investments between 2018 and 2021 are expected to reach almost $4 billion, making the sector a key driver of the national economy and generating approximately 32,000 direct and indirect jobs. A notable development in the sector in 2019 was the creation of the Alliance for Responsible Mining in Ecuador (AMRE), whose vision was to promote the best practices of responsible and sustainable mining across all mining activities in Ecuador. Lundin Gold was a founding member, along with nine other organizations. Towards the end of 2019, AMRE was integrated into the Ecuadorian Chamber of Mines. The Ecuadorian government has affirmed its commitment to become an Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) implementing country. Ecuador plans to form a multi-stakeholder group and agree upon a work plan outlining how the country will implement its EITI commitment in line with national priorities. Lundin Gold has expressed its intention to participate in this multi-stakeholder forum. 8 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report EXPLORATION Lundin Gold has approximately 64,500 hectares of concessions, and the Fruta del Norte ore body sits in a major mineralized trend, indicating considerable exploration upside. Through 2019, we continued our exploration activities, including the mapping and sampling at several targets around the 16 kilometre long Suarez pull-apart basin. Historically, only 18 holes have been drilled in the basin outside of Fruta del Norte, and permitting is in progress for a 15,600 metres drill program focusing on Fruta del Norte-type epithermal gold-silver priority targets in the central and southern Suarez pull-apart basin. National and local authorities during the FDN Grand Opening Event. From left to right: Lukas Lundin, Chairman of 2019 FDN PROJECT MILESTONES the Board of Directors of Lundin Gold; José Agusto Briones, ex General Secretary of the Presidency of Ecuador; Otto Sonnenholzner, Vicepresident; Carlos Pérez, ex Minister of Energy and Non-Renewable Natural Resources; Kelly Montaño, President of Los Encuentros Parish; Ron Hochstein, President and CEO. Total of 13 kilometres of underground mine development achieved, ahead of projections FRUTA DEL NORTE IN PRODUCTION Construction 99.2 percent complete On November 14th, 2019, we inaugurated Fruta del Norte (FDN), Ecuador’s first, large-scale, underground gold mine, and celebrated the production and Company committed 96 percent of its capital expenditure shipment of first gold concentrate and doré bars a few weeks later. These milestones are part of the Project’s transition from construction to operations. FDN’s current estimates of probable reserves include approximately 5 million Powerline energized in October 2019, with the mine now ounces of gold, and we expect to produce an average of 325,000 ounces of connected to Ecuador's national power grid gold per year during the current projected life of mine of approximately 14 Mine inaugurated in Nov 2019 and first gold exported years. In November 2019, our continued commitment to responsible mining (concentrate and doré) in Dec 2019 practices was recognized by United Nations Global Compact, which –for the second time– presented Lundin Gold with an award for its contributions to 28,678 ounces of gold produced, including 25,267 ounces in achieving the UN SDGs. This award is further described in the Corporate concentrate and 3,411 ounce in doré Governance section of this report. 306 people from Zamora Chinchipe province graduated from The ramp-down of construction and transition to operations progressed our Training for Operations Program (PCOM) smoothly in local communities, in large part due to the effective rollout of our Transition Strategy. Commercial production was achieved in February 7.5 million hours worked, with a TRIR* of 0.69 2020, ahead of schedule, and the underground mine development continued above-target. The paste plant, the Zamora River bridge and permanent mine Note: Data as of 31 December 2019; *TRIR: Total Recordable Incident Rate ventilation remain to be completed in 2020. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We recognize the importance of good corporate governance to the long-term success of Lundin Gold. To this end, we are committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance that fosters accountability, ethical behavior and transparent disclosure. As a publicly listed company, we fully comply with or exceed the governance guidelines of the Canadian Securities Administrators. Since 2018, we have been a Participant of the United Nations Global Compact and continue to implement, disclose and promote human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles. KEY CORPORATE POLICIES As part of the Company’s corporate governance framework, our board of directors has implemented a series of policies which include: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Responsible Mining Policy Anti-Bribery Policy Corporate Disclosure Policy Sanctions and Anti Money Laundering Compliance Policy Whistleblower Policy These policies are available at www.lundingold.com BOARD Lundin Gold is governed by a board of directors with extensive expertise in the mining industry, which is dedicated to operating FDN responsibly. Our board is responsible for overseeing the management of the business and the decisionmaking authority on material economic, environmental, and social topics as they relate to Lundin Gold’s activities. This includes matters associated with our Responsible Mining Policy. 10 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report On December 31, 2019, Lundin Gold’s board comprised ten directors, the majority of Lundin Gold believes that transparent, sustainable practices and being a good whom are independent, as defined by the Canadian Securities Administrators. Thirty corporate citizen are central to the long-term success of our business. We seek percent of our directors are women. The board composition, independence, gender, to create enduring relationships with local communities and stakeholders, and tenure, other board memberships, competencies, shareholder representation, and to address social challenges that are priorities both for communities and for attendance performance are detailed in the Management Information Circular, the business through partnerships. By doing so, we help to create value for a available at www.lundingold.com. range of stakeholders. BOARD COMMITTEES MEMBERSHIPS AND COMMITMENTS As of the date of this report, the five standing committees of the board include: Aurelian Ecuador S.A., a subsidiary of Lundin Gold, is a member of the following organizations in Ecuador: 1 Audit Ecuadorian Chamber of Mining (our CEO served on the board for the first half of 2019 until his term concluded. He was then replaced by our VP, 2 Compensation Business Sustainability) Ecuadorian Consortium for Social Responsibility (CERES by its Spanish acronym; 3 Corporate Governance and Nominating our VP, Business Sustainability serves as an alternate on the board) Ecuadorian-Canadian Chamber of Commerce (our CEO served on the board) Ecuadorian Chamber of Industry and Production 4 Environmental, Health & Safety We have also adopted or endorsed other international charters, principles or initiatives listed below: 5 Technical United Nations Global Compact (joined March 2018) Each committee has a formal mandate or charter, which is reviewed annually United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and available at www.lundingold.com. All material community issues and other IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability recommendations emerging from the environment, health and safety committee GRI Standards for Sustainability Reporting are considered by the full board. RESPONSIBLE MINING POLICY Lundin Gold, including its subsidiaries, is committed to responsible mining, which means we are committed to operating our facilities according to our three Fundamental Principles. Working Environmental Respect in each Safely Stewardship of our activities Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG Since 2018, we have been a Participant to the United Nations Global Compact. 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls As part of our participation, we commit to: SDG Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Integrate the UN Global Compact and its ten principles into our strategies, culture and operations, including in subsidiaries and our supply chain 7 energy for all Advocate the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles via available communication channels SDG Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable Communicate annually with our stakeholders on efforts to implement the UN Global Compact principles 9 industrialization and foster innovation SDG Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient This sustainability report serves as our Communication of Progress. 11 and sustainable UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2019, as part of our involvement in the UN Global Compact Ecuador network, Lundin Gold also signed on to the country’s Sustainable Energy In 2015, Ecuador, Canada and other countries adopted the 2030 Agenda for Agreement, along with 50 other organizations, which seeks to promote good Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). practices for responsible energy consumption and corporate policies aligned Lundin Gold supports the SDGs and, throughout this sustainability report, with SDG 7. Through the sharing of experiences across different organizations has identified those that are most closely linked to and supported by our and industries, our participation in these working groups is helping us further operations and activities. improve our policies and practices related to gender equality, circular economy, energy access, and sustainable cities. Following our first award from the UN Global Compact Ecuador and Colombia chapters in 2017, we also received a Leadership Award from the UN Global Compact Canada in November 2019. This award recognized our work, jointly EITI IN ECUADOR with the Lundin Foundation, to implement educational and training strategies, such as our Training for Operations Program (detailed in the People section), as During 2019, Ecuador officially announced its commitment to become an well as our efforts to develop a strong network of local suppliers. implementing country of Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI). We are supportive of Ecuador’s intent to become an EITI Implementing Country The UN Global Compact Ecuador network’s “Leaders for the SDGs” and supporting both transparency and efficiency in the management of the initiative has working groups for each of the 17 SDGs, to discuss and share state's natural resources. We plan to participate in the multi-stakeholder lessons on how companies and other organizations are contributing to the group, which is expected to be formed by the Ecuadorian government in 2020. implementation of the SDGs in Ecuador. Since 2018, we have participated in We also will continue to publish our payments to government in line with the the following working groups: Canadian Extractive Sector Transparency Measure Act (ESTMA). 12 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Inaugurating the Fruta del Norte mine in November 2019 marked a major milestone. We believe that the value created through the development and operation of FDN has and will continue to benefit a wide range of stakeholders, including our shareholders, the national and local government, the people of local communities close to FDN, and all of Ecuador. This section outlines our economic performance, as tabulated below, as well as highlighting some of the underlying partnerships and programming which illustrate our support for socio-economic development of the FDN area. Economic Performance USD (in 000s) 2017 2018 2019 Economic Value Generated 20,9361 Economic Value Distributed 55,453 113,431 167,299 Operating cost Employee wages & benefits 17,953 49,674 83,041 Payment to providers of capital 12,982 Payments to governments (Ecuador) 37,500 63,757 71,276 Community investments 2 3,065 5,940 2,766 Economic Value Retained 1. Figure has been capitalized against property, plant, and equipment for the year ended December 31, 2019 as FDN had not yet reached commercial production 2. This category includes Project evaluation of community relations, community relations related to exploration activities, general and administration, and donations Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 13 According to Ecuador’s tax authority, Zamora Chinchipe collected $110 million in taxes in 2019 (which includes national tax collection). Over 44 percent ($49 million) of this tax collection came from the Canton of Yantzaza, which hosts Fruta del Norte. We believe that our local procurement practices, by directly supporting local businesses, have an indirect positive impact on this tax collection rate. INCLUSIVE PROCUREMENT We are committed to delivering value to our shareholders, while simultaneously providing economic and social benefits to communities within our area of influence. Barriers to developing an inclusive supply chain were identified early on in the development of FDN. Nevertheless, together with our partners and local Payment for patents and the 1.5 per thousand annual tax on total assets to the Municipal Government of Yantzaza. April, 2019. communities, we have turned this challenge into a development opportunity. In keeping with our Responsible Mining Policy, we have developed and PAYMENT TRANSPARENCY implemented local hiring and procurement strategies, invested in local vendors and suppliers, and financed a series of multi-year educational, training and We publish our payments to governments in compliance with the Canadian capacity building programs. Many of these activities were developed and/or Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). The breakdown of our delivered in collaboration with the Lundin Foundation and other partners. annual payments to parish, municipal and federal governments in Ecuador, The results of key initiatives are highlighted in the following sections and as well as contributions to the Shuar Federation of Zamora Chinchipe, are detailed further in other publications and our social media platform. To learn shown in the following table. more about local procurement opportunities please contact: fdn.compras.locales@lundingold.com. Summary of Payment Reporting We define the term “local” and track our hiring and procurement spending $ Thousands based on a model of concentric circles associated with administrative 2017 2018 2019 boundaries around FDN, as conceptualized in the graphic overleaf. This Parish Government of Los Encuentros 1,720 1,110 600 model was agreed upon with local communities through the Community Municipal Government of Yantzaza 700 2,060 3,600 Roundtables. Federal Government of Ecuador 26,750 31,210 17,410 Indigenous Organizations 210 90 Total payment by FDN project and other 29,380 34,380 21,700 mining activities NOTE: Expenditures related to Lundin Foundation are not included in Lundin Gold’s Canadian Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act reporting, which are available at www.lundingold.com 14 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report While we are very pleased with this progress to date, we also note that towards the end of the year the transition from construction to operations resulted in a significant reduction in the procurement of goods and services that were required to support the construction period. In anticipation of this decline, we have been developing a series of initiatives to support our local supply chain members to improve their resilience and positioning for the production phase of FDN, as described further below. Procurement Spending $ Million Spending by Region 2017 2018 2019 Ring 1 7.4 18.7 17.4 P&P Catering. Ring 2 4.3 7.4 9.7 Definition of “Local” as Agreed with Local Communities Ring 3 0.7 1.6 1.3 Ring 4 57.6 153.4 218.9 Total Ecuador 70.3 180.3 247.3 RING 4 Rest of Ecuador Total International 31.9 124.7 146.0 RING 3 Zamora Chinchipe Province Total 102.2 305 393.3 RING 2 Yantzaza Canton RING 1 Los Encuentros, Parish and Villages Percentage of Playón and Río Blanco Spending by Region 2017 2018 2019 Local (Rings 1-3) 12% 9% 7% FRUTA DEL Total Ecuador 69% 59% 63% NORTE Total International 31% 41% 37% NOTE: Procurement spending includes Aurelianmenor and Aurelian Ecuador. The Company has developed an extensive network of over 300 local suppliers. As detailed more extensively in previous Sustainability Reports, we continue to Since 2017, our local procurement has injected approximately US$68 million survey, train, certify or otherwise support numerous local vendors to enable them into the Province of Zamora Chinchipe’s economy, spending an average of $2.4 to join both Lundin Gold’s supply chain as well as that of our main contractors. We million per month during 2019. Overall, in 2019, we purchased over $247 million monitor and disclose our procurement performance, disaggregated by region, to in goods and services within Ecuador, 37 percent more than during 2018. our stakeholders and encourage our contractors to do the same. One of our awardwinning suppliers, Catering Las Peñas, has successfully grown and diversified its client base, while also supporting the growth of its own local supply chain. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 15 CASE STUDY: Catering Las Peñas Catering Las Peñas (CLP) is a UNGC award-winning catering and housekeeping company founded in 2015 by former Lundin Gold employees, which provides services to FDN. Since its creation, CLP has grown steadily and received support from the Lundin Foundation, including training, technical support and assistance in quality and safety of services to promote the company’s sustainability. CLP’s annual sales reached approximately $11.7 million in 2019, an increase of 35 percent from 2018. Ring 1 procurement by CLP saw a 53 percent growth compared to 2018, and procurement across the province (Rings 1, 2 and 3) grew by 42 percent, a clear reflection of efforts made by CLP to enhance its local procurement impact and the growth of FDN during this period. This showcases CLP’s efforts to continually enhance its own local economic impact as it expands to serve clients at both the provincial and national level by developing and implementing its own inclusive procurement strategies, such as with P&P Catering, TAKATAII, SAJEOZ and ASOMIDORADA (initiatives described on CLP’s social media: Cateringrocks2015). 16 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report ENGAGEMENT & PARTNERSHIPS One of Lundin Gold’s Fundamental Principles is respect. In practice this means that we engage with stakeholders in a structured and considerate manner, that we empower and collaborate with our partners, and that we proactively pursue opportunities to create shared value. We also inform our diverse stakeholders about our activities through face-to-face meetings, Community Roundtables and a variety of media channels. We believe that this approach is aligned with our values as well as the needs and expectations of communities, government and various stakeholder groups. COMMUNITY ROUNDTABLES Using a participatory approach, structured Community Roundtables began in mid-2016 to help inform and direct our local engagement as well as our impact investment strategies. This ongoing engagement platform seeks to generate a shared vision of the risks and opportunities related to FDN within its regional context, as well as develop collective actions to generate shared value. Although the Company promotes and supports the Community Roundtables, we neither control nor dictate the direction of this externally facilitated multistakeholder platform. As in 2018, the Roundtables for 2019 were organized around eight thematic areas listed below. Community Roundtable Themes in 2019 • Inter-institutional Coordination • Promotion of Community Ethics & Cultural Values • Agro-economic Development • Local Business Opportunities • Environmental Responsibility • Employment & Capacity Building • Road Safety & Infrastructure • Tourism Development Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 17 The roundtable meetings are convened approximately every six weeks by the local government of the Los Encuentros Parish. The key activities and publications emerging from the roundtables are available in Spanish at https://medium.com/ mesas-temáticas-los-encuentros. In 2019, the transition from construction to operations at Fruta del Norte was a recurring subject of the Community Roundtables and our general community engagement activities. This was discussed extensively at the Community Roundtables for Local Business Opportunities, Employment & Capacity Building and Interinstitutional Coordination. These discussions provided us an opportunity to share, discuss and fine-tune our Transition Strategy and Perception Survey about Roundtables Community roundtables in Los Encuentros Parish. its rollout. In 2020, we expect that the % OF RESPONDENTS AGREE THAT ROUNDTABLES PROVIDE: 2018 2019* structure and focus of the Roundtables will be adjusted to reflect the priorities of stakeholders during the operational phase of FDN. A respectful dialogue space 80% 99% Coordination among different stakeholders 73% 98% The Community Roundtables are also subject to routine self-evaluation by Planning for development 73% 94% participating stakeholders. The overall success of the Roundtables can be measured A mechanism that contributes to solve local issues 77% 73% by the number of participants as well as the positive perceptions they have, *2019 “agree” responses include both answers of “somewhat agree” and “completely agree”, while 2018 surveys only offered answer options of “agree” (versus “disagree”) improved collaboration, and numerous projects implemented, as illustrated in the following pages and the Impact Investments section that follows. ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS Key Roundtable Statistics 2017 2018 2019 Academic institutions have become key stakeholders in our efforts to support the Number of Sessions 8 6 5* development of a responsible mining industry in Ecuador. In 2019, we continued Number of Participants 1,465 1,239 1,158 to expand our relationship and collaboration with the academic community in Ecuador. We also continue to present and discuss our sustainability strategy with *Local elections and national unrest resulted in fewer sessions in 2019 academic institutions, students and teachers, including through site visits to FDN. 18 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Our engagements and initiatives seek to promote responsible mining in the area, including mutual knowledge transfer, establishing sustainable community development projects, training and research. By the end of 2019, we had established memoranda of understanding or specific programs with the following institutions: National University of Loja (UNL Universidad Nacional de Loja): This partnership will focus upon improving agricultural production in local communities, leveraging the UNL’s experimental station located in Los Encuentros. Polytechnic School of Guayaquil (ESPOL Escuela Superior Politécnica del Litoral): Efforts with the ESPOL will focus upon assisting formalized artisanal miners to improve the technical aspects of their operations. Technical Private University of Loja (UTPL Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja): Lundin Gold and the UTPL have continued to work together on areas of community development and training over the course of 2019. Training workshop with formalized artisanal miners who operate on Lundin Gold concessions. The outcomes of these and other engagements with academic institutions are highlighted in this report, as well as in various other publications and our CO-EXISTING WITH ARTISANAL MINING social media platforms. The region in which we operate has a history of artisanal mining, which contributes to local employment and livelihoods. We therefore continue to pursue a strategy of co-existence, which has been in place since our arrival in 2015. We assist those artisanal miners that seek to formalize their activities, and which do not adversely affect our operations. When artisanal miners seek to operate in an area that would interfere with our activities, we work with them to identify viable alternative areas within our concessions. Additionally, we support artisanal miners to obtain their required environmental certificates. We also continued to develop a capacity building initiative with ESPOL for the benefit of artisanal miners. We are working towards a pilot project to offer internship placements for mining and geology students to work with ASM agreement holders. The objective of this effort, which is scheduled to commence in 2020, is to improve the activities of artisanal mining operators established on our concessions, by identifying areas favorable for the exploitation of gold, and providing advice on technical aspects, occupational safety, environmental Institutional agreement between the National University of Loja (UNL) and Lundin Gold. management, and legal compliance. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 19 During the reporting period, there were no grievances or incidents related to artisanal mining. On several of our concessions, we observed an increase in informal mining activities. As such, and in accordance with our procedures, we filed 20 complaints of illegal activities and one request for administrative protection from the Mining Regulation and Control Agency (ARCOM by its Spanish acronym). Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining (ASM) Activities within Our Concession Areas 2017 2018 2019 Formalized ASM with contracts with Lundin Gold 21 19 17 Voluntary departure of informal ASM after authority inspections 25 38 18 Legal complaints filed by Lundin Gold against informal ASM 17 19 21 Number of impoundments, disabling, or destruction of ASM equipment 10 2 1 or camps by authorities Number of peaceful removals of artisanal miners by authorities 25 6 2 Grievances lodged with Lundin Gold related to ASM 1 0 0 SECURITY AND COMMUNITY Our Security Program is designed to protect people, assets and operations while respecting human rights and local communities. It is a continuous process based on careful planning and incorporating international best practices. Our induction and training materials continue to emphasize our commitment to respectful engagement and international human rights. 100 percent of the FDN ADDRESSING GRIEVANCES Security Team has received training in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Plans are established to deliver annual refresher training as well We maintain a formal grievance mechanism so that employees, contractors, as expediently train any new personnel. community members and other stakeholders can lodge their concerns and complaints. Grievances can be lodged anonymously. This system enables us Our main security practices continue to be outsourced to a reputable international to systematically record, resolve, and report grievances to our management security provider. This provider is committed to the United Nations Global and other interested parties. In 2019, we disseminated information about Compact and the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers. our grievance mechanism in Shuar, the language of the main indigenous As a result, our security provider is committed to good governance, respect for group in the FDN area. human rights and international humanitarian law, provides vetting and training for its staff and contractors, and applies high ethical standard of conduct. During the reporting period, we recorded a total of 106 complaints or grievances, with 97 percent falling in the lowest level of severity (Level I), We did not record any security-related incidents or grievances during the and the remaining three percent at the intermediate Level II. There were no reporting period. grievances received at Level III (highest level of severity). 20 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Central park of the Los Encuentros Parish. After more than a year, the ongoing challenges associated with the existing bridge in Los Encuentros were resolved in December 2019. Once the Prefect of Zamora Recorded Grievances by Type or Topic in 2019 Chinchipe formally communicated to the Los Encuentros parish government Type or Topic of Grievance Number that the bridge has a capacity of 32 tons, a group of local community members Contracts 46 which objected to FDN’s use of the bridge communicated to the Company Construction 5 that they were willing to accept the decision. The Company coordinated with Health, Safety & Security 2 local officials and local police prior to using the bridge for the first time and no Social Responsibility and Communities 4 incidents occurred. At the end of the reporting period, the Company was using Legal 6 the bridge up to its rated capacity of 32 tons. Human Resources & Administration 10 Surface Operations 17 Camp Administration 6 Grievances Recorded Purchasing 1 for Fruta del Norte 2017 2018 2019 Environment & Permitting 1 Category Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Exploration 2 Level I 70 93 125 100 103 97 Mine Development 2 Level II 5 7 0 0 3 3 Infrastructure 3 Level III 0 0 0 0 0 0 Non-applicable Grievances 1 Total 75 100 125 100 106 100 TOTAL 106 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 21 IMPACT INVESTMENTS In addition to the initiatives outlined in other sections of this report, Lundin Gold also prioritizes strategic investments that seek to bring positive community impact across a range of areas. Many of these are supported in partnership with the Lundin Foundation and are described in detail in our other publications and our social media platforms. We will be developing and implementing a formal impact investment framework now that FDN is in the operations phase with a focus upon impact evaluation in 2020 to further quantify our contribution and longterm impacts on socio-economic wellbeing and the quality of life of local stakeholders. This effort will also support us in assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of our programming. The Community Roundtables are an important forum and tool for engaging community members in a collaborative decision-making process regarding community investment projects and programs. Below is a summary of activities undertaken in 2019, from receiving and analyzing proposals against needs and opportunities, to approval decisions and supervising delivery. Community Roundtables Proposal Results 2017 2018 2019 Proposals 23 21 20 Under Review 0 1 7 Rejected 5 10 7 Approved 18 10 6 In Progress 1 5 1 Completed 17 2 0 22 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report same university entrance exam. Currently, there are 135 students from Los Encuentros studying in different universities across the country. Supported by Lundin Gold, JAE is now also implementing a program to accompany university students from Los Encuentros during the first few years of their university careers to help lower the drop-out rate. An important education and training initiative to highlight for the 2019 reporting period is the successful completion of the mining and process plant Training for Operations Program (better known locally by its Spanish acronym PCOM), which trained 306 people for long-term employment in operations. Details of the program can be found in the Our People section of this report BOOSTING LOCAL ENTREPRENEURS As part of our Transition Strategy, in 2019 we commissioned a series of studies to identify promising local entrepreneurial opportunities for FDN’s operational phase, with the objective of providing a path forward to support local employees whose work with FDN would be coming to an end. This initiative, which will EDUCATION AND TRAINING be launched in local communities in 2020, is expected to support numerous entrepreneurs in building or growing businesses. In the early planning stage of FDN, significant barriers to local hiring and procurement were identified. For example, only 13 percent of local entrepreneurs surveyed were formally registered entities. In response, we developed a series of interventions, such as high school equivalency, professional certifications, and entrepreneurial skill-building programs. Our ongoing NGO partnerships, such as that with Junior Achievement Ecuador (JAE), enable us to improve the educational outcomes for students in Los Encuentros. Since 2015, several initiatives with JAE have focused on developing entrepreneurial skills, supporting teachers and parents, preparing students for university entrance exams, and tackling the high university drop-out rate. In 2019, 32 high school students from the Unidad Educativa 10 de Noviembre in Los Encuentros successfully passed their university entrance exams. In 2015, prior to the availability of the education and support programs associated with FDN, only one student from the Los Encuentros school successfully passed the “My Future Fair 1” held in the Los Encuentros Parish in April 2019. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 23 SUPPORTING DAIRY AND AGRICULTURE Given the local importance of dairy farming and agriculture, as well as the opportunity these activities present for economic diversification and employment, we continue to work with the Lundin Foundation on the following initiatives designed to improve local livelihoods. Supporting Catering Las Peñas and its local supply chain initiatives (including P&P Catering, TAKATAII, SAJEOZ and ASOMIDORADA). Assisting the Association of Small Organic Agricultural Exporters of the Southern Ecuadorian Amazon (APEOSAE by Spanish acronym) which processes and markets coffee, cacao and plantains on behalf of its farm members. Working with the ECOLAC Dairy, which provides market access to over 100 dairy farmers in the Zamora Chinchipe province. IMPROVING COMMUNITY HEALTH We continued our collaboration with Kimirina, an NGO, to addresses the root causes of several social challenges and empower vulnerable or stigmatized individuals and groups. In 2019, Kimirina continued with capacity building aimed at at-risk youth with a focus upon preventing drug and alcohol abuse, domestic violence and education on sexual and reproductive health. Kimirina's team during the summer camp at Los Encuentros Parish. 24 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report opportunities regarding both domestic and international tourism profiles. Highlights at the centre in 2019 were the launch of an indigenous gastronomy training program, including the installation of a new industrial test kitchen on site, and a hospitality and tour guide training program. Lundin Gold and the Zamora Chinchipe Shuar Federation signed a new agreement in 2019, focused on developing organic cocoa production in Shuar territory. The program seeks to promote sustainable agricultural practices among Shuar people. During the reporting period, the first disbursement for the program was made and 34 samples have been taken from across a 50-hectare area. A key priority for the Shuar Federation is the promotion of educational and job “Tsanka Nunka” Consortium official presentation. From left to right: Ron Hochstein, President and CEO; Erin Johnston, Managing Director Lundin Foundation; Sylvie Bédard, Canadian Ambassador for Ecuador; Rubén Naichap, president of the opportunities associated with mining. As such, we worked closely with the Shuar Federation of Zamora Chinchipe; Fernando Benalcázar, Vice Minister of Mines of Ecuador and Eugenio Naranjo, Advisor to the Ministry of Tourism of Ecuador. Federation to increase Shuar participation in our training and recruitment programs, especially our Mine Operations Training Program (better known locally by its Spanish acronym as PCOM), training future operators for the mine and processing COLLABORATING WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES plant. The results of this effort can be seen below. Though 16 members of the Shuar community successfully completed the program, the participation from the Shuar Federation in the initial testing and subsequent training fell below the levels that Important stakeholders for our operations include the the Company had initially identified with the Shuar leaders. We will draw lessons indigenous peoples who live in the broad area around Fruta from this experience and consider how we can better address barriers to access, del Norte. Our engagement is primarily with the Shuar and, as well as structure and communicate our approach more effectively for future to a lesser extent, the Saraguro indigenous peoples. Though programs, to achieve a higher participation rate. many live within mixed communities, there are several indigenous communities close to the town of Los Encuentros, Shuar Participating in Operators and approximately 40 kilometres from Fruta del Norte. Since 2015, we have Training Program Shuar Total Participants been working with the Shuar Federation of Zamora Chinchipe to address Cohort 1 12 112 economic development, institutional strengthening, the protection of customs and traditions, and capacity building. Cohort 2 4 109 Cohort 3 0 95 During the reporting period, we participated in the creation of the Tsanka TOTAL 16 316 Nunka Cultural Tourism Consortium, jointly with the Lundin Foundation, Note: Total potential candidates tested for positions between in 2018 and 2019: 1,864 academic institutions and the Canadian Embassy in Ecuador. Formally launched in January 2019, the Consortium worked to establish the Winia Nunkar tourism In 2019, we also developed and disseminated our translated grievance mechanism company that seeks to leverage the growing market for cultural and ecological in the Shuar language. We have recorded a single level 1 grievance (i.e., the lowest tourism. The renovated and updated Cultural Interpretation Centre of the level) from a shuar community associated with the use of a local road. This grievance Shuar Nation of Zamora Chinchipe, located on ancestral indigenous territory was closed to the satisfaction of the complainant during the reporting period. in the Timbara Parish, has also continued to expand its offerings since its June Beyond this, we reported no incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 2018 inauguration. A market study has been undertaken to better evaluate people during the reporting period. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 25 OUR PEOPLE HUMAN RESOURCES In 2019, we were able to move approximately 390 construction-phase temporary workers to permanent operations positions. In early 2020, an additional 170 temporary workers were transitioned to permanent operations positions. In 2019, we also employed the vast majority of the 306 graduates of our Training for Operations Program. As part of our Transition Strategy, we supported other construction workers to seek new opportunities by providing them with access to information, training, “My Future Fairs” and other resources. Strengthening Policies As a Participant to the UN Global Compact, we are committed to implementing, disclosing and promoting its universal human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles. In addition, our Responsible Mining Policy commits us to meeting or exceeding Ecuadorian laws which guarantee freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, and prohibit forced, compulsory or child labour, and discrimination in employment practices. New policies introduced in 2019 emphasize the Company’s commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all. These include our Workplace Harassment Policy, which includes clear reporting and investigation tools and procedures, to be rolled out in 2020, as well as an Alcohol and Drug Free Workplace Policy, demonstrating a zero-tolerance approach. 26 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Our Workplace Harassment Policy The Lundin Gold Board has adopted the Workplace Harassment Policy to help foster an environment of respect, maintain a safe and harassment-free work environment, and help employees understand their rights and responsibilities in this regard. Established procedures enable the reporting, timely investigation and resolution of potential harassing behaviour, without fear of reprisal or retaliation. The Company has clearly articulated that harassment will not be tolerated and is committed to taking appropriate action against any employee who harasses someone. Passing Peak Construction Our construction operations at Fruta del Norte were supported by approximately 3,800 workers at the peak of construction in 2019, including approximately 1,500 contractors. These numbers fluctuated over the course of the year (and continue to do so) in response to our construction requirements. PCOM trainees with their instructor. We continued to report our hiring statistics, and that of our contractors, to the participants of the Community Roundtables and other interested parties. At the end of 2019, approximately 48 percent of the workforce (including ENABLING LOCAL HIRING contractors) was recruited from the Zamora Chinchipe Province (Rings 1 to 3), which represents a one percent increase compared to 2018. In operating FDN, our goal is to maximize opportunities for local people living in neighbouring communities. In support of this goal, we developed and implemented Transition to Operations a series of local education and training programs to improve the ability of local Once the main construction activities have been completed, we expect that the community members to successfully access our hiring opportunities. In our workforce required to operate and maintain Fruta del Norte will range from local hiring strategy, we follow the definition of “Local” as shown in our Inclusive approximately 1,300 to 1,400. In addition, the skill sets required for the workforce Procurement section of the report. Ring 1, which comprises the communities during the operation stage will differ from that of the construction phase. nearest to our operations, receives the highest priority. Preparing for the move from construction to operations, we had already initiated While initial labour requirements in the construction phase focused on unskilled a series of training programs to develop new skill sets required for underground labour, we increasingly require mechanical, electrical, and piping skills, and thus mining and operating a state-of-the-art process plant. This included developing a more skilled labour force. In 2019, significant focus was put on building a local the Training for Operations program, unique to Ecuador, which is described on workforce in line with the needs of the operations phase, as detailed in the Training page 29. for Operations Program section. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 27 Contractor Employment 2017 2018 2019 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Ring 1 199 54 253 181 67 248 152 50 202 Ring 2 81 11 92 124 34 158 118 29 147 Ring 3 90 11 101 121 24 145 58 16 74 Ring 4 601 27 628 802 30 832 323 26 349 Total 971 103 1,074 1,228 155 1,383 651 121 772 Ecuador Foreign 24 1 25 49 1 50 5 1 6 Total 995 104 1099 1277 156 1433 656 122 778 Workforce Note: Statistics provided reflect those at end of each calendar year WORKFORCE TRANSITION STRATEGY As Fruta Del Norte transitioned from the construction to the operational stage, the overall workforce size and skill sets required have changed. Since mid-2018, we have engaged in a 5-pillar Transition Strategy to ease this transition. This strategy involved early consultation and strategic communications Aurelian Ecuador S.A. Employment campaigns with internal and external stakeholders. We also completed a survey with all soon-to-be impacted local workers, 2017 2018 2019 a local and national labour market survey, and involved Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total the Community Roundtables and the Lundin Foundation. Ring 1 316 8 324 426 37 463 361 53 414 The successful implementation of this Transition Strategy is Ring 2 67 8 75 214 10 224 198 23 221 evidenced in the integration of the majority of the 306 graduates of our PCOM Ring 3 46 6 52 179 12 191 161 16 177 program, described in the following section, the uptake of training opportunities Ring 4 176 68 244 502 100 602 668 109 777 and programs offered, and the low number of associated grievances. Total 605 90 695 1,321 159 1,480 1,388 201 1,589 Ecuador We continued to offer training and certification programs, support for local Foreign 50 3 53 135 9 144 199 7 206 entrepreneurship, and hosted two well-attended “My Future Fairs” to Total 655 93 748 1,456 168 1,624 1,587 208 1,795 disseminate information about various existing and upcoming economic Workforce opportunities. Working with the Lundin Foundation, we identified a series Note: Statistics provided reflect those at end of each calendar year of initiatives designed to increase the financial competencies and labour 28 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report The Company’s sponsorship of the two “My Future Fairs” brought government and educational institutions, as well as other resources, to the FDN area to provide information on an array of opportunities. A total of 412 workers attended the fairs organized by the Company, 98 percent of whom indicated they had identified interesting alternative employment possibilities, and 36 percent of whom enrolled in a program or training through the event. The most popular programs were linked to dairy farming and agriculture (including the existing initiatives of TAKATAII, APEOSAE, and ECOLAC ), while the most popular training areas enrolled in were welding, occupational health and safety, and basic electricity (e.g. 238 local employees sought to take advantage of the training opportunities offered through our SECAP partnership). “My Future Fair 2” held in the Los Encuentros Parish in June 2019. TRAINING FOR OPERATIONS PROGRAM market competitiveness of construction workers, by facilitating their access to alternative livelihood opportunities, and mitigating adverse socio-economic In 2018, and in collaboration with the Lundin Foundation, we established the impacts resulting from the winding down of the construction period. These specialized Training for Operations Program (PCOM by its Spanish acronym). By supporting activities continued throughout 2019 and will be carried through the end of 2019, 306 participants, all of whom come from local communities, had into 2020. In undertaking this strategy, FDN has set a precedent for a transition successfully completed the program. Of these, approximately 95 percent were planning process in the mining sector in Ecuador. expected to join our workforce in 2020. Pillars of the Fruta del Norte Transition Strategy Pillar 1: Pillar 2: Pillar 3: Pillar 4: Pillar 5: Training for Agricultural Training and Support for Local My Future Fairs Operations Development Certification Entrepreneurship 3 cohorts from Employees that Construction and Several market, Two rounds of the Sept 2018 to Oct expressed an metalworking technical, and “My Future Fairs” 2019 graduated interest in this training offered feasibility studies were organized 306 trainees as area (during the with Ecuadorian were developed in in the first half of mine and process “My Future Fairs”) Vocational Training 2019, corresponding 2019. A total of 412 plant operators, underwent a Service (SECAP by its to initiatives workers attended, 71% of whom have pre-qualification Spanish acronym). identified as 98% of whom been integrated assessment in 2019, First metalworking potential emerging indicated they had as employees with 92 former certification opportunities for identified interesting by end of 2019, employees meeting workshop former workers alternative with intentions to the requirements, completed in 2019. and existing local employment integrate many 36% of whom Additional training suppliers during possibilities. of the remaining have commenced on labour transition FDN operations. graduates in 2020. activities as of 31 (preparing resumes, December 2019. interview skills, use of job portals) and financial management. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 29 GENDER AND DIVERSITY Given the emerging nature of the large-scale mining sector in Ecuador and the Since the 2018 launch of the Global Compact Ecuador network’s associated skills and training gap originally identified in the region, we recognized “Leaders for the SDGs” initiative, we have been part of the SDG that our commitment to local hiring required an ambitious support program. 5 working group, aiming to support the achievement of gender PCOM provided structured training in the classroom, two state-of-the-art 3D equality and empower women and girls. Our participation is underground mine simulators, as well as practical experience operating mining helping us further improve our policies and practices related to equipment under the supervision of instructors. gender equality. We are also actively involved with the creation of the Women In Mining Ecuador initiative. The instructing team trained three cohorts of students, graduating in March, June and October 2019 respectively. 80 percent of trainees specialized in underground A third-party evaluation undertaken this year calculated our gender compensation mining equipment operation, and the remaining were trained as process plant ratio to be 0.97 (the closer to 1, the closer to gender equity in terms of remuneration operators. 315 trainees enrolled, 97 percent of which completed the program. of men and women). We also opened a lactation room at Fruta del Norte and a Trainees received a stipend and completed approximately 1,000 hours of intensive nursing room in Los Encuentros, to better accommodate the needs of women training each. employees upon returning from maternity leave. The initiative prioritized communities located near Fruta del Norte, as well as During the “Women in Energy 2019” event organized by the Society of Petroleum members of the Shuar Federation of Zamora Chinchipe. As a result, all of the 306 Engineers (SPE) in Ecuador, Lundin Gold also received an award recognizing our graduates from the program are from the Zamora Chinchipe province, with 50 Human Resources leadership in the development of projects and sustainable percent being from Ring 1. initiatives supporting women in the mining industry. The program participants were 16 percent women and five percent members of the indigenous Shuar nation. Additionally, six percent of trainees had previously participated in our high school equivalency program, Bachillerato Extraordinario, an educational initiative we offered in collaboration with the Lundin Foundation, the Ministry of Education and Fe y Alegría, which ended successfully in 2018. Composition of Trainees of Training for Operations Program BACHILLERATO TRAINEES MALE FEMALE RING 1 RING 2 RING 3 SHUAR GRADUATE 260 48 152 90 50 16 18 308* 84% 16% 50% 29% 16% 5% 6% *Training for Operations total graduates =306. Two Cohort 3 trainees were unable to graduate due to health reasons. However, they are still being considered for employment at LUG 30 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report HEALTH AND SAFETY Fruta del Norte has become the first large-scale underground mine in the country. Our culture of working safely is core to our commitment to support the development of a responsible mining industry in Ecuador. In 2019 we continued to maintain our position as a positive reference for safety practices in Ecuador. We prioritize the resourcing, management, continuous innovation, and monitoring of the effectiveness of our health and safety systems and practices. To foster accountability, remuneration, including that of our senior managers, is also in part driven by health and safety performance indicators. We were deeply saddened to report the fatality of an employee on March 1, 2019. This fatality was due to a landslide that occurred while Cristian Antonio Ochoa Calva was operating a loader on the North Access Road. Internal and external investigations highlighted the presence of strong systems, despite the occurrence of this tragedy. Nonetheless, the fatality has led to changes and further improvements of these systems, including an improved critical risk analysis system, and the “Go / No-Go” program, which PROMOTING RESPECT empowers workers to be able to say no when they have to carry out critical risk activities where the appropriate controls are not in place in accordance with established procedures. We also strengthened the geotechnical monitoring and Respect is one of our Fundamental Principles. Following the leadership control systems. We remain fully committed to taking the necessary measures commitment made in late 2018, we have been building an internal campaign to prevent such an incident from reoccurring. to reinforce this Fundamental Principle, including: Defining the meaning of “Respect” in our operational context Establishing our behavioural expectations through a code of respect Health and Safety Culture Disseminating our expectations company-wide Through the implementation of multiple initiatives, such as the Golden Rules and the Visible Leadership Program, we seek to continuously foster a For us, the term Respect means that we interact with others with the intent culture of accident and injury prevention. This means that we encourage and of understanding cultural differences and in a manner that is perceived to be empower safety leadership in the workforce, and provide training to workers, considerate. In 2019, we officially launched our Code of Respect, established supervisors, employees, and contractors. These efforts contributed to reaching organizational goals to allow performance monitoring, and will be rolling out 3,007,484 hours worked without lost-time injuries in 2019 (period of May 31st an awareness raising campaign in 2020. to 12th October), and a total recordable incident rate of 0.69 for the reporting Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 31 period, as well as the zero non-conformities noted during our December 2019 Key Health and Safety Statistics (Aurelian Ecuador S.A. and Contractors) third-party health and safety audit. 2017 2018 2019 We are also pleased to see our culture of health and safety increasingly Hours worked 2,135,951 5,118,008 7,482,631 adopted by suppliers and partners. For example, the local light vehicle Lost Time Incidents 1 2 6 transport company Eden de la Amazonia, which has been a beneficiary of our Injury rate/ 200,000 Hours 0.56 0.43 0.69 (weighted average) community investment programming, had no major incidents in 2019, in a Hours Trained 22,563 87,066 100,835 context of increasing road accidents at the national level. Job Safety Analysis 28,740 19,848 24,962 Awards and Recognition Observation Cards 7,336 229,147 347,048 Our continued efforts to bolster our emergency response training helped our Additional statistics are provided as part of the web posted GRI Index team win the Industrial Rescue Olympics of Confined Spaces & Heights in 2019, which was hosted by 3M, as well as being ranked first by the Ecuadorian Institute for Social Security in Good Occupational Health and Safety Practices among 500 companies in August 2019. During the coming year, our commitment is to remain focused on mitigating critical risks and high potential incidents, implement critical controls and maintain operations in a safe manner with leading and lagging KPIs to improve corporate targets. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING As part of promoting the well-being of our workers, we provide dedicated areas for recreational activities. These areas are utilized for activities ranging from aerobics to birthday celebrations. We also provide an on-site gym with fitness equipment and professional trainers, which is used by approximately 200 workers per day. Additional outdoor sports facilities are provided and popular for team sports, such as hockey, soccer, basketball and volleyball. We also provide access to social workers. Through this support, we seek to foster a positive work environment and Lundin Gold won first place in the Industrial Rescue Olympics in Heights and Confined Spaces organized by the American firm 3M. care for the mental health of all employees. 32 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP We are committed to responsible mining, which means we are committed to operating our facilities according to our three Fundamental Principles. Working Environmental Respect in each Safely Stewardship of our activities During 2019, we continued to implement a series of environmental management and monitoring plans, ranging from archaeological resources to water quality, with key results highlighted in this section. Our objective is to continuously improve our performance. As we commenced operations during the fourth quarter of 2019 and commercial production in the first quarter of 2020, our environmental stewardship focus is gradually shifting from avoiding, minimizing and mitigating construction impacts, to managing and minimizing environmental aspects associated with the operational stage of Fruta del Norte. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 33 Construction Footprint FDN is being developed as an underground mine, so its physical footprint is much The Fruta del Norte project was designed and developed to minimize the smaller when compared to open-pit mining development. As part of the biological environmental footprint of the operation. By the end of the reporting year, baseline studies and subsequent flora and fauna rescue and monitoring programs, construction was 99.2 percent complete and a total of 13 kilometres of we continue to document species categorized as endangered, vulnerable, nearunderground mine development had been completed. At the time of writing, threatened or of least concern according to the International Union for Conservation infrastructure still to be constructed includes: the paste plant, the south of Nature (IUCN 2019) and Ecuador’s National Red List (2019). Information has ventilation raise and the Zamora River bridge. As summarized further below, we been generated during bi-annual biotic monitoring, and the rescue and relocation identify, safeguard, and monitor flora and fauna both before and throughout activities that ended in April 2019, marking the completion of 16 campaigns, with construction-related land clearing activities. During the reporting year, we also their respective monitoring. revegetated an additional 46 hectares to reduce erosion and improve sediment control, bringing our total since commencing construction to 103 hectares. Although species in imminent danger of extinction or critically endangered were identified in the ESIA studies or during previous years (see page 35), none were Land Management Data recorded during the reporting period. In 2019, we identified 10 endangered, nine vulnerable, 13 almost threatened, two not evaluated, eight with insufficient Hectares data, and 309 of minor concern. In collaboration with Conservation International 2017 2018 2019 Ecuador, we also have continued a biodiversity conservation program for Fruta del Total amount of land licensed for FDN exploitation phase* 2,630 2,630 2,630 Norte (see page 35). Total amount of land newly disturbed within reporting period 81 100 72 Total amount of land newly rehabilitated within the reporting 0 0 0 period to the agreed end use Cumulative total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated within 206 306 378 the reporting period to the agreed end use Cumulative area revegetated for improved erosion control 1 57 103 *Cumulative figure of the following licenses: FDN-La Zarza, Las Peñas Camp-FDN road, north access road, and the electric transmission line BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION & OFFSETS The La Zarza concession, which hosts the Fruta del Norte deposit, is in the Cordillera del Condor mountain range in southeastern Ecuador. The portals leading to the underground mine are located approximately three kilometres from the boundary of the El Zarza Wildlife Refuge (Refugio de Vida Silvestre El Zarza) and one kilometre from the El Condor Mountain Range Protected Forest (Bosque Protector Cordillera del Cóndor). These areas are important conservation areas, especially Iridisornis analis (Tangara goliamarilla) during biotic monitoring in October 2019. for birds and amphibians. 34 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Low mobility species comprise most of the specimens captured and relocated. Critically Endangered Species Other species, such as birds and mammals, are typically repelled by noise, thus within FDN Study Area Scientific Name Common name (local name) minimizing the need for capture and relocation. This, in turn, reduces stress Flora Magnolia yantzazana Magnolia and risk of injuries. Persea raimondii Avocado Mastofauna Tremarctos ornatus Andean Bear Rescued Flora and Fauna Pristimantis katoptroides Puyo Robber Frog Number of individuals rescued Pristimantis prolatus Hidden Robber Frog 2017 2018 2019 Napo Giant Glass Frog Rescue Construction Total Rescue Construction Total Rescue Construction Total Espadarana audax Herpetofauna Daring Glassfrog Campaigns Monitoring 2017 Campaigns Monitoring 2018 Campaigns Monitoring 2019 Allobates kingsburyi Kingsbury's Rocket Frog Flora 11,764 19,509 31,273 12,773 9,038 21,811 24,721 38,697 63,418 Pristimantis yantzaza Yantzaza’s Rainfrog Herpetofauna 1,916 637 2,553 1,756 1,604 3,360 3,778 2,549 6,327 Noblella lochites Ecuador Leaf Frog Birds 0 8 8 0 29 29 0 67 67 Mammals 9 30 39 43 32 75 55 120 175 Partnership with Conservation International – Ecuador Since entering into a three-year collaboration agreement with Conservation International Ecuador at the end of 2018, we have been jointly developing and implementing a biodiversity conservation program for the area of influence of Fruta del Norte. This includes biodiversity conservation efforts, offset plans, and support for sustainable ecosystems services. The objective of this alliance is to promote the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem services in the area, with a “Partnerships for Sustainable Landscapes” approach. This is based on the effective integration of nature conservation and human well-being. The Program is based on three pillars: Good governance, working with local governments, as well as Lauraceae Family (Canelo) at Fruta del Norte Nursery. 1 promoting spaces for dialogue; Flora and Fauna Rescue and Relocation Conservation of natural heritage by supporting the effective The flora and fauna rescue plan was developed to mitigate the potential 2 management of protected areas and protective forests, and adverse effects on biodiversity during the construction of Fruta del Norte. It is implemented by a team of third-party biologists and supported by a wildlife Sustainable production, through the conservation of forests, the veterinarian. During 2019, the monitoring of the rescue campaigns and the 3 improvement of agroforestry production and the strengthening biotic monitoring continued. As a result of the 16 campaigns carried out, there of value chains. is an important stock of native plants in the FDN nursery, which are being used progressively in the restoration of impacted areas around the site. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 35 At the end of the reporting period, all water permits were secured, contingency planning for significant rain events had been put in place, and no acid rock drainage issues were recorded from waste rock. During the year, the Company completed the construction of the sedimentation ponds and the main water treatment plant, which began operating in November 2019, treating water collected from the sedimentation ponds and from the tailings storage facility. The tables in this section summarize our water usage, sourcing and compliance status of the treatment systems. As we continue to transition from construction to operation, we expect changes to include a reduction in freshwater consumption, and greater efficiency of our water treatment systems. FDN’s Water Use m3 2017 2018 2019 Surface Water Sources (Domestic use) 37,854 96,008 173,747 Conservation International team undertaking a sustainable production evaluation at a local farm. Drilling Activities 10,993 902 Portal* 8,839 42,008 125,402 During 2019, Conservation International dedicated three individuals to Groundwater development of this partnership. The main milestones were: establishing Rainwater cooperation agreements with government agencies and the Shuar Federation Municipal water supplies of Zamora Chinchipe; finalizing the methodology proposal for modeling the Note: Limited municipal water used in our offices is not considered material and is not reported FDN ecosystem services; engaging with communities near the mine and in the *Portal source comprises recycled water from contact-water treatment systems and industrial water permit obtained in November 2019 Canton of Yantzaza; selection and characterization of five agroforestry farms for sustainable production purposes; updating the El Zarza Wildlife Refuge Management Plan; and, selecting an offset or compensation area to pursue as a private protected area. WATER MANAGEMENT As part of our operations, we manage significant volumes of water, and ensure that effluents meet prescribed quality standards. The construction workforce at Fruta del Norte peaked at 2,147 workers per day in August 2019. This required significant efforts to provide the required supply of fresh water and ensure adequate treatment of sewage and gray water prior to discharge. FDN sedimentation ponds. 36 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report After signing an agreement with the Catholic University of Cuenca in 2018 (UCACUE Water Treatment Volumes and Compliance at FDN Universidad Católica de Cuenca) to help further develop the program, work began 2017 2018 2019 on the design of a methodology proposal, which defines six monitoring points and Treatment Systems Volume Compliance Volume Compliance Volume Compliance was presented to local communities in July 2019. During the last quarter of 2019, (m3) (m3) (m3) we began seeking an academic implementation partner. Black and gray water 35,416 93% 76,140 97%1 124,651 94%1 South Portal and associated infrastructure 8,634 100% 5,246 100% 2,920 99%4 WASTE MANAGEMENT North Portal N/A 503,060 98%2 1,781,870 100% Drinking Water 37,854 100% 96,008 99%3 173,747 98%3 In 2019, we recorded a significant increase in waste generation, Drilling Activities 2,430 100% 834 100% recycling and disposal, when compared to previous years, as 1. Parameters such as pH, TSS (Total Suspended Solids), COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), and total nitrogen Kjeldahl exceeded quality tabulated overleaf. This is the result of peak construction activities criteria mainly during the early start-up and plant stabilization stages. 2. Treated water collected from the declines, runoff from: mine surface infrastructure area, process plant area and main waste rock pad collection. Exceedances of TSS and pH were registered during and presence of peak workforce numbers at Fruta del Norte the first three months of 2018 while the treatment system was in the process of implementation and improvement. 3. Exceedance during the reporting period. related to free chlorine concentration, although monitoring of microbiological parameters showed no health risk as microbiological parameters were always within the norm. In all cases, corrective actions were immediately implemented. 4. In the discharge of the South Portal treatment system, a pH value less than the minimum permissible limit was recorded for a single occasion, which was immediately corrected. N/A – not available All waste generated at the site, including by contractors, is collected at Fruta del Norte’s waste management centre. The waste is organized according to defined In October 2019, Lundin Gold participated in the “Innovation Conference on category: non-hazardous, hazardous and special waste. Sustainable Use of Water: Cities, Industry and Agriculture”, organized by the International Water Association (IWA) and the Inter-American Development Bank Development Bank (IDB). Lundin Gold presented during this event on our water management practices, as well as our early engagement strategy with local communities. IWA has subsequently invited Lundin Gold to feature an article on these topics in the upcoming book “Sustainable Water Use by Industry”. Community-Based Monitoring Experience shows that participatory monitoring programs can help companies to establish greater levels of trust and communities to better understand environmental monitoring data. In response to a request from the Community Roundtables, we engaged in a systematic program to create a communitybased monitoring program for Fruta del Norte. Since 2017, we have engaged CIMA (Centro de Innovación y Desarrollo para la Industria y Minería), which is part of the UTPL (Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja), to design a community monitoring program with the 17 communities within the FDN area of influence. As part of this initial phase, 24 volunteer Waste classification. participants attended a tailored training course. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 37 We launched the “Empty Plate” campaign in November 2017 to reduce our food waste. By the end of 2018, we recorded a reduction in food waste of 33 tons. In 2018, we signed five agreements to donate food waste for animal fodder, which continued in 2019. In 2019, donations of fodder and compost allowed us to divert 361 tons of waste from the landfill. A recycling program for the return of all used ink cartridges to their manufacturer continued through 2019. All the special and hazardous waste generated at FDN is handled by a licensed and certified (by Ministry of Environment) environmental waste manager for disposal and treatment. FDN Waste Management and Disposal Wight in kg 2017 2018 20195 NonHazardous, NonHazardous, NonHazardous, Hazardous Special Hazardous Special Hazardous Special Reuse Recycling1 106,494 885,336 2,031,368 Production of Fertilizer 114,856 Recovery, incl. Energy2 438 11,191 41,010 Incineration 50,444 122,300 198,818 Primary Crusher, Process Plant. Deep-well injection Landfill 80,995 212,816 440,644 Store on site3 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE & INCIDENT MANAGEMENT Others 4 231,548 15,202 295,590 31,521 375,164 50,229 1. Includes donations of recyclable waste to the communities as well as recyclable waste sent to landfill for economic use 2. Metal recovery from electronic and electrical parts and equipment, used batteries, and materials from used tires Significant Spills 3. The waste is temporarily stored in FDN until removed by contractors 4. Includes organic leachate from fertilizer processing facilities, food leftovers that are donated to members of the communities We respond to and report spills in accordance with our emergency control and to feed their animals, and final treatments such as biological, chemical, and encapsulated treatments 5. The amount of waste increased in 2019 in line with peak of construction activities and peak workforce. N/A Not applicable contingency plans. Contaminated soil is collected and treated as hazardous waste. Ecuador’s environmental regulations require an approved remediation plan for spills exceeding five barrels (approximately 210 gallons), which we Transport of Hazardous and Special Waste at FDN use as our reporting threshold for significant spills. We had no such reportable kg spills in 2019. 2017 2018 2019 Collected for treatment 66,083 165,012 290,057 Significant Spills at FDN in 2019 Percentage exported abroad None None None 2017 2018 2019 Total 66,083 165,012 290,057 Significant spills 0 0 0 38 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental Compliance The Ecuadorian Ministry of Environment conducts periodic visits and audits to verify compliance with our environmental management plans. In 2019, our operation was subject to seven such inspections and were found to be in compliance. Of three third-party consultant audits, we received one minor improvement request related to the quarry, which we expect to resolve in 2020. There was also one minor nonconformity registered in October 2019 during the field phase of the regulatory FDN biannual audit related to slope reforestation and wastewater discharge. The FDN audit report is still being finalized and will be presented to the environmental authority in April 2020. No additional notifications of non-compliance, fees or fines related to environmental management were issued during the reporting period. APELL training with authorities and communities. Cyanide Management In advance of transport, storage, use and detoxification of cyanide – a chemical commonly used in the extraction of gold – at FDN, we developed our cyanide management plan, which is consistent with the International Cyanide Management Code. We also procure cyanide in safe and re-usable ISO tank containers, which also reduces handling, minimizes packaging and are the safest means to transport cyanide. Prior to shipment of cyanide to Fruta del Norte, we also implemented the United Nations Environment Programme’s Awareness and Preparedness for Emergencies at Local Level (APELL) process. While this initiative addresses industrial risk broadly, we focused our initial use of APELL on cyanide management. The overarching objectives of APELL include developing coordinated emergency response preparedness with relevant government agencies and local communities. In 2020 we will continue to implement APELL Reforestation on intervened areas. to cover a broader range of issues. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 39 Tailings Management In 2019, FDN used 14,073 MWh Scope 2 national grid-connected electricity, representing 7,411 tCO2eq, or nearly 15 percent of total emissions. This exceeds The FDN Tailings Storage Facility (TSF) is an infrastructure that allows the the 2018 reported use by over 97 percent and largely reflects connecting the deposition of tailings and other solids generated by the process plant in a mine’s main operations to the national grid, peak construction, and start-up of the safe and controlled manner. We employ a comprehensive approach to tailings processing plant. management, prioritizing the health, safety and wellbeing of both people and the environment. The stringent criteria established by the Canadian Dam Explosives accounted for approximately six percent of total emissions in 2019, also Association (CDA) were adopted for the design. This includes, for example, a significant increase from last year. This is a consequence of moving towards fullconsiderations for a 1 in 10,000-year rainfall event. scale production and related activities. Petrol use also increased by 41 percent compared to last year, at 29,282 gallons, representing 257 tCO2eq. The starter dam, which was constructed in 2019, is partially lined and, at the end of the reporting period, was approximately thirty metres high, providing In 2019 an almost 50 percent increase in air travel over 2018 resulted in 3,607 storage for the first year of operations. The TSF dam will be continuously raised tCO2eq, or approximately seven percent of the Company’s total emissions. under the so-called downstream method” throughout its life to its maximum design elevation. The TSF is designed for a total storage of approximately ten The Company will continue to see significant relative and absolute changes in its million cubic metres. The total footprint of the TSF at the end of the projected GHG emission profile as FDN ramps up its production. As FDN was still completing life of mine will be approximately 50 hectares. the construction stage in 2019, the Company has not yet set a baseline year. Normalized emission figures (for example, per ounce of gold produced) will be An instrumentation and monitoring program has also been established to provided once the mine has completed approximately one full year of operation. measure and record key performance indicators. The resulting data can confirm Below is a summary of the Company’s GHG emissions data. that actual performance is within the expected range assumed during design or trigger corrective actions. The TSF performance is also subject to periodic independent, third-party expert review. Estimated GHG Emissions for Lundin Gold 2017 2018 2019 GHG Scope 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 GHG EMISSIONS Fruta del Norte 5,208 2 28,966 38,234 7,144 Las Peñas Camp 329 18 424 200 409 205 Lundin Gold’s overall 2019 GHG emissions were approximately Ecuador Offices 174 57 63 49,662 tCO2eq. This includes 78 percent in Scope 1, 15 percent Air Travel 666 2,052 3,607 Scope 2 and seven percent Scope 3 (comprising flights). The Total (tCO2eq) 5,537 194 666 29,390 257 2,052 38,643 7,412 3,607 significant increase of GHG emissions by approximately 50 percent CO2eq in % (Rounded) 878 3 10 93 11 6 78 15 7 compared to 2018 is largely due to the peak of mine construction GHG: Greenhouse Gas Emissions, tCO2eq tons of carbon dioxide equivalent, MWh Megawatt hour; GHG estimates for Scope 1 and activities and commencement of production. Scope 3 derived using U.S. EPA emission factors. Published here: https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2018-03/documents/emission-factors_mar_2018_0.pdf and, for ANFO, here: https://www3.epa.gov/ttnchie1/ap42/ch13/final/c13s03.pdf. Similar to last year, the biggest Scope 1 emission source was from diesel fuel For Scope 2, we applied a conversion factor of 0.5076 provided in the Ecuadorian National Interconnected System CO2 Emission use (3,466,905 gallons), representing 35,397 tCO2eq. This represents a 27 Factor, 2013 Report, Published by: Ministry of Environment (MAE) Republic of Ecuador percent increase from the previous reporting period. Diesel fuel use represents approximately 71 percent of 2019 emissions. 40 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report ARCHAEOLOGICAL ACTIVITIES The archaeological studies of the FDN area have been on-going since 2004. Supported by a well-known archaeological expert, Dr. María Aguilera, we carried out a formal archaeological investigation program from 2017-2019, alongside all earthworks and construction activities, completing rescue excavations to safeguard archaeological evidence, and monitoring areas of archaeological interest within FDN’s footprint area. Below is a summary of the various archaeological activities and programs during 2019. 2019 Archaeological Activities Prospecting and excavation in areas of archaeological interest C14 carbon dating related to the Integration period 1394 – 1446 AD around FDN Monitoring during ongoing land clearances in line with our Chance Find Procedures Prospecting, excavation, analysis and ongoing monitoring along the Bomboiza – FDN transmission line. Cultural Evidence Recovered in the FDN Archaeological Investigation Program (2004-2019) Fractured pots and fragments of decorated and undecorated pottery, believed to be part of household crockery, special activities and spiritual rituals. Lithic artifacts, including axes, with notable copper and gold, believed to have been used as tools for soil clearing, cutting or for ritual activities. Metate and grinding stones likely used for food processing, such as grinding grains. Decorated spindle whorls that suggest spinning of cotton or other fibers. Postholes which indicate habitable structures were built. Flora suggesting possible early agricultural activity, construction of shelters and specific Andean plants of ritual and sacred importance. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 41 As we completed our archaeological program during the reporting period, our investigations have continued to improve the understanding of a breadth of human activity within the study area since 5750 B.C. Archaeological findings have provided traceable and recoverable cultural evidence that the zone was inhabited by human groups, including the re-inhabitation of certain zones over different historical periods, all the while exchanging knowledge and products, and interacting with other groups from different regions. Natural resources were recurrently used in the area for food, shelter, and ceramic and lithic artifacts, for rituals, sacred and other daily activities. Our ceramic analysis has revealed a total of 77 types of pots, 16 types of plates, 32 types of bowls and 34 types of bases in the area. There is also evidence of the use of copper and gold, including axes and burins. Dr. María Aguilera has summarized the results of our archaeological investigations, prospecting, rescue and monitoring activities in a report produced at the end of the reporting period. In accordance with national regulations and procedures, all artifacts are handed over to Ecuador’s National Institute for Cultural Heritage. We have included some articles about archaeological activities within our Company newsletters and are also evaluating the possibility of providing a local exposition center for some of the more relevant pieces found during the investigation. At this time, we do not Archaeological pieces recovered. expect to have any archeological activity in Fruta Del Norte for 2020. 42 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report OUR MATERIAL TOPICS For Lundin Gold, material issues are those which can drive our sustainability impacts, are likely to influence the decisions and judgments of key stakeholders, and can significantly affect our overall business performance and reputation. A list of our key stakeholders and associated engagement approach is provided in the web-posted annex to this report, and examples are presented in the sections Engagement and Partnerships and Impact Investments. Materiality Analysis Input Sector and context Stakeholder engagement Media analysis Compliance and sustainability performance Management judgement We validated our material topics developed in early 2019 considering our sector and evolving context, and consulting with selected stakeholders. We did so through one-to-one meetings and in workshops, with staff, contractors, academia, community representatives, youth leaders and government officials. We also reviewed the outcome of discussions of the Community Roundtables, analyzed how we are perceived in the media, reviewed our overall compliance and sustainability performance, and engaged our senior management to discuss and validate the materiality analysis. The material topics for 2019 are listed and described on pages 44-45. Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 43 Lundin Gold’s Material Topics 2019 List of Lundin Gold’s 2019 Material Topics Corporate governance Social License to Operate Community and economic development Corporate governance Why important: Social license to operate Good governance is a key part of Demonstrates local community acceptance, Strong performance promotes economic building trust, protecting our social enables impactful partnerships, improves sustainability, including wages, taxes, Community and economic development license, retaining access to reputable access to finance, protects project royalties and profits, attracts investors, Transition from construction to operations investors, and alignment with the schedule, and mitigates political risks. and leverages local and national United Nations Global Compact development impacts in Ecuador. Occupational health and safety Principles. Environmental stewardship Boundary: Internal (staff, board, contractors), and External (local communities and other Internal (workers, contractors), Biodiversity conservation external (regulators, market regulators, influential external stakeholders), and external (supply chains, local Human rights UN Global Compact). Internal (local staff, contractors and communities, municipal, regional and supply chain who are from and part of national budgets, and investors). Our stakeholder engagement and internal discussions also identified the local communities). Stakeholders: opportunities to further improve the content of our sustainability reporting. In Staff, management, board, Local communities, government agencies, Workers, contractors, suppliers, response, we endeavoured to create a more focused report, included a section shareholders, contractors, suppliers, influential politicians, CSOs, NGOs, investors, local and indigenous communities, regulators, stock markets, and investors. and media, as well as local staff, contractors municipal, regional and federal on Fruta del Norte’s Tailings Storage Facility, highlighted the development of and supply chain who are from and part of governments and agencies, and a Cyanide Management Plan, and provided more detailed information about the local communities. investors. General Approach: certain initiatives, engagements, supply chain, training, academic and other Implementing key policies, including Be respectful and transparent, enable Detailed planning, risk management, partnerships in supplementary publications or social media platforms. code of conduct and ethics, anti-bribery, community participation, seek community budget control, stakeholder responsible mining, payment transparency, acceptance, apply good international engagement, partnerships, advanced and providing whistleblower and practice, generate shared value and royalty payments, revenue and grievance mechanisms, participating in support community development. payment transparency, local hiring SDG roundtables. Training on governance and procurement strategies, capacity matters. building, and training. Indicators: GRI 102-8, 102-16, 102-18 GRI 102-14, 102-16, 102-18, 102-40 to 44, GRI 201-1, 203-2. 102-45 to 56. Evaluation: Setting good example in Ecuador, no Broad community support, significant Successfully mobilized investors, material governance concerns raised. local hiring and award-winning local construction proceeding according to supply chain performance, recognized budget and schedule, paid advance mining industry leader. royalties, enabled local and inclusive hiring, award-winning support for local suppliers, supported projects emerging from roundtables, maintained SLO. Global Compact: Principles 1-10 Principles 1-10 All Principles (1-10) Relevant UN SDGs: Relevant UN SDGs: ASM: Artisanal and Small-scale Mining, CSO: Civil Society Organization, ESIA: Environmental & Social Impact Assessment, Community workshop to consolidate the material topics. January 2020. GC: Global Compact, GRI: Global Reporting Initiative, MM8: Indicator from GRI’s Mining & Metals Sector Supplement, NGO: Non-governmental organization, SDG: Sustainable Development Goals, SLO: Social License to Operate, UN: United Nations 44 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report Transition from construction to Human Rights Occupational health and safety Environmental stewardship operations Why important: Why important: Proper management can reduce the likelihood of conflict, strengthen our SLO, and facilitate permitting and Relative reduction in labour local It is in keeping with our fundamental Protecting biodiversity and ecosystem financing. procurement opportunities as project principles to provide a safe services – including water quality and Boundary: transitions towards operational stage working environment. Additionally, biodiversity is a key part of maintaining Internal (labour and gender issues, top-tier suppliers, security), external (community, indigenous people, in 2019. this supports our reputational our SLO and delivers on our commitment artisanal miners, extended supply chain). management and talent acquisition, of responsible mining. Stakeholders: improves access to preferred Workers, supply chain, local and indigenous communities, government agencies, and investors. contractors and suppliers, and avoids General Approach: Reviewed salient human rights in 2016, committed to UN Global Compact, continued use of grievance work stoppages, fees and fines. Boundary: mechanism and translation into the Shuar language, formalized engagement with indigenous communities, Internal (workers, contractors), Internal (workers, contractors, Internal (performance) and external ASM strategy, and training. external (supply chain, regulator, suppliers), external (insurers, (ASM and other FDN-unrelated Indicators: GRI 412-1, 406-1 & 411-1, 413-1. extractive sector). investors). discharges), partnerships for offsets and Evaluation: improvements (with CI-Ecuador, others) No infringements recorded, grievance mechanism updated and effective, internal staff survey show Stakeholders: “Respect” principles being observed. Employees, supply chain, other Current and future employees, Communities near operations, Global Compact: developers, regulators and public contractors, regulators, supply chain, government agencies, indigenous Human & Labour Rights (1-6) sector. communities, and investors communities, NGOs, and investors. Relevant UN SDGs: General Approach: Invested significantly in and Zero-harm goal. Health and safety Approved ESIA, footprint reduction, flora provided innovative training management system, visible and fauna rescue, awareness raising, programs, developed transition leadership program, critical task offset strategy, NGO partnerships, strategy to empower workers and program, empowered health & sediment & spill control, initiated support their transition, continued safety team, inspections and thirdcommunity-based monitoring program, to support diversification of party audits, and clear performance scaled-up treatment systems for FDN, local suppliers and grow nongoals. assisted ASM with permitting and mining sectors, such as dairy and compliance. Lundin Gold supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals agriculture. Indicators: GRI 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 204-1 GRI 403-2 GRI 303-1, 304-1, 306-1, 304-4, G4 MM1, MM2. Evaluation: Developed resilience through Annual health and safety goals and Activities necessitated installation of award-winning and diversified local requirements achieved. Health additional water treatment units to supply chain, expanded and safety management system was improve water quality performance; investments in non-mining reinforced. We achieved over three rescued and relocated over 35,000 flora sector to strengthen alternative million hours without an LTI, lower and fauna specimens during clearing livelihoods, developed soughtperformance than last year due to and monitoring, generated biodiversity after workforce trough training, recording our first fatality in March conservation plan for FDN in partnership certification and adoption of best 2019, necessitating a review to with CI-Ecuador. international practices. prevent future such occurrences Global Compact: All Principles (1-10) Labour (3-6) Environment (7-9) Relevant UN SDGs: ASM: Artisanal and Small-scale Mining, CSO: Civil Society Organization, ESIA: Environmental & Social Impact Assessment, GC: Global Compact, GRI: Global Reporting Initiative, LTI: Lost time injury, MM8: Indicator from GRI’s Mining & Metals Sector Supplement, NGO: Non-governmental organization, SDG: Sustainable Development Goals, SLO: Social License to Operate, UN: United Nations Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 45 Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT Certain of the information and statements in this sustainability report are considered impacts of a pandemic virus outbreak; risks associated with the Company's “forward-looking information” or “forward-looking statements” as those terms are community relationships; risks related to financing requirements; failure by the defined under Canadian securities laws (collectively referred to as “forward-looking Company to maintain its obligations under its credit facilities; operating risks; risks information”). Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to associated with the ramp up of mining operations; risks related to political and predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or economic instability in Ecuador; risks related to production estimates; risks related future events or performance (often, but not always, identified by words or phrases to Lundin Gold’s compliance with environmental laws and liability for environmental such as “believes”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “is expected”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, contamination; volatility in the price of gold; shortages of critical supplies; lack of “pending”, “intends”, “plans”, “forecasts”, “targets”, or “hopes”, or variations of such availability of infrastructure; deficient or vulnerable title to mining concessions; words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, easements and surface rights; risks related to the Company’s workforce and its “would”, “will”, “should” “might”, “will be taken”, or “occur” and similar expressions) labour relations; inherent safety hazards and risk to the health and safety of the are not statements of historical fact and may be forward-looking statements. Company’s employees and contractors; risks related to the Company’s ability to obtain, maintain or renew regulatory approvals, permits and licenses; the By its nature, forward-looking information involves assumptions, inherent risks and imprecision of mineral reserve and resource estimates; key talent recruitment and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict, and are usually beyond the control retention of key personnel; volatility in the market price of the Company’s shares; of management, that could cause actual results to be materially different from those the potential influence of the Company's largest shareholders; uncertainty with the expressed by these forward-looking statements and information. Lundin Gold believes tax regime in Ecuador; measures to protect endangered species and critical habitats; that the expectations reflected in this forward-looking information are reasonable, but the cost of non-compliance and compliance costs; exploration and development no assurance can be given that these expectations will prove to be correct. Forwardrisks; the Company's reliance on one project; risks related to illegal mining; the looking information should not be unduly relied upon. This information speaks only as reliance of the Company on its information systems and the risk of cyber-attacks of the date of this sustainability report, and the Company will not necessarily update on those systems; the adequacy of the Company’s insurance; uncertainty as to this information, unless required to do so by securities laws. reclamation and decommissioning; the ability of Lundin Gold to ensure compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; the uncertainty regarding risks posed This sustainability report contains forward-looking information in a number of places, by climate change; the potential for litigation; limits of disclosure and internal such as in statements pertaining to: the duration of the temporary suspension of controls; security risks to the Company; its assets and its personnel; conflicts of activities at FDN and efforts to mitigate the impacts of the suspension, the Company’s interest; the risk that the Company will not declare dividends; and social media and ability to re-start operations, completion of construction activities, the Company’s the Company’s reputation. continued support to community initiatives, the impact of the Company’s community engagement and investment and its environmental and safety activities, the success There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as of the Company’s exploration plans and activities and the timing and success of Lundin Gold's actual results and future events could differ materially from those permitting and regulatory approvals. anticipated in this forward-looking information as a result of the factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” in the AIF available under the Company’s profile Lundin Gold’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated. at www.sedar.com. Management has identified the following risk factors which could have a material impact on the Company or the trading price of its shares: risks relating to the Lundin Gold 2019 Sustainability Report 47 CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE Lundin Gold Inc. 885 West Georgia Street, Suite 2000 Vancouver, British Columbia V6C 3E8 Telephone: +1 604 689 7842 Toll-free: +1 888 689 7842 REGIONAL HEAD OFFICE Aurelian Ecuador S.A., a subsidiary of Lundin Gold Inc. Av. Amazonas N37-29 y UNP, Edificio Eurocenter, Piso 5 Quito, Pichincha, Ecuador Telephone: +593 2 299 6400 COMMUNITY OFFICE Calle 1ro de Mayo and 12 de Febrero Los Encuentros, Zamora Chinchipe, Ecuador LOCAL PROCUREMENT: fdn.compras.locales@lundingold.com INVESTOR RELATIONS: Sabina Srubiski info@lundingold.com COMMUNICATION: Elizabeth Cabrera ec.comunicaciones@lundingold.com Sustainability Report 2019 GRI and UNGC Indices & Other Appendices 2019 TSX, NASDAQ STOCKHOLM: LUG This web-posted document is a supplement to Lundin Gold’s 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report. It contains the United Nations Global Compact 2019 Index (Annex 1), the GRI Standards Index (Annex 2), Mining Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism Reporting (Annex 3), Stakeholder Mapping (Annex 4), and Health and Safety statistics (Annex 5). For additional questions regarding Lundin Gold’s 2019 Sustainability Report or this supplement, please contact: Investor Relations: info@lundingold.com Communications: ec.comunicaciones@lundingold.com BUILDING A LEADING GOLD COMPANY THROUGH RESPONSIBLE MINING Annex 1: Un Global Compact Index UNGC Principles Information in Section HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Message from Ron Hochstein, President and CEO internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment and Memberships, Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights Responsible Mining Policy abuses UN Global Compact LABOUR Human Resources Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective UN Global Compact recognition of the right to collective bargaining Memberships and Commitments Human Resources Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory UN Global Compact labour Memberships and Commitments Human Resources Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour UN Global Compact Memberships and Commitments Human Resources Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect UN Global Compact of employment and occupation Memberships and Commitments ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental Stewardship challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Partnership with Conservation International Ecuador environmental responsibility Community-Based Water Monitoring Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental Stewardship environmentally friendly technologies Partnership with Conservation International Ecuador ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Corporate Governance extortion and bribery Economic Performance Annex 2: 2019 GRI Standards Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title UN SDGs Section Heading, Link or Notes 101 – Foundation (Does not include disclosures) 102 – General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1* Name of the organization About Lundin Gold 102-2* Activities, brands, products, and services About Lundin Gold, Human Resources, Economic Performance 102-3* Location of headquarters About Lundin Gold 102-4* Location of operations About Lundin Gold, Operations and Exploration 102-5* Ownership and legal form About Lundin Gold 102-6* Markets served About Lundin Gold, Economic Performance 102-7* Scale of the organization Operations and Exploration, Economic Performance, Human Resources Information on employees and other 102-8* Human Resources workers 102-9* Supply chain Inclusive Procurement Significant changes to the organization and 102-10* Fruta Del Norte in Production its supply chain 102-11* Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental Stewardship, Responsible Mining Policy 102-12* External initiatives 17 Memberships and Commitments 102-13* Membership of associations 17 Memberships and Commitments Strategy 102-14* Statement from senior decision-maker Message from Ron Hochstein, President and CEO Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, and norms of 102-16* 16 Corporate Governance, Responsible Mining Policy, Memberships and Commitments behaviour Governance 102-18* Governance structure 16 Corporate Governance Composition of the highest governance body See Management Information Circular, available in Investors/Shareholder Meeting 102-22* 5, 16 and its committees Materials at www.lundingold.com Lundin Gold’s 2019 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The required General Disclosures required for reporting to GRI Core option are marked with an asterisk (*) Annex 2: 2019 GRI Standards Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title UN SDGs Section Heading, Link or Notes Stakeholder Engagement Engagement and Partnerships, Annex 3: Lundin Gold’s Stakeholder Mapping (in this 102-40* List of stakeholder groups 17 document) 102-41* Collective bargaining agreements 8 None 102-42* Identifying and selecting stakeholders 17 Engagement and Partnerships, Annex 4: Lundin Gold’s Stakeholder Mapping Engagement and Partnerships, Annex 4: Lundin Gold’s Stakeholder Mapping, 102-43* Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 Responsible Mining Policy, Promoting Respect 102-44* Key topics and concerns raised Our Material Topics, Community Roundtables, Grievances Reporting Practice Aurelian Resources Inc., Aurelian Resources Corporation Ltd., Aurelian Menor Inc., Aurelian Exploration Inc., Condor Finance Corp., Aurelian Ecuador S.A., Aurelian Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45* Ecuador Holding S.A., Ecoaurelian Agrícola S.A., Aurelianmenor S.A., see also statements Financial Statements available under the Lundin Gold’s profile on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com 102-46* Defining report content and topic boundaries Our Material Topics 102-47* List of material topics Our Material Topics 102-48* Restatements of information No material changes 102-49* Changes in reporting No material changes 102-50* Reporting period About this Report 102-51* Date of most recent report 2018 Sustainability Report published May 2019 102-52* Reporting cycle About this Report 102-53* Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54* About this Report: GRI Standards (2016, Core Level) Standards 102-55* GRI content index https://www.lundingold.com/en/responsible-mining/sustainability-reports/ No assurance, we will consider corporate needs and stakeholder expectations to 102-56* External assurance determine future assurance needs Lundin Gold’s 2019 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The required General Disclosures required for reporting to GRI Core option are marked with an asterisk (*) Annex 2: 2019 GRI Standards Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title UN SDGs Section Heading, Link or Notes Material Topics Economic Standards Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our Material Topics 103-2 Management approach and its components Our Material Topics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Material Topics Economic Performance 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance, Impact Investments 9, 11 Indirect Economic Impacts 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Economic Performance, Engagement and Partnerships, Impact Investments 11, 17 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic Performance, Engagement and Partnerships, Impact Investments 10, 11, 17 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 1, 5, 8, 11 Inclusive Procurement Environmental Standards Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our Material Topics 103-2 Management approach and its components Our Material Topics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Material Topics Water 103-1 Water withdrawal by source 6 Water Management Biodiversity** Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 6, 14, 5 Biodiversity Conservation & Offsets biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and Biodiversity Conservation & Offsets, Flora and Fauna Rescue & Relocation, 304-2 6, 14, 15 services on biodiversity Partnership with Conservation International – Ecuador **The Company provided a corrected version of the Sustainability Report on August 26th 2020 Annex 2: 2019 GRI Standards Index GRI Section Heading, Link or Notes Disclosure Title UN SDGs Disclosure IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 304-4 6, 14, 15 Biodiversity Conservation & Offset habitats in areas affected by operations Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production 3, 6, 12, 14, G4 MM1 Construction Footprint activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated 15 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring 1 of 1 site with Biodiversity Action Plan in place (100%): Fruta del G4 MM2 biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the 6, 14, 15 Norte, Biodiversity Conservation number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place Greenhouse Gas Emissions*** 3, 12, 13, 14, 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) 15 3, 12, 13, 14, 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) 15 3, 12, 13, 14, Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) – no estimates provided for 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 15 biogenic CO2 or supply chain GHG Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 3, 6, 12, 14 Water Management 3, 6, 12, 14, 306-3 Significant spills Significant Spills 15 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 16 Environmental Compliance & Incident Management 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, MM8 Operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining takes place Artisanal Mining 11, 12 Social Standards Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our Material Topics 103-2 Management approach and its components Our Material Topics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Material Topics ***The Company provided a corrected version of the Sustainability Report on August 26th 2020 Annex 2: 2019 GRI Standards Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title UN SDGs Section Heading, Link or Notes Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, Health and Safety, Annex 5: Lundin Gold’s Health & Safety Statistics. Absenteeism is occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 3, 8 not considered to be material for Lundin Gold and no related data is being collected absenteeism, and number of work-related or reported. fatalities Workers with high incidence or high risk of 403-3 3, 8 None diseases related to their occupation Non-Discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective 406-1 5, 8, 16 Human Resources, Gender and Diversity, Promoting Respect actions taken Security Practices Security personnel trained in human rights 410-1 16 Security and Community policies or procedures Rights of Indigenous Peoples Incidents of violations involving rights of None 411-1 2, 16, 17 indigenous peoples Collaborating with Indigenous Peoples Human Rights Assessment Operations that have been subject to human 5, 6, 8, As reported in our 2015-16 sustainability report, we reviewed our salient human 412-1 rights reviews or impact assessments 15, 16 rights risks related to 1 of 1 (100%) projects (FDN) Local Communities Operations with local community 1, 3, 4, 8, 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and Fruta del Norte: Engagement and Partnerships, Impact Investments 17 development programs Operations with significant actual and 413-2 potential negative impacts on local 1, 2 No resettlement undertaken during the reporting period. communities Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations 419-1 16 No socio-economic non-compliance during 2019. in the social and economic area Annex 3: Mining Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism Reporting Disclosure Title Location/Comment About Lundin Gold 100 Context for local procurement disclosure Inclusive Procurement Fruta del Norte in Production Procurement System Responsible Mining Policy 201 – Policy on Local Suppliers Inclusive Procurement 202 – Accountability of Local Suppliers Inclusive Procurement 200 203 – Major contractors and local suppliers Inclusive Procurement A: Back cover B-D: We maintain an internal database of ‘vetted’ suppliers, and inform 204 – Procurement process (A-D) prospective vendors about prequalification requirements, code of conduct and capacity building programs. See also Inclusive Procurement. Local Procurement Spending by Category See Inclusive Procurement and concentric rings (agreed through engagement 300 301 – Categorizing suppliers during Community Roundtables) 302 – Breakdown of procurement spend Inclusive Procurement Local Procurement due Diligence Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, and the Anti-Bribery Policy also applies to 401 – Due diligence process suppliers 400 Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, and the Anti-Bribery Policy also applies to 402 – Anti-corruption policy suppliers Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, and the Anti-Bribery Policy also applies to 403 – Training and guidance for suppliers suppliers Note: Reporting in accordance with LPRM Core option Annex 4: Stakeholder Mapping Using a stakeholder mapping process, we have identified over 50 local and 115 additional national and international stakeholders. The same mapping process also enables us to understand issues of interest, define appropriate engagement strategies, and respond to the dynamic changes to various government ministries in Ecuador. Both at the national and local level, the Company reviews the stakeholder maps on a regular basis. A summary of our stakeholder map is presented below and available on our website: www.lundingold.com. Stakeholder Group Title Location/Comment Direct job opportunities, broader economic growth, environmental Frequent roundtable dialogue, access to our locally based staff, Local Communities and water quality impacts, infrastructure improvements, moral fabric grievance mechanism, meetings with local leaders Frequent meetings with local leaders, institutional memberships, Infrastructure improvements, environmental stewardship, broader Civil Society events, media, grievance mechanism, brochures, sustainability environmental, social, and economic risks and opportunities reporting The cooperation agreement between the Shuar Federation of Zamora Preserving identity and culture, extreme poverty, capacity building, Indigenous Groups Chinchipe and Aurelian Ecuador S.A. was updated in 2019, instituting infrastructure and economic development regular meetings to address issues of common priority We have a small, dedicated team to help manage the formalization of Respectful engagement, livelihood, environmental impacts, Artisanal Miners artisanal miners. This team is in continuously available to and in contact formalization with artisanal miners Impact on environment and ecosystem services, strengthening Collaboration agreements, site monitoring, frequent engagement with Conservation Groups biodiversity knowledge and offset policies in Ecuador local communities through roundtable dialogue Employees, Workers Rewarding, meaningful and safe livelihood Code of conduct, daily to weekly meetings, grievance mechanism Roundtable dialogue, tender announcements, contractual Suppliers Access to supply chain opportunities relationships, targeted initiatives to improve the business practices of potential local suppliers Environmental and social impacts, local social infrastructure, Regular meetings, roundtable dialogue, participation in media activities Religious Groups education, moral fabric, vulnerable groups operated by local church Government Economic development through responsible mining, capacity Routinely through licensing, permitting, and monitoring activities Agencies, Ministries, building, royalties, taxes and their distribution (monthly to quarterly), roundtables, events, media Representatives Shareholders, Responsible mining practices, good corporate governance, political Meetings, quarterly and annual disclosure requirements, media Investors risk releases, technical reports, sustainability report Educational opportunities, community engagement and investment, Academia Frequent roundtable dialogue, collaboration agreements addressing challenges of rural communities Annex 5: Health & Safety Statistics 2017 2018 2019 Employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Hours Worked 929,823 2,463,339 4,494,761 First Aid Cases 25 0 25 85 1 86 109 6 115 Medical Incidents 4 0 4 6 0 6 14 0 14 Lost Time Incidents 0 0 0 2 0 2 3 0 3 Work Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Occupational Disease 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Injury Rate (IR-Ecuador) 0 0 0 0.16 0 0.16 0.18 0 0.18 Injury Rate (RIR-MSHA) 0.86 0 0.86 0.65 0 0.65 0.8 0 0.8 Occupational Disease 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Rate (ODR) Lost Days Rate (LDR) 0 0 0 3.82 0 3.82 289.98 0 289.98 2017 2018 2019 Contractors Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Hours Worked 1,206,128 2,661,525 2,987,870 First Aid Cases 27 2 29 19 0 19 17 1 18 Medical Incidents 1 0 1 3 0 3 6 0 6 Lost Time Incidents 1 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 2 Work Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational Disease 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Injury Rate (IR-Ecuador) 0.17 0 0.17 0 0 0 0.13 0 0.13 Injury Rate (RIR-MSHA) 0.33 0 0.33 0.23 0 0.23 0.54 0 0.54 Occupational Disease 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Rate (ODR) Lost Days Rate (LDR) 0.06 0 0.06 0 0 0 1.25 0 1.25
