Biei, Hokkaido Company-owned forest Onneyu, Hokkaido Company-owned forest The Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Fiscal year ending March 2019 Forest plantation in Brazil Mutum, an endangered bird species in Brazil Photo by João Rabelo Greeting from the Chairman and President Both the business environment and the Oji Group itself have undergone major changes since the Group’s foundation in 1873. CONTENTS The Group is pursuing increased corporate value over the mediumto long-term while contributing to the development of a sustainable society with Corporate Profile History 02 Business Overview 04 “Creation of Innovative Value,” “Contribution to the Future and the World,” and Major Affiliated Companies Distribution Map 06 “Harmony with Nature and Society” as its management philosophy. It is our hope that Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 will help readers to enrich their What the Oji Group Value Creation Model 08 Aims For Sustainability Strategy and Material Issues 10 understanding about the Group's undertakings. Material Issues and KPI 12 Management Strategy Message from the President 14 New Business Creation and R&D 22 Susumu Yajima Masatoshi Kaku Director, Chairman of the Board, Director of the Board, President, Financial Highlights and Non-financial Highlights 28 Oji Holdings Corporation Oji Holdings Corporation Business Strategy Household and Industrial Materials Businesses (Industrial Materials Business) 30 Household and Industrial Materials Businesses (Household and Consumer Products Business) 32 Functional Materials Business 36 Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business 40 Printing and Communications Media Business 44 Main Businesses of Corporate Management Group and Shared Service Companies 46 Governance Corporate Officers 48 Corporate Governance 51 Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and the Oji Group Behavior Standard 54 Compliance 55 Risk Management 56 Environment Fundamental Stance and Policy 58 Relationship Between Business and the Environment 60 Measures Against Climate Change 62 Reduction of Environmental Burden 64 Effective Resource Utilization (Water Resources) 67 Effective Resource Utilization (Forest Recycling*) 68 Effective Resource Utilization (Paper Recycling) 72 Initiatives for Conservation of Biodiversity 74 Contribution to Local Communities 75 Responsible Raw Materials Procurement 76 Society Consideration for Human Rights 78 Human Resource Measures 80 Occupational Safety and Health 84 Relationships with Local Communities 88 Evaluation from Society 89 Financial Information Financial Data Highlights 90 Consolidated Financial Statements 92 Third-Party Independent Assurance Report 95 List of Affiliated Companies 96 Corporate Data / Stock Information 98 From the Publisher of this Integrated Report 99 *Sustainable Forest Management History Corporate Profile Since its founding in 1873, the Oji Group has achieved continuous growth through the expansion of business fields. We use the technologies acquired in the paper manufacturing business and conducts R&D to develop a wide range of businesses and engage in business on a global scale. * Current company names are indicated. Expansion of Overseas Businesses 1959 Containerboard production starts (former Honshu Paper) 2001 Oji Materia founded (established jointly with the former Takasaki What the Oji Group Sanko, former Chuo Paperboard, and former Hokuyo Paper) Industrial 1962 Kraft paper production starts 2001 Oji Container founded 2010 GSPP group acquired (Malaysia) Materials 1974 High-grade boxboard production starts (former Nippon Pulp Industry) 2005 Mori Shigyo Group acquired Aims For Household 1971 Household paper production starts (Oji Nepia) and History of Business Expansion 2015 People & Grit acquired (Malaysia) Consumer Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill 1987 Disposable diaper production starts Products Management 1975 Thermal paper production starts (former Kanzaki Paper Manufacturing) Functional 2011 Oji Papéis Especiais acquired (Brazil) Materials 2004 Oji F-Tex founded Strategy Corrugated sheet production (Oji Container) Forest 1991 Pan Pac Forest Products acquired (New Zealand) Resources and 1973 Overseas pulp production starts (Pan Pac Forest Products Ltd.) 2015 Biomass power generation 2012 Celulose Nipo-Brasileira acquired (Brazil) Environment business launched 2014 Oji Fibre Solutions acquired Marketing At the start of operation Today (New Zealand and Australia) Business 1875 Newsprint production starts 1962 Coated paper Financial Highlights and Printing and production starts 2007 Jiangsu Oji Paper founded under Nantong Project Communications 1910 Tomakomai Mill completed; domestic (China) supply structure for newsprint established Media 1952 Woodfree paper production starts (Kasugai Mill) Coated paper production Pan Pac Forest Products Biomass power generation facility Non-financial Highlights 1873 starts (Oji Paper) (MPM Oji Eco-Energy) Start of 2000 2010 1990 Business Strategy 1960 1970 1980 business 1940 1950 2014 New Management Philosophy announced 1996 Oji Paper merges with 1970 Oji Paper merges with the 1989 Oji Paper “Creation of Innovative Value,” “Contribution to the Future the former Honshu Paper merges with the and the World,” and “Harmony with Nature and Society” History of Mergers former Kita Nippon Paper 1893 The company is renamed former Toyo Pulp 2012 Oji Paper adopts a pure holding company system 1949 Oji Paper is split into three companies under Oji Paper, after its founding location 1993 Oji Paper merges with and changes its trade name to Oji Holdings Governance the Excess Economic Powers Decentralization Act (currently, Oji, Kita-ku, Tokyo) the former Kanzaki Paper Tomakomai Paper launched (later, Oji Paper) 1979 Oji Paper merges with the Manufacturing 1933 Oji Paper merges with the former Fuji Paper and former Karafuto Industries former Nippon Pulp Industries Oji Paper gains a more than 80 percent share of paper production in Japan Start of business Expansion and Growth of the Oji Group Globalization Oji Holdings Main Building Development of Japan’s paper Environmental measures undertaken becoming a business enterprise (Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Environment manufacturing industry from a global perspective that creates innovative value 1873 1997 2012 Ei-ichi Shibusawa launches Japan’s modern paper Oji Paper Environmental Charter established: Establishment of Oji Holdings with “Beyond manufacturing industry with the foundation of forest recycling and paper recycling the Boundaries” as its slogan Shoshi Kaisha (From Shibusawa Society Memorial Museum Collection) Ei-ichi Shibusawa founded and developed some 500 The Oji Group believes that those who use trees have the With changes in supply and demand patterns as a result of various factors companies following the Meiji restoration (1868), contributing responsibility to plant trees. Accordingly, the Group has been including the declining birth rate and aging of society in Japan, advances in to building the foundations of modern Japan’s economy. working since the Meiji Era to fulfill its corporate social information and communications technology, and the rise of imported paper Believing that the paper manufacturing and printing responsibility to society and the environment by planting trees. including western paper and sanitary paper, the company name was changed to industries are the sources of civilization, Shibusawa In 1997, we established the Oji Paper Environmental Charter, Oji Holdings Corporation, with a pure holding company structure which was which adopts as its fundamental principle helping to create a truly adopted with some business divisions and back-office divisions spun off as expounded on the need for the proliferation of books and enriching and sustainable society by undertaking business wholly-owned subsidiaries, in an effort to carry out business restructuring and newspapers and for paper manufacturing suitable for their achieve continuous growth. mass printing and established Shoshi Kaisha in Oji, Tokyo activities that harmonize with the environment from a global (currently Oji, Kita-ku, Tokyo). Ei-ichi Shibusawa perspective. We have continued to take measures centered on “Beyond the Boundaries” adopted as new slogan Financial sustainable forest management and paper recycling in Information In his book Rongo to Soroban, Shibusawa stated with regard to morality and This slogan expresses the Oji Group’s commitment to accordance with the Oji Group Environmental Charter. actively go beyond the “boundaries” of business domains, economics, “wealth cannot be properly perpetuated unless it is moral wealth,” In 2005, we were presented the Pacific Basin Economic countries, and the respective capabilities of individual and this concept has been handed down to every employee and persists even now Council (PBEC) Environment Gold Award based on employees with the aim of contributing to the future, society, that the company’s format and business have changed drastically and the area of international recognition of its environmental initiatives centered and the world as well as the determination of all Group business has expanded. on sustainable forest management and paper recycling. members to maximize corporate value as a truly global 2 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 3 Business Overview Corporate Profile Oji Group conducts business in four business segments. Our overall business is managed separately by five COMPANYs, as well as the Corporate Management Group Companies and the Shared Service Companies which support the entire Group. Containerboard, boxboard, packing papers [Overseas] Packaging Cambodia Industrial Materials COMPANY Household and Industrial Materials Businesses What the Oji Group Oji Materia Co., Ltd. America Harta Packaging Group Corrugated containers Oji Intertech, Inc. Myanmar China Products include daily necessities such as tissue paper and disposable Main businesses: Oji Container Co., Ltd. Aims For Suzhou Oji Packaging Co., Ltd. Oji Myanmar Packaging Co., Ltd. Containerboard and corrugated Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Oji Packaging (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Oji GS Packaging (Yangon) Co., Ltd. diapers, as well as packaging products such as corrugated containers and containers business, Oji Interpack Co., Ltd. Kunshan Oji Filter Co., Ltd. India paper bags Boxboard and folding cartons Folding cartons, paper bags Korea Oji Interpack India Pvt. Ltd. Oji Packaging Co., Ltd. Oji Interpack Korea Ltd. business, Oji India Packaging Pvt. Ltd. Oji Seitai Co., Ltd. Malaysia Packaging papers and GSPP Holdings Sdn. Bhd. Thailand Management Chuetsu Package Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Group S.Pack & Print Public Co., Ltd. paper bags business Oji Adba Co., Ltd. United Kotak Bhd. Vietnam Strategy Ojitex (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. Household and Consumer Household papers, disposable diapers Malaysia Ojitex Haiphong Co., Ltd. Products COMPANY Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. People & Grit (M) Sdn. Bhd. Japan Paper Technology (VN) Co., Ltd. [Overseas] Disposable diapers Oji Asia Household Product Sdn. Bhd. Japan Paper Technology Dong Nai (VN) Co., Ltd. ©Yanase F.T.N Main businesses: China Indonesia United Packaging Co., Ltd. Household paper business, Oji Paper Nepia (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. PT Indo Oji Sukses Pratama New Zealand & Australia Financial Highlights and Disposable diaper business PT Oji Indo Makmur Perkasa Oji Fibre Solutions* Functional Materials Business Non-financial Highlights Specialty paper, film [Overseas] Thermal paper [Overseas] Adhesive paper Functional Materials COMPANY Oji F-Tex Co., Ltd. Brazil Thailand Thermal papers Oji Papéis Especiais Ltda. Oji Label (Thailand) Ltd. Main businesses: Oji Imaging Media Co., Ltd. America Malaysia Products include thermal Specialty paper business, Adhesive products Kanzaki Specialty Papers, Inc. Hyper-Region Labels Sdn. Bhd. paper for receipts etc., Thermal paper business, Oji Tac Co., Ltd. Germany [Overseas] Others adhesive products Business Strategy Oji HD Corporation Adhesive products business, New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. Kanzan Spezialpapiere GmbH China including labels, a variety Film business Shinomura Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. Thailand Oji Kinocloth (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. of film products, and Others Oji Paper (Thailand) Ltd. Sunshine Oji (Shouguang) Specialty Paper Ltd. specialty paper Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd. Malaysia Chuetsu Co., Ltd. Tele Paper (M) Sdn. Bhd. Pulp [Overseas] Pulp Australia Forest Resources and Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Governance Oji Green Resources Co., Ltd. Brazil Green Triangle Plantation Forest Co. of Environment Marketing Energy Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A. Australia Pty. Ltd. Business COMPANY Oji Green Energy Ebetsu Co., Ltd. New Zealand Albany Plantation Forest Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd. Various businesses Oji Green Energy Nichinan Co., Ltd. Oji Fibre Solutions* New Zealand which utilize forest MPM Oji Eco-Energy Co., Ltd. Pan Pac Forest Products Ltd. Southland Plantation Forest Co. of resources such as Main businesses: Oji Green Energy Tokushima Co., Ltd. China New Zealand Ltd. pulp for paper Pulp business, Energy business, Lumber Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd.* [Overseas] Woodchips manufacturing, power Plantation and Oji Forest & Products Co., Ltd. [Overseas] Forest plantation Australia generation, lumber lumber processing businesses Environment Vietnam Albany Plantation Export Co., Pty. Ltd. processing etc. Quy Nhon Plantation Forest Co. [Overseas] Sales of Vietnam Ltd. China Indonesia Oji Paper International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. PT Korintiga Hutani Printing and Communications Newsprint, printing, publication, [Overseas] Printing, publication paper Printing and Communications communications paper China Society Media COMPANY Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd.* Media Business Main businesses: Products include paper for printing purposes Newsprint business, such as newsprint, magazines and books, and Printing, publication, paper for photocopying purposes communications paper business Corporate Management Group Real estate Logistics [Overseas] Sales Corporate Management Group and Financial Oji Real Estate Co., Ltd. Oji Logistics Co., Ltd. Vietnam Information and Shared Service Companies Engineering Others Oji Forest Products Vietnam Co., Ltd. Shared Service Companies Oji Engineering Co., Ltd. Ginpo Pack Co., Ltd. Main businesses: Real estate, Trading Hotel New Oji,Co., Ltd. Various services that support Oji Group’s collective strengths Engineering, Trading, Logistics, etc. Kyokuyo Co., Ltd. * Major Group companies are listed. Companies with multiple businesses are listed in several places on this page. 4 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 5 Major Affiliated Companies Distribution Map Europe (Number of Manufacturing sites: 1) North America (Number of Manufacturing sites: 2) Corporate Profile Germany America Thermal paper Interior automotive material, Kanzan Spezialpapiere GmbH laminating Oji Intertech, Inc. Inkjet paper What the Oji Group Thermal paper, film, Kanzaki Specialty Papers, Inc. inkjet paper Aims For Group companies Manufacturing sites in East Asia in Japan Management South America (Number of Manufacturing sites: 2) Strategy Group companies in East Asia (Number of Manufacturing sites: 9) Brazil Thermal paper, China carbonless paper Oji Papéis Especiais Ltda. Regional Oji Paper Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Financial Highlights and headquarters Forest plantation, Corrugated containers pulp Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A. (heavy-duty Suzhou Oji Packaging Co., Ltd. packaging materials) Non-financial Highlights Paper bags Oji Packaging (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Filter Kunshan Oji Filter Co., Ltd. Disposable diapers Oji Paper Nepia (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Cut and processed products of dry pulp non-woven fabric, Oji Kinocloth (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Group companies Business Strategy in Southeast Asia, India thermal paper, and specialty paper Decorative paper Sunshine Oji (Shouguang) Specialty Paper Ltd. Sales Oji Paper International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Pulp Coated paper, Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd. wood-free paper Korea Group companies in Oceania Governance Corrugated containers (heavy-duty packaging materials) Oji Interpack Korea Ltd. Manufacturing sites in Japan Group companies in Oceania Group companies in Southeast Asia, India (Number of Manufacturing sites: 29) (Number of Manufacturing sites: 19) Oji Paper Co., Ltd. 1 〜 5 Oji Imaging Media Co., Ltd. 1 3 Sapporo (Chitose plant) 1 Nayoro Oji Materia Co., Ltd. 1 〜 12 Oji Container Co., Ltd. 1 〜 27 Malaysia Thailand Australia 4 Sapporo (Obihiro plant) Regional Oji F-Tex Co., Ltd. 1 〜 4 Morishigyo Co., Ltd. 1 〜 16 2 1 Kushiro Carbonless Green Triangle Plantation Forest headquarters Oji Asia Packaging Sdn. Bhd. paper, thermal Oji Paper (Thailand) Ltd. Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. 1 〜 5 Biomass power generation sites 1 〜 4 Forest plantation 2 Sapporo Containerboard, paper Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd. corrugated GSPP Holdings Sdn. Bhd. Adhesive paper, Albany Plantation Forest 1 Ebetsu 1 Oji Green Energy Ebetsu Co., Ltd. Environment containers release paper Oji Label (Thailand) Ltd. Forest plantation 7 Gifu 3 Nakatsu Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd. 3 Aomori 5 Hachinohe Containerboard, 1 1 Tomakomai corrugated containers, Harta Packaging Group Corrugated Albany Plantation Export 12 Gifu 2 MPM Oji Eco-Energy Co., Ltd. plastic bags containers, S.Pack & Print Public Co., Ltd. Woodchips folding cartons Co., Pty. Ltd. 10 Takasaki 8 Ojima Corrugated 2 Kasugai 8 Sobue 4 18 Nagoya 10 Nigata United Kotak Bhd. containers Vietnam New Zealand 2 5 Fukushima Regional 4 19 Shiga 6 Matsumoto 14 Nagano 9 Shiojiri headquarters Oji Asia Management Sdn. Bhd. Corrugated Ojitex (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. Forest plantation, Disposable containers Pan Pac Forest Products Ltd. 4 Sendai 6 Shibata People & Grit (M) Sdn. Bhd. pulp, 2 Kansai 13 Oyabe diapers Corrugated containers Ojitex Haiphong Co., Ltd. lumber business 3 Nikko 9 Utsunomiya Disposable Oji Asia Household Product Sdn. Bhd. 21 Hyogo diapers Paper bags Japan Paper Technology (VN) Co., Ltd. Southland Plantation Forest Forest plantation 8 Ibaraki Society Label printing & Co. of New Zealand Ltd. 1 Kanzaki 9 20 Osaka converting Hyper-Region Labels Sdn. Bhd. Japan Paper Technology Dong Paper bags Thermal paper & Nai (VN) Co., Ltd. New Zealand & Australia 3 Yonago 14 Tottori 11 Saitama carbonless paper Tele Paper (M) Sdn. Bhd. printing & converting Folding cartons United Packaging Co., Ltd. Pulp 7 Tsukuba 7 Ibaraki 10 Kure 22 Mihara Cambodia Quy Nhon Plantation Forest Co. Paperboard, Oji Fibre Solutions 6 Kasumigaura Corrugated Forest plantation packaging 23 Hofu of Vietnam Ltd. containers, Harta Packaging Group Headquarters plastic bags Sales Oji Forest Products Vietnam Co., Ltd. 4 Edogawa Myanmar Indonesia Packaging 12 Tokyo 1 Kanto Financial materials Oji Myanmar Packaging Co., Ltd. Disposable diapers PT Indo Oji Sukses Pratama 12 Saga 26 Kyushu Kita Corrugated 4 Tomioka 5 24 Tokushima 13 Kanagawa Oji GS Packaging (Yangon) Co., Ltd. Disposable Information containers PT Oji Indo Makmur Perkasa 27 16 Kumamoto diapers 3 Oji Green Energy Tokushima Co., Ltd. 5 15 Fuji 2 Tokai 3 Fujinomiya India Forest plantation, 11 Oita (Scheduled to start operation in 2022) Corrugated containers woodchips, PT Korintiga Hutani 25 Ehime 16 Shizuoka 11 Hamamatsu (heavy-duty Oji Interpack India Pte. Ltd. woodpellets 5 Nichinan packaging materials) 4 Oji Green Energy Nichinan Co., Ltd. 15 Iyo 17 Koda Corrugated containers Oji India Packaging Pvt. Ltd. Number of manufacturing sites in ( ): It shows the number of manufacturing sites of the companies listed on this page. Mori Shigyo Co., Ltd. indicates the business site. Other Group companies indicates the plant name. 6 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 7 Value Creation Model Corporate Profile Value provided to Under the management philosophy of “Creation of Innovative Value,” “Contribution to the Future and the World” and “Harmony with Nature and Society,” the Oji Group is striving to ensure that its business society through business itself contributes to a sustainable society by deploying the sustainability strategy globally. The Group What the Oji Group sets “Contribution to a Sustainable Society” as the foundation of our FY2019 to FY2021 Medium-term Contribution to the genuine Management Plan and provides various values to society and contributes to the genuine enrichment of Aims For society by steadily implementing the three pillars of “Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business,” Forest conservation “Expansion of Overseas Business,” and “Promotion of Innovation.” [Sustainability Strategy] Management Strategies The Oji Group will promote “resource circulation throughout the value chain” through five core competencies Responsible production Medium-term Management centered on forest resources. and consumption forms Five core competencies: “Manufacturing that Supports Lives and Industry,” “Sustainable Forest Management (forest recycling),” “Utilization of Renewable Resources (water recycling, paper recycling),” Management Plan Strategy “Application of Fundamental Paper Manufacturing Technologies (deployment of renewable energy such as biomass power generation)” and “Development of New Materials Derived from Wood Fiber (FY2019-2021) Supply of safe and (cellulose nano-fibers, etc.). ” secure products Management Sustainability Strategy = Financial Highlights and Philosophy Transfer of technologies Resource circulation Global Deployment Non-financial Highlights to emerging countries enrichment of society Creation of tthroughout the value chain Innovative Value ability 1. Profit ement of Contribution to a Sustainable Society Solutions to the issue of Improv Promptly detect changes in Business Strategy plastic in the ocean Manufacturing usiness values across broad fields of ic B Domest society and strive to offer “innovative value” that fulfill that Supports society’s latent needs by Lives and Shift from fossil fuels promoting “challenging Industry to non-fossil fuels manufacturing” based on novel ideas. Governance s ion of Mitigation of climate Contribution to 2. Expan a s B u siness change the Future Development Over s e Sustainable and the World of New Materials Forest Derived from Forest Management Safe water supply Continue to be a global Wood Fiber Environment enterprise that provides Resources “innovative value” to all countries, regions, and tion of societies and work toward Promotion of o m o 3. P r creating a new future. recycling systems on Innovati Harmony with Nature Society Respect for human rights and Society Application of Actively address Fundamental Utilization of environmental problems and Paper Renewable contribute to the realization of Manufacturing Resources Safety and health a sustainable society for the Technologies sake of continual existence Financial Information and flourishing with nature and the Earth. Diversity & Inclusion 8 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 9 Sustainability Strategy and Material Issues Corporate Profile * We have identified material issues in our sustainability strategy and are addressing them in the value chain. Procurement Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Sustainable forest resources Pulp Paper, Wood pulp (Consumption) paperboard, Sustainability Lumber Timber Water recycling new materials Contribution to production Paper products What the Oji Group Strategy Woodchips offcuts Pulp manufacturing Waste paper the genuine Aims For Pulp = Forest Recycling Resource (Sustainable forest management) Cascading use of forest resources Water treatment business Paper Recycling enrichment of circulation Sawmill • Cellulose • Hemicellulose society Black liquor Waste residue Consumption throughout paper Management CO₂ absorption Unused Waste recovery and fixation trees the value chain Various wood-derived materials Strategy by forests Fuel • Cellulose nano-fiber (CNF) Biomass power generation (renewable energy) • Pentosan polysulfate sodium (PPS) etc. Material issues Measures in the value chain Value provided to society Corresponding SDGs Conservation of forests and biodiversity Responsible Sustainable Financial Highlights and Forest certification acquisition Forest production and forest conservation consumption Development of infrastructure in areas near forests forms management 6.6 8.7 14.2 15.1, 15.2, 15.3, 15.4, 15.5 Non-financial Highlights Acquisition of certifications throughout the value chain (CoC certification) Responsible raw Compliance with Group procurement policies Responsible Forest production and materials Raw materials procurement that satisfies certification and management standards Forest certification acquisition conservation consumption procurement forms Society Proper management of raw materials 8.7 12.1, 12.4, 12.6 15.2 Measures for stable operations Business Strategy Stable supply of Compliance with raw materials safety confirmation standards Transfer of technology to emerging countries Supply of safe Transfer of Accountability for inquiries from customers technology safe and and secure products to emerging Formulation of BCP secure products countries Compliance with quality standards 12.4,12.6 17.7 Development of nursing care diapers Environment Promotion of Promotion of Green Innovation (promoting development of eco-friendly products and technologies) Solutions to the issue of plastic Safety and Development of raw materials for biodegradable plastics (from edible materials to wood-derived non-edible materials) innovation in the ocean health Development of pharmaceutical products using wood-derived materials 2.1 9.4, 9.5, 9.b 13.3 14.1 Governance Mitigation and Shift from fossil Maintenance and enhancement of CO₂ absorption and fixation through forest conservation Shift from fossil fuels to non-fossil fuels (renewable fuels and fuels made from waste) Mitigation of adaptation to Reduction of CO₂ emissions during transportation fuels to Reduction of CO₂ emissions during transportation Promotion of energy-saving in production processes climate change climate change non-fossil fuels 7.2,7.3 12.2 13.1, 13.2 Reduction of Safety Safe environmental Reduction of wastewater, exhaust gas and waste (compliance with voluntary chemical substance management values that are stricter than regulatory values) Deployment of waste water treatment technology and health water supply burdens 3.9 6.1, 6.3, 6.4 14.1, 14.2, 14.3 17.7, 17.8 Environment Promotion of Effective resource Improvement of the recovered paper utilization ratio Maintenance and promotion of recovered paper recycling systems recycling Waste paper recycling utilization Efficient use of water systems 6.4, 6.5 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7 14.1 Checks on the status of respect for human rights by suppliers Respect for Promotion of respect for human rights at group companies Checks on the status of respect for human rights at manufacturing sites and contractor sites (awareness surveys, etc.) Respect for human rights human rights Harassment countermeasures 5.1, 5.5, 5.c 8.5, 8.7, 8.8 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 Rigorously ensuring the safety of machinery, equipment, and work, and raising hazard sensitivity through experience-based training (virtual reality, etc.) Society Ensuring worksite Safety and Promotion of the physical and mental well-being of workers and creation of comfortable work environments safety and health health 8.8 Working style reforms Diversity Change mindset and behavior of management level employees Society & Diversity & Demonstration of the abilities and career development of diverse human resources Inclusion Inclusion Improvement in employee work-life management Financial 5.5, 5.c 8.2, 8.5, 8.8 10.2, 10.3 Contribution to Conservation of biodiversity in collaboration with local communities local communities Activities that contribute to local communities in areas near manufacturing sites (recycling measures, youth education, cultural exchanges, environmental conservation, healthcare support) Information and society Environmental education, and cultural and sports programs 17.7, 17.17 Dialogue with Appropriate information disclosures stakeholders Attentive communications with individual stakeholders 17.7, 17.17 10 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 11 Material Issues and KPI Corporate Profile * KPIs are set for each material issue. Environment Society Key performance indicators (KPI)*1 Current value*1 Material issues Qualitative target*1 Calculation formula What the Oji Group (Unless otherwise specified, until 2030) (Unless otherwise specified, as of the end of March 2019) Aims For · Increase the rate of overseas forest · Seek 100% rate of forest certification · Rate of forest certification acquisition · [Japan] Forest certification acquisition rate = Certification acquisition area (ha) Sustainable forest certification acquisition (maintain the domestic acquisition for all forest plantations [Japan] 100% (excluding profit sharing forests); [overseas] 85% ÷ Managed and owned areas excluding profit sharing forest (ha) management rate at 100%) · 400,000 ha*2 of overseas forest plantations · 250,000 ha of overseas forest plantations · [Overseas] Forest certification acquisition rate = Certification acquisition area · Increase overseas forest plantations (ha) ÷ Planted area (ha) · Procure raw materials in accordance Responsible raw materials Management with Group Procurement Guidelines and — — — procurement implement supply chain management Stable supply of safe and · Continue zero product liability accidents · Zero product liability accidents (each fiscal · Zero product liability accidents (continued from 1998) Strategy year) — secure products Promotion of innovation · Commercialize eco-friendly products — — — Financial Highlights and · Reduce GHG*3 emissions intensity · Reduce GHG emissions intensity from ·G  HG emissions intensity: 9.0% reduction from FY2013 · Maintain and expand CO₂ absorption and product manufacturing by at least 10% fixation through forest conservation compared to FY2013 by FY2020 Mitigation and adaptation ·C  O₂ fixation amount: 120 million tons · CO₂ fixation amount (CO₂ tons) = Residual cumulative volume m3 at end of Non-financial Highlights · Maintain and expand the shift to non-fossil · Fix at least 170 million tons of CO₂ to climate change fuels (estimated value) FY2018 × Biomass expansion factor 1.7 × Bulk weight BDT/m3 × Carbon · Use energy efficiently · Reduce energy consumption intensity by at ·E  nergy consumption intensity: 1.4% reduction compared to ratio 0.5 × CO₂ conversion factor 44/12 least 1.0% compared to the previous fiscal the previous fiscal year *BDT: Bone dry tons year Business Strategy Reduction of environmental · Reduce waste · Achieve effective waste utilization ratios of · Effective waste utilization ratio · Effective waste utilization ratio = (Volume of waste generated Volume of burdens (atmosphere, · Acquire environmental certification (ISO at least 99% in Japan and at least 95% [Japan] 98.3% [Overseas] 89.6% landfill waste) ÷ Volume of waste generated × 100 water, waste) 14001, etc.) overseas (2020) · Improve the recovered paper utilization ratio · Recovered paper utilization ratio of at least · Recovered paper utilization rate: 64.0% · Recovered paper utilization ratio = Volume of paper consumed ÷ Total · Reduce water usage intensity 65% in Japan volume of fiber raw materials consumed (total consumption of recovered Effective resource utilization · Reduce water usage intensity · Water usage intensity: Down 0.8% from FY2017 paper, wood pulp, and other fiber raw materials) accompanying product manufacturing by at least 1% from the previous year Governance · Reinforce human rights management systems Respect for human rights (particularly at overseas sites) — — — · Eliminate fatal accidents · Zero fatal accidents (each fiscal year) · Number of fatal accidents: 0 (consolidated companies) · Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) = (Number of occupational accident · Reduce the lost time injury frequency rate · Reduced the lost time injury frequency rate · Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR): 0.55 (consolidated casualties ÷ Total work hours) × 1,000,000 Ensuring worksite safety (LTIFR)*4 (LTIFR) by 50% compared to 2018 companies, January 1 to December 31, 2018) and health · Reinforce safety risk management systems and safety education at overseas offices Environment · Globalize the workforce · Percentage of female managers · Percentage of female managers · Percentage of female managers = Number of female managers ÷ Number of (The following apply to Japan) [Japan] 10% (6% in 2020) [Japan] 3.1% (16 Oji Group companies) all managers · Raise the percentage of female managers · Percentage of disabled employees · Percentage of disabled employees · Percentage of disabled employees (employment rate) = Number of regular Diversity & Inclusion · Raise the percentage of disabled employees [Japan] 2.34% (2021) [Japan] 1.83% (as of June 2018) workers with physical or intellectual impairments or with mental illness ÷ · Improve work-life management Number of all regular workers * Workers with short working hours are counted as 0.5 workers * Persons with severe disabilities are counted as two persons Contribution to local · Conduct environmental education — — — Society communities and society · Promote cultural and sports activities · Transparent and appropriate disclosures via Dialogue with stakeholders websites and integrated reports — — — *1 Unless otherwise specified, Japanese and overseas consolidated companies *2 ha = 10,000m2 Financial *3 Greenhouse Gas *4 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Information (1) Covered period: January 1 to December 31 (2) Number of deaths and injuries due to occupational accidents per million working hours (fatal accidents and accidents with at least one day off) (3) Total working hours are calculated based on the number of group company employees (regular employees and temporary / non-regular employees) as of the end of September every year, assuming the annual working hours per person is 2,000 hours. (4) The frequency rate calculation does not include accidents at overseas group companies that are determined to be at the level of accidents accompanied by injuries without lost work days in Japan based on standards established by the Company. 12 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 13 Corporate Profile I had the honor to be appointed president of Oji Holdings in April 2019. I would like to discuss the strong commitment of Group management and employees What the Oji Group to the long-held mission of the Group—to contribute to the genuine enrichment of Message from society—and how we are carrying out that mission. the President ■ Oji Group—Development Since its Foundation— Aims For The origins of the Oji Group can be found 146 years ago in 1873 when Eiichi Shibusawa established Shoshi Kaisha with the aim of developing the domestic paper manufacturing Management industry, which until then had relied on imports. He was committed to supporting social and economic development in Meiji Era Japan through the proliferation of books and newspapers to raise the level of knowledge of the public. Today, we engages in Strategy a wide range of businesses including book paper and newsprint in the Printing and Communications Media Business as well as packaging materials, household paper, We seek to always anticipate changing needs, and disposable diapers in the Household and Industrial Materials Businesses, specialty paper, thermal paper, adhesive products, and film products in the Functional Materials Financial Highlights and tackle the challenges of innovation, Business, and pulp sales and electric power generation using renewable energy in the Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business. Also, our business is not limited and be a corporate group that achieves continuous growth. Non-financial Highlights to Japan and has expanded globally. ■ Sustainability Strategy We have established resource circulation throughout the value chain so that our business Business Strategy activities contribute to the development of a sustainable society, namely through Forest Recycling*, Paper Recycling, and Water Recycling. Forest Recycling The Oji Group owns 190,000 hectares of forests in Japan, the largest private holding in the country, and an additional 250,000 hectares of forest plantations overseas. At these Oji Forests, we conserve forest resources based on the belief that “those who use trees Governance have the responsibility to plant trees.” We practice sustainable forest management while continuously planting trees. In addition, through the maintenance of the precious forest resources of Oji Forests, measures against global warming via CO₂ absorption and fixation in forests, and conservation of precious animals and plants that live in the forest, we are contributing to the maintenance of biodiversity. Environment Paper Recycling We undertake continuous paper recycling by encouraging waste paper recycling and establishing a waste paper recovery system. Water Recycling Society We develop water treatment technologies to promote reuse of wastewater in our paper and pulp manufacturing processes. We are making further advances in paper manufacturing technologies and achieving innovations in the development of new materials such as cellulose nano-fiber (CNF) and advanced paper with functions that can serve as alternatives to plastics. In addition, we are applying fundamental paper manufacturing technologies using forest resources to develop the renewable energy business such as biomass power generation. Financial We seek to maximize the value of diverse forest resources and to pass healthy forests Information on to future generations. By doing this, we provide value to society. We are committed to fulfilling the responsibility of continuing to provide value to society into the future. * Forest Recycling: Sustainable Forest Management 14 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 15 Corporate Profile ■ Management Strategy: FY2016–2018 Medium-Term Management Plan Next, I would like to discuss our management strategy. The management strategy is a key Operating Profit from FY2018 to FY2021 What the Oji Group roadmap that urges us strongly along the path that we should take. Under the previous 150.0 medium-term management plan, which ended in FY2018, we set as our fundamental Adapting to changing Aims For (¥bil.) ¥150.0 billion strategies Expansion of Overseas Business, Concentration and Advancement of circumstances with a Domestic Business, and Enhancement of Financial Foundations. We worked to achieve diverse portfolio ¥110.0 · Decline in demand ➡ Cover by ¥110.2 billion billion restructuring manufacturing systems our performance indicator targets of 100 billion yen in consolidated operating profit, · Expand packaging and household paper business an overseas sales ratio of 35 percent, and interest-bearing debt of 700 billion yen. · Develop new materials and products 100.0 Management · Reinforce environmental business With regard to Expansion of Overseas Business, we increased the number of Decline in profitability of overseas business due to slumping demand manufacturing sites, particularly in the packaging business, increased production for pulp in Chinese markets ¥79.0 billion Strategy ¥76.5 billion capacity and efficiency, and focused on entering new business fields in Southeast Asia. ¥71.0 billion In relation to Concentration and Advancement of Domestic Business, we worked Overseas to raise earnings capacity by cutting costs and reorganizing production structures. In addition, we used core Oji Group technologies to develop high-performance and 50.0 high added value products and focused on expanding the renewable energy business ¥33.7 billion Financial Highlights and · Expand the packaging business in Asia and Oceania · Reinforce business foundations at existing bases including biomass and hydroelectric power generation. Japan Implement price restoration · Expand the disposable diaper business in in Japan in response to Southeast Asia With respect to Enhancement of Financial Foundations, we improved operating cash Non-financial Highlights sluggish markets in China · Reinforce the thermal paper business in South America flows, sold off shares held for strategic purposes and idle assets, and worked to reduce interest-bearing debts. 0 These efforts produced results, with consolidated operating profit reaching 110.2 billion FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 yen in FY2018 (up 38.2 billion yen compared to FY2015) and interest-bearing debt falling Business Strategy to 620.6 billion yen (down 157.1 billion yen compared to FY2015). Thus, we achieved both our earnings and financial targets. The overseas sales ratio was 32.0 percent (up 4.2 points from FY2015), falling below the target, but over the three years of the plan, we steadily reinforced structures for increasing overseas profits. The direction that the Oji Group will take in the future has not fundamentally changed. ■ Management Strategy: FY2019–2021 Medium-Term Management Plan Optimal manufacturing structures will be created throughout the Group through a process of selection and concentration of existing businesses, and we will commit to enhancing Governance We are now carrying out our new Medium-Term Management Plan covering the period from FY2019 to FY2021. The fundamental policies of our current management strategy businesses that are promising and hold the potential for growth and creating new comprise three pillars: Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business, Expansion of businesses that will become our new core businesses. At the same time, we will respond Overseas Business, and Promotion of Innovation. Also, we will pursue Contribution to a in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the business environment. Until Sustainable Society, as a cornerstone of the fundamental policies. now, we have been sensitive to changes in global and domestic circumstances, taking With regard to the management targets for FY2021, consolidated operating profit of 150 various anticipatory actions to establish a diverse business portfolio. We will reinforce billion yen is the target for FY2021, the final year of the Medium-Term Management Plan, and foundations so that a wide range of business fields and territorial areas can complement Environment this includes a target of maintaining stable operating profit of at least 100 billion yen each one another and generate synergy effects in the pursuit of even further growth. year. We will also pursue an overseas sales ratio of 40 percent and ROE of 10.0 percent. Now, I will describe the three pillars of our fundamental policies in detail. Performance Indicator Targets Under the FY2019-2021 Medium-Term Management Plan First is Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business. As demand for newsprint • Consolidated operating profit: At least 150 billion yen (maintain stable operating and printing paper continues to decline in domestic business in conjunction with the rapid profit of more than 100 billion yen) advancement and proliferation of information and communications technologies, we will • Overseas sales ratio: 40% (with a target of more than 50% in the short term) continue our efforts to secure cash flows through extensive cost cutting. We will also shift Society • ROE: 10.0% our strategies towards the generation of cash flows through maximum effective utilization • Net D/E ratio: Maintain current status * FY2018 result: 0.7 times of existing facilities, thereby enhancing the earnings capacity of domestic business. • Market capitalization: At least 1 trillion yen Specifically, we are building optimal manufacturing systems for newsprint and printing paper and rapidly shifting excess facilities to growth businesses. Oji Paper Co., Ltd. and Oji F-Tex Co., Ltd. have made decisions to shut down a total of three printing Financial Information and communication paper machines. In addition, one newsprint machine at Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill that is no longer needed will be modified into a containerboard and kraft paper machine. As a result, we will work on achieving substantial cost improvements, enhancing international competitiveness, and increasing cash flows. 16 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 17 Corporate Profile We are also steadily developing the potential of promising businesses. In the corrugated container business, for example, we are constructing a state-of-the-art What the Oji Group containerboard plant, one of the largest in Japan, in Funabashi City, Chiba Prefecture in the Kanto region, which is expected to experience particularly significant increases in Aims For demand. We are also expanding business by promoting total packaging including new product development and sales, containerboard manufacturing to corrugated container converting, and packaging machine sales and maintenance by using our proposal capabilities as a strength. Management In the household paper business, MPM Oji Home Products Co., Ltd., a joint venture with Mitsubishi Paper Mills Limited with a production base in Hachinohe City, commenced production in April 2019. Having acquired its first household paper Strategy production site in the Tohoku region, the Oji Group plans to expand sales and streamline logistics further. Furthermore, a household paper base paper machine will start operating in China in 2020. In Japan, we plan to establish a new converting base in Edogawa-ku, Tokyo, to increase household paper supply capacity in the Tokyo Metropolitan region. We Financial Highlights and will expand business through collaboration between domestic and overseas operations. In the energy business, we will expand the biomass power generation business even Non-financial Highlights further. A biomass power generation facility in Hachinohe City, a joint venture with Mitsubishi Paper Mills Limited began operations in 2019, and a joint venture biomass power generation facility established with ITOCHU ENEX Co., Ltd. will commence operations in 2022. In conjunction with the expansion of the biomass power generation Business Strategy business, the biomass fuel business is also being reinforced. Until recently, the Oji Group's capital and business alliances with Mitsubishi Paper Mills Limited have been confined to sporadic cooperative relationships in specific business fields such as the household paper and energy businesses. Going forward, we will expand and reinforce this relationship. We will actively undertake measures to cut costs through the elimination of duplicative transportation, joint procurement of raw materials and facilities, and development of new products through joint development, Governance and to make reciprocal use of each other’s sales channels with the aims of increasing the competitiveness and raising the earnings capacity of both companies. Next is Expansion of Overseas Business. Overseas business has been expanding rapidly since about 2010. At that time, overseas business accounted for less than 10 percent of sales, but surpassed 30 percent in FY2017. We have set a target of Environment 40 percent for FY2021 as a transitional point on the way to our future target of 50 percent. Our overseas business has already exceeded our domestic business in terms of the number of companies and the number of employees, and by combining our capabilities throughout the Group, we will further expand sites and territories while creating inter-business and inter-site synergies for dynamic growth to boost competitiveness and enhance our presence. Society Looking to individual businesses, in the corrugated container business, we are expanding business and increasing the number of sites with a focus on Southeast Asia and India while reinforcing business foundations. We are installing an additional 代表取締役社長​ containerboard machine in Malaysia and building corrugated container converting plants グループCEO in India, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Indonesia in stages. Particularly in Indonesia, we 加来 正年 decided to construct a corrugated container plant through a joint venture with a leading firm, enabling the Oji Group to enter business in the country. The region continues to develop economically, and we will seek to steadily capture the growing demand for Financial corrugated containers and increase our market shares. Information 18 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 19 Corporate Profile In the disposable diaper business, we are conducting business in Indonesia through a joint ■ Safety, the Environment, and Compliance as the Top Priorities in Management venture with Indofood, a leading local company. While the JV company has conducted OEM As I mentioned, management strategies are important as indicators of the path that we What the Oji Group sales since the end of 2016, it will begin operation of its own production facilities in March should take, but above all else, Safety, the Environment, and Compliance are the highest 2020. We will work to expand sales, secure cost competitiveness, and strengthen business priority management issues over the business. Aims For foundations. In Malaysia, we are conducting manufacturing and sales at two sites, and As long as a company exists, it must ensure the safety of the people who work for it. exporting products to Vietnam and other neighboring countries. In China and Southeast Asia, When safety is impaired, the health and happiness of employees and their families can be there is a preference for high-quality, high added value, made-in-Japan products, and we will lost in an instant. I see my own role as ensuring that the employees who report to work take advantage of this to expand exports from Japan and increase sales. healthy in the morning are able to return home healthy at the end of the day, and I seek Management In the pulp business, we continue to implement strategic revenue management to make this known at every opportunity. As the Group expands, the scope of this also measures in order to reinforce business foundations that are resilient against price grows. Protecting the more than 36,000 Group employees in Japan and overseas as well fluctuations in pulp markets. Pulp markets have been affected by trade frictions between as all of the people involved in our value chains is an ongoing issue. We are committed Strategy the U.S. and China, making the business environment more demanding. Under these to maintaining safe and reassuring work environments by conducting various trainings to circumstances, we are implementing daily cost improvements so that we can maintain raise employee safety awareness and enhancing the safety of equipment. stable quality and fulfill our supply responsibilities. We are taking measures in various I also want to act in good faith at all times with respect to the diverse stakeholders who regions including updating manufacturing facilities in Brazil and stabilizing and enhancing are essential for the company’s existence. We will continue comprehensive environmental Financial Highlights and the efficiency of operations in New Zealand. measures including compliance with environmental laws and regulations and preventing environmental accidents on the Group level and at individual business sites to maintain Non-financial Highlights With regard to Promotion of Innovation, we are advancing the technologies plants and offices that can exist in harmony with local communities and residents. This accumulated in the paper manufacturing business even further and accelerating new also applies to our compliance initiatives. We will conduct business in a manner that materials development, which will become our core businesses in the future, to ensure proves worthy of the trust that we have established over the Group’s 146-year history. the sustainable growth of the Oji Group. Business Strategy Specifically, we are developing applications for cellulose nano-fiber (CNF) by extending pulp ■ Message to Stakeholders fibrillation technologies, fibrillating wood fiber on the nano-level, and using the nano-fiber not We move forward every day with the support of diverse stakeholders including shareholders only as a raw material for conventional paper, but also as an alternative for glass and plastics. and investors, customers, business partners, local communities, global society, and The issue of plastic in the ocean is currently attracting considerable attention. The employees. We achieved our long-held target of 100 billion yen in operating profit last fiscal Oji Group is participating as a founding member in the Clean Ocean Material Alliance year, but the business environment is by no means grounds for optimism. Nonetheless, we (CLOMA), a platform for promoting measures to address the issue of plastic in the ocean have built business foundations that will enable us to transform difficult circumstances into by industry as a whole, and undertaking joint measures with other industries to reduce opportunities and pursue growth. Just as the era name in Japan changed this year from Governance waste. CLOMA has set five Key Actions, of which one is developing and using paper and Heisei to Reiwa, we will anticipate changing needs, undertake the challenges of innovation, cellulose materials. As a part of these efforts, we are developing and using different types and strive to be a corporate group that achieves sustainable growth. of paper materials such as barrier paper with barrier properties not found in conventional We will continue to make every effort to meet the needs and expectations of paper and various liquid containers. stakeholders. I look forward to your continued understanding and support. We are also establishing a bio-refinery that can effectively use the byproducts generated when pulp is produced from wood materials. In addition to developing sugars derived Environment from non-edible raw materials as new raw materials for biodegradable plastics through the application of saccharification technology, we are promoting developments of therapeutic agents for equine arthritis, therapeutic agents for human cystitis, and an anticoagulant necessary for dialysis (heparin; currently produced from cows and swine and thus cannot be used by certain persons because of religious grounds) using sulfated hemicellulose at a life science research organization which we established with Hokkaido University. Society As we undertake the development of new materials that will be at the core of our business in the future, we are also conducting green innovation (development of ecofriendly products) using wood materials produced through sustainable forest management. Based on the three pillars of the fundamental policies of our management strategies that I discussed above, we will continue contributing to the formation of a sustainable society by reinforcing the Oji Group’s environmentally-friendly business in Japan and overseas and pursuing innovation. Financial Information 20 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 21 Corporate Profile New Business Creation and R&D Creating Innovative Value Eco-Friendly Material Development Initiatives With the aim of creating new business and strengthening the competitiveness of the company’s existing businesses in The Oji Group is developing eco-friendly materials to address the issue of plastic in the ocean, a global scale problem, and What the Oji Group Aims For mind, the Oji Holdings Innovation Promotion Division undertakes activities ranging from the creation of technological seeds to contribute the reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure to fight global warming. By developing paper materials that can to the development of new markets and new products that are more business-oriented, thereby propelling the company’s take the places of plastic packaging and biomass*1 plastic materials made from renewable forest resources, the Group business restructuring. seeks to contribute to the development of a sustainable society. *1 Renewable, bio-derived organic resources excluding fossil resources Management Priority Strategies of the Innovation Promotion Division Development of biomass plastic raw materials Development of paper materials as ● Creating technological seeds and capturing needs alternative to plastic packaging Strategy Biodegradable plastics have been the subject of considerable attention in recent years, and much of the Development of multi-barrier paper ● Building business models and establishing value chains sugar used as a raw material is produced from sugarcane or The Oji Group developed SILBIO*2 BARRIER, a multi● Strengthen cost competitiveness through refinement of pulp and paper technologies corn. There are concerns that sugar produced from edible barrier paper made from a paper base with a barrier resources will result in food competition in relation to global coating layer, using its water-based coating technologies, food supply shortages. Financial Highlights and one of the Group’s areas of specialization. The Oji Group is researching Ongoing Innovative Value Creation by the Innovation Promotion Division the production of sugar The barrier coating layer prevents water vapor, oxygen, and other substances from passing through, curtailing Non-financial Highlights by breaking down wood deterioration of the content and maintaining aroma and The Division is evolving underlying core technologies cultivated from paper manufacturing and film converting to promote components (cellulose) moisture content. the development of new business and new products and achieve early profitability. The Division is also developing ecousing enzymes through the *2 SILBIO = SILVA+BIOREFINERY friendly products and technologies as a form of contribution to the realization of a sustainable society. Specific projects application of technologies Silva means forest in Latin. The name was coined to incorporate the intent to acquired from bioethanol create eco-friendly products that enrich society using biorefinery technology Business Strategy include development of technology for producing sugar from wood for use as a raw material of biodegradable plastic and from forests. development and application of paper materials with high barrier properties as an alternative to plastic for containers and research. The aim is to supply packaging material. sugar derived from nonCellulose-derived edible sources as a new raw sugar solution The Division is also developing medical products made from hemicellulose which has had only limited applications, (Left: Unrefined product; creating uses for cellulose nano-fiber using proprietary technologies, promoting the water treatment business using material for the production right: refined product) technologies acquired through paper manufacturing, and developing capacitor films for electric and hybrid vehicles to of biodegradable plastics, support the potential widespread adoption of eco-cars. demand for which will increase in the future. Governance Pulp and Paper Innovation Center Packaging Promotion Center Eco-friendly material development initiatives Development of pulp composites ● Development Center ● Sugar solution derived ● SILBIO BARRIER ●Capacitor film By mixing pulp into biodegradable plastic, various properties ● CNF R&D Center from wood multi-barrier paper ●Liquid containers ●Industrial including strength and rigidity can be improved. ● Strategic Planning Department functional film ● Specialty The Group is conducting research as a means of expanding paper ● Medical products made applications for biodegradable plastics. ● Medicinal plants from hemicellulose ● Functional Environment paper Film manufacturing technology SILBIO Barrier was presented at a G20 Summit (held Forest tree breeding technology Coating technology in Karuizawa-machi, Nagano Prefecture on June 15 and 16, 2019) ministerial meeting as an innovative ●Functional non-woven initiative from Japan. Non-woven fabric technology fabric Functional Materials Business al air Extern Society Plantation Woodchip Dissolving pulp (DP) Packing paper Folding cartons Moisture Pulp for paper Paperboard Paper bags Oxygen Raw wood manufacturing Paper Corrugated containers Paper Household paper Examples of processed pulp manufacturing Converting composite materials aper SILBIO Base p Forest Resources and Printing and Communications Household & Consumer Environment Marketing Business Media Business Products Business Development of biomass plastic film BARRIER er Industrial Materials Business ng lay r coati Biomass-derived plastic films are expected to be used Barrie ● Double-sided optical pressure Adhesive converting technology sensitive adhesive film for food packaging and an expanding range of other Financial Water treatment ● Optical anti-scattering film applications in the future. The Oji Group has commenced Nano-converting technology Nano-fibrillation technology ● Special adhesive product technology development of distinctive biomass plastic films through Information ct ● Cellulose Nano-fiber the application of thin film stretch processing technology Produ .) etc Aroma Water treatment business (food, Moisture AUROVISCO accumulated in the development of capacitor films. ● Nano-dot array AUROVEIL Structure of SILBIO BARRIER 22 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 23 Corporate Profile Development of Medical Products Derived from Hemicellulose Development of Cellulose Nano-Fiber The components of wood are mainly composed of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. Cellulose has extensively been used Cellulose nano-fiber (CNF) is a plant fiber (pulp) that is finely fibrillated to the nano-order level, 1/1,000,000 of 1 mm, where What the Oji Group as a raw material for paper and textiles without waste, but we are advancing research and development to use hemicellulose, its width is equivalent to 1/20,000 of a hair. Oji Group is conducting development for commercialization of CNF with the aim Aims For which has been utilized as a fuel and other limited applications, as a product with higher added value. Acidic hemicellulose of application of phosphorylated CNF, a proprietary technology, in a wide range of fields. (hydrolyzed xylan) refined from hemicellulose is used as a raw material in cosmetics, as it provides skin moisture retention properties and protects the barrier function. In addition, a substance referred to as sulfated hemicellulose (pentosan polysulfate sodium: PPS) that is refined and chemically synthesized from acidic hemicellulose is attracting attention as an active CNF Reinforced Polycarbonate Resin Composite of CNF and polycarbonate Management pharmaceutical component, and the Group is conducting joint research and development with Hokkaido University. Polycarbonate (PC) resin is lightweight, highly transparent, and shock resistant material expected to be used as an alternative Strategy PPS has the following effects: (1) suppressing arthritis Composition of Wood to glass for automobile windows, but it also has weaknesses— symptoms, (2) suppressing bladder inflammation, Hemicellulose Acidic hemicellulose it is easily bent by force and deformed by heat. These weak Hydrolyzed xylan and (3) suppressing blood coagulation. The Group is points can greatly be improved by creating a compound of Use in cosmetics conducting development with the aims of use for effect CNF and PC. The Oji Group is developing applications such as 30% (1) as a pharmaceutical agent for animals (in particular, Chemical automobile windows with an aim of practical application at an Roof panel 50% Rear window Financial Highlights and synthesis horses) and for effects (2) and (3) as a pharmaceutical early stage. material 20% material agent for people. Sulfated hemicellulose Official name: Pentosan Non-financial Highlights polysulfate sodium Cellulose Lignin Use in paper, Medical applications fiber raw materials, etc. currently being researched CNF for Use in Cosmetic Ingredients Application of Peopleand Eco-Friendly Temporary Materials at Civil Working with Nikko Chemicals Co., Ltd., a leader in the Business Strategy cosmetics materials industry, the Oji Group commercialized Engineering Sites AUROVISCO CS, a cosmetic ingredient. AUROVISCO CS boasts more than 100 times the viscosity The Oji Group and Shimizu Corporation jointly developed KAMIWAZA, a technology for improving the productivity of of naturally-derived thickeners but has a non-sticky and moist temporary construction using peopleand eco-friendly paper materials. KAMIWAZA is a solution that uses paper materials feel. Moreover, the wood fiber used as a raw material is a in temporary structures at civil engineering sites. By using easily handled paper materials as an alternative to conventional sustainable and renewable resource that can be supplied from steel and wood, the burdens on workers are reduced and the productivity of temporary construction can be enhanced. The forests. It is expected that AUROVISCO CS will be adopted in main materials used for temporary construction are HiPLE-ACE*1 manufactured by Oji Interpack Co., Ltd. and Hatosheet*2 Governance various cosmetics. manufactured by Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd. *1 HiPLE-ACE Cosmetics products A corrugated board material with a three-layer structure that is used as packing material for heavy loads and has high shock absorption performance and high strength. CNF Used as Concrete Pump Primer *2 Hatosheet Formation of the uniform layer around the ready-mixed concrete A nonwoven fabric made primarily from wood pulp that is capable The Oji Group began sales of AUROVISCO for use with of controlling the diffusibility, retentivity, and volatility of liquids that RUBURI concrete pump primer* made by TAKEcite Co., Ltd. in Ready-mixed concrete Primer Direction of flow Environment it absorbs. Verification tests of the temperature increase prevention effects were carried out during dam construction in Iwate Prefecture January 2019. by installing Hatosheet that contain water in an aggregate storage facility for concrete materials. Approximately 1 ton of conventional mortar is typically Cross Section of a Pumping Pipe used, but when RUBURI mixed with CNF is used, this amount HiPLE-ACE manufactured by Hatosheet manufactured by Oji can be significantly reduced to tens of kilograms, slashing Oji Interpack Kinocloth the amount of industrial waste generated. It also contributes to greatly reducing work times. RUBURI was selected as a HiPLE-ACE Use Example: Tunnel Wind Gates standardization project for the Standardization System for The temporary tunnel wind gates constructed in mountain tunnels Cultivating New Markets by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Society are used to prevent rapid airflows that can occur during tunnel Industry of Japan, and once standardization is approved, uses boring. With conventional construction techniques, special-purpose expected to expand to a wide range of construction sites. (disposable) nylon balloons were used to build a wall blocking the * Primer is used to form a uniform lubricating layer on the inner surfaces of ready-mixed concrete pumping pipes to prevent clogging of pipes when pressure is applied to tunnel cross-section. When HiPLE-ACE is used, a wind gate of pump the concrete. approximately 100 m² can be constructed by attaching corrugated board members (with an area of approximately 1 m²) with onetouch technique using just an aerial work platform. In addition, the Financial corrugated board can be recycled and construction costs can be cut Information A concrete pump truck pumping concrete by approximately one half compared to conventional methods. The photo to the right shows an example from a road tunnel worksite in Nagasaki Prefecture. New construction method using HiPLE-ACE 24 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 25 Corporate Profile Expansion of the Water Treatment Business Film Manufacturing Technologies Pursue “Thinner and Stronger” Establishment of Water Treatment Developing Overseas Business with a The Oji Group’s biaxially stretched polypropylene film has a wide range of applications in electrified vehicles including What the Oji Group Aims For Technologies Focus on Southeast Asia hybrid and electric vehicles. Electrified vehicles use highly safe film capacitors in inverters and other electric drive system components. The main component of those film capacitors is high-performance polypropylene film, and the thinner the film, The Oji Group provides water treatment systems suitable The Group’s water treatment business is not limited the smaller the capacitors can be made. The solution of how to drive on electricity alone without using gasoline is attracting for all needs based on its operational expertise and water to Japan. It is increasing in Southeast Asia including considerable attention worldwide, and the trend towards high voltages and high currents to obtain more powerful drive force production and wastewater treatment technologies proposals for industrial water production equipment at an is continuing, creating a need for high levels of insulation that can withstand high-voltage electricity even when thin. The Oji accumulated through paper manufacturing technologies industrial estate in Thailand, water production facilities for a Management Group is leveraging its proprietary materials design technologies and stretch processing production technologies to develop over many years. The Oji Group has created new water beverage company and drinking water production facilities technologies for producing ultra-thin, high-voltage resistant polypropylene film that can withstand high-voltage even when Strategy treatment systems by combining proprietary chemical and wastewater treatment facilities for a large-scale extremely thin. These efforts are contributing to making more compact electrical components for electric vehicles, which are treatment with the OJI-MEMBRANE ultrafiltration membrane multipurpose facility in Myanmar. expected to become more widespread throughout the world. as well as remote support technologies that optimize facility The Group has also conducted business seminars in operations and prevent problems before they occur using Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, to provide education on the Internet of Things (IoT). preservation of water environments and undertakes other Capacitor film Based on its established technologies, the Group will measures to contribute to local communities. Financial Highlights and continue to develop new water treatment technologies Going forward, the Group will develop its water treatment Engine Thickness: so that it can provide integrated services from design business overseas with a focus on Southeast Asia while 2.8 μm Non-financial Highlights and installation of water treatment facilities to supply of generating synergy effects with other Group businesses. consumables and after-sales support including maintenance and management to customers in Japan and overseas. Thickness: 2.0 μm Business conductor: Oji Engineering Business Strategy Technology developer: Water Environment Business Promotion Section, Innovation Promotion Division Motor PCU IoT-based remote support service introduced at industrial water production facility in Thailand Power control unit (PCU) with boost converter Ultrafiltration equipment Customer Cloud server Internet access Japan’s First Licorice Cultivation Technology Established Governance Internet access Oji (Japan) Operator Manager Internet access The Oji Group has commenced research on medicinal plants Internet virtual private network that hold future potential for use in Kampo medicines, the market (VPN) for which is expanding, as well as cosmetics and functional VPN server foods. Licorice is used in approximately 70 percent of Kampo Remote monitor Communication 3G mobile medicines. At present, most raw materials are dependent on Environment Control equipment panel phone imports of wild licorice from overseas, but there are calls for network domestic production through the development of efficient cultivation techniques in order to respond to fear of resource depletion accompanying the increase in demand and export Proposals for water treatment chemicals restrictions. The Oji Group established Japan's first licorice We use our accumulated cultivation technology through the application of afforestation expertise to propose appropriate technology developed by the Group. The technology shortens Society water treatment chemicals that can ensure stable operation of the time from seed sowing to harvesting of licorice, from five equipment even when water to six years to just two years. Further, the glycyrrhizin amount quality varies depending on the external environment or conforms to the Japanese Pharmacopoeia’s active ingredient operations. standards of containing at least 2 percent glycyrrhizin in [Products offered] cultivated licorice. A large-scale cultivation trial was commenced Flocculants for waste water treatment in the Nayoro area of Hokkaido in 2017, and business feasibility A large-scale licorice field (photo taken in summer 2019) Ion exchange resin for producing is being verified. In the future, the Group will seek to achieve OJI-FLOCK™ OJI-ION™ OJI-CARBON™ pure water Japan’s first large-scale cultivation with the aim of providing Financial Activated carbon for deodorization Information (flocculant) (ion exchange resin) (activated carbon) and organic matter treatment stable supply of domestic licorice to customers who emphasize Chemicals for boiler water, etc. safety, security, and traceability. 26 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 27 Financial Highlights Non-financial Highlights Corporate Profile * Unless otherwise specified, the scope covers domestic and overseas consolidated companies. Overseas Sales Ratio Operating Profit Forest Certification Acquisition Rate GHG* Emissions Intensity 32.0% ¥110.2 billion Japan: 100%, Overseas: 85% Overseas: +16 pt. 0.476 t-CO₂e/production t Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 (overseas) Change from FY2017 +1.0 pt. +55.6% â 0.006 t-CO₂e/production t What the Oji Group Domestic company-owned forests Overseas forest plantations Net sales (¥bil.) Overseas sales ratio (%) Operating profit (¥bil.) Operating profit margin (%) (SGEC (%) * Excluding profit sharing forests) (FSCTM, etc. (%)) GHG emissions intensity (t-CO₂e/production t) 1,551.0 100 100 100 100 100 120 100 0.525 Aims For 1,600 1,485.9 40 12 1,333.6 1,433.9 110.2 1,347.3 0.517 90 1,200 30 85 31.0 32.0 8 80 72.0 0.500 0.493 28.2 70.2 70.8 80 27.8 800 22.8 20 7.1 74 0.485 0.482 43.9 68 69 69 70 0.476 40 4 Management 5.0 4.9 4.8 0.475 400 10 60 3.3 Strategy 0 0 0 0 50 0.450 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) FSCTMC016623 *Greenhouse Gas Energy Consumption Intensity Effective Waste Utilization Rate Profit per Share Free Cash Flows 0.364 kL oil*/production t 94.2% Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 ¥52.52 ¥74.0 billion Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 â 0.005 kL oil/production t +0.1 pt. Financial Highlights and +43.3% +50.4% Cash flows from Cash flows from Energy consumption intensity (kL oil/production t) Effective waste utilization rate (%) Profit attributable to owners of parent (¥bil.) Profit per share (yen) (¥bil.) operating activities investing activities Free cash flows Non-financial Highlights 0.390 100.0 60 52.0 60 200 0.382 117.2 40.3 84.8 0.380 97.5 52.52 100 74.0 36.2 49.2 40 40 0.368 0.369 0.369 40.74 90.9 128.1 157.4 123.2 140.6 0.370 95.0 36.64 0 0.364 Business Strategy (165.5) (43.3) (40.2) (74.0) (66.6) 94.8 94.3 94.1 94.2 20 15.5 12.7 20 93.8 0.360 92.5 (100) (74.6) 15.71 12.86 0.350 90.0 0 0 (200) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *Energy amount converted to crude oil value Water Usage Intensity Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 46.39 m3/production t 0.55 Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 Net D/E Ratio ROE â 0.37 m3/production t â 0.07 Governance 0.7 times 7.7% Change from FY2017 Change from FY2017 +2.1 pt. Water usage intensity (m3/production t) 0.75 LTIFR 52.50 0.8 Balance of net Balance of Net D/E ratio (times) Equity ratio (%) ROE (%) 0.65 interest-bearing debt (¥bil.) interest-bearing debt (¥bil.) 0.65 0.62 900 (862.6) 1.5 40 10 0.6 0.55 34.4 34.7 50.18 (777.7) 33.1 50.00 804.8 30.3 30.4 49.04 (677.3) (647.4) 728.6 (620.6) 30 0.4 600 1.0 7.7 625.4 47.37 Environment 1.0 1.0 587.6 47.50 535.0 6.7 46.76 20 5.6 5 46.39 0.2 0.8 300 0.7 0.7 0.5 10 45.00 0 2.6 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) 2.1 *(1) Covered period: January 1 to December 31 (2) Number of deaths and injuries due to occupational accidents per million working hours (fatal accidents and accidents with at least 0 0 0 0 one day off) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (3) Total working hours are calculated based on the number of group company employees (regular employees and temporary/non-regular employees) as of the end of September every year, assuming the annual working hours per person is * Net D/E ratio (times) = net interest-bearing debt/net assets at the year-end 2,000 hours. (4) The frequency rate calculation does not include accidents at overseas group companies that are determined to be at the level of accidents accompanied by injuries without lost work days in Japan based on standards established by the Company. Society Capital Investment, etc. Dividends per Share Percentage of Women in Management Positions (16 Oji Group companies) Number of Domestic and Overseas Employees ¥62.1 billion Change from FY2017 â 10.4% ¥12.0 Change from FY2017 +¥2.0 3.1% Change from FY2017 +0.2 pt. 36,309 Change from FY2017 +165 Of which, overseas +107 Number of women Percentage of Capital Investment, etc. (¥bil.) Depreciation expense (¥bil.) Dividends per share (yen) in management positions female managers Domestic Overseas Percentage of overseas employees 100 14 100 3.0 40,000 60 3.1 35,392 36,144 36,309 2.5 2.9 33,668 33,605 80.1 78.6 80 74.9 12.0 80 2.5 70.8 69.3 71.9 69.5 12 72 16,665 16,760 18,344 19,062 19,169 55 Financial 66 30,000 63.7 62.1 2.0 60 57.4 60 1.8 56 2.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 49.4 49.9 52.8 52.7 Information 10 46 20,000 51.8 50 42 40 40 1.5 8 10,000 17,003 16,845 17,048 17,082 17,140 45 20 20 1.0 0 0 0 0.5 0 40 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 28 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 29 Household and Industrial Materials Businesses Changes in Net Sales and Operating Profit Net Sales Composition Ratios Net Sales Corporate Profile In FY2018, the Household and Industrial Materials Businesses ¥681.2 billion had net sales of 681.2 billion yen (up 29.9 billion yen from 37.2% What the Oji Group The Household and Industrial Materials Businesses FY2017) and operating profit of 22.4 billion yen (up 17.0 Operating Profit billion yen from FY2017). The Industrial Materials Businesses aim to be a “lifestyle and social support enterprise” reported that costs increased as a result of higher raw ¥22.4 Aims For billion that contributes to the prosperity of society as materials and fuel prices and other factors, but profit increased a whole into the future by sustainably providing year-on-year due to product price revisions and progress in Net Sales (¥bil.) Operating Profit (¥bil.) cost reductions. The Household and Consumer Products materials and technologies that are closely tied to Business reported higher net sales as a result of an overall 681.2 people’s day-to-day lives. 620.3 651.3 Management increase in household paper sales. 603.8 Strategy 22.4 18.8 18.8 Ryoji Watari 5.4 President, Industrial Materials COMPANY 2015 2016 2017 2018 Financial Highlights and President, Household and Consumer Products COMPANY (FY) Industrial Materials Business Non-financial Highlights Business Overview Expansion of Overseas Businesses Business Strategy The Industrial Materials COMPANY conducts business at 44 start operating in 2020. Going forward, business expansion [Industrial Materials Business] sites in nine countries in Southeast Asia, India, and Oceania. will continue by carefully examining risks and returns in each The Industrial Materials Business has production and sales Until now, business has focused on establishment and region and market and making effective use both of new structures that integrate materials and processing from base paper expanding processing sites to respond to growing packaging business site establishment and M&A. manufacturing to product processing and packaging design for the demand however, but a new containerboard manufacturing packaging materials that are essential to industry such as corrugated facility is being established in Malaysia with a target of Governance containers, folding cartons, and paper bags and responds in a timely commencing operations in 2021, and efforts are being made manner to customer needs. overseas to develop business further by integrating materials and processing. A decision was also made to enter business in Indonesia, a previously untapped market, by means of a joint venture, and Rendering of the completed containerboard manufacturing preparations are underway for a corrugated container plant to facility in Malaysia (structures with blue roofs) Main products of the Industrial Materials COMPANY Environment Business Strategies (1) Main Overseas Sites Cambodia [Vietnam] Corrugated containers: 2* Vietnam New corrugated container plant [India] Corrugated containers & Corrugated in Hanoi (2019–) New corrugated container plant Plastic bags: 1 containers: 5 Responding to growing export and Increase the Earnings Capacity of in Gujarat (2020–) Responding to growing export and Myanmar Corrugated Folding cartons: 1 Paper bags: 2 domestic demand Domestic Business domestic demand containers: 1 Flexible packaging: 1 New Zealand India Demand for corrugated containers, one of the main business lines of Corrugated containers: 4* Society the Industrial Materials COMPANY, is expanding nationwide as a result Thailand of e-commerce and other factors, and the growth in demand in the Corrugated containers: 1 Corrugated containers & Kanto region in particular is prominent because of the concentration [Cambodia] Folding cartons: 2 Containerboard: 2 New corrugated container plant Fiberboard: 1 of population in the Tokyo metropolitan area. in Phnom Penh (2020–) Corrugated containers: 3 To meet this demand, the Industrial Materials COMPANY decided Responding to growing export and Paper bags: 1 domestic demand Malaysia to construct a new corrugated container plant at a Group logistics Containerboard: 2 Australia center in the bay area of Funabashi City in Chiba Prefecture. Corrugated containers: 8 Financial Plastic bags: 1 Operations are scheduled to start in stages in April 2020. In addition, Indonesia base paper supply capacity will be increased by converting Oji Paper Information [Malaysia] Rendering of the completed new Funabashi corrugated container plant Capacity enhancement of containerboard (2021–) Corrugated newsprint manufacturing facilities into containerboard and kraft paper · Installing the third line at GSPP (annual production will containers: 1* manufacturing facilities. increase from 300,000 tons to 750,000 tons) · Upgrading energy and other infrastructure facilities to [Indonesia] Corrugated containers: 4 To further reinforce earnings bases through the integration of improve cost competitiveness New corrugated container plant in Bekasi (2020–) Paper cups: 1 materials and processing, investments will be made for the full Responding to increased domestic demand from Japanese-affiliated companies utilization of Group management assets. * Including sites under construction 30 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 31 Business Strategies (2) Business Strategies (1) Corporate Profile Promotion of Innovation Profitability Improvement of As a result of the growing trend to shift away from plastics, a paper and plastic such as shopping bags and is working in Domestic Business What the Oji Group movement to replace various plastic products with paper can collaboration with the Innovation Promotion Division to develop In addition to boosting sales of nepia Genki! baby diapers, be seen around the world. products with new functions using paper and other materials concentrated efforts are put forward to penetrate the market Aims For The Industrial Materials COMPANY is making efforts to for products that previously were available only in plastic to with high-quality, high-price range nepia Whito products. By capture the demand to switch to products made from both capture this new demand. reinforcing collaboration with retailers such as drugstores and baby goods stores, the fine quality and benefits of these ESG and SDG Topics products are conveyed to parents resulting in an upwards shift in profitability of the disposable baby diaper market. Promoting Recycling—Dissolution treatment Aid Distribution Agreement under Disaster Management of confidential documents Cases (Oji Container & Morishigyo Group) The Whito high-quality, high-price range nepia brand Strategy Oji Materia Edogawa Mill is equipped with a high-security “Aid Distribution Agreement under Disaster Cases” dissolution treatment facility, where confidential documents refers to collaboration between our corrugated container Expansion of Overseas Businesses packed in sealed corrugated carton boxes are recycled into plants located throughout Japan with neighboring local boxboard, entirely remaining unopened. This system, which governments, so that we are able to contribute to making In order to strengthen the business foundation, the Southeast Financial Highlights and takes the environment into consideration while maintaining people feel safe and at ease Asia business is being expanded, where consumption of information security, contributes to the creation of a at evacuation sites when disposable baby diapers is expected to grow. This besides, sustainable society. disaster strikes. In times of production capacity was increased and costs were reduced Non-financial Highlights disasters we promptly deliver through reorganization of production structures at two sites corrugated container products in Malaysia, and a production facility is being constructed such as portable beds, sheets, in Indonesia, which has the largest population in the region. partitions, and portable toilets Active business expansion through investment including M&A Business Strategy to the public. is also under consideration. As high-quality “made in Japan” products, export of Genki! brand and Whito brand products has also been growing in Genki! products sold in Malaysia China and Southeast Asia. Household and Consumer Products Business Main Overseas Sites Governance Business Overview Major Business Sites China China [Household and Consumer Products Business] e xports to Malaysia ● Oji Paper Nepia (Suzhou) Expand In the household paper and disposable diaper business fields, Oji Nepia integrates ● People&Grit Location: Suzhou City, China sales, marketing, and production in the pursuit of three types of quality: quality of life Location: Selangor, Malaysia Established: 2002 as in the seeking of good texture, comfort, and functionality; environmental quality Share acquisition: January 2015 Environment ● Oji Asia Household Product as in forest conservation such as the adoption of FSCTM certified paper*; and social Expand sales to Southeast Asia, India, and the Middle East Location: Selangor, Malaysia quality such as taking CSR initiatives that contribute to society and that are in line with Operation commencement: April 2016 customers’ hopes. FSCTMC018118 Indonesia * FSCTM is the world’s most widely recognized forest certification program. Examinations are performed on issues such ● PT Oji Indo Makmur Perkasa (Manufacturing Joint Venture) as whether forests and lumber are properly managed and whether new trees are planted to replace trees cut in order to ● PT Indo Oji Sukses Pratama (Sales Joint Venture) protect precious nature. Selecting products with the FSCTM certification mark is a sign of support for forest conservation Location: Jakarta, Indonesia activities worldwide, and is conducive to sustainable forests in the future. Establishment: January 2015 ● Main Products Society Financial Sales in the Indonesian market Information nepia nepia nepia nepia Premium Soft Toilet Rolls Premium Soft Tissues Hana Celeb Three Pack Genki! Pants 32 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 33 Business Strategies (2) ESG and SDG Topics (2) Corporate Profile Promotion of Innovation nepia 1,000 Toilets Program In today’s world, approximately 800 children lose their lives each Three-hour-use pants diaper is unprecedentedly developed What the Oji Group day due to diarrhea and dehydration in environments that lack for the baby diaper market and added to the superior nepia potable water and proper sanitary systems. In the Democratic Whito brand lineup to further enhance product quality and Aims For Republic of Timor-Leste, (hereinafter, East Timor), where open respond to the requests of parents. The Household and defecation remains commonplace, there are many such children. Consumer Products COMPANY will continue to propose The mortality rate for children under the age of five years is 50 products that reform the competitive axis of the market by per 1,000 live births, and diarrhea caused by contaminated water instilling the differentiation between 3-hour-use and 12-hourand lack of sanitary systems is one of the leading causes. use with a focus on their different usage conditions. The Management The nepia 1,000 Toilets Program is a program intended to Photo by Kisei Kobayashi company will continue its efforts in advancing the proprietary install toilets and end open defecation in East Timor. Since Strategy quilting technology adopted in Whito products to enhance 3-hour use pants diapers added to the product lineup 2008, a portion of Oji Nepia’s sales have been contributed performance even further. to a UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) program for improving sanitation in East Timor. The aim is to eliminate open defecation, a cause of disease, by installing toilets through community efforts and conducting educational Financial Highlights and programs, mainly in agricultural villages. Oji Nepia will continue to provide support to protect the lives and health ESG and SDG Topics (1) Non-financial Highlights of East Timorese children and their families. Number of Toilets Installed Issues in East Timor nepia Quality Mortality Rate for Children Under the Age of Percentage of people without access to toilets Approx. 19,000 Pursuing “nepia Quality,” which comprises high living, * Cumulative total from 2008 to 2019 50 5 Years (2016) (2015) (including those under construction) Total amount of contributions Business Strategy environmental, and social quality, Oji Nepia engages in various activities in order to be the No. 1 in each of these three aspects. This is especially evident in “environmental quality,” children 56% More than ¥180 million Mortality Rate for Children Under the Age of 5 Years 1,000 A toilet installed with the support of the project Photo by Kisei Kobayashi Have no access 2008 2016 where we have adopted the FSCTM certified paper for our major products since 2011, way ahead of our industry peers. children 69 children 50 children Source: Child Mortality Estimates Info 2017, UNICEF, “State of the World’s Children 2017” Source: UNICEF, “State of the World’s Children 2017” Furthermore, we established a tie-up with WWF Japan in 2017 and created a logo which emphasizes forest FSCTMC018118 Governance conservation, while encouraging the use of FSCTM certified WWFはFSCTM認証を応援しています。 paper as our focus. ネピアの紙は、森を守る紙FSCTM認証紙※です。『 FSCTM認証紙のネピ アを選ぶことは世界の森を守ることです』 と消費者に呼びかけています。 Poo Class by Oji Nepia ※一部商品を除きます。 “As a company that delivers toilet rolls, we want to contribute to society via the topic of poo.” With this thought in mind, Oji Nepia launched a unique learning program called the Poo Adult Disposable Diapers Class jointly with the Japan Toilet Labo. in 2007. Reducing the work burdens of caregivers has become a sales of incontinence pads with the ability to allow watery Environment Excretion is equally important as ingestion in maintaining major issue because of a shortage of workers at care sites, stool to pass through and be absorbed without spreading our lives. There are numerous opportunities for children and changing diapers is one such burden. Because of this, along the surface of the diaper. Going forward, the to learn about diet and health, as indicated by the term the market for urine pads with high absorption volumes that Household and Consumer Products COMPANY will continue “dietary education,” but there are few opportunities to learn can reduce the frequency of changing is growing year by to pursue comfort for both caregivers and care recipients about excretion and health. For this reason, the Poo Class year. This trend is expected to continue into the future. and contribute to human dignity, health, and longevity by was created to provide children with opportunities to learn Nepia Tender, a commercial brand, is developed by the enhancing the quality of care. about excretion and think about their health. Household and Consumer Products COMPANY to ease Society To date (as of 2018), a total of 19,767 children have Children learn about their bodies through poo. changing difficulties and reduce and shorten the changing attended the Poo Class. Through 2018, the class has procedures for caregivers. Meanwhile, the absorption been conducted at a total of 48 elementary schools in the (Persons) 18,830 19,767 20000 capability provides comfort and long periods of peace of Kanto region as well as Fukushima, Iwate, Fukui, and Aichi 17,211 18,321 mind for diaper users. Prefectures. 15000 17,488 15,834 In recent years, research has focused on absorbing Through Poo class, children learn about the importance 12,186 not just urine, but watery stool as well. Watery stool can of excretion in a fun way. With an aim to promote healthy 10000 10,058 cause skin problems for diaper users and, in the case of Financial lifestyle to children, the Poo Class program will continue to 7,091 leakage, can lead to substantial burdens on caregivers. For expand in the future. 5000 4,883 these reasons, it is included among the most troublesome Information 484 1,102 0 issues relating to diaper changing. From October 2019, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) Large urine pads with the ability to absorb watery stool fulfill the the Household and Consumer Products COMPANY began need of nursing care facilities to reduce diaper changing burdens Number of Poo Class Participants 34 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 35 Functional Materials Business Changes in Net Sales and Operating Profit Net Sales Composition Ratios Net Sales Corporate Profile In FY2018, the Functional Materials Business had net sales ¥224.1 billion of 224.1 billion yen (up 3.3 billion yen from FY2017) and 12.3% What the Oji Group The Functional Materials Business will lead the Oji operating profit of 18.4 billion yen (down 0.2 billion yen from Operating Profit Group’s transition to an “Innovative Value-Creating FY2017). ¥18.4 Aims For billion With regard to net sales, effects from the suspension of Company” by enhancing our comprehensive mill operations caused by the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi proposal making capabilities to react promptly and Earthquake resulted in lower sales volume, but effects from Net sales (¥bil.) Operating profit (¥bil.) appropriately to various customer needs, and further price revisions concerning specialty papers for export sales and higher sales volume of thermal paper, particularly in developing high value-added products targeted at 224.1 Management 211.0 217.6 220.8 emerging countries in Southeast Asia and South America, global markets. pushed net sales higher. Cost reduction efforts were implemented, but effects from higher prices for raw materials 17.5 18.6 18.4 Strategy and fuel resulted in lower operating profit. 11.9 Shoji Fujiwara 2015 2016 2017 2018 Financial Highlights and President, Functional Materials COMPANY (FY) Non-financial Highlights Business Overview Business Strategies [Specialty Papers Business] [Adhesive Products Business] Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business Business Strategy The specialty Papers Business has a lineup of products with Using proprietary adhesive force control technology, the Through the integration of Oji Group core technologies developed in the past such as papermaking, converting (functional and advanced special functions such as electrical material paper Adhesive Products Business handles products such as familiar adhesive coatings), and film forming with new materials, the Functional Materials Business will rapidly develop and supply highincluding insulation materials, dry pulp nonwoven fabric with items like food and beverage labels, courier delivery labels, function and high Value-added products. Air laid technology that forms sheets from various powders, fibers, and so on contributes excellent bulk and liquid retention properties, and glass paper adhesive tape for packaging, and wound dressings as well to the reduction of waste through the recycling of manufacturing process waste materials generated by fiber manufacturers into raw with outstanding dimensional stability and heat resistance. as to less familiar, special applications like aluminum tape for materials and manufacturing new air laid nonwoven fabrics. construction material and forgery prevention tape. In addition, we maximize profit, by expanding new business fields high value-added products in collaboration with the Innovation Promotion Division, by achieving business collaboration effects with Mitsubishi Paper Mills, and by reorganizing Governance production structures. Environment Glass paper (Oji F-Tex) PP Clean stickers (Oji Tac) [Imaging Media Business] [Film Business] The Oji Group boasts a leading share of the world’s market for Films for capacitors are used in the power supply units of thermal recording media. Using diverse coating technologies hybrid and full electric vehicles, and the Oji Group offers films such as thermal and inkjet technologies, the Imaging Media of various thicknesses including the world’s thinnest. The Film Business is developing products that meet diverse needs in Business also offers optical adhesive double-coated films and Society household, industrial, logistics, and medical applications. hard-coated films that are seeing rapid growth due to their use The 6FM at the Oji F-Tex Shiga Mill Oji Kinocloth Fuji Factory Machine No. 2 (Product name: Kinocloth) in smartphones and other precision devices. Financial Information Various types of thermal papers (Oji Imaging Media) Film used in capacitors (Oji F-Tex) 36 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 37 Corporate Profile Expansion of Overseas Promotion of Innovation Businesses Oji F-Tex developed heat resistant glass paper by adding heat in various applications. In addition to the characteristics of In conjunction with the economic development of resistance properties to existing glass paper. Glass paper is existing glass paper, the newly developed heat resistant emerging countries and regions such as Southeast made primarily from glass fiber and formed into sheets that glass paper maintains strength even under high-temperature What the Oji Group Asia, India, and South America, demand for maintain excellent properties derived from glass fiber such as environments and hardly emits any smoke at all even when existing products including thermal paper and electrical insulation, dimensional stability, high elasticity, heat near fire. Moreover, individual fireproofing treatment (sintering) resistance, corrosion resistance, and durability and can be of glass paper is not needed. Aims For adhesive paper is expanding steadily. The Functional Materials COMPANY is processed in various ways. Glass paper is a product that is Adding new functions to glass paper and expanding establishing integrated production structures expected to have reliable effects and enhance functionality possible applications is expected to lead to use in new fields. and expanding business in Southeast Asia from Strength under High-Temperature Environment upstream (release paper production, thermal (According to Oji Investigations) General product Newly-developed product Management sensitive coatings) to midstream (adhesive Overall view of the Oji Paper (Thailand) and Oji Label (Thailand) Plant converting) and downstream (printing). Plans call for the production capacity of Oji Papéis Especiais Strength retention rate Strategy to be increased and sales boosted in response (relative percentage) Newly-developed product to robust demand for thermal paper in Brazil. General product In Myanmar, production and sales of flexible packaging products such as films for consumer Financial Highlights and Temperature (°C) goods makers was launched in 2017, and efforts Smoke test with heating from alcohol lamp are being made to develop new markets. ESG and SDG Topics Non-financial Highlights Measures to Address the Issue of Plastic Business Strategy The PC3 at Oji Papéis Especiais in the Ocean The Issue of Plastic in the Ocean is becoming increasingly Main Overseas Sites serious, leading to movements to eliminate plastics around the world and rising demand for paper products with minimal environmental impact as alternatives to plastic containers and Asia Europe straws. A shift from plastic to paper straws and other such changes can be seen in leading restaurant chains. Governance Germany Oji F-Tex is leveraging the technologies used to manufacture China Kanzan Spezialpapiere Sunshine Oji (Shouguang) Specialty Paper [KANZAN] various types of base paper for food applications to develop straw base paper that has the same water resistance as existing ■ Manufacturing/sales of ■ Manufacturing/sales of Samples of cup base paper use decorative base paper thermal paper, etc. plastic straws and maintains spiral processability. Supply of prototypes has started. Oji Kinocloth (Shanghai) Oji F-Tex is also developing composite materials (resin ■ Converting/sales of dry pulp non-woven fabric pellets) that contain biodegradable plastics made from pulp and Environment ■ Converting/sales of thermal paper, etc. polylactic acid. In addition to biodegradability, improvements Myanmar in physical properties such as improved rigidity after molding Oji Myanmar Packaging [OMPC] North America and heat resistance are expected to expand application to food USA ■ Manufacturing/sales of Kanzaki Specialty Papers [KSP] containers and other products that can replace plastics. flexible packaging products, etc. ■ Manufacturing/sales of Thailand thermal paper, etc. Oji Paper (Thailand) [OPT] Society Molding examples (spoons and chopsticks) ■ Manufacturing/sales of thermal paper and carbonless paper Oji Label (Thailand) [OLT] ■ Manufacturing/sales of adhesive paper/film and release paper Malaysia South America Tele-Paper Malaysia [TP] Brazil Oji Papéis Especiais [OPE] Financial ■ Printing/converting of thermal paper, etc. ■ Manufacturing/sales of thermal paper, Information carbonless paper, etc. Hyper-Region Labels [HRL] ■ Printing/converting of label, etc. 38 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 39 Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Changes in Net Sales and Operating Profit Net Sales Composition Ratios Net Sales Corporate Profile In FY2018, the Forest Resources and Environment Marketing ¥326.5 billion Business had net sales of 326.5 billion yen (up 28.0 billion yen 17.9% What the Oji Group The Forest Resources and Environment Marketing from FY2017), and operating profit of 64.6 billion yen (up 25.6 Operating Profit Business supports the Group’s business through the ¥64.6 billion yen). Thus, both sales and profit increased significantly, Aims For due mainly to effects from higher pulp prices. billion stable supply of raw materials and other materials In the pulp business, sales volumes were solid both in Japan and comprehensively leverages Group assets and overseas. In the lumber business too, sales volume was Net sales (¥bil.) Operating profit (¥bil.) 326.5 including renewable resources of the likes of forests brisk in Japan and overseas, particularly to China, and sales 298.5 64.6 270.3 were up from the previous fiscal year. In the energy business, 267.7 and water as well as facilities, real estate, and Management sales were solid with electric power sales remaining at the technologies to reinforce business. same level as the previous year. Strategy 39.0 31.5 19.4 Fumio Shindo President, Forest Resources and Environment Marketing COMPANY 2015 2016 2017 2018 Financial Highlights and (FY) Business Overview Non-financial Highlights [Pulp Business] [Lumber Processing Business] Business Strategies Market pulp supply capacity is 2.5 million tons per year, and In the lumber business, the Forest Resources and Environment the Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Marketing Business stockpiles and sells lumber products and Expansion of Overseas Businesses Overall view of the CENIBRA Mill has a diverse lineup of pulp grades including hardwood pulp, processed lumber products, primarily in Asia and Oceania, and Business Strategy In the pulp business, the Forest Resources and Environment (Belo Oriente, softwood pulp, and dissolving pulp. The broad product lineup is taking measures to expand production capacity. Efforts to Minas Gerais, Brazil) Marketing Business continues to implement strategic and the Group’s sales channels are used to boost sales expand sales at sales profit measures at key business sites to reinforce business in Asia and other growth regions. Moving forward, we will bases established in foundations that are resilient to fluctuations in pulp markets. continue to carry out strategic financial measures to secure our China and Southeast Oji Group know-how and operational management methods competitiveness. Asia are ongoing. have been introduced and used in New Zealand to stabilize operations and raise efficiency. In Brazil, profit measures are Governance implemented on a continuous basis by updating production Forest plantation facilities and through other means. at CENIBRA Photo by In Japan, the Forest Resources and Environment Marketing João Rabelo Pan Pac lumber Business is expanding business and started production of high value added products: medical product materials and filter [Forest Plantation Business] materials in addition to existing products for rayon applications. The Group has engaged in forest management for many years The Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Environment Dissolving pulp and has 190,000 hectares forests in Japan and 250,000 conducts forest plantation operations in nine locations in six hectares of forest plantations overseas. The purposes of overseas countries and is working to continuously secure [Energy Business] forests are, in addition to existing uses for paper manufacturing sustainable resources. The electric power generation business has strengthened raw materials, and use for processed products including by expanding and fortifying electricity generation facilities lumber and plywood as well as diverse resources namely, Main Overseas Sites Pulp Manufacturing Sites and entering the electricity retailing business. With regard to biomass electric power generation, the Energy Business biomass fuel, to develop a comprehensive forestry industry (Pulp Production Sites) brought two new boilers online in FY2015 and, in March that generates maximum value from forest resources. 340,000 Mills in Japan 160,000 Society tons 2016, established a joint venture biomass power generation Integrated Report p. 68 tons Jiangsu Oji Paper 1,200,000 company together with Mitsubishi Paper Mills, which started Forest Recycling: Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Overseas Forest operation in 2019. Production capacity of market pulp Plantations As for hydroelectric 2,500,000 tons power plants, the [Raw Materials and Fuels & Materials Procurement tons energy business Business] CENIBRA continues to update As prices for raw materials, fuels, and materials increase existing facilities. in conjunction with economic development of emerging Types of pulp 600,000 Financial Additionally, a countries, centralized management procurement and 200,000 Information Hardwood pulp Oji Fibre tons Solutions joint electricity advantageous procurement are conducted for the group as Softwood pulp tons Dissolving pulp retailing business a whole. CSR procurement is conducted while taking into Pulp for cement Pan Pac Biomass power plant (Oji Green Energy Nichinan/Nichinan City, was launched with consideration the environment and society in accordance with BCTMP Miyazaki Prefecture) ITOCHU ENEX. the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy. 40 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 41 Corporate Profile Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business Development of New Business and New Products Electric Power Generation Business: Expansion of the renewable energy business with a focus on Hakodate-Hokuto Oji Forest & Products was established in Hokuto City in establishing new biomass power plants the southern region of Hokkaido in 2018 to produce woodchips for biomass The Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business is pursuing further expansion power generation and as a raw material for paper manufacturing. The plant What the Oji Group of the energy business, and a joint venture biomass power generation facility established was completed and production commenced in 2019. with Mitsubishi Paper Mills commenced operation in 2019. Additionally, a decision was Abundant fir, larch, and cedar resources are found in the southern region, but their use has not progressed. To make effective use of these unused Aims For made to construct a biomass power generation facility in Tokushima Prefecture as a joint venture with ITOCHU ENEX, and preparations are underway for the start of operations forest resources, the new company will use logs harvested from forests in in 2022. To reinforce the biomass fuel business in conjunction with expansion of the the region to produce woodchips using stationary wood chippers at the energy business, a new fuel woodchip production company was established in Hokkaido mill in Hokuto City. Forest debris including materials remaining after logging in November 2018 to expand production of fuel woodchips by making use of unused One of the Group’s strengths is its ability to (remaining branches, treetops, etc.) will also be used. Management domestic forest resources. Overseas, efforts to increase procurement of palm kernel shells procure PKS through the networks developed Annual production targets are 30,000 GMT of woodchips for biomass fuel for procuring raw materials for paper and (PKS) for use as fuel continue in Indonesia and Malaysia. through the development of overseas business. use and 6,000 GMT of woodchips for paper manufacturing materials (GMT Strategy Fir PKS is used in the Group’s biomass energy (green metric ton) is the tonnage with Larch business and is sold externally. Cedar moisture content of approximately Softwood Planted Tree Stocks 50 percent). The materials will be supplied to the MPM Oji Eco-Energy biomass electric power generation Softwood Planted Tree Stocks in Donan Financial Highlights and facility (in Hachinohe City, Aomori MPM Oji Eco-Energy Oji Green Energy Tokushima Other Prefecture) and the Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill (in Tomakomai City, Non-financial Highlights Operation commenced in 2019 Operation to commence in 2022 Undertakings that seek to (on the site of Mitsubishi Paper (On the site of the Oji Paper contribute to the development of Hokkaido), respectively. Mills Hachinohe Mill) Tomioka Mill) a low-carbon society including Cedar trees in a forest owned by Hokkaido Prefecture the fuel procurement business Generating capacity: 75,000 kW Generating capacity: 75,000 kW for biomass power generation, hydroelectric power business, Joint venture with Mitsubishi Joint venture with ITOCHU ENEX and other businesses ESG and SDG Topics Business Strategy Paper Mills MPM Oji Eco-Energy’s biomass electric power Eco-and Society-Friendly CSR Procurement Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy (Overview) generation facility In order to fulfill its social responsibilities when procuring raw materials, the Oji Group conducts CSR (Corporate Social 1 Ensure stable supply Responsibility) procurement that takes environmental and social Oji Group’s Power Generation Sites factors into consideration in cooperation with business partners 1. Offer competitive prices 2. Ensure quality and delivery throughout its supply chain. The Oji Group’s CSR procurement Governance 2 Comply with laws and social standards, and engage in fair trade Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill, activities are based on such principles as the United Nations Global 1. Comply with relevant laws and international conventions Chitose No. 1 Hydroelectric Compact, the Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct, and the Oji 2. M  aintain sincere and healthy relations with business Power Plant Group Environmental Charter. By implementing CSR procurement, partners Oji Green Energy Shiranuka we seek to contribute to a truly enriched and sustainable society. 3 Consider the environment (Solar power) The Oji Group shares the Oji Group Procurement Policy with all its 1. Reinforce environment management systems Oji Green Energy Ebetsu divisions involved in procurement, not only requesting new suppliers 2. Reduce waste and effectively use resource for their understanding before starting transactions, but also informing 3. Address climate change Environment Oji Green Energy Shiranuka (reduce greenhouse gas emissions mainly through (Solar power) all existing suppliers through the procurement divisions of the revised energy conservation, and promote carbon dioxide Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill, Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill, content at the time of revision. In February 2019, we notified about absorption as well as carbon fixation mainly through Chitose No. 1 Hydroelectric Chitose No. 1 Hydroelectric forest conservation) Power Plant (Inside) Power Plant MPM Oji Eco-Energy 1,200 suppliers of wood raw materials, materials, wastepaper, and 4. Protect biodiversity purchased pulp about the details of the revision, and asked them to 5. Reduce environmental impact 6. Manage chemical substances comply with CSR procurement again. In addition, our procurement Biomass power plant (for power retailing) 7. Manage water resources Thermal-fired power plant (for pulp and paper manufacturing) personnel and suppliers promote good communication to expand Hydroelectric power plant CSR procurement that takes into consideration the environment and 4 Demonstrate social concern Society Solar electric power plant society throughout our supply chain. 1. P  rotect human rights (prohibit child labor, forced labor, discrimination, and harassment) The procurement of wood raw materials is covered by 2. P  rotect labor rights (maintain good labor relations, Oji Green Energy Ebetsu the Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines, which are avoid long working hours, ensure payment of aboveminimum wage, and respect freedom of association subordinate to this procurement policy because more aspects, as well as right to collective bargaining) such as illegal logging and biodiversity, need to be checked 3. Ensure worksite safety and health Oji Green Energy Tokushima 4. Contribute to society and the local community Scheduled to commence than for other procured materials. The Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy and the Wood Raw Material Procurement 5 Financial operation in 2022 Communicate with society Guidelines have been translated into English for suppliers all over 1. B  uild relations of trust with stakeholders through Information Oji Green Energy Nichinan the world. communication 2. Respect the culture and customs of other countries 3. Appropriately disclose and protect information Integrated Report p. 76 Oji Green Energy Nichinan Wood Raw Material Procurement Revised: December, 2018 Guidelines 42 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 43 Printing and Communications Media Business Changes in Net Sales and Operating Profit Net Sales Composition Ratios Net Sales Corporate Profile In FY2018, the Printing and Communications Media Business ¥302.9 billion reported net sales of 302.9 billion yen (down 2.5 billion yen 16.6% What the Oji Group Operating Profit The Printing and Communications Media Business from FY2017) and an operating loss of 4.8 billion yen (down will build optimal production structures to reinforce 3.6 billion yen from FY2017). Net sales decreased owing to a ( ¥4.8 ) billion Aims For slight decline in demand and a slump in both newsprint and domestic business foundations while providing printing/communication paper markets. Operating losses had globally-competitive products to raise earnings increased despite progress made in cost cutting and price Net sales (¥bil.) Operating profit (¥bil.) 309.4 305.4 302.9 capacity even further. correction because of the effects of higher prices for raw 296.1 materials and fuel. Management 5.5 Strategy 2.3 (1.2) (4.8) Ryuichi Kisaka 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Financial Highlights and President, Printing and Communications Media COMPANY Non-financial Highlights Business Overview Business Strategies (2) [Newsprint Business] Expansion of Overseas Business Promotion of Innovation Business Strategy Newsprint must have the strength to withstand high-speed rotary press printing and printability for a As a result of strong market conditions for both paper and In the Japanese markets for newsprint and printing paper, a beautiful finish in color printing. The Oji Group holds approximately 30% share of the Japanese market pulp, Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd. achieved substantially shift has been made over the past several years from gravure for newsprint and makes ongoing efforts to enhance quality in response to the needs of newspaper higher sales and profit in 2018. The company will continue printing suitable for large-lot printing to general offset printing companies throughout the country. to make efforts to strengthen sales capabilities and reduce in conjunction with declines in the numbers of copies of costs, but due to the effects of advances in information and newspapers, books, and magazines issued, and it is expected [Printing and Publication Paper Business] communications technologies, the business environment that the introduction of inkjet printing suitable for extremely Publication paper used in books and magazines and printing paper used in catalogs and leaflets is not grounds for optimism in the future. Accordingly, the small lots will also be explored. To flexibly respond to these Governance requires varied levels of quality according to the planning and particulars of the final product and the company has decided to invest in household paper base emerging needs. We are developing papers with unique characteristics of the printing equipment. paper production facilities as a growth field in order to secure characteristics such as offset printing paper that has strong We continuously develop products to meet the needs of the times and supply the high-quality new sources of profit. gloss approaching that of gravure printing and paper suitable products demanded by customers. for inkjet printing. [Communications Paper Business] In addition to conventional forms and Copier paper (PPC), we are developing various new products Environment Diagram of the completed such as highly functional printing paper for print on-demand (POD) printing. These products are used household paper base paper for diverse tasks in a wide range of industries as information processing system input media. machine ESG and SDG Topics Business Strategies (1) Oji Charitable Education Fund Hydroelectric Power Business Society Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd., (Nantong City, China) The Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake that occurred engages in manufacturing and sales of pulp, printing in September 2018 caused an approximately 11Profitability Improvement of Domestic Business paper, publication paper, and other products. Oji Holdings hour blackout throughout Hokkaido, but power to the We are taking various measures including concentration <Overview of Equipment Shutdown and Retrofitting> has established the Oji Charitable Education Fund jointly Shikotsuko hot spring resort Onsen area was restored after of production facilities through shutdown and transfer of · Retrofitting of the #N-5 machine at the Tomakomai Mill with the Nantongshi Charity Federation and Nantongshi only one and a half hours. operations in order to improve (FY2021) Development Zone Charity Federation to help improve the Hydroelectric power is supplied to Shikotsuko hot profitability in domestic Modification from newsprint manufacturing equipment to local educational environment. spring resort (Onsen) from the Chitose No. 1 and No. 4 Financial business and increase containerboard and kraft paper manufacturing equipment Hydroelectric Power Plants, international competitiveness, · Shutdown of the Tomioka Mill #9 machine and #9 coater which are owned and thereby eliminating urgent (end of FY2019) managed by the Tomakomai Information issues. <Closer Business Partnership with Mitsubishi Paper Mills> Mill. From this earthquake, · Cost cutting by eliminating mixed transportation hydroelectric power is being Annual scholarship The #N-5 machine at the Oji Paper · Sharing operating technologies granting ceremony re-examined. Tomakomai Mill · Integration of brands through complementation of products 44 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 45 Corporate Profile Main Businesses of Corporate Management Group and Shared Service Companies What the Oji Group Kyokuyo and Ginpo Pack Oji Real Estate Aims For Kyokuyo Co., Ltd. is a specialized trading company that performs business functions for the Oji Group, buying and selling products Oji Real Estate Co., Ltd. is as a general developer active nationwide in the development and sale of condominiums and single-family of Oji Group and other companies. These products include pulp and paper, synthetic resin materials and products, packaging homes, lease and management of office buildings, condominiums, and commercial facilities, and the renovation business. It is a materials, chemicals, and machinery. With the change of its name in January 2018, Kyokuyo has been expanding its business comprehensive real estate firm with a construction division that conducts design, supervision, and consultation in a wide range of activities to a more diverse range of fields to respond to customer needs in the most suitable and optimal ways. areas including factories and plants as well as public and private facilities. Ginpo Pack Co., Ltd, a subsidiary of Kyokuyo that conducts planning, manufacture, and sales of plastic containers for food Management packing with focus on Pulfine, heat-resistant polypropylene foam containers. Strategy Financial Highlights and Non-financial Highlights Oji Homes Aoyama (located in Minamiaoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo) is a vintage condominium that provides support for fulfilling lifestyles through a highly-detailed concierge service Hotel New Oji Business Strategy Plastic cups made from used PET bottles (CO2 reduction) Pulfine, highly-expanded polypropylene containers feature excellent heat resistance and heat retention properties Hotel New Oji, engages in the hotel and flight catering businesses. In addition to the Grand Hotel New Oji, which marked 20 ESG and SDG Topics years of business in May 2019, a 16-story city hotel located in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido, the company prepares inflight meals Eco-mark for domestic and overseas flights in the catering building at the New Chitose Airport and loads the meals onto aircraft using large, specialized vehicles. Eco-friendly Products (Kyokuyo) This new type of foldable plastic tray is made from eco-mark Governance certified recycled materials. It reduces waste in response to calls from consumers for trays that are not cumbersome and have easilydiscardable shapes. The trays have uneven grooves and can be folded along the grooves into a compact form. They are used for food delivery, but are suitable not only for food but can also be used to transport miscellaneous items, stationery goods, cosmetics, and so on. A foldable tray made from eco-mark certified recycled Environment Rooftop crown lighting was used to mark 20 years of business by the Grand Hotel A food loader supplies meals to an aircraft materials (waste reduction) New Oji Oji Engineering Oji Logistics Society Oji Engineering, a company that supports Oji Group’s technology, leverages its Oji Logistics offers a variety of services, mainly to Oji Group technologies accumulated through paper manufacturing to offer one-stop engineering companies to transport paper products to be shipped services ranging from facility design to operations. The company actively spearheads out of mills and consumption area warehouses. These entries into greenfields, such as proposals for practical water treatment and other services include warehousing, land transportation, marine systems in its water environment business and fuel handling facilities in its biomass transportation, port logistics, international logistics, etc. It power generation business. offers total logistics service solutions, along with incorporating eco-friendliness into its operations such as implementing a Financial Information modal shift toward railroads and ships rather than tracks. Waste water treatment system A roll-on roll-off (RORO) ship that can transport vehicles carrying goods (placed in service in June 2019) 46 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 47 Corporate Profile Corporate Officers Directors What the Oji Group Aims For Susumu Yajima Masatoshi Kaku Ryoji Watari Director, Chairman of the Board Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Management President Executive Vice President (Group CEO) President, Industrial Materials Strategy COMPANY President, Household & Consumer Products COMPANY Financial Highlights and Non-financial Highlights Yoshiaki Takeda Shoji Fujiwara Yoshiki Koseki Ryuichi Kisaka Business Strategy Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer General Manager, Corporate President, Vice President, Industrial President, Printing & Governance Division Functional Materials COMPANY Materials COMPANY Communications Media COMPANY President, President, Oji Materia Co., Ltd. President, Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Management Office Inc. Governance Environment Kazuhiko Kamada Hiroyuki Isono Koichi Ishida Fumio Shindo Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer President, Chairman of the Board, Oji Oceania Deputy General Manager, President, Forest Resources & Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A. Management Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance Division Environment Marketing Chairman of the Board, In charge of: Innovation COMPANY Oji Fibre Solutions (NZ) Ltd. Promotion Division President, Oji Engineering Co., Ltd. Society Financial Information Michihiro Nara Toshihisa Takata Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board 48 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 49 Corporate Profile ▲ Audit & Supervisory Board Members Corporate Governance Oji Group established the Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct in 2004 based on the fundamental values and philosophy that have been handed down since the Group’s foundation and has undertaken What the Oji Group business activities with an awareness of its role as a corporate member of society and a strong sense of ethics throughout the Group. Going forward, we will continue to position the enhancement Aims For of corporate governance as a priority management issue in order to ensure management efficiency, soundness, and transparency, increase corporate value, and be a company that is trusted by society while building trusting relationships with diverse stakeholders. Basic Concepts, Framework, and Operational Policies Management Strategy Fundamental Policies on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Fundamental Policies on Corporate Governance set The Oji Group posts its Corporate Governance Report, which forth the basic concepts, framework, and operational policies it submits to Tokyo Stock Exchange, on its official website. regarding corporate governance. Financial Highlights and Fundamental Policies Corporate Governance Report https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/group/policy/governance.html https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/ir/library/governance.html Non-financial Highlights Corporate Governance Structures Oji Holdings oversees the formulation of Group management the execution of duties by Directors carried out by the Audit & Business Strategy strategies and Group governance. Oji Group has adopted a Supervisory Board Members and the Audit & Supervisory Board. COMPANY system under which each COMPANY, made up of The Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee closely-related businesses, plays a central role in businesses were established as advisory bodies to the Board of operations. This structure accelerates decision making by each Directors. These two committees enhance the objectivity business unit and clarifies management responsibilities. and transparency of decision making, and the Compensation In addition, as a company with Audit & Supervisory Board, Oji Committee analyzes the effectiveness of and deliberates on Holdings reinforces Group-wide governance through audits of evaluations of the Board of Directors. ● Corporate Governance Structural Diagram Governance General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment Appointment Appointment and dismissal and dismissal and dismissal Offering Reporting opinions Accounting Auditor Audit & Supervisory Auditing Nomination Committee Board of Directors Environment (Auditing firm) Board Compensation Committee Determining the proposals of Norio Henmi Makoto Katsura Tomihiro Yamashita Nobuko Otsuka Mikinao Kitada appointment, dismissal and refusal of reelection Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Outside Audit Outside Audit Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit Judgement of appropriateness of Office Reporting accounting audits & Supervisory & Supervisory Board Member Board Member & Supervisory Accounting Auditing Appointment, dismissal, Key issues discussion and reporting Board Member Board Member Board Member audits and supervision Reporting Director of the Board, President (Group CEO) Society Direction and Internal Audit supervision Corporate Governance Division Department Reporting Holdings Management Meeting Environmental Management Dept. Group Management Meeting Safety Administration Dept. Auditing Corporate Compliance Dept. Direction and Key issues discussion supervision and reporting Legal Affairs Dept. Public Relations and Investor Relations Dept. Corporate Officers General Affairs Dept. Financial Information Each COMPANY Other Business Companies Group Companies 50 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 51 Corporate Profile Policy on Determination of Director Compensation and Total Compensation Amount Roles of Compensation Committee Structure of the Compensation Committee What the Oji Group Deliberating the following issues/matters and reporting to the President (committee chair), Chairman, all Independent Policy on Determination of Director Board of Directors Outside Directors Compensation · Compensation structures and levels for Directors and Aims For Oji Holdings has designed its compensation programs with an Total compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is Corporate Officers Meetings of the Compensation Committee emphasis on the roles performed by the Director compensation determined through discussion among the Audit & Supervisory · Evaluation of Directors and Corporate Officers The committee met three times in FY2018. program such that the Board of Directors promotes sustainable Board Members within the limit set by resolution of the general · Analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Attendance rates were as follows. growth and increasing mediumto long-term corporate value meeting of shareholders. The total amount of compensation was Directors Kiyotaka Shindo (Chairman): 100% Management of the company and pursues enhanced profitability and capital set by resolution at the 82nd annual meeting of shareholders on · Compensation structures and levels for Corporate Advisors Susumu Yajima (President): 100% efficiency. The specifics of the Director compensation program June 29, 2006 to no more than 97 million yen annually. Michihiro Nara (Independent Outside Director): 100% and decision-making policies are set forth in the Fundamental Please refer to the Annual Securities Report for details Nobuaki Terasaka (Independent Outside Director): 100% Strategy Policies on Corporate Governance. Director compensation concerning performance-linked compensation including * Positions as of FY2018 comprises base compensation, bonuses that reflect shortbonuses and stock-based compensation. term performance, and stock-based compensation that Independent Outside Officers reflects mediumto long-term improvement in corporate value. Securities Reports and other information Financial Highlights and Determinations are made by the Board of Directors based on Status of Activities by and Reason for recommendations submitted by the Compensation Committee. https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/ir/library/security.html Appointment of Independent Outside Officers (in Japanese) Total compensation is within the limit set by the general Non-financial Highlights Oji Holdings has two Independent Outside Directors and three Compensation Committee. meeting of shareholders. The total of base compensation Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. All Persons with highly specialized and wide-ranging knowledge and bonuses was set by resolution at the 92nd annual Total Compensation for Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Officers attend Board of Directors meetings and the who are able to express opinions that are independent from meeting of shareholders on June 29, 2016 to no more than briefings (in principle, held twice each month) conducted by management and from the perspectives of various stakeholders are 700 million yen annually, and stock-based compensation Information on compensation paid to Directors and Audit & the Director responsible for the Corporate Governance Division selected as Independent Outside Director candidates, and persons Business Strategy was set, separately from the above 700 million yen annual Supervisory Board Members including the total amount and regarding Management Meeting agendas and planned Board with excellent values and principles, a high level of specialization, amount, to no more than 570,000 points (normally, one point a breakdown by type is presented in Business Reports and of Directors deliberation matters. The two Independent Outside and extensive experience are selected as Independent Outside is equal to 1 share of Oji Holdings’ stock) per fiscal year. With Securities Reports. Additionally, Securities Reports indicate Directors are also members of the Nomination Committee and Audit & Supervisory Board Member candidates. the introduction of this program, new grants of stock options the total consolidated compensation of persons whose total were terminated. The compensation of Independent Outside compensation is 100 million yen or more and other information. Directors comprises base compensation only. The total amount of compensation paid to the fifteen Directors in Main Activities of Outside Officers in FY2018 FY2018 was 782 million yen (337 million yen in base compensation, Governance 251 million yen in bonuses, and 194 million yen in stock-based Attendance Attendance of compensation). The total amount of compensation paid to the five Category Name at Board of Audit & Supervisory Statements at Meetings Audit & Supervisory Board Members was 90 million yen. Directors meetings Board meetings Attended 14 of 15 Makes statements from a Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee Independent Outside professional perspective based on Director of the Board Michihiro Nara meetings − extensive experience and wide(93.3%) Purpose of Establishment ranging knowledge as an attorney. Environment The Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee Attended 15 of 15 Makes statements based on Independent Outside were established as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors Director of the Board Nobuaki Terasaka meetings − extensive experience and widein 2015. These two committees enhance objectivity and (100%) ranging knowledge as a public official. transparency in their decision making, and the Compensation Committee analyzes the effectiveness of and deliberates the Independent Outside Attended 15 of 15 Attended 15 of 16 Makes statements based on evaluations of the Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory Makoto Katsura meetings meetings extensive experience and wideBoard Member (100%) (93.8%) ranging knowledge as a diplomat. Roles of Nomination Committee Structure of the Nomination Committee Makes statements based on Society Independent Outside Attended 15 of 15 Attended 16 of 16 extensive experience and wideAudit & Supervisory Mikinao Kitada meetings meetings Deliberating the following issues/matters and reporting to the President (committee chair), Chairman, all Independent ranging knowledge as a prosecutor Board Member (100%) (100%) and attorney. Board of Directors Outside Directors ·N omination policies for candidates for Directors and Audit & Makes statements from a Supervisory Board Members Meetings of the Nomination Committee Independent Outside Norio Henmi Attended 10 of 11 Attended 11 of 11 professional perspective based on Audit & Supervisory (Took office on meetings meetings · Selection policies for Corporate Officers The committee met two times in FY2018. extensive experience and wideFinancial Board Member June 28, 2018) (90.9%) (100%) ranging knowledge as an attorney. ·N omination of Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Attendance rates were as follows. Information Member candidates and appointment of Corporate Officers Kiyotaka Shindo (Chairman): 100% Note: With regard to Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Norio Henmi, only Board of Director and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings held after he took office on June 28, 2018 are considered. ·D ismissal of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Susumu Yajima (President): 100% and Corporate Officers in cases where they do not satisfy the Michihiro Nara (Independent Outside Director): 100% nomination and appointment policies Nobuaki Terasaka (Independent Outside Director): 100% · Succession planning for the Director of the Board, President * Positions as of FY2018 · Appointment and dismissal of Corporate Advisors 52 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 53 Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate Profile Compliance the Oji Group Behavior Standard The Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and the Oji Group Behavior Standard were established At the Oji Group, the Corporate Compliance Department (under the Corporate Governance Division in 2004 as fundamental and universal standards of values and a guide to the code on the behavior of Oji Holdings) plays a central role in drawing up policies and measures for promoting compliance. What the Oji Group level, respectively, by incorporating the principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and antiIt also establishes internal whistleblowing systems and rules on anti-corruption including formulation corruption of the UN Global Compact. and review of the Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and the Oji Group Behavior Standard. Aims For The revision or abolition of the “Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct” and the “Oji Group The Department works to instill compliance awareness throughout the Group through measures Behavior Standard” is a matter to be resolved by the Board of Directors of Oji Holdings. These are the undertaken primarily by compliance managers and compliance promotion leaders at domestic and standards for activities for all officers and employees of the Oji Group under the involvement of the overseas Group companies. Board of Directors, and translated into each language to be familiarized to all officers and employees of the Oji Group. All Oji Group officers and employees strive to comply with laws, regulations, and social norms based on an accurate understanding and practice of the Code of Conduct and Behavior Measures for Promoting Compliance Management Strategy Standard and to carry out compliance by promoting corporate activities based on high ethical standards that meet the trust and requirements of society. Activities for Raising Compliance Awareness Numerous opportunities are created for employees to acquire The Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct necessary knowledge including compliance training as a part of rank-based training for newly-appointed managers and new Financial Highlights and 1. Compliance with the Law 5. Participation in Social Contribution Activities employees as well as periodic internal training on issues that We will comply with the letter and spirit of the law in Japan We will contribute to the development and improvement of are common to all Group companies such as the Subcontract Non-financial Highlights and other countries, respect corporate ethics and all social society through active participation in social contribution Proceeds Act, the Antimonopoly Act, and the prevention of standards, including common sense, and ensure that our activities. bribery. Also, the Compliance News is issued every month and business activities are fair and honorable. 6. Coexistence with the International Community uses case studies to promote awareness, explain the Oji Group 2. Harmony with the Environment We will respect the culture and customs of other countries and Corporate Code of Conduct and Oji Group Behavior Standard, We will promote forest recycling and paper recycling and contribute to local communities. and inform employees about the whistleblowing system. Training on the Subcontract Proceeds Act (transmitted nationwide by videoconferencing) Business Strategy maintain and develop business activities that are in harmony 7. Contribution through Manufacturing with the environment from a global perspective. We will express our pride in our role as a manufacturer Monitoring of the Status of Compliance Anti-Corruption Initiatives 3. Supply of Safe, Useful Products and Services by contributing to local communities through production The Internal Audit Department conducts periodic audits, Based on Principle 10 of the United Nations Global We will contribute to society and culture by developing and activities guided by a commitment to safety and protecting and if problems are identified, implements countermeasures Compact—anti-corruption initiatives—the Oji Group supplying products that will allow us to gain the satisfaction the environment, and by contributing to the advancement of to individually address issues and performs other detailed Corporate Code of Conduct and Oji Group Behavior Standard and trust of customers, with proper consideration for industry through technology development and innovation. responses to ensure that compliance is firmly established. expressly provide for “wholesome relationships with politics usefulness and safety. 8. Achievement of Employee Satisfaction In addition, a compliance awareness survey of all Oji Group and government” and “maintenance of honest, wholesome Governance 4. Communication with Society We will take all possible steps to ensure employee safety and officers and employees is conducted every other year in Japan relationships with business partners” and prohibit corruption We will establish relationships of trust with all stakeholders, health, and we will strive to give employees opportunities to to monitor the status of compliance at each worksite. and bribery by requiring transparency with regard to political including customers, shareholders and local residents, through achieve happiness and prosperity and realize their potential as donations and prohibiting corrupt practices such as illegal an active commitment to good communication with society. individuals. Whistleblowing System contributions and donations as well as bribery. In addition, the Group established the Group Bribery Prevention & Corruption The Oji Group operates the Business Ethics Helpline to provide The Oji Group Behavior Standard Regulations and the Group Guidelines on Bribery to create all officers and employees (including part-time and short-term specific provisions. Group-wide responses including overseas Environment In order to carry out the Code of Conduct, the Oji Group Behavior Standard, comprising 25 items to be followed, was adopted. employees) the opportunity to consult and make reports with companies and sites are clarified and made specific and the aim of prevention or remediation through early discovery periodic checks are conducted through internal audits. 1. Compliance with Relevant Business Laws 13. Disclosure of Management Information of violations of laws and regulations and improper conduct 2. Environmental Conservation 14. Prohibition of Insider Trading (including labor relations and sexual and power harassment 3. Ensuring Safety 15. Respect for Human Rights related issues). Whistleblowing desks are established ●Structure of Corporate Ethics Whistleblowing System 4. Sensible Action 16. Ensuring Worksite Safety and Health both internally (in the Oji Holdings Corporate Compliance General Manager, Audit & Supervisory Corporate Governance Division Board Member, 5. Wholesome Relationship with Politics and Government 17. Fulfillment of Duties and Self-development Department) and externally (a law firm) to ensure the early Oji Holdings Oji Holdings Society 6. S  everance of Relationships with Antisocial Groups and 18. Compliance with Company Rules discovery and correction of human rights abuses such as Reporting Reporting Instructions Organizations 19. Management of Company Secrets harassment and discrimination, corrupt practices including Entrustment of responses to 7. Coexistence with the International Community 20. Appropriate Records and Accounting bribery, and other misconduct. consulting and reporting individuals 8. Seeking a Relationship of Trust with Customers 21. Appropriate Use of Computer Systems Internal desk External desk 9. M  aintenance of an Honest, Wholesome Relationship with 22. Maintenance of Company Assets Response to Compliance Violations Corporate Compliance Notice of details of consultations or report Law firm Department of Business Partners 23. Prohibition of Conflicts of Interest (In cases where the consulting Oji Holdings or reporting person requests The Oji Group considers not only violations of laws and anonymity, notice is provided anonymously) 10. Compliance with Laws and Regulations Related to the 24. P  rohibition of Political and Religious Activities Consultations and Reports Internal investigation regulations to be compliance violations, but also infringements Consultations and Reports Request Reporting Financial Improvements, committee Anti-monopoly Act and the Act Against Delay in Payment in the Worksite guidance, Response Response of the Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and the recommendations (Established as of Subcontract Proceeds etc., to Subcontractors 25. Open Working Environment Information necessary) Oji Group Behavior Standard and ethical violations. If a Company that is the subject Confirmation of facts and 11. Prohibition of Unfair Competition of a consultation or report determination of causes compliance violation occurs, an investigation is conducted 12. Compliance with laws and regulations related to importing to confirm the facts, the cause is identified, responsive and Consulting and reporting individual and exporting All Oji Group officers and employees preventive measures are implemented, disciplinary measures (including part-time and short-term employees) against the involved officers and employees are considered, and if necessary, disciplinary measures are imposed. 54 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 55 Corporate Profile Risk Management Under the risk management structure developed and supervised by the Board of Directors, the Oji Risk Assessment Group has established the Group Risk Management Regulations, and the Corporate Governance What the Oji Group Risk Assessment of New Businesses Division manages the risks common to the overall Group in a centralized manner. The Oji Group screens investments and loans, such as those for new businesses and projects, not only by examining economic A responsible officer and division are assigned for each type of risk, enabling management to be aspects but also from the viewpoint of ESG (environment, social, governance) by following the Oji Group Corporate Code of Aims For informed of the risk and to respond quickly and appropriately. Conduct, the Oji Group Behavior Standard, the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy, and other criteria. In response to the rapid expansion of the areas where we operate businesses, we will reinforce our ■ Occupational Safety and Health ■ Biodiversity risk management structure globally to ensure business continuity and the steady development of our We conduct risk assessment by confirming our safety and In the planning phase of a new business or M&A, we businesses. health policies, objectives, and management structure, the collect information by meeting with local governments and occurrence of occupational accidents resulting in incapacity for environmental NGOs of the respective areas, and assess Management Risk Management Structure Strategy work lasting at least one day, including accidents resulting in biodiversity risk. deaths or serious injuries, and countermeasures taken against The Oji Group has identified Group-wide and business line such injuries, daily safety and health activities such as safety ■ Human Rights risks within the execution of business by categorizing risks Group-Wide Risks Business Line Risks patrols and safety training, and safety of machines, equipment, We conduct risk assessment to see whether consideration is in all of the assets it owns, both tangible and intangible, in • Disaster risks • Employment and personnel risks chemicals, work environment, work methods, and others, not given to basic human rights and check for elements that have accordance with the Group Risk Management Regulations, as • Occupational accident risks • Risks of misconduct and criminal to mention the status of compliance with laws and regulations a negative impact on human rights, with a special focus on Financial Highlights and shown to the right. Responses to risks are implemented by the • Information system risks conduct internally and externally • Cyber security risks • Legal risks related to safety and health. child labor, labor management, the rights of indigenous people, responsible management and support departments. • Product liability risks • Risks concerning information labor-management relationships, and other factors. The Board of Directors supervises the enhancement and Non-financial Highlights • Intellectual property risks leaks ■ Water implementation of risk management. When a new risk occurs, • Environmental risks • Production safety risks • Production facility risks To assess and identify water-related risk, we use WRI ■ Anti-Corruption the Board of Directors makes a decision after deliberations • Raw materials purchasing risks Aqueduct*1 and conduct due diligence on precipitation, We conduct risk assessment of our business partners as within the Group Management Meeting. • Other drought, water disasters, water-related laws and regulations, well as our agents to confirm that they do not engage in any The Director and the General Manager of the Corporate and other elements of the area where we plan to launch a new bribery, illegal trade, or misconduct. Business Strategy Governance Division is responsible for the risk management of the project or business. Oji Group. The Corporate Governance Division works to ensure *1 A global map and information depicting regional water risks prepared by the World the effectiveness of the risk management of the overall Group. Resources Institute (WRI). Emergency Responses Risk Assessment of Existing Businesses To ensure prompt initial responses to emergencies, the Oji supplying products to our customers. Existing businesses and projects are subject to regular audits by the Internal Audit Department, Safety Administration Department, and Group has established a system for reporting and collecting In addition, we constantly review and improve our crisis Environmental Management Department. Where a risk is found, guidance for improvement is provided and shared across the Group. Governance information around the clock. response system through training on the establishment of In the event of a serious incident to be addressed by Group emergency headquarters and the inspection and the overall Group, we establish the Group emergency maintenance of necessary facilities, equipment, and other Business Continuity Planning headquarters to confirm the safety of employees, check the items, in our efforts to maintain and improve our initial For handling business continuity risks, such as natural ■ Tsunami Countermeasures damage suffered, and take prompt measures to continue response capability. disasters and accidents, we implement business continuity To prepare for tsunami, the Group has obtained inundation management (BCM) by having each COMPANY formulate a hazard maps from local governments and identified and ● Risk Management Structure Environment business continuity plan (BCP) and review it as necessary. secured safe areas inside buildings (by indicating altitudes, We have also established the Group Disaster Control evacuation areas, and other information). Reporting Auditing Office as a permanent organization and formulated rules on the reporting of disaster and accident information, thereby ■ Fire Countermeasures Internal Board of Directors Audit & establishing a system for obtaining the latest information Voluntary inspections are conducted at each business site Audit Supervisory promptly. We also share information about the causes of fires and disaster control inspections are conducted as preventive Development and Supervision Reporting Dept. Board and accidents, and other information beyond boundaries initiatives. Society Auditing Auditing between COMPANYs in our efforts to disseminate measures to Director, Oji Holdings prevent their recurrence throughout the Group. ■ Emergency Supplies General Manager, Corporate Governance Division Safety Environmental Corporate In Japan, we have introduced a safety confirmation system Water, food, and other items are stockpiled at each business Administration Management Compliance site in preparation for emergencies. Dept. Dept. Dept. for Group employees. Using this system, safety confirmation is carried out promptly at the headquarters and each business General Legal Affairs Public Relations & Group Personnel Affairs Dept. Dept. Investor Relations Dept. Division (OMO*) location in the event of a disaster or accident. We conduct nationwide safety confirmation training twice a year, thereby maintaining a system that places maximum Financial Information priority on human life. In addition, a comprehensive disaster COMPANY Risk Management Department drill is conducted regularly at each business location. Group Companies With regard to seismic protection, the Group is taking measures by conducting earthquake resistance surveys. * Oji Management Office Inc. 56 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 57 Corporate Profile Fundamental Stance and Policy The Oji Group works in concert under the direction and supervision of the Board of Directors to put Environment Management Implementation Structures into practice the basic policy of the Oji Group Environmental Charter. What the Oji Group The Oji Holdings Environmental Management Department The Environmental Management Department oversees oversees and manages Group environmental governance and and manages these risks, reports on a monthly basis to the Aims For carries out environmental management. Director of the Board and Executive Officer responsible for Oji Group Environmental Charter (established January 1997, revised June 2006) The four subsidiary organizations of the Environmental environmental matters including climate change, and submits Basic Policy Management Department identify Group-wide risks and and reports on issues to the Group Management Meeting once The Oji Group Environmental Charter requires the Oji Group to help create a truly enriched and sustainable society opportunities in the areas of their responsibility. These organizations each year. Additionally, significant risks are reported to the by developing business activities that harmonize with the environment from a global perspective. The Charter calls manage and mitigate risks by disseminating information to the Board of Directors pursuant to decisions by the environmental Management for the Oji Group to make autonomous efforts to achieve further environmental improvement, and aggressively Group via committees and other bodies for each risk affecting management officer. drive its forest recycling, paper recycling, and global warming countermeasures forward. Each COMPANY, Group companies, and so on. Strategy Environment Action Program 2020, established April 2015 FY2018 Results and Activities ●E  nvironment Management Board of Directors 1. Ceaseless Efforts to Achieve a Zero-environmental Burden Implementation Structure Diagram We will aim for zero-environmental burden in each and every operational Direction and supervision Submission and reporting procedure by further promoting environmental awareness-raising and bringing together capabilities of technology, operation and planning. Group Management Meeting Financial Highlights and Environment incidents (violations for exceeding environmental regulatory (Representative directors and corporate officers) 1) Zero-emission standards): 4 Zero environmental incidents No penalties were imposed for regulatory violations. Non-financial Highlights ·E limination of environmental incidents (violations for exceeding * Breakdown of violations in excess of environmental regulatory Direction and supervision Submission and reporting environmental regulatory standards) standards. Waste water: pH (two incidents) and coliform bacteria count; atmospheric: odor Environmental Management Officer (Director & Executive Officer responsible Zero product liability incidents for environmental matters) Product liability incidents: Zero (none since 1998) ·E  limination of product liability incidents Direction and supervision Reporting Business Strategy Promotion of effective utilization of wastes ·R  eduction of wastes and promotion of effective utilization of wastes [Japan] Effective waste utilization rate: 98.3% [Japan] Effective utilization rate of at least 99% in FY2020 [Overseas] Effective waste utilization rate: 89.6% [Overseas] Effective utilization rate of at least 95% in FY2020 Oji Holdings Management of wastewater and exhaust gases with consideration of Environmental Management Dept. ecosystem Measures to reduce SOx, BOD, COD, and SS emission intensity year-on·C  ompliance with environment-related laws/regulations, reduction of year: 1% or more for all measures undertaken with a target of reducing environmental load substances and management of wastewater and VOCs below the FY2010 level of 0.56 kg/million yen: 0.31 kg/million yen* exhaust gases with consideration of ecosystem Governance Reduction of greenhouse gases Sustainable Global Warming Product Safety Environmental ·P  romote energy conservation and fuel conversion, and reduce GHG Measures undertaken with a target of reducing GHG emission intensity Management Office Countermeasures Assurance Office Management Office emission intensity during product manufacturing by more than 10% in by at least 8.7% compared to 2013: reduction rate of 9.0% Disseminates information on Office Confirms chemical safety Reduces Oji Group environmental FY2020 compared to FY2013. environmental initiatives through Ascertains Oji Group greenhouse information and works to enhance risks by supporting introduction disclosure of ESG information, gas emissions, reduces the safety of products. Serves as of business site environmental displays of exhibits, and other the administrative office for the management systems (EMS), 2) Forest recycling / paper recycling Rate of forest certification acquisition emissions by raising energy means, distributes environmental efficiency, and promotes carbon Product Safety Committee and conducting environmental audits, Forest recycling [Japan] 100% (excluding profit-sharing forests) information within the Group, and dioxide absorption by forests and works to mitigate Oji Group and promoting countermeasures ·T  arget of forest certification acquisition: 100% [Overseas] 85% promotes environmental other measures. product safety risks by overseeing to environmental problems. management by the Oji Group. product safety audits and by Paper recycling Measures contributing to achieving the Japan Paper Association target of a other means. ·P  romotion of paper collection and further expansion of waste paper usage 65% recovered paper utilization ratio: 64% recovered paper utilization ratio Environment 2. Responsible Raw Materials Procurement We will comply with safety and legal guidance based on the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy to manufacture our products. Wood raw materials and pulp Each COMPANY All traceability reports for procured chips and pulp underwent audit by a Other Business · Procurement complying with laws/regulations and considering environment third party organization and no indications were made. Companies and society by means of third party audit Group Companies Raw materials and chemicals Zero violations of laws and regulations relating to raw material and ·C  ompliance with safety-related laws/regulations and appropriate management to chemical safety Society follow voluntary standards Collaboration with External Organizations 3. Sustainable Forest Management We will promote sustainable forest management to aim for the protection of forest functions and the lasting utilization of forest resources. Oji Holdings has been participating in the Carbon Disclosure We also support the intent of the Japan Water Forum (JWF), Preserved and nurtured endangered and other species and continued Project (CDP), an NGO with an extensive database of an NPO that collaborates with diverse related parties including Sustainable forest management through the use of forest certifications implementation of forest conservation such as thinning as biodiversity environmental information relating to climate change not only those in Japan but also United Nations organizations, · Preservation of forests’ multi-functions including conservation of biodiversity preservation measures countermeasures, water, and forests, since 2012. The Group international organizations, development banks, national and The Group collaborated with a wide range of stakeholders both inside responds to CDP questionnaires in all three categories: climate municipal governments, private companies, researchers, and Active promotion of lumber business and outside the Group from mountain forest managers in Japan to wood Financial · Contributions to recovery of the domestic forestry business and restoration of product users and supplies raw materials including lumber, plywood, change, water resources, and forests. NGOs of other countries. We have been participating in JWF forests paper, and biomass fuel. The Group is a member of the Japan Business Federation as its member since its establishment in 2004. Expansion of forest certified products Sales volume of forest certified products: 2,993,000 t (Keidanren), Japan Paper Association (JPA), and other industry Information · Expand forest certified products (FY2017 result: 1,387,000 t) organizations, participates in committees that address climate SOx: Sulfur oxides; BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand; COD: Chemical oxygen demand; SS: Suspended solids; VOC: Volatile organic compounds change countermeasures, forest conservation, and reduction Official website of Japan Water Forum * kg/million yen = Emissions/Sales Environmental performance data covers 113 consolidated Group companies involved in production (285 business sites). The data collection period for both Japan and overseas is in of environmental burdens, and works to set and achieve http://www.waterforum.jp/en/about_us/jwf_members/ principle the fiscal year. targets relating to environmental issues for each organization. 58 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 59 Relationship Between Business and Corporate Profile the Environment The Oji Group has made “Harmony with Nature and Society” a part of its management philosophy. To achieve this, the Group undertakes a variety of measures that give consideration to the environment, What the Oji Group society, and the economy throughout its business activities from procurement of raw materials to sale of products with the aim of establishing a sustainable society. Aims For Management Strategy Confidential document processing facility (Oji Materia Co., Ltd. Edogawa Mill) A Japanese Sarufutsu Itou with breeding coloration Group forest in Japan Hydroelectric power plant Photo provided by Yo Chirai Financial Highlights and Non-financial Highlights Business Strategy Overseas forest plantation Biomass power generation Biomass fuel Promoting use of waste paper A fairy pitta Photo provided by Ecosystem Trust Society Forest Recycling Mitigation and Adaptation Paper Conservation of (Sustainable Forest Management) to Climate Change Recycling Biodiversity Governance (p. 68) (p. 62) (p. 72) (p. 74) Procurement Manufacturing Sales (Consumption) Regional Contribution Activities Environment Responsible Raw Materials Reduction of Ecoand Socially Friendly Contribution to Local Procurement Environmental Burden Products Communities (p. 76) Effective Resource Utilization (p. 71) (p. 75) Domestic and Oji Forest Nature School Society Foreign Laws and (p. 64) Confirmation of the safety of Regulations and raw materials Green Procurement FSC™ Certified Products EU REACH Regulation FSC™ C018118 EU RoHS Directive Chem SHERPA GADSL etc. © Yanase F.T.N. Financial Information Environmental audits Forest Picture Book Contest and Resource and energy conservation, and products that contribute to An FSC™ certification audit Environmental Class disasters (beds made from corrugated board and other products) 60 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 61 ■ Energy Consumption and Intensity ■ Use of Non-Fossil Fuels Corporate Profile Measures Against Climate Change In 2018, the Oji Group implemented energy-saving measures that reduced energy consumption by more than 50,000 kL Since 1980, we have been using non-fossil fuels. In 1980, the fossil fuel ratio was 71.9 percent. However, fuel oil*7 (equivalent to the reduction of more than 100,000 tons of conversion has been promoted through the installation of waste GHG emissions). boilers and efforts to improve the yield of black liquor renewable In recent years, the Group’s energy consumption is fuel and in 2018 the fossil fuel ratio reached 33.3 percent. increasing slightly, in part reflecting facility expansion and Policies on Energy Use enhancement for higher product quality and added-value, but Changes in Calorific Structure*9 (ratios on a calorific basis) energy consumption and intensity has been declining. We will What the Oji Group Seeking to create a virtuous cycle between the environment shut down, to check equipment, and take other measures. FY1980* 28.0% 1.0% 71.9% continue to save energy in an uncompromising manner. 35.0% 1.0% 64.0% and economy with energy conservation and a shift to nonAdditionally, the Group is steadily conserving energy by *7 Energy consumption converted to a crude oil equivalent. FY1990* Aims For fossil energy (renewable and waste-derived fuels) as core switching to energy efficient equipment. FY2005* 38.0% 9.0% 53.0% measures. ■ Use of Non-Fossil Fuels Consumption Energy Consumption★*8 Intensity FY2014 50.3% 13.8% 35.9% (1,000 kL oil) (kL oil/production t) Generally, the paper and pulp industry is regarded as one As the problem of climate change grows more serious, reducing and Intensity FY2015 51.9% 13.7% 34.4% 7,000 0.420 of the energy-intensive industries as it uses heat (steam) in its GHG emissions is an urgent task, and the Group needs to 5,655 5,637 5,789 5,874 5,822 FY2016 51.7% 13.7% 34.6% 6,000 pulping process, in which pulp is made from woodchips, and reduce consumption of fossil energy such as petroleum and 0.400 FY2017 52.5% 13.4% 34.0% Management 5,000 2,176 2,221 2,361 2,400 2,371 also in the process of making pulp dispersed in water into coal. The Oji Group has successfully reduced GHG emission 0.380 FY2018 52.6% 14.1% 33.3% 4,000 sheets and drying them, in addition to electricity for operating intensity by using renewable fuels*1 such as black liquor,*2 0.382 Strategy 0.0% 25.0% 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% 3,000 production facilities and machines. waste fuels such as wood residue, bark, and RPF.*3 0.368 0.369 0.369 0.364 0.360 Renewable Waste Fossil * Including some estimated values ■ Energy Conservation The Group will continue to pursue a virtuous cycle between 2,000 3,479 3,416 3,427 3,474 3,451 0.340 *9 Each ratio is calculated based on the energy consumption calculation method. The The Oji Group has positioned energy conservation measures the environment and the economy, recognizing that it is our 1,000 energy input from the electric power business and the supply of electricity or heat to as a crucial topic and takes continuous measures to address it. mission to use energy in a way that provides both economic 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 0.320 other companies is included. Conserving energy is important and environmental effects. Financial Highlights and Overseas Japan Intensity kL oil/production t not only because it reduces *1 Renewable fuels *8 Energy consumption in conjunction with the manufacture of products is calculated Organic energy and resources derived from renewable biological sources (such as energy costs, but also as a part wood) other than fossil resources. excluding the following energy use. (1) Business sites of consolidated companies are included in the total, but nonNon-financial Highlights *2 Black liquor (black vegetative waste fluid) of fulfilling our corporate social production sites (primarily the main building, sales offices, and other sites Black liquor refers to the black vegetative waste fluid that remains after removing responsibility to undertake that perform managerial and administrative work and sites where GHG and wood fibers in woodchips in the process of making pulp from woodchips (kraft pulping environment impact are extremely low) are excluded. process). Its components include lignin and environmental measures. hemicellulose. (2) Consumption relating to the electric power business (supply of electricity or heat to other companies) and transport by Group-owned vehicles is excluded. The Group conducts *3 RPF (Refuse Paper & Plastic Fuel) (3) Energy relating to the supply of electric power or heat to other companies is RPF is a type of waste-derived fuel (WDF). It is a energy conservation patrols An energy conservation control at excluded from fossil fuel and non-fossil fuel derived energy. Business Strategy solid fuel made from refuse paper and plastics. the Oji Paper Kasugai Mill (4) Unit calorific values are calculated by using the following laws and international at Mills to identify steam leaks The patrol confirms that there is It attracts attention as a method of thermal standards. recycling of wastes including plastics and paper and facilities that can be no waste caused by air leaks that is difficult to recycle. Japan: A  ct on Rationalizing Energy Use (Energy Conservation Act) and Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (Global Warming Act) The energy conversion of electric power from in-house hydropower Reduction of GHG*4 Emission Intensity generation uses 3.6 GJ per 1,000 kWh Overseas: IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories *4 Greenhouse gases (5) Since unit calorific values for non-fossil fuels emphasize comparability to Reduction of GHG Emission Intensity reduction targets, the factors set in the FY2013 reporting are used. The Group is reducing GHG emission intensity by raising production efficiency, conserving energy, and using renewable and waste A star mark ★ indicates that FY2018 figures have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Governance fuels. A target for cutting GHG emission intensity by FY2020 was set in FY2015. ■ GHG Emission Intensity Reduction Target Absorption and Fixation of CO2 Through Sustainable Forest management Reduce GHG emission intensity (t-CO2e/production t) in conjunction with product manufacturing by at least 10 percent compared ■ Target to the FY2013 level by FY2020.*5 The Group promotes absorption and fixation of carbon dioxide by supporting sustainable forest management including expanding *5 Not including GHG emissions from the electric power business and transportation using Group vehicles. forest plantations and preserving company-owned forests to contribute to achieving an 80 percent GHG reduction by 2050, the ■ Results long-term target set by the government of Japan. The FY2020 reduction target set in FY2018 was achieved and emissions intensity was reduced. Scope 1, 2, and 3*6 results are set ■ Status of Domestic and Overseas Company-Owned Forests and Forest Plantations Environment forth below. The Oji Group owns and manages the largest area of forests (190,000 hectares) among private companies in Japan. Overseas, the Reduction Target Progress GHG Emissions Volume★ Unit: Thousand t-CO₂e Group has planted forests in six countries with a total area of 250,000 hectares. This means that the Group owns a total of 440,000 FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 Year-on-Year Change Remarks hectares of forests all over the world with an area approximately twice as large as that of Tokyo. Overseas forest plantations include Target Results Assessment Target Scope 1 6,394 6,595 -3.0% FY2018 management of forest that protect forest ecosystems, wildlife, and so on and conservation forest for protection of water sources figures have Reduction in GHG emission 8.7% 9.0% Target 9.4% Scope 2 1,442 1,349 6.9% been and prevention of sediment runoff. Area under management including forest plantations is 380,000 hectares. intensity compared to FY2013 Achieved Scope 1+2 7,836 7,944 -1.4% assured by a The Group spends approximately 9.0 billion yen annually for ongoing forest management in order to practice sustainable forest third party Scope 3 3,923 3,836 3.9% management that takes into consideration the environment, economy, and society. Society Changes in GHG Emission Intensity *6 (1) Business sites of consolidated companies are included in the total, but non■ Status of CO2 Absorption and Fixation Intensity production sites (primarily the main building, sales offices, and other sites t-CO₂e/Production t Index that perform managerial and administrative work and sites where GHG and Forests absorb CO2 in the atmosphere and perform photosynthesis, storing and fixing the carbon trunks, branches, and so on. 0.550 100% environment impact are extremely low) are excluded. 0.523 (2) E missions relating to the electric power business (supply of electricity or heat to Approximately 12 million tons of CO2 is absorbed each year in conjunction with the growth of the Group’s 440,000 hectares of 0.525 0.517 90% other companies) and transport by Group-owned vehicles are included. forests in Japan and overseas, and timber equivalent to this absorption amount is sold inside and outside the Group and used Down 9% (3) E missions of carbon dioxide (CO2) generated in conjunction with the use of fossil 0.493 compared to FY2013 fuels do not include emissions relating to the supply of electric power or heat to internally for lumber products. The Group’s forest in Japan and overseas currently hold a total of 120 million tons of CO2. 0.500 0.485 0.482 80% other companies. 0.476 (4) Unit calorific value and emissions factors are calculated by using the following Annual CO2 absorption conjunction 0.475 70% laws and international standards. Financial with growth: 12 million t Japan: Act on Rationalizing Energy Use (Energy Conservation Act), Act on *1 The amount of carbon fixed in Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (Global Warming Act), Information 0.450 60% conjunction with annual tree and base emissions factors of individual electric power companies. growth is converted to CO2. Thinned trees and Overseas: IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (Sustainable low-quality wood 0.425 50% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) IEA CO2 emission factors by country in 2010 forest management) (5) Emissions from fuels derived from biomass (black liquor, wood, etc.) that are CO2 fixation ₂ Intensity (t-CO e/Production t) Compared to FY2013 subject to the Global Warming Act are calculated. amount 120 million t Logs for (6) Since unit calorific values for non-fossil fuels emphasize comparability to lumber production reduction targets, the factors set in the FY2013 reporting are used. Rubeshibe company-owned forest in Hokkaido (7) Scope 3 indicates only Category 1 (emissions relating to purchased goods and services). Annual CO2 emissions in conjunction with logging: 11 million t A star mark ★ indicates that FY2018 figures have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 62 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Cenibra, Brazil Photos by João Rabelo *1 The amount of carbon fixed in trees logged each year is Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 63 converted to CO2. Corporate Profile Reduction of Environmental Burden The Oji Group recognizes that the reduction of environmental burdens is an important task for Curtailing Emissions of Chemical Substances in Exhaust achieving a sustainable society. The Group sets its own management values that are stricter than What the Oji Group the regulatory values for waste water and exhaust gas, strives to strictly comply with laws and ■ Management of Compliance with Regulatory Values ■ Exhaust Purification Targets and Results regulations, and works to control emissions of substances of environmental concern in wastewater The Oji Group owns a number of thermal-fired electric power The FY2018 targets for exhaust purification were as follows. and chemical substances in exhaust gases, reduce and effectively use waste, and prevent pollution. Aims For generating plants. The electric power and thermal energy ·R  educe SOx emissions intensity by 1 percent compared to Wastewater Purification obtained through direct combustion of fossil fuels, waste fuels, the previous year and renewable fuels is used internally and provided to local ·R  educe VOC emissions intensity to below the FY2010 level ■ Management of Compliance with Regulatory Values Release of Substances of Environmental Emissions communities. (plants that handle volatile organic compounds) Concern in FY2018 (Wastewater) Substances of environmental concern in wastewater generated (thousand t) The Group has set voluntary management standards that Both targets were achieved. Management 75 Amount of reduction from in conjunction with business activities are reduced to below Amount of reduction from application of voluntary are stricter than the regulatory values with regard to the application of voluntary management standards regulatory standards through the use of physical and chemical atmospheric release of the chemical substances produced Strategy management standards Reduction Target Progress treatment before water is released into various waterways. 50 through direct combustion. In cases where voluntary standards Intensity Per Unit of FY2018 FY2019 Amount of reduction from Releases of wastewater into waterways are managed through application of voluntary are exceeded, suspension of operations and other measures Sales Revenue Target Results Assessment Target management standards measurement of pollutants and continuous measurement 59 are taken for the prevention of pollution. SOx Kg-SO₂ conversion/¥ million No more than 4.29 4.12 Target Achieved No more than 4.08 57 pursuant to laws and other means. In cases where voluntary 25 VOC Kg/¥ million No more than 0.56 0.31 Target Achieved No more than 0.56 34 35 standards are exceeded, suspension of operations and other Note: SOx emissions are calculated by converting to SO₂. Financial Highlights and VOC emission intensity covers Japan only. measures are taken for the prevention of pollution. 15 8 0 (million m ) 3 Wastewater and Destinations Values equal Actual Values equal Actual Values equal Actual to regulatory emissions to regulatory emissions to regulatory emissions Non-financial Highlights 700 values values values 600 590 1 588 2 584 2 586 2 581 2 BOD COD SS Status of Reductions in Chemical Substances in Exhaust 500 229 228 228 230 228 ■ Wastewater Treatment Targets and Results Emissions of chemical substances and dust are reduced The Group makes continuous operational improvements 400 The FY2018 targets for wastewater treatment were 1% yearthrough technological advances in combustion boiler structure, and performs rigorous management of equipment for reducing 300 on-year reductions in BOD, COD, and SS emissions intensity. desulfurization facilities, dust collection facilities, and other substances of environmental concern and will continue to Business Strategy 200 360 126 359 126 354 132 355 131 351 128 All targets were achieved. areas and use of operational technologies. implement measures for the prevention of pollution and work 100 64 67 71 72 72 towards achieving the FY2019 targets. 0 59 3 56 3 57 3 56 3 53 4 Reduction Target Progress Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Japan Overseas 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Intensity Per Unit of FY2018 FY2019 SOx Emissions and Intensity Intensity Dust Emissions and Intensity Intensity Sea River and lake Sewer Sales Revenue Target Results Assessment Target Emissions (t) (kg/¥ mil.) Emissions (t) (kg/¥ mil.) A comparison of annual emissions in cases where substances BOD kg/¥million No more than 5.23 5.07 Target Achieved No more than 5.02 8,000 6,639 6,729 7,107 6,435 6,394 6.00 4,000 4.00 3,504 2,940 2,893 3,135 2,944 of environmental concern were released at values equal to COD kg/¥million No more than 23.46 22.52 Target Achieved No more than 22.29 7,000 225 162 305 146 325 3,500 Governance SS kg/¥million No more than 9.96 9.56 Target Achieved No more than 9.46 environmental regulatory values indicates that the Group’s 6,000 3,000 5.00 3,039 3.00 actual emissions decreased in FY2018. 5,000 4.93 2,500 2,679 4,000 4.94 2,472 2,456 2,494 4.69 Status of Reductions in Substances of Environmental Concern in Wastewater 4.12 2,000 2.60 3,000 4.33 1,500 4.00 2.11 2.00 2,000 6,414 6,567 6,802 6,289 6,069 2.05 2.01 The Group is reinforcing recovery of raw materials from 1,000 1.90 1,000 wastewater generated from business activities, which contributes Intensity 500 465 468 437 456 450 COD Emissions and Intensity 0 to reducing the amount of waste generated, as a means of Emissions (t) (kg/¥ mil.) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 3.00 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 1.00 Environment addressing substances of environmental concern at the source. 40,000 37,348 34,784 34,719 35,215 34,932 30.00 Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) 35,000 In addition, coagulation and precipitation through pressure 13,894 30,000 flotation and the addition of chemicals, neutralization, activated 27.72 12,422 12,505 12,661 12,192 25,000 sludge, biofilm treatment, and other measures are employed 20,000 24.11 23.70 25.00 depending on the type of substance of environmental concern. 15,000 24.26 22.52 BOD, COD, and SS emissions intensity have been trending 10,000 NOx Emissions and Intensity Intensity VOC Emissions and Intensity Intensity downward since FY2014. 5,000 23,454 22,362 22,214 22,554 22,740 Emissions (t) (kg/¥ mil.) Emissions (t) (kg/¥ mil.) Society To achieve the FY2019 targets, further operational improvements 0 20.00 14,000 10.00 800 0.60 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 9,888 10,617 11,093 11,206 10,834 in wastewater treatment were implemented and measures were Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) 12,000 700 558 499 566 524 476 715 1,183 1,183 600 taken to reduce substances of environmental concern at overseas 10,000 1,266 1,250 500 0.41 business sites in the same manner as domestic sites. 8,000 9,173 9,351 9,910 10,023 9,584 0.39 8.00 400 0.40 Intensity Intensity 6,000 0.35 0.35 Emissions (t) BOD Emissions and Intensity (kg/¥ mil.) Emissions (t) SS Emissions and Intensity (kg/¥ mil.) 300 0.31 7.70 12,000 15.00 4,000 7.34 7.41 7.54 17,500 15.00 200 9,365 7,971 8,504 7,913 7,860 6.99 558 499 566 524 476 15,337 14,847 14,643 14,943 14,829 Financial 10,000 2,000 100 15,000 10.00 2,394 2,122 2,527 2,349 0 6.00 0 0.20 Information 8,000 2,532 3,760 12.50 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 3,251 12,500 3,027 2,737 2,585 6,000 10.36 Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) 6.95 11.38 10.17 10.06 5.00 10,000 9.56 4,000 5.91 10.00 5.56 5.33 5.07 2,000 7,500 12,943 12,725 12,111 12,416 12,479 5,605 4,944 5,253 5,176 5,275 SOx: Sulfur oxides; NOx: nitrogen oxides; BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand; COD: Chemical oxygen demand; SS: Suspended solids; VOC: Volatile organic compounds; 0.00 kg/million yen units: Emissions/sales 0 7.50 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 5,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) Overseas Japan Intensity (emissions kg/¥ mil.) 64 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 65 Water Resources Corporate Profile Reduction of Environmental Burden Effective Resource Utilization Effective Use of Waste The Oji Group takes measures to recycle water and identify regions with high water-related risks and is working to reduce water consumption. In addition, water consumption and water consumption What the Oji Group ■ Compliance with laws and regulations ■ Target for Effective Use of Waste intensity are incorporated into annual plans and periodic management is performed. The Group did not commit any regulatory violations and was A target for the effective use of waste was set for FY2020, and Aims For not subject to any penalties in relation to the storage and the Group is taking measures for the effective use of waste. Water Resources management (labeling, sorting, etc.) of waste, proper internal Progress in Effective Use ■ Assessment of water risks ■ Water Usage Intensity Reduction Target and Results disposal, outsourcing (contracts, manifests), or other aspects of waste handling. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2020 Target The Oji Group uses WRI Aqueduct*1 to assess water risks in The FY2018 targets for intensity and reduction rate were Japan 97.9% 98.3% 98.3% At least 99% projects, new business, and existing business. achieved. The Group is working towards achieving a target of Management Overseas 91.2% 89.1% 89.6% At least 95% In existing businesses, the Group identifies relationships a 1 percent year-on-year reduction in FY2019 as well. between water stress levels and water resource inputs at all manufacturing sites of consolidated subsidiaries. Reduction Target Progress Strategy Status of Reduction and Effective Use of Waste The Group will continue building production systems that FY2018 FY2019 incorporate countermeasures against the risks of drought and Target Results Assessment Target Waste includes paper manufacturing sludge generated during In Japan, ash is used primarily as a raw material in cement water disasters. Intensity per unit Thousand m3 No more than Target No more than paper manufacturing stages, remnants produced during and roadbed material. Overseas, paper manufacturing sludge of sales revenue /¥ Million 0.496 0.478 Achieved 0.473 Financial Highlights and processing, and ash produced during fuel combustion. Such is used as fertilizer and for other applications. Rate of change from Target Water Risk Assessment % At least 1% 4.7% At least 1% waste is appropriately treated to make it harmless and is used Going forward, the Group will work to reduce the amount of previous year Achieved FY2018 effectively. waste generated and to expand effective utilization. Non-financial Highlights Overall water assessment Number (water stress level) Input volume Production volume Sales Assets In FY2018, the cost of reducing water risks was 6,983 million of business (thousand m3) (thousand t) (¥100 mi.) (¥100 mil.) sites Low (<10%) 73 270,459 37% 6,764 42% yen and investments including R&D were 891 million yen. Generation Incineration (volume reduction, use of heat) Effective use Low to medium (10-20%) 110 348,002 47% 6,061 38% 14,928 96% 19,004 97% Medium to high (20-40%) 90 120,280 16% 2,882 18% High (40-80%) 7 1,947 0.3% 160 1% * * * * Water Consumption and Intensity Intensity 582 4% 676 3% Business Strategy Extremely high (>80%) 5 203 0.0% 105 1% Water consumption (million m3) (thousand m3/¥ mil.) Total 285 740,889 100% 15,972 100% 15,510 100% 19,680 100% 1,000 0.800 * Total sales and total assets of companies with manufacturing sites rated as highly 743 750 744 745 741 waterstressed (40%-100%) Assessed using the WRI Aqueduct (3.0) Water Risk Atlas Baseline Water Stress 750 129 139 137 136 135 Paper manufacturing sludge Boiler Cement raw material (source: Japan Cement Association) *1 Global maps and information indicating status of water risks in each region announced by the World Resources Institute (WRI) 500 613 611 607 609 605 0.600 0.551 250 0.523 0.517 Governance 0.501 0.478 0 0.400 Incinerator 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Wood remnants Roadbed material Overseas Japan Intensity (thousand m3/¥ mil.) Landfill (final disposal) Reduction of water consumption and status of effective utilization through recycling Environment Secondary materials for Waste plastic Final disposal site steelmaking The Group takes measures to effectively use and reduce consumption of water at manufacturing sites. Measures to Water Consumption and Recycling Rates Recycled water volume (million m3) Recycling rate reduce use of tap water include installation of water-save 94% Volume of Waste Generated★ and Intensity Intensity Final Disposal (Landfill) Volume and Intensity 1,000 90% 90% 93% 93% 100% faucets at business sites and headquarters departments. Volume generated (thousand t) (t/¥ mil.) Landfill waste volume (thousand t) Intensity (t/¥ mil.) ■ Water recycling 668 677 702 691 686 80% 3,500 200 0.200 750 170 155 144 165 166 Oji Group companies engaged in the pulp and paper business Society 2,721 2,719 2,762 2,782 2,875 2.25 113 124 120 118 118 3,000 60% 150 use a large amount of water. They reduce water consumption 500 2,500 1,177 1,202 1,279 1,288 1,357 124 0.150 by recycling water that has been taken in and reusing it in 40% 2,000 100 110 112 140 141 the manufacturing process. The water recycling rate exceeds 250 555 554 582 572 568 2.02 0.126 20% 1,500 1.90 1.92 90 percent. 1.87 0.108 0.111 0.107 0.100 1,000 1.85 50 0.100 ■ Water conservation at CENIBRA (Brazil) 0 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 500 1,544 1,517 1,484 1,494 1,517 46 45 Recovery and effective utilization of cooling water 32 25 25 Overseas Japan Water resource recycling rate ■ Oji Fibre Solutions (New Zealand) Financial 0 1.75 0 0.050 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Overseas Japan Intensity (t generated/¥ mil.) Overseas Japan Intensity (t-landfill waste/¥ mil.) New installation of water treatment facilities that enable A star mark ★ indicates that FY2018 figures have been assured by KPMG AZSA recycling of previously unused wastewater generated in various Information Sustainability Co., Ltd. manufacturing processes and other measures (1) Business sites of consolidated companies are included in the total, but nonproduction sites are excluded. (2) The volume of waste generated includes valuable materials (general waste is not included). (3) Intensity is the volume of waste generated divided by sales. 66 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 67 Forest Recycling Corporate Profile Effective Resource Utilization Paper is essential in our day-to-day lives. It is used in a wide range of situations for various applications such as newspapers, notebooks, copy paper, tissues, toilet paper, corrugated containers, What the Oji Group and packaging materials. Approximately 60 percent of the raw material used for these types of paper is wastepaper, and the remaining 40 percent comes from trees. The Oji Group is working on “forest Aims For recycling” for the purpose of sustainable use of resources and contribution to the environment. ▲ Company-Owned Forests in Japan Fundamental Policy concerning Company-Owned Forests Management Management Those who use trees have the responsibility to plant trees The Group owns forests in approximately 650 locations throughout Japan extending from Hokkaido to Kyushu. The area of those forests is 190,000 hectares, equal to the size of Osaka Prefecture. Protecting the forest leads to protecting the rich nature and land of Japan. Strategy The Group grows Ezo spruce, Sakhalin Forest plantations that have matured The Group is contributing to society fir, larch in Hokkaido and cedar, are rejuvenated by replanting after through the development of forests Company-Owned Forests in Japan Japanese cypress, and Japanese red harvest. Natural forests are maintained that perform public functions including pine on Honshu to create and improved through selective cutting CO₂ fixation, water source highly-profitable forests. and thinning. conservation, national land The Oji Group owns and manages 190,000 hectares of forests in Japan. This total area is among the largest of all forests owned conservation, and preservation of Financial Highlights and by private corporate entities. The Group initially owned forests for producing raw materials for paper, but policy was subsequently biodiversity. changed to production of raw wood for lumber and environmental contribution through forest management. At present, the area of company-owned forest plantations in Japan is approximately 80,000 hectares, constituting 41 percent of all Non-financial Highlights Forest plantations Harvesting Selective Cutting Thinning Re-planting company-owned forests. The Group plants Sakhalin fir, larch, and other varieties in Hokkaido, and cedar, Japanese cypress, and other and Natural Forests Felling all trees in the harvest Felling trees at or below the Work performed to alleviate Tree planting in areas that area within a forest that has annual growth volume that overcrowding in forest have been harvested to trees on Honshu and southward. The average age of these trees is about 60 years and are approaching the time for harvesting. The Oji Forest plantations are created for the purpose of wood reached the age suitable for have been carefully selected plantations while the trees are develop the next generation of Group manages its forests sustainably by utilizing forest resources (harvesting mature trees and replanting trees to rejuvenate forests) production by planting harvesting (cutting age). and cutting age trees within a growing. In natural forests, forests. seedlings and performing Hardwood and other trees are natural forest. Trees are selection and removal of trees while also continuing tending operations such as thinning (enhancing resources for future generations). maintenance such as thinning. left standing, however, as selected for removal to enable to promote second-forest Business Strategy Natural forests are formed buffer zones in consideration the forest to rejuvenate growth. when trees germinate and grow of the environment on ridge naturally. 6％ ●Breakdown of Forest Plantations (41%) Unit: ha through the power of nature. lines and in valleys. Japanese Spruce, Cedar cypress Sakhalin fir Red pine Larch Other FY2018 14,000 11,000 24,000 10,000 14,000 4,000 190,000 ha 7% 6% 14% 5% 7% 2% 41％ SGEC certified forests: 53％ ●Oji Group’s Forests in Japan 190,000 ha Governance 170,000 ha ●Breakdown of Natural Forests (53%) Unit: ha Forest plantations Total Area (Engaru mountain forest, Hokkaido) Softwood Hardwood ■ Natural forests ■ Forest plantations 24,000 77,000 Forest Certification acquisition rate for approx. 170,000 ha excluding profit-sharing forests: 100% Certification 13% 40% ■ Forest roads, etc. 1 ha = 10,000 m2 SGEC License Codes Sustainable Forest Management and Social SGEC-FM: JAFTA-002, JAFTA-008, JAFTA-012 Environment SGEC-CoC: JAFTA-W025 and Environmental Contributions Main Paper Mills Main Biomass Power Plants Acquisition of SGEC Forest Certification Forests are closely related to our lives. It is important to maintain Natural forests Company-Owned Forests in Japan extensive forests in Japan while making effective use of them. (Rubeshibe mountain forest, Hokkaido) SGEC*1 forest certification is a forest certification program*2 The Oji Group considers it necessary to encourage unique to Japan that is operated by the Sustainable Green cooperation among people engaged in mountain forest Ecosystem Council (SGEC). The Oji Group began acquiring management and users of lumber. Accordingly, the Group SGEC forest certification in December 2003 with the Kami-Inako Society provides raw material including lumber, plywood, paper, mountain forest in Shizuoka. To date, we have acquired SGEC biomass fuels, and other products to companies both inside forest certification for 330 company-owned forests in Japan, and outside the Group as a part of efforts to revitalize Japan’s excluding profit-sharing forests, with a total area of 173,000 forestry industry and ensure a stable supply of domestic lumber. hectares. It is the largest area of certified forests among those Inspection for SGEC certification of The Group also manages forests by giving full consideration Mimasaka mountain forest (Okayama) of private companies in Japan. In FY2016, SGEC signed a to environmental contribution as the social responsibility of a mutual recognition agreement with the Programme for the company that owns forests. The Group takes initiative to ensure Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), an international Financial that Group forests meet a range of functions, including support organization. This has made SGEC forest certification an for activities to protect Japanese huchen, fairy pitta, and other Information internationally viable certification program. endangered species and hosting the Oji Forest Nature School. *1 Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council *2 Forest certification Integrated Report p. 74 Initiatives for Forest certification is aimed at sustainable forest management. An independent, third-party organization certifies a forest by examining it to see whether it is managed Conservation of Biodiversity Kami-Inako mountain forest (Shizuoka) well in accordance with specific standards. p. 75 Contribution to Local Communities 68 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 69 Corporate Profile ▲ Forest Recycling: Overseas Forest Plantations The Oji Group conducts the forest plantation business in nine areas in six countries. As of the end Utilization of Forest Certification Programs What the Oji Group of FY2018, the total area of overseas forest plantations was 250,000 hectares. The area under Aims For management in the overseas forest plantation business including forest preserves for the protection of The Oji Group also manufactures FSC™ certified products Suppliers with FSC™ CoC*2 certification must be audited forest ecosystems and wildlife and conservation forests for water source conservation and prevention using only woodchips that meet the requirements of FSC™ by a third party, and by utilizing these certification systems it of soil runoff is 380,000 hectares. To ensure appropriate forest management from the perspectives such as FSC™ certified wood and properly controlled wood.*1 is possible to ensure wood raw material traceability and the of society, economy, and the environment, the Group leverages the forest certification programs Controlled wood must meet requirements to be used in FSC™ management systems (such as internal training) of suppliers. The and acquired forest certification for 85 percent of forests as of the end of FY2018. The overseas forest plantation business secures wood raw materials, absorbs and fixes CO₂, and creates jobs and certified products. The requirements are also specified in the results of these audits are available on the Web. Management Strategy industry, contributing to the creation of truly enriched and sustainable local communities. Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines (p. 76). Overview of Overseas Forest Plantation Business: Pursuing Sustainable Forest Management ●Overview of Overseas *1 FSC™ Requirements ● Properly Controlled Woodchips Forest Plantations The volume of woodchips imported in FY2018 was 250,000 ha Not coming under, or confirmed to be unlikely to come under, Financial Highlights and Plantation 4.1 million BDT (bone dry tons), all of which was 3% 7% area any one of the five categories below. derived from planted trees 4% ❶ Illegally harvested wood; 3% including sawmill residue. 380,000 ha Non-financial Highlights ■ KPFL Area under management FY2018 including forest preserves and 18% 14% conservation forests in addition ❷ Wood harvested in violation of traditional and human The certification ratios for 250,000 ha to plantation area imported woodchips were FY2018 57% Forest Rate of forest certification rights; 4.1 million BDT 85 (certified area: Certification 3% for the Oji Group and (FSC™*, PEFC) acquisition: ❸ Wood from forests in which high conservation values are 85%) (of which 21% 14% % 18% for other companies, was certified) ■ QPFL * License codes threatened by management activities; Business Strategy SPFL: FSC™ C008418; PANPAC: FSC™ C017103; making a total of 21%. 79% ■ TTO QPFL: FSC™ C016623; CENIBRA: FSC™ C008495; KTH: AJA/IFCC-PEFC/FMC-HT/00038/I/2018 ❹ Wood from forests being converted to plantations or The remaining 79% was ■ KTH non-forest use; and derived from properly ■ Oji certified material ■ CENIBRA ■ PAN PAC ■ KTH ■■ CENIBRA ■ Other companies’ certified material ❺ Wood from forests in which genetically modified trees controlled wood. ■ Properly controlled wood ■ QPFL ■ SPFL ■ Others ■ APFL ■ GPFL are planted. ■ SPFL ■■■ PANPAC Governance Photos by João Rabelo ■ Forest plantation business FSC™ Certified Products: Provision of Eco-Friendly Products ■ Lumber business 1 ha = 10,000 m2 ■ Pulp business (End of FY2018) The Oji Group has acquired FSC™-FM certification*3 for its FM COC certification certification overseas forest plantations and FSC™-CoC certification for Use of Plantation Wood the Group’s manufacturing and processing operations. At Oji Group forest plantations, planted trees that are ready to be harvested are processed into papermaking raw materials (woodchips) The advantage of acquiring integrated certification from Environment forests to converting plants is that it enables the Group to Mill and lumber products. Woodchips are locally processed into pulp or transported to Japan on dedicated woodchip ships. Forest resources (intermediate products) offer a wide range of FSC™ certified products including Woodchip/pulp/ paper/boxboard, Integrated Report p. 76 Responsible intermediate products such as woodchips and pulp as well processed lumber products Raw Materials Procurement as end products such as photocopying paper and paper Waste paper for household use. In addition, photocopying paper and COC certification ● Export of Woodchips from APFL Forest Plantations (Australia) corrugated containers are recycled as waste paper. Refer to Plant the FSC™ website for detailed information on the status of (end products) Society certification acquisition. Copying paper, household paper, corrugated containers *2 CoC certification: Confirmation of management on processing and distribution of FSCTM Certified Products produced wood CoC: Chain of Custody COC *3 FM certification: Confirmation of forest management certification Eucalyptus forest Harvesting planted trees Transportation of logs Chip mill Loading chips onto a dedicated FM: Forest Management by truck woodchip ship (Port of Albany, Western Australia) Community-Based Forest Plantation Activities Financial Customers Sales, Distribution, users, consumers management, Information CENIBRA in Brazil procures, processes, and sells logs and woodchips and manufactures and sells The mark of responsible forestry logistics pulp. CENIBRA is active in various community contribution programs including supporting higher incomes for farm workers by leasing land that is suitable for farming, entering into partnership agreements with local beekeepers, and dispatching doctors and educators to local communities. A beekeeper tending bees on land 70 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 owned by CENIBRA Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 71 Paper Recycling Corporate Profile Effective Resource Utilization Paper is essential in our day-to-day lives. It is used in a wide range of situations for various applications such as newspapers, notebooks, copy paper, tissues, toilet paper, corrugated containers, What the Oji Group and packaging materials. Approximately 60 percent of the raw material used for these types of paper is wastepaper, and the remaining 40 percent comes from trees. The Oji Group is working on “paper Aims For recycling” for the purpose of sustainable use of resources and contribution to the environment. Oji Group Paper Recycling Results Various Measures to Promote the Use of Wastepaper FY2018 Recovered Paper Use Results The Oji Group is working to promote various uses of waste paper, such as thorough sorting of waste paper at offices and factories Management The Oji Group uses approximately 4.08 million tons of waste paper each year, the largest amount and about 24 percent within the group, a used paper wholesaler as a supplier, and an awareness campaign on paper recycling in cooperation with local Strategy of the 17 million tons of total waste paper use in Japan. The residents and industry groups. 8.9% breakdown of waste paper use by the Group is as follows: 1) Enhancing the quality of wastepaper 2) Increasing the use of waste paper about 50 percent waste corrugated containers and about 20 FY2018 The inclusion within wastepaper of specially processed paper ● Use of difficult-to-process paper: The Group is installing special18.7% percent each of waste newspaper and waste magazines. In addition, recovered paper utilization ratio* in FY2018 was 64 4.08 million t (Approximately 50.3% and foreign substances that are not suitable as papermaking materials (collectively referred to as prohibited materials) purpose facilities to process paper tubes, laminated paper, and other difficult-to-process paper for use as a raw material. Financial Highlights and percent, an increase of 2.5 points in the past 10 years as a 24% of all recovered ■ Corrugated is a cause of product problems. It is necessary that such ●U  se of confidential documents: In consideration of the paper use result of various efforts to use waste paper as a resource. containers in Japan) prohibited materials be excluded before collection. Accordingly, maintenance of confidentiality and issues of information The Oji Group seeks to achieve a recovered paper ■ Newspapers 21.1% the Group cooperates with wastepaper dealers, who play a leaks, confidential documents were incinerated in the past, Non-financial Highlights utilization ratio of 65 percent by FY2020, which is part of the ■ Magazines central role in wastepaper logistics, to eliminate prohibited but the Group performs confidential dissolution processing in Environmental Action Plan of the Japan Paper Association. To ■ Other materials included in wastepaper discarded by households fully secure facilities for use as a raw material. this end, the Group promotes the collection of waste paper as and businesses and strives to raise the recovered paper a raw material to expand the use of recovered paper further. Changes in Recovered paper utilization ratio (FY2018) utilization ratio and manufacture high-quality paper products. Business Strategy Recovered paper utilization ratio Prohibited Materials * Recovered paper utilization ratio = Volume of recovered 64.0% (%) Paper products that are not suitable for use as papermaking materials paper ÷ Total volume of fibrous raw material (total consumption 65.0 64.5 64.3 64.3 Scented paper, paper Paper packaging and corrugated containers used for of waste paper, wood pulp, and other fibrous raw material) 64.3 with an odor Sublimation transfer paper, detergent, soap, incense, and so on Thermal paper, iron print paper, 3D copy paper 64.0 64.0 thermal expansion paper (for Braille and so on) 64.0 Waxed corrugated containers, Corrugated containers that contained imported produce, Collection of recovered paper 63.5 waxed corrugated board processed seafood, and so on 63.5 from households 63.0 62.7 Soiled paper Paper that contains food remnants or oil 62.5 62.4 63.2 Materials other than paper Difficult-to-process waste paper A confidential document processing facility 63.0 Governance 62.0 (paper tubes) (Oji Materia Edogawa Mill) Stones, glass, metal, earth and sand, wood, cloth, plastic, and others 61.5 61.5 61.6 Source: Paper Recycling Promotion Center 61.0 Oji Group International Trends in Waste Paper Recycling 60.5 All Japan* 60.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) China is the world’s largest importer of wastepaper, importing All Japan*: Paper Recycling Promotion Center 17.03 million tons in 2018. Imports come from North Waste Paper Imports by China (2018) America, the EU, and Japan, which shipped 2.75 million tons, 17.03 million tons Environment approximately 20 percent of the total, to China. In conjunction Reduction of Environmental Burdens by Promoting Recovered Paper Recycling with the tightening of environmental regulations, China has From the EU From North America announced a policy of banning the import of all solid waste 4.65 6.85 million tons million tons Paper is a material that is highly suitable for recycling, including wastepaper starting at the end of 2020. As a result, and therefore, it is important that paper be reused (paper The Significance of Recovered Paper Recycling the global wastepaper supply and demand will enter a period From Japan 2.75 recycling) rather than disposed of as waste. Paper (recovered (i) Securing stable supplies of papermaking raw materials of major change. The Oji Group is deepening collaboration From other sources million tons paper) recycling contributes to (i) securing stable supplies of Wastepaper is a valuable resource generated within Japan with wastepaper dealers, who play a major role in wastepaper 2.78 Society and is the primary raw material for papermaking, accounting million tons papermaking raw materials, (ii) effective utilization of resources, recycling, to stabilize procurement prices while maintaining and Source: Paper Recycling Promotion Center, for more than 60 percent of all raw materials. (iii) sustainable use of forest resources, and (iv) reduction of stabilizing waste paper recycling systems. prepared from “Waste Paper Imports by China (2018)” (ii) Effective utilization of resources waste. Recovered paper recycling enables the repeated use of Following a period of rapid economic growth, there is a wood resources (pulp) that were previously used. period when waste becomes an environmental problem. To (iii) Sustainable use of forest resources Column: “ A Corrugated Container Travel Journal: Cardboard to Cardboard,” By recycling wastepaper, the volume of new wood a Pamphlet Introducing an Overseas Site address this issue, government, trade organizations, and the resources (pulp) used can be reduced. The Oji Group issued a pamphlet with information on the corrugated container business in papermaking industry cooperated to build sorting, collection, Financial (iv) Reduction of waste and recycling mechanisms that led to the current wastepaper Malaysia. Fuyuki Shimazu, a corrugated container artist who collects corrugated containers from By recycling wastepaper, the volume of paper that must be Information recycling system. In 2018, the combined recovered paper disposed of as waste is reduced. around the world, observed GSPP, the Oji Group’s largest site in Southeast Asia, and created utilization ratio for paper and paperboard was 64.3 percent a report from a unique perspective on the process starting with scenarios where corrugated and the collection rate was 81.5 percent, putting Japan at the containers are used and collected in Malaysian cities to the creation of new containerboard at the highest levels in the world. plant from recovered waste paper. (Source: Japan Paper Association) 72 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 73 Corporate Profile Initiatives for Conservation of Biodiversity Contribution to Local Communities The Oji Group engages in activities for protecting and nurturing endangered species, recovering Oji Forest Nature School ecosystems, and other activities by working together with governments, administrative authorities, What the Oji Group environmental NPOs, academics, local residents, and other parties. The Oji Forest Nature School was first held in 2004 through collaboration with the Japan Environmental Education Forum. Aims For Conservation activity for Kiwi (Pan Pac) Restoration of Ecosystems and Protection It is an environmental education program for children that of Rare Species (CENIBRA) provides opportunities to experience nature by using forests Pan Pac Forest Products, an Oji Group company, conducts owned by the Oji Group and Group mills. The program activities for protecting the kiwi, a rare bird species, by One of the largest overseas forest plantations of the Oji Group is deepens understanding of the connections among forests, collaborating with the Ministry for the Environment of New owned by CENIBRA, which operates the eucalyptus plantation people, and industry and is an important opportunity to Management Zealand, citizen volunteers, and other parties. For these and pulp businesses in Brazil. CENIBRA owns and manages a convey the Group’s attitudes and approaches to environmental activities, the company has designated land of an area of 150,000 hectares forest plantation and 100,000 hectares forest preservation to future generations. approximately 40 hectares as a kiwi sanctuary for protecting reserve. In accordance with the Brazilian Forest Law, natural Strategy kiwi chicks. Chicks and eggs in the surrounding area are forests as well as steep slopes and areas around water sources captured and collected, and chicks that are captured or such as wetlands are left unharvested to preserve biodiversity. In hatched from the collected eggs are nurtured in the sanctuary cases where natural forest in the preserve is lost due to erosion, before being returned to the wild. wildfire, or other such events, the company plants indigenous Financial Highlights and In June 2019, Pan Pac was named Community Corporate species of trees so that the environment can recover (restoration Hands-On forest development in a company-owned forest Sponsor of the Year at a national kiwi conference held by Kiwis of natural forest). for kiwi, a kiwi protection organization. Non-financial Highlights Diverse wildlife species are observed in the forest plantations of CENIBRA. The symbol of the company’s biodiversity initiatives Forest Picture Book Contest and Environmental Class is the Macedonia Farm, a 560-hectare area that is registered as Since 2015, Oji Holdings has hosted the Forest Picture a natural forest reserve (RPPN*). In this forest, the company has Book Contest with WWF Japan. To provide children with a been engaged in activities for breeding the Mutum (a relative Business Strategy catalyst for creating picture books, Oji Holdings conducts of the curassow), an endangered bird species, and returning an environmental class on the Oji Group’s sustainable forest them to the wild, jointly with an NPO since 1990. CENIBRA management. also provides environmental education related to forests and biodiversity to schools and local communities and conducts wide-ranging monitoring surveys of flora, fauna, and water Website of WWF Japan Forest Picture Book Contest website resources in the forest on a regular basis. *RPPN: Reserva Particular do Patrimônio Natura http://team-morrie.com/shinrin-ehon/index.html Governance (in Japanese) Sarufutsu Itou Conservation Activities (Sarufutsu company-owned forest in Hokkaido) An environmental class In 2009, Oji Holdings established the Sarufutsu Itou Environment Conservation Council with a local NPO, administrative bodies, researchers, and others for the purpose of protecting the Protecting and Nurturing Forests for Thriving Oceans Japanese huchen, or the sea-run taimen (Hucho perryi), an The 69th Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill Tree Planting Festival was endangered species that lives in the river zone of the Sarufutsu held on May 22, 2019 at the Ojiyama company-owned forest mountain forest in Sarufutsu village, Hokkaido. An area of Measures to Protect the Fairy Pitta in Tomakomai Takaoka. The festival has been held since 1950 2,600 hectares including the river zone was designated a based on the idea that preservation and nurturing of forests conservation area, and conservation activities are conducted. (Koyagauchi company-owned forest in Society leads to thriving oceans. Since 1995, the festival has been held Kochi Prefecture) with the Tomakomai fishery cooperative. The fairy pitta is a migratory bird with In 2018, a total of about 100 persons including mill multiple body colors and a body employees and other involved persons, members of the length of around 20 centimeters. It fishing association, local co-op, Tomakomai River Office of the is listed as a class IB endangered Tomakomai fishery cooperative, Muroran Development and species on the Red List of the Construction Department, Hokkaido Regional Development Financial Ministry of the Environment. Bureau as well as personnel from the Tomakomai In August 2016, Oji Holdings fishery cooperative and others participated as a part of concluded an agreement to protect implementation of the Tomakomai fishery cooperative. A total Information the fairy pitta with the Ecosystem of 1,150 seedlings (500 red pine and 650 Japanese oak) were Participants planting seedlings Trust Society at the 260 hectares planted on a 0.65 ha area that was damaged by strong winds in A Japanese Sarufutsu Itou with breeding coloration Photo provided by Yo Chirai of company-owned forest, which is October 2015. 1 ha = 10,000 m2 adjacent to the fairy pitta sanctuary of (Photo provided by Ecosystem The participants hope that the planted seedlings will grow into Trust Society) the organization. beautiful trees and will continue protecting them in the future. 74 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 75 Corporate Profile Responsible Raw Materials Procurement The Oji Group established the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy that confirms the safety and lawfulness of Confirmation of Raw Material (Chemical) Safety and Provision of Information to Customers raw materials throughout the supply chain, and strives to expand CSR procurement that gives due consideration What the Oji Group to the environment and society. With regard to wood raw materials, compared to other procurement raw materials, The Group confirms the safety of the chemicals (including ■ Provision of information to customers there are many matters that require confirmation such as illegal logging and biodiversity, so the Group established materials) during the selection phase of procurement in an The Group responds to customer inquiries based on safety the Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines under the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy. The policy Aims For effort to improve product safety. The Group also provides information for various chemicals verified using the Pre-use and guidelines have been translated into English and are distributed to suppliers around the world. information to customers. Evaluation System and the Information Updating System. Responses to customer inquiries are made using Research Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy (established in 2007 and revised in 2012 and 2018) ■ Confirmation of the Safety of Chemicals Used Reports,*1 Article Information Sheets (AIS),*2 Safety Data The safety of chemicals used is ensured by means of a PreSheets (SDS)*3 and other information. Management Integrated Report p. 43 Forest Resources and Environment use Evaluation System and Information Updating System. Marketing Business: ESG and SDG Topics [Pre-use Evaluation System] Reports that respond to detailed individual Strategy Research When considering the use of a new chemical, the Oji Group *1 inquiries by tracing back to the chemicals Reports used. Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines conducts a pre-use assessment by checking laws and regulations, hazard information, and green procurement by A document that summarizes laws and (established 2005) (1) Expand procurement of wood from certified forests *2 Article Information regulations relating to products and key (2) Increase use of plantation major industry associations, etc. using proprietary pre-use Sheet (AIS) handling points. The Oji Group has established the Wood Raw Material (3) Utilize unused wood effectively evaluation sheets and makes a determination whether the Financial Highlights and (4) Verify that procurement is in compliance with laws, Procurement Guidelines for its wood raw materials procurement. environmentally friendly, and socially responsible chemical can be used. A document provided pursuant to laws and The Guidelines stipulate that the Group shall: (1) expand 1 Implement monitoring of supplies [Information Updating System] regulations concerning special products that Safety Data 2 Ensure raw material traceability *3 contain substances designated in laws and procurement of wood from certified forests; (2) increase Chemical substance management regimes are being Non-financial Highlights Sheet (SDS) a) Production place of raw materials (logging site, forest manager, regulations in amounts exceeding certain use of plantation trees; (3) utilize unused wood effectively; differentiation between plantation and natural forests, etc.), strengthened in Japan and overseas, and accordingly, the thresholds. (4) verify that procurement is in compliance with laws and b) Forest management method (compliance with applicable Group regularly updates evaluation sheets and information by forest laws and forest management standards, etc.), is environmentally friendly and socially responsible, and; (5) regularly evaluating chemicals in use and confirms their safety. c) Acquisition of forest certification, disclose information. d) Avoidance of wood obtained through illegal logging, Business Strategy To ensure raw material traceability as specified in (4)-2 in e) Avoidance of genetically modified (GMO) wood, f) Avoidance of logging in forests that are recognized publicly particular, production sites of raw materials going back to sources as forests with high conservation value, of wood raw materials, forest management methods, and the g) Avoidance of raw materials associated with major social conflicts, Implementation of audit Flow of information avoidance of wood obtained through illegal logging are included h) Adherence to protection of human rights and labor rights (5) Information disclosure Domestic and among the confirmation items. In this way, the Group procures Foreign Laws and only raw materials produced from well-managed forests. Regulations and Green Procurement Inquiries EU REACH Regulation Governance Confirmation of Traceability through EU RoHS Directive chem SHERPA GADSL commercial Woodchip procurement volume in FY2018 was 5.11 million BDT 261 on imported woodchips covering all ships, and 382 on etc. channels Manufacturing (bone dry tons). Of that amount, 80 percent was imported. the entire volume of purchased pulp, verifying that the Group The Group obtained a total of 1,154 traceability reports conducted procurement in accordance with the Wood Raw service providers including 511 on the entire volume of domestic woodchips, Material Procurement Guidelines. and suppliers Domestic and overseas Group companies Environment ●W  oodchip Procurement Headquarters Product Mill Product Safety Volume Sales divisions 16% 4% FY2018 Safety Department Departments 10% 5.11 million BDT (80% imported) 70% Customer Society ■ Imported hardwood chips ■ Imported softwood chips An FSC™-FM certification audit A third-party audit report on ■ Domestic hardwood chips ■ Domestic softwood chips (QPFL in Vietnam) (FSC™-C016623) traceability reports Supplier Monitoring Research Article Information Safety Data Responses Reports Sheet (AIS) Sheet (SDS) The Oji Group visits local suppliers every year to check logging through Financial permits and related documents and inspect the actual logging commercial areas and forests, monitors the status of compliance with Information channels the Wood Raw Material Procurement Guidelines, and verifies Chemical traceability. Through these monitoring activities, we have built companies good relationships with our suppliers. A supplier meeting (monitoring) 76 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 77 Corporate Profile Consideration for Human Rights Fundamental Policy ● Support for enhancing educational environments ● Dispatch of doctors and nurses to regions that lack In Nantong City, China, where the Group manufactures medical professionals What the Oji Group and sells pulp, printing paper, publication paper, and other The Group supports healthcare programs in regions that The Oji Group established the Oji Group Corporate Code of Conduct and Oji Group Behavior Standard products, the Group established the Oji Charitable Education lack access to healthcare services such as providing mobile as criteria to be followed by all Group officers and employees. The Behavior Standard includes Aims For Fund with the Nantongshi Charity Federation and Nantong healthcare in the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil, where the provisions concerning respect for human rights, ensuring worksite safety and health, and other issues, Development Zone Charity Federation to help improve the Group engages in the pulp business, and dispatching teams and is considered the Group’s policy on respect for human rights. local educational environment. The Oji Group also supports the of doctors to regions of Binh Dinh Province in Vietnam, where The Oji Group has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2003 and has expressed repair of facilities such as nursery schools and other schools the Group is active in the forest plantation business, that lack its support for the 10 principles relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. and conducts other activities to support education in Binh doctors. Management Dinh Province, Vietnam, where the Group is active in the forest Additionally, the Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy, adopted in 2007, expressly provides for plantation business. Strategy respect for human rights (including prohibitions on child labor, forced labor, discrimination, and harassment), and the Group requires that business partners in the supply chain comply with these provisions. ■ The Oji Group Behavior Standard: 15. Respect for Human Rights Financial Highlights and We will respect the fundamental human rights of all people, will not unfairly discriminate or harass individuals according to their philosophy and beliefs, nationality, birthplace, religion, race, sex, disability, social status, status within the company, etc., and will not invade their privacy. Further, we will not allow others to do so. The Oji Charitable Education Fund received the CSR China Top Provision of mobile healthcare serves in Brazil Non-financial Highlights 100 Brands, which is granted to outstanding CSR projects that have contributed to educational projects in China. Integrated Report p. 54 The Oji Group Behavior Standard Business Strategy Integrated Report p. 43 Oji Group Partnership Procurement Policy Participation in the United Nations Global Compact https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/group/policy/un_global_compact.html Details of Initiatives Teams of doctors are dispatched to regions that lack Governance doctors in Vietnam (1) Risk Management Structures A fence installed at a nursery school in Vietnam Under Group-wide risk management structures, when launching new business and engaging in other such conduct, the Group performs risk assessments not just from an economic viewpoint, but also from the perspectives of ESG. With regard to human rights, risk assessments are conducted with particular regard for child labor, labor management, the rights of indigenous peoples, (3) Operation of Whistleblowing Hotline (Business Ethics Helpline) labor relations, and the like to determine whether consideration is given to fundamental human rights and whether there are any The Oji Group operates the Business Ethics Helpline as a whistleblowing hotline for corporate ethics violations. The Group assessments that will have a negative impact on human rights. established an internal hotline (within the Oji Holdings Corporate Compliance Department) and an external hotline (law firm) for the Environment early detection and remedy of misconduct including human rights violations such as harassment, and discrimination and corruption such as bribery. Integrated Report p. 56 Risk Management Integrated Report p. 55 Whistleblowing System (2) Initiatives for Respecting Human Rights Society Domestic and overseas Group companies conduct offsite training on harassment and other issues to instill an awareness of (4) Monitoring of the Status of Compliance compliance. In China, Brazil, and Vietnam, the Group supports local communities and carries out programs with strong community The Group administers compliance awareness surveys to all domestic and overseas Group employees and performs periodic ties such as supporting the enhancement of educational environments and dispatching physicians, nurses, and others to areas monitoring of compliance awareness including awareness of harassment as well as compliance-related problems in the workplace. lacking physicians. Additionally, the Internal Audit Department together with overseas Group companies conducts periodic audits regarding the status ● Promoting compliance of compliance. The Corporate Compliance Department creates numerous opportunities for new managers, new employees, and others Financial Integrated Report p. 55 Monitoring of the Status of Compliance to obtain necessary information concerning harassment and other issues through compliance training during rank-specific Information education. The department also issues Compliance News, a monthly newsletter, to raise awareness and inform employees A compliance training about the whistleblowing system through case studies. session 78 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 79 Corporate Profile Human Resource Measures Diversity of values and flexibility are extremely important for reinforcing corporate competitiveness Promotion of Working Style Reforms (Japan) and achieving continuous development. What the Oji Group For the Oji Group to grow as a global enterprise “beyond boundaries,” we have been committed (1) R  eduction of total working hours and Reduction of total working hours to promoting “human resources development,” “working style reforms,” and “diversity promotion” in promotion of operational efficiency (Oji Group* Tokyo Main Office region; hours) Aims For order to encourage every employee to embrace diversity of values and flexibility in thinking and to The Group has been implementing business reforms to enhance his/her skills; in accordance with our fundamental principle, “a company’s strength originates reduce overtime work and total working hours. Total working hours (hours/year) from human resources.” Reduction of 225 hours (11%) ●U  se of flex-time systems, setting limits on overtime 2050.0 (From FY2013 to FY2018) Management ● Oji Group Human Resource Philosophy work, enabling full transfer of time off when work is 1985.8 performed on holidays, encouraging employees to Strategy 1933.0 take paid leave, and other measures Oji Group Human Resource Philosophy ●P  romotion of flexible work styles 1861.3 1839.2 1825.3 Understanding of Prioritization of management strategies Proactive action compliance and policies Global perspective 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Financial Highlights and Non-financial Highlights Imaginative capabilities Human resources always acting with Change in thinking an awareness of * 30 Companies and divisions linked to management development the entire world (2) Initiatives to establish personnel systems for promoting working style reforms Management Strategy In order to reliably carry out the tasks in line with the ii) Certified researcher system Business Strategy management strategy, we are working to establish a personnel To promote the creation of innovative value, the Group Management Philosophy Code of Conduct and Norms system in Oji Group that enhances the effectiveness of working grants researchers with particularly high levels of specialized style reforms. knowledge discretion regarding their work styles and provides i) Role-based personnel grading system working environments that allow them to focus on research. In order to break away from seniority systems and realize iii) Retirement at age 65 early identification of personnel suitable for advancement, Introduced in FY2017 to enable employees to demonstrate Governance each employee is evaluated based on whether or not he/ their knowledge, skills, and abilities to the fullest and work with Human Resource Strategies and Targets (Global Human Resource Strategies) and Human Resource Development she has fulfilled his/her clarified roles. The appropriateness enthusiasm. of evaluations is confirmed once each year and strict * Introduced at 10 Group companies implementation is undertaken. Training is conducted to raise (1) Next-generation development (3) Management training and training by job type evaluator levels. Suitable people are appointed to the right We will foster human resources who will be the core of To successfully carry out management strategies centered position based on the evaluation results. management of our Group companies, which will be the key to on business structural reforms, it is necessary to enhance achieving our management strategies. management capabilities on the middle management level. Environment The Group has clarified the ideal in human resources for each Promotion of Diversity (Japan) ● Mid-level management training (Oji Juku) COMPANY and is conducting awareness-changing training and division-specific training. Oji Group strives to carry out initiatives that enable its diverse human resources to actively assume roles at work regardless of gender, age, disability, or nationality, ultimately strengthening the Group’s competitiveness with their diverse values and ideas. (2) Global human resource development ● General manager training In addition to identifying and developing human resources, ● Diversity promotion policy ● Communications skills training Our Goal Oji Group actively recruits outstanding human resources from ● New manager training outside the Group ● Active participation and demonstration of the full potential Society ● Sales personnel training of every employee ● Achieving innovation based on diverse values and creative ● New employee global challenge (training in India for ideas employees in their first year of employment) 2 3 ●O  verseas trainee training (three months of language training for Development of abilities and Improvement in careers of diverse human employees in their fifth to 10th years of employment followed resources work-life management by two years of practical experience at an overseas site) ● Oji Global School (six months of language training for 1 employees aged 31 to 45 years followed by overseas Change in mindset and behavior of Financial management level employees assignment) Information Further instill the role-based Base personnel grade system and raise productivity 80 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 81 Corporate Profile (1) Change in mindset and behavior of management level (3) Improvement in employee work-life management employees We are introducing various systems that enable employees Main Initiatives What the Oji Group Oji Group believes that changing the mindset and behavior of with childcare or nursing care responsibilities to continue to ●N  ursery subsidies for employees who return to work early management level employees is particularly important and conducts actively participate in their work. In addition, in April 2018 from their childcare leave Aims For training and other programs to ensure accurate understanding of the Group established and operates Nepia SODATERASU, ●P  aternity leave system for male employees (paid leave of five the thinking of top management and promotion of diversity, and to a nursery located adjacent to a Group housing facility in consecutive days) disseminate Group policies. The Group also conducts awareness Edogawa-ku, Tokyo, with the aims of helping employees ●H  ourly use of accumulated annual leave (for childcare / surveys as indicators of the propagation of promotion measures. maintain a balance between childcare and work, promoting the nursing care) active participation of women in their work, and contributing ●L  eave system for employees obligated to leave work to Management ● Study sessions held by the Diversity Promotion Committee to the elimination of unattended children as a part of our accompany their spouses’ overseas transfers ● Skill enhancement training for managers corporate social responsibility. Strategy Diversity management training for new general managers ● Diversity management training for new general managers ● Training for managers who have as subordinates pre-management Support for balancing work and childcare Support for balancing work and nursing care female employees on the generalist track ● Supervisor management training for young female employees on Prenatal Childbirth Postnatal Childcare Return to work Offering information Assistance to employees leave leave leave before facing nursing care under nursing care the generalist track Financial Highlights and Interview Seminars for Questionnaire Roundtable Measures Measures Pre-childbirth before employees after discussion on Nursing care seminars balancing Training sessions for Nursing care (2) Demonstration of the abilities and career development interview returning to work returning from childcare leave returning to work childcare and career human resources personnel seminars of diverse human resources Non-financial Highlights Intranet website with information on Intranet website with information on balancing work and childcare Provision of Provision of balancing work and nursing care Promoting the active participation of women information information Career development for female employees on the generalist track, Handbook on balancing work and childcare Handbook on balancing work and nursing care practical development support for personnel in all positions, and various other measures are being undertaken as priority issues until 2020. Business Strategy ● Training for pre-management female employees on the generalist track ● Career design training for young female employees on the Training for managers who have as subordinates pre-management female generalist track employees on the generalist track Governance Percentage of Women in Management Positions Percentage of Female Hirees for Generalist-Track Positions (16 Oji Group companies) (16 Oji Group companies, including mid-career hires) Number of women in management positions Percentage of Female Hirees for Generalist-Track Positions Percentage of female managers 100 3.5 50 3.1% 43% 44% Seminars for employees returning from childcare leave A nursing care seminar for employees 2.9% 3.0 Environment 80 40 2.5% 72 66 2.5 34% 34% 60 2.0% 30 1.8% 56 2.0 27% 42 44 22% 1.5 40 20 1.0 Society 20 10 0.5 0 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Data for FY2019 is for recent graduates only Promoting recruitment of disabled persons Oji Group established a special subsidiary in 2007 to promote the recruitment of disabled persons. Employees perform management Financial Information and cleaning of common areas in the Head Office Building. They also perform product finishing and inspection, corrugated container assembly, administrative work, and various other tasks at Oji Group mills. The Group formulated a Three-Year Disabled Persons Employment Plan in FY2018 to promote the recruitment of disabled persons throughout the Group. The Group will continue working to expand employment opportunities for persons with disabilities in an effort to contribute to society. 82 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 83 Corporate Profile Occupational Safety and Health Distribution of Safety and Health Information and Occupational Accident Reports The Group’s safety and health promotion plan, notices and guidelines on safety and health, and occupational accident reports, and other information are distributed throughout the Group. If a fatal or serious accident occurs, the incident is immediately reported to management in accordance with the reporting route specified in the Basic Regulations for Group Risk Management, and structures are in place to ensure appropriate responses. Safety and Health Policies and Targets Safety Performance (Lost Time Injury Frequency What the Oji Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) ★ Under a policy of making safety, the environment and compliance top priorities, the Oji Group has Rate (LTIFR)) 0.55 Change from Prior Year established rules and standards on occupational safety and health in the Oji Group Corporate Code (0.07) Aims For of Conduct and the Oji Group Behavior Standard. We secure the safety and health of workers by Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)* occurring within the Oji Group LTIFR ensuring that every Group employee is aware of these rules and standards on occupational safety continuously declined since 2015, falling to 0.55 in 2018. According 0.8 0.75 and health, practices them, and complies with them. At the same time, we promote the creation of to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Survey on Industrial 0.65 0.65 0.62 comfortable worksite environments and strive to create better worksite safety climates so that all Accidents (businesses with at least 100 employees), in 2018, the rate in 0.6 0.55 workers in the Oji Group can work safely and with a sense of security. Management manufacturing industries was 1.20 and the rate in the pulp, paper, and Each Group company creates a safety and health promotion plan and a specific safety and health action 0.4 paper processing manufacturing industry was 1.88. plan for each company and worksite based on the Oji Group’s annually formulated safety and health Strategy 0.2 promotion plan. Measures for the elimination of occupational accidents are implemented together by Group *(1) The frequency rate is an indicator of the frequency of occupational accidents as the number of fatalities and injuries (fatal accidents and accidents resulting in at least one day of lost work) employees, affiliates and business operators who enter the Group’s premises on a temporary basis. caused by occupational accidents per one million working hours. Lost time injury frequency rate 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year)* (LTIFR) = (Number of fatalities and injuries due to occupational accidents ÷ Cumulative number * Period covered: January 1 to December 31 Oji Group’s 2019 Safety and Health Promotion Plan of hours worked) × 1,000,000 (2) Total working hours are calculated based on the number of group company employees (regular employees and temporary / non-regular employees) as of the end of September every year, A star mark ★ indicates that FY2018 figure has been assured by Financial Highlights and assuming the annual working hours per person is 2,000 hours. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. The plan establishes the following basic policies, slogan, and Key Targets (3) The frequency rate calculation does not include accidents at overseas group companies that are determined to be at the level of accidents accompanied by injuries without lost work days in key measures and expresses the Group’s strong commitment Group target: Achieve zero fatal and serious work-related Japan based on standards established by the Company. Non-financial Highlights to achieving zero fatal and serious work-related accidents, accidents which is a priority target, and preventing the occurrence of Key Measures Safety Audits and Safety Patrols similar accidents that have occurred repeatedly. The entire ❶M easures for preventing fatal and serious work-related Group, including affiliates, is working together towards accidents Safety audits and safety patrols achieving these objectives. ❷R ecurrence prevention measures by implementing the risk Business Strategy Basic Policies assessment for each accident type The Oji Holdings Safety Administration Department and the safety departments of each COMPANY and Lead Company conduct The Oji Group will promote activities with the target of zero ❸ Reform the worksite safety culture safety audits and safety patrols of the companies and worksites that they oversee including overseas companies and worksites to work-related accidents across the entire Group with safety as ❹P revention measures against the frequent occurrence raise safety and health management levels. its absolute top priority. of accidents leading to lost work time that happens to Slogan employees of contractors Designated system for special guidance on enterprise safety management Always Follow the Rules and Ensure that Others Follow the ❺ Promotion of heatstroke measures Rules to Prevent Fatal and Serious Accidents ❻M anagement of physical and mental health, and Governance The Oji Holdings Safety Administration Department and the safety departments of each COMPANY and Lead Company established improvement and maintenance of the worksite environment the Designated System for Special Guidance on Enterprise Safety Management. Under this system, companies and worksites at which improvements in safety management are deemed necessary such as those where occupational accidents resulting in a Safety and Health Management Structures serious injury or death or resulting in a temporary incapacity for work have occurred repeatedly within a short period of time are designated as worksites needing special guidance on enterprise safety management. Inspections are conducted and guidance is provided, not only regarding measures for preventing recurrence but also about safety management systems, improvement plans, Oji Group Safety and Health Management Structures aim to prevent occupational accidents and the status of activities, and other matters, to improve the safety management level of and create a better work safety climate at maintain and promote the good health of Group employees, affiliates, and business operators who enter each designated worksite. the Group’s premises on a temporary basis and also clarify responsibilities relating to safety and health Environment in the Oji Group and stipulate fundamental matters in the Group Safety and Health Management Rules. On-site accident investigation Group CEO The Oji Holdings Safety Administration Department and the safety departments of each COMPANY and Lead Company immediately Direction Reporting visit worksites where accidents occurred to confirm how and why the accident occurred and countermeasures and also conduct Oji Holdings Corporation thorough confirmation and hold discussions with worksite executives and worksite managers regarding measures for preventing the Corporate Governance Division Safety Administration Dept. recurrence of accidents and daily safety management activities, thereby providing guidance on improving the safety management activities of and creating a better work safety climate at the worksite as a whole. Direction and Supervision Reporting Society Each COMPANY Employee Participation Direction and Supervision Reporting COMPANY Management Companies Safety and Health Management Division Occupational safety and health committees, worksite safety and health meetings, and worksite discussions Direction and Supervision Reporting Independent Business Companies Lead Company Lead Company Group companies have established occupational health and safety committees at each worksite in accordance with laws. These Head Office Head Office committees carry out safety and health measures through labor-management cooperation by formulating plans for the prevention of Financial Safety and Health Management Division Safety and Health Management Division occupational accidents and health impairment, creation of comfortable working environments, and maintenance and promotion of Information Direction Direction Direction Direction good health and holding discussions to confirm and improve initiatives taken under these plans and address other relevant issues. and Reporting and Reporting and Reporting and Reporting Supervision Supervision Supervision Supervision The Group also holds worksite safety and health meetings and discussions to create opportunities for numerous employees to Unit-Affiliated Companies Unit-Affiliated Companies present their opinions. Worksites Worksites Worksites Worksites At worksites where the establishment of a safety committee or health committee is not required by law, we also hold monthly Safety and Safety and Safety and Safety and Health Management Health Management Health Management Health Management safety and health meetings and social gatherings to obtain opinions from employees and promote worksite safety with a unified Division Division Division Division labor and management approach. 84 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 85 Corporate Profile Central Labor-Management Committee Overseas Activities OAP: Meeting of Safety and Disaster Control Managers What the Oji Group Oji Asia Packaging (OAP), which is supervised by the Industrial Materials The Central Labor-Management Committee, which is made up of managers including the Group CEO and representatives from COMPANY, has been playing a central role in meetings of safety and disaster Group company labor unions, meets twice annually. Information concerning safety is shared at these meetings including the status Aims For control managers in Southeast Asia since 2016. Measures are undertaken with of safety and health activities pursuant to the Group’s Safety and Health Promotion Plan, occupational accident occurrence, and the aim of raising safety management levels at each company under the slogan initiatives for preventing the recurrence or occurrence of accidents. Committee discusses the establishment of worksites where Oji “zero occupational accidents.” Group employees put an absolute top priority on safety and that instill a sense of security among their families. Personnel from Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, India, Cambodia, and Myanmar attend the meetings, where they receive explanations of the OAP safety promotion plan, review case studies of occupational accidents, and confirm Safety Initiatives (Case examples and others) important matters to be shared among the worksites through notices. They also Management inspect the plant where the meeting is held as well as nearby companies and Strategy Earnest discussion for achieving zero accidents (2019) plants. The participants are eager to discuss safety initiatives every year. Domestic Activities Group CEO Safety Award Meeting of Plant Managers from Oji Group Companies in China The Group CEO Safety Award is granted to Oji Group domestic and overseas Plant managers in China has been holding meetings on safety and the environment worksites that meet certain criteria determined according to the business scale since 2013 to exchange information on safety and the environment and deepen interaction among plant managers and safety and environmental managers with Financial Highlights and (number of employees) including the total work time without any occupational the objective of achieving zero occupational and environmental accidents. accidents resulting in temporary incapacity for work and the number of During the meetings, attended by plant managers from Oji Group companies consecutive years without any occupational accidents. Non-financial Highlights in China, the participants inspect the plant where the meeting is held and hear The Award is granted to worksites with outstanding records of no accidents reports on safety and environmental topics presented by the Oji Holdings Safety together with the employees of those worksites and those of affiliates of Group Administration Department and Environmental Management Department and companies with the aim of improving the safety and health levels of the Oji Group attend presentations on achievements from daily activities and best practices Participants aim to achieve zero occupational and and eliminating occupational accidents. Presentation ceremony of the 2018 Group CEO Safety Award regarding safety and the environment given by individual companies, question environmental accidents (2019) and answer sessions, and other programs intended to raise safety and Business Strategy environmental management levels and promote measures for achieving zero Section Chief Meetings occupational and environmental accidents. The Safety Administration Department has been hosting meetings of sectionchiefs level employees working on operational frontlines since 2017. At these Forklift Safety Workshop & Skills Competition meetings, which are held throughout Japan, safety-related issues are presented Oji Group companies in China have been holding a Forklift Safety Workshop & and through discussions, the participants gain an accurate understanding of their Skills Competition since 2014. The events provide knowledge concerning forklifts safety responsibilities, raise safety awareness, and think about what to do and and improve operating skills with the aim of achieving zero forklift accidents. Governance what measures to take to ensure that their subordinates will never be injured. During the forklift safety workshop, participants analyze the causes of forklift accidents, watch a safety video, and actively participate in a question and answer sessions, enhancing their awareness of safety. Section Chief Training and Supplementary Education Forklift Skills Competition (2018) Ensuring the safety of workers depends greatly on the leadership abilities of Discussion at a Section Chief Meeting (2018) section chiefs and others who directly supervise workers. For this reason, the Group’s safety and health promotion plan for 2018 provided that “newly-appointed Health Initiatives (Case Studies) managers and supervisors must undergo the training for new safety managers Environment and section chief training” under the action items of the “reform the worksite safety Regular Health Examinations Stress Checks culture,” which was a priority measure. Accordingly, section chief training and The Group provides regular health examinations (with statutory In accordance with the law, The Oji Group ensures that supplementary education are conducted at worksites throughout Japan. examination items) at least once each year. In addition, major employee stress check tests are conducted once annually. Group companies provide their employees aged 35 years Employees with high stress levels are recommended to receive or older with screenings for lifestyle-related diseases (total face-to-face guidance from doctors individually by an external Hands-on Risk Training Using Hazard Simulation Virtual Reality Devices cholesterol, uric acid, fundoscopy, tumor markers, breast and service provider to which we outsource the clerical work for Installation of devices that simulate hazards and encouraging personnel to take cervical cancer screening, screening for VDT syndrome, and implementing the stress checks. external courses gives workers firsthand experience, contributing to improving others) together with the health insurance union. Based on the With regards to the results of the stress checks, the Group holds Society sensitivity to risks and awareness of safety. Recently, some Group companies Groups discussions during section chief training (2018) results of the examinations, detailed follow-ups are conducted meetings, including reporting seminars, for responsible personnel have started training using risk sensitivity educational tools that employ virtual for the early detection and treatment of health problems by from Group companies and divisions as well as providers of reality (VR) technologies to provide safe and effective occupational accident working in collaboration with an industrial physician. clerical work related to the implementation of the stress checks, where we provide feedback on organizational analysis and experiences such as tripping and falling, which have been difficult to simulate, Health Consultation Office encourage them to improve their worksite environments. and electric shock, which uses the motions of persons who have experienced The Group established the Oji Group Health Consultation Office, shocks with a micro-current device. Going forward, the Group will rollout these where doctors and counselors are available to give advice, Vaccination of Expatriate Employees before Dispatch tools Group-wide. either by telephone or online, on various health problems of The Group recommends that employees who are to be employees and their families, including mental health problems dispatched to countries with a high risk of infectious diseases Financial Information caused by worksite human relations and so on. and their accompanying family members receive vaccinations The Group also established a nationwide system that that are recommended by the Ministry of Health, Labour enables employees to receive face-to-face counselling and Welfare (hepatitis A and B, tetanus, rabies, Japanese services from specialized counselors by making prior encephalitis, polio, yellow fever, measles/rubella, and typhoid) VR risk experience education (2019) appointments. The Group provides employees who have depending on the destination, thereby preventing infection used this service with a wide variety of support based on after their dispatch. the particulars of their issues. 86 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 87 Corporate Profile Relationships with Local Communities Evaluation from Society 環境改善対策・環境管理体制の強化 At each of its bases around the world, the Oji Group undertakes a range of social contribution initiatives including the promotion of culture and sports in accordance with the Management FTSE4Good Index Series MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Index What the Oji Group Philosophy of the Oji Group including “Contribution to the Future and the World” and “Harmony with Oji was selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Global Oji has been selected since December 2017 as a constituent Nature and Society.” Aims For Index and FTSE Blossom Japan Index, stock indices of the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Index created established by the U.K.-based FTSE, in June 2019. by U.S.-based MSCI. (Scope: Oji Holdings) (Scope: Oji Holdings) Nepia SODATERASU, company-managed Fujihara Foundation of Science childcare facility Management The Fujihara Award presented by the Fujihara Foundation The Group opened Nepia SODATERASU, a nursery, in April of Science, which was established by Ginjiro Fujihara, is 2018 at a facility adjacent to a Group condominium located in known as a historic and prestigious accolade that honors Strategy Edogawa-ku, Tokyo to help employees balance child-care and scientists who have made distinguished contributions to the work and eventually to contribute to the elimination of children on development of Japan’s science and technology. Several past the waiting list for nursery schools, in line with our corporate social recipients went on to win Nobel Prizes. Oji Holdings supports “Eruboshi” (the top grade) certification responsibilities. The facility is also available for use by local residents. the foundation, mainly through financial assistance. received pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Financial Highlights and The name “SODATERASU,” embodies three meanings: JPX Nikkei Index 400 Women’s Participation and Advancement in “sodate [to raise children] (carefully and soundly),” “terasu [to the Worksite Non-financial Highlights illuminate] (the future brightly),” and “terrace (safe play on the Oji has been selected as a constituent of the JPX Nikkei Index nursery school playground).” 400,* an index calculated by Japan Exchange Group, Inc., Tokyo On December 21, 2017, Oji Holdings was granted “Eruboshi” Stock Exchange, Inc., and Nikkei, Inc., since August 2014. (Grade 3, the top grade) company certification by the Minister (Scope: Oji Holdings) of Health, Labour and Welfare in recognition of its efforts to Business Strategy promote women’s participation and career advancement. (Scope: Oji Holdings) SNAM Sustainability Index Governance Oji was selected as a constituent of the SNAM Sustainability 最小サイズ ヨコ 12.8 ミリまで The 60th Fujihara Award presentation ceremony Index, an index developed by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd., in June 2019. (Scope: Oji Holdings) Oji selected as FY2017 “Nadeshiko Brand” Oji Hall Sports On March 22, 2018, Oji was designated by the Ministry of Environment Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange Oji Hall, which reopened in October 2018 following renovations, The Oji Group sponsors the Oji Baseball Team, which is based as “Nadeshiko Brand” companies for the first time as is a full-fledged 315-seat music hall with a homey atmosphere in in Kasugai City, Aichi Prefecture, and the Oji Eagles, an ice enterprises that are outstanding in terms of encouraging the the main building of Oji Holdings. Oji Hall uses it to host diverse hockey team based in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido. Both teams empowerment of women in the worksite. performance and engage in the hall rental business. The hall focus on contributing to their local communities and promoting (Scope: Oji Holdings and Oji Management Office) has been praised by Japanese performers and fans as well as sport competition while achieving their respective objectives. renowned artists from the West. S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index Society Oji has been selected since September 2018 as a constituent of the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index developed by Japan Exchange Group, Inc., Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., and S&P Dow Jones Indices. (Scope: Oji Holdings) Financial Information Oji Hall Re-opening Special Concert The Oji Eagles The Oji Baseball Team October 25, 2018 MARO World Vol. 33 by Fuminori “Maro” Shinozaki 88 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 89 Corporate Profile Financial Data Highlights Changes in Assets and Profit/Loss Changes in Cash Flows What the Oji Group Cash flows from operating activities (¥ bil.) Segment FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Cash flows from investing activities (¥ bil.) Net sales (¥ mil.) 1,347,281 1,433,595 1,439,855 1,485,895 1,550,991 Free cash flows (¥ bil.) Operating profit (¥ mil.) 43,867 71,987 70,243 70,781 110,212 Aims For (74.6) Ordinary profit (¥ mil.) 49,360 60,517 52,949 65,958 118,370 74.0 117.2 49.2 Profit attributable to owners of parent (¥ mil.) 15,526 12,706 40,270 36,222 51,977 Management 165.5 84.8 157.4 Profit per share*1 (¥) 15.71 12.86 40.74 36.64 52.52 140.6 Strategy 128.1 123.2 Total assets (¥ mil.) 2,140,641 1,909,483 1,901,029 1,960,753 1,951,369 90.9 74.0 66.6 43.3 40.2 Net assets (¥ mil.) 784,420 711,230 759,198 810,011 815,406 Net assets per share*2 (¥) 656.03 587.62 635.95 681.52 684.50 Cash in Cash out Cash in Cash out Cash in Cash out Cash in Cash out Cash in Cash out Financial Highlights and *1 Profit per share was calculated by dividing profit attributable to owners of parent by the average number of shares outstanding for the year under review upon subtracting from it the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) number of treasury stocks. *2 Net assets per share were calculated by dividing net assets by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the year under review upon subtracting from it the number of treasury Non-financial Highlights stocks. *3 The Company applied “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) from the beginning of FY2018. Total assets for FY2017 states the figure after the said accounting standard, etc. was applied retrospectively. *4 Numbers less than one million yen are rounded down to the nearest million. Status of Individual Segments Segment Net Sales Operating Profit Business Strategy Net Sales and Overseas Sales Ratio Operating Profit, Ordinary Profit, Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent, and Operating Profit Margin Household and Industrial ¥681,190 million (increase 4.6% year-on-year) ¥22,408 million (increase 312.2% year-on-year) Materials Net sales (¥ bil.) Overseas sales ratio (%) Operating profit (¥ bil.) Ordinary profit (¥ bil.) 1,551.0 Functional Materials ¥224,123 million (increase 1.5% year-on-year) ¥18,357 million (decrease 1.1% year-on-year) 1,485.9 Profit attributable to owners of the parent (¥ bil.) 1,433.6 1,439.9 118.4 Operating profit margin (%) 110.2 1,347.3 Forest Resources and ¥326,467 million (increase 9.4% year-on-year) ¥64,644 million (increase 65.9% year-on-year) Environment Marketing Business 32.0 31.0 Printing and Communications 28.2 ¥302,887 million (decrease 0.8% year-on-year) (¥4,819 million) (—) 27.8 Media Governance 72.0 70.2 70.8 66.0 22.8 60.5 Other ¥294,177 million (increase 6.2% year-on-year) ¥9,846 million (increase 12.4% year-on-year) 52.9 52.0 49.4 7.1 43.9 Subtotal ¥1,828,846 million (increase 4.3% year-on-year) ¥110,437 million (increase 56.5% year-on-year) 40.3 36.2 5.0 4.9 4.8 Adjustments (¥277,854 million) (—) (¥224 million) (—) 3.3 15.5 12.7 Total ¥1,550,991 million (increase 4.4% year-on-year) ¥110,212 million (increase 55.7% year-on-year) Environment *1 Internal managerial categories were revised starting from this fiscal year, and we have made changes to some business segments. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *2 Adjustment amount is mainly the adjustment concerning internal transaction. *3 Numbers less than one million yen are rounded down to the nearest million. Interest-Bearing Debt, Net Interest-Bearing Debt, and Equity Ratio Net Assets Per Share, Profit Per Share, and ROE Interest-bearing debt (¥ bil.) Net interest-bearing debt (¥ bil.) Net assets per share (¥ bil.) Profit per share (¥ bil.) Net Sales Composition Ratios by Segment Operating Profit Composition Ratios by Segment Equity ratio (%) ROE (%) 34.7 Household and Industrial Materials Functional Materials Household and Industrial Materials Functional Materials 34.4 33.1 68.152 68.450 Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Printing and Communications Media Forest Resources and Environment Marketing Business Printing and Communications Media Society 65.603 30.3 30.4 63.595 7.7 58.762 Other Other (%) (%) 6.7 5.252 FY2018 37.2 12.3 17.9 16.6 16.0 FY2018 20.3 16.6 58.6 8.9 862.6 5.6 (4.4) 804.8 777.7 4.074 728.6 677.3 3.664 FY2017 37.2 12.6 17.0 17.4 15.8 FY2017 7.7 26.3 55.2 12.4 625.4 647.4 620.6 587.6 535.0 (1.6) 2.6 Financial 2.1 * Net sales and operating profit composition ratios by segment (%) were calculated excluding adjustments (adjustments for internal transactions, etc.) 1.571 1.286 Information 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 90 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 91 Corporate Profile Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets (¥ mil.) Consolidated Statements of Income (¥ mil.) What the Oji Group Previous Current Previous Current Previous consolidated fiscal year Previous consolidated fiscal year consolidated fiscal year consolidated fiscal year consolidated fiscal year consolidated fiscal year ( From April 1, 2017 To March 31, 2018 ) ( ToFromMarch 31, 2019 ) April 1, 2018 Aims For (March 31, 2018) (March 31, 2019) (March 31, 2018) (March 31, 2019) Net sales 1,485,895 1,550,991 Assets Liabilities Cost of sales 1,144,157 1,175,093 Current assets Current liabilities Notes and accounts payable Gross profit 341,737 375,897 Cash and deposits 50,357 78,756 248,490 253,929 trade Selling, general and administrative expenses Notes and accounts receivable 325,373 334,852 Short-term loans payable 153,911 193,175 Management trade Freight expenses 147,357 149,421 Marketable securities 12,406 9,471 Commercial paper 1,000 3,000 Warehouse expenses 7,281 6,652 Strategy Merchandise and finished goods 96,658 101,940 Current portion of bonds 40,000 20,000 Salaries and wages 54,060 52,886 Work in process 19,502 20,094 Accounts payable-other 16,062 16,705 Retirement benefit expenses 4,927 883 Raw materials and supplies 86,994 94,758 Accrued expenses 49,560 48,912 Depreciation and amortization 5,932 5,151 Short-term loans receivable 3,504 6,294 Income taxes payable 9,320 17,941 Other 51,396 50,689 Accounts receivable-other 19,877 14,531 Other 18,887 22,705 Total selling, general and administrative expenses 270,955 265,685 Financial Highlights and Other 11,894 14,603 Total current liabilities 537,231 576,369 Operating income 70,781 110,212 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,511) (1,838) Non-current liabilities Non-operating income Non-financial Highlights Total current assets 625,056 673,465 Bonds 60,000 70,000 Interest income 1,516 2,081 Non-current assets Long-term loans payable 392,511 334,402 Dividends income 2,735 3,386 Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax liabilities 67,182 62,486 Equity in earnings of affiliates 521 12,593 *1 Buildings and structures 661,640 662,001 Deferred tax liabilities for land 7,828 7,806 Other 6,123 9,535 revaluation Accumulated depreciation (456,863) (473,139) Business Strategy Net defined benefit liability 51,422 52,874 Total non-operating income 10,896 27,596 Buildings and structures (Net) 204,777 188,861 Long-term deposits 7,929 7,728 Non-operating expenses Machinery, equipment and 2,369,615 2,369,868 Other 26,635 24,295 Interest expenses 6,924 6,419 vehicles Accumulated depreciation (2,002,914) (2,051,165) Total non-current liabilities 613,509 559,593 Exchange loss 607 4,046 Machinery, equipment and Total liabilities 1,150,741 1,135,963 366,700 318,702 Other 8,187 8,973 vehicles (Net) Net assets Total non-operating expenses 15,719 19,439 Tools, furniture and fixtures 60,141 59,894 Shareholders’ equity Ordinary profit 65,958 118,370 Governance Accumulated depreciation (54,827) (54,979) Tools, furniture and fixtures Common stock 103,880 103,880 Extraordinary income 5,313 4,914 (Net) Capital surplus 112,086 110,474 Gain on return of assets from retirement benefits trust — 11,224 *2 Land 235,846 235,975 Retained earnings 377,801 413,023 Gain on sales of investment securities 912 2,091 Forests 112,590 110,882 Treasury stock (14,465) (13,753) Gain on revision of retirement benefit plan 1,305 — Plantations 93,238 89,719 Total shareholders’ equity 579,303 613,625 Other 5,439 2,175 Leased assets 9,077 9,012 Accumulated other comprehensive Total extraordinary income 7,657 15,492 Accumulated depreciation (6,288) (6,715) income Environment Valuation difference on available39,287 32,981 Extraordinary losses Leased assets (Net) 2,788 2,296 for-sale securities Deferred gains (losses) on Impairment loss 2,364 34,141 *3 Construction in progress 35,389 33,404 (170) 317 hedges Other 6,251 8,923 Total property, plant and 1,056,644 984,759 Revaluation reserve for land 5,835 5,816 equipment Total extraordinary losses 8,616 43,065 Intangible assets Foreign currency translation 31,973 13,223 Profit before income taxes 64,999 90,797 adjustment Goodwill 9,664 6,682 Remeasurements of defined 17,412 11,428 Income taxes-current 17,794 31,227 benefit plans Other 11,626 9,903 Income taxes-deferred 3,836 (6,560) Society Total accumulated other 94,338 63,767 Total intangible assets 21,290 16,586 comprehensive income Total income taxes 21,631 24,667 Investments and other assets Share acquisition rights 246 222 Profit 43,368 66,130 Investment securities 162,336 186,287 Non-controlling interests 136,122 137,790 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 7,145 14,152 Long-term loans receivable 7,855 7,398 Total net assets 810,011 815,406 Profit attributable to owners of parent 36,222 51,977 Long-term prepaid expenses 21,333 21,336 Total liabilities and net assets 1,960,753 1,951,369 *1 In conjunction with Mitsubishi Paper Mills becoming an affiliate subject to the equity-method, 10,884 million yen is included as the amount equivalent to negative goodwill that arose. Net defined benefit asset 51,614 37,115 *2 In conjunction with the return of a portion of retirement benefits trust assets, unrecognized actuarial differences corresponding to the retirement benefits trust assets were processed as a lump sum. Financial Deferred tax assets 2,820 10,732 *3 Impairment losses of 29,603 million yen were reported in relation to Oji Paper Co., Ltd.’s paper business assets. Other 13,261 14,806 Allowance for doubtful (1,460) (1,119) Information accounts Total investments and other 257,762 276,558 assets Total non-current assets 1,335,696 1,277,904 Total assets 1,960,753 1,951,369 92 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 93 Third-Party Independent Corporate Profile Assurance Report Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (¥ mil.) What the Oji Group Previous Current Previous Current consolidated consolidated consolidated consolidated fiscal year fiscal year fiscal year fiscal year ( ToFromMarchApril31,1, 2017 2018 ) ( To March 31, 2019 ) ( ToFromMarchApril31,1, 2017 2018 ) ( To March 31, 2019 ) Aims For From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Profit before income taxes 64,999 90,797 Net (decrease) increase in short-term 14,046 (21,047) loans payable Depreciation and amortization 71,880 69,527 Net increase (decrease) in commercial (1,000) 2,000 paper Management Impairment loss 2,364 34,141 Proceeds from long-term loans 34,202 26,897 Amortization of goodwill 2,119 1,685 payable Strategy Repayment of long-term loans Depletion of standing timber 7,999 8,457 (57,036) (21,004) payable Increase (decrease) in allowance for (338) 74 Proceeds from issuance of bonds 19,963 29,795 doubtful accounts (Increase) decrease in net defined Payment for redemption of bonds (40,000) (40,000) 3,579 (3,490) benefit asset Payments from changes in ownership Increase in net defined benefit liability 328 2,192 interests in subsidiaries that do (440) (10,424) not result in change of scope of Financial Highlights and Interest and dividend income (4,251) (5,468) consolidation Interest expenses 6,924 6,419 Payment for purchase of treasury (119) (50) stock Non-financial Highlights Exchange loss (gain) (1,584) 3,825 Dividend payments (9,910) (10,900) Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (521) (12,593) Other (1,498) (805) Loss (gain) on sales of investment (903) (1,521) Net cash (used in) financing activities (41,793) (45,539) securities Loss (gain) on return of assets from Effect of exchange rate change on cash — (11,224) (310) (2,241) retirement benefits trust and cash equivalents Business Strategy Loss on disposal of non-current Net increase in cash and cash 2,329 1,933 7,049 26,152 assets equivalents Loss (gain) on sales of non-current Cash and cash equivalents at the (5,252) (132) 51,352 58,343 assets beginning of the year Business structure improvement Increase in cash and cash equivalents 283 1,348 25 20 expenses resulting from mergers of subsidiaries (Increase) decrease in trade Increase in cash and cash equivalents (32,142) (14,005) 51 — receivables from newly consolidated subsidiary (Increase) decrease in inventories (12,837) (16,365) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion of subsidiaries (134) (1,722) Governance Increase (decrease) in trade payables 40,379 6,381 from consolidation Other (5,288) (6,078) Cash and cash equivalents at the end 58,343 82,794 of the year Subtotal 140,067 155,905 Interest and dividend income received 5,002 6,372 Interest paid (6,812) (6,366) Income taxes paid (15,079) (15,339) Net cash provided by operating 123,178 140,571 Environment activities Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of securities (1,130) — Proceeds from sales and redemption — 70 of marketable securities Payment for acquisition of property, (64,739) (59,197) plant, equipment and intangible assets Proceeds from sales of property, plant, 3,133 530 equipment and intangible assets Society Payment for acquisition of investment (4,949) (11,246) securities Proceeds from sales and redemption 1,724 5,131 of investment securities Payment for acquisition of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in (4,340) — scope of consolidation Payment for loans receivable (4,123) (1,858) Proceeds from collection of loans 2,384 1,038 receivable Other (1,984) (1,104) Financial Information Net cash used in investing activities (74,025) (66,636) 94 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 95 List of Affiliated Companies Industrial Materials COMPANY Oji Industrial Materials Management Co., Ltd. Oji Materia Co., Ltd. Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Oji Asia Packaging Sdn. Bhd. Hokuyo Shiko Co., Ltd. Morikamihanbai Co., Ltd. GSPP Group Ojitex (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. Utsunomiya Oji Shiko Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Morishigyo Co., Ltd. GS Paperboard & Packaging Sdn. Bhd. Ojitex Haiphong Co., Ltd. Shin Nihon Feather Core Co., Ltd. Tohoku Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Dazun Paper Industrial Co. Sdn. Bhd. United Packaging Co., Ltd. Saga Itagami Co., Ltd. Sendai Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Oji GS Packaging (Yangon) Co., Ltd. S.Pack & Print Public Co., Ltd. Sahakij Packaging Co., Ltd. Hitachi Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Group PT Oji Sinar Mas Packaging Oji Container Co., Ltd. Gunma Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Oji India Packaging Pvt. Ltd. Musashi Oji Container Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Industries Sdn. Bhd. Nagano Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Kanto Pack Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Industries (Perak) Sdn. Bhd. Oji Interpack Co., Ltd. Niigata Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Honshu Rheem Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Industries (Selangor) Sdn. Bhd. Oji Interpack Korea Ltd. Shizuoka Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Wakayama Oji Container Co., Ltd. Trio Paper Mills Sdn. Bhd. Suzhou Oji Packaging Co., Ltd. Oji Packaging Technology (Chongqing) Co., Ltd. Tokai Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Kansai Pack Co., Ltd. Chiga Light Industries Sdn. Bhd. Oji Interpack Singapore Pte. Ltd. Hokuriku Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Chiyoda Meiwa Danboru Co., Ltd. Harta Fleksipak Sdn. Bhd. Oji Intertech, Inc. Tottori Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Nihon Seika Hoso Co., Ltd. Harta Packaging Industries (Cambodia) Ltd. Oji Interpack India Pvt. Ltd. Shikoku Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Kyodoshiko Corporation Ojitex Harta Packaging (Sihanoukville) Ltd. Oji Interpack Vietnam Co., Ltd. Kyushu Morishigyo Co., Ltd. Kyodo Hinode Sangyo Co., Ltd. Oji Packaging (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Aipacks Co., Ltd. O&C Paper Bag Holdings Co., Ltd. * Intermediate holdings companies Kunshan Oji Filter Co., Ltd. United Kotak Bhd. Fuji Co., Ltd. Oji Seitai Co., Ltd. Kusumiseitaijo Inc. Nantong Oji Filter Co., Ltd Oji Packaging (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Chubushiko Co., Ltd. Japan Paper Technology Dong Nai (VN) Co., Ltd. Japan Paper Technology (VN) Co., Ltd. Household and Consumer Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. Oji Paper Nepia (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. People & Grit (M) Sdn. Bhd. Chuetsu Package Co., Ltd. Chuo Shiko Co., Ltd. Products COMPANY Oji Asia Household Product Sdn. Bhd. People & Grit Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Oji Packaging Co., Ltd. Oji Adba Co., Ltd. OAHP Marketing Sdn. Bhd Supplymark Sdn. Bhd. We Love Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Kyushu Package Co., Ltd. PT Indo Oji Sukses Pratama * Equity-method affiliates PT Oji Indo Makmur Perkasa * Equity-method affiliates Functional Materials COMPANY Oji Functional Materials Progressing Center Inc. Oji F-Tex Co., Ltd. Oji Tac Co., Ltd. Shinomura Chemical Industry Oji Imaging Media Co., Ltd. Oji Scientific Instruments Co., Ltd. Hyper-Region Labels Sdn. Bhd. Hyper-Region Industries Sdn. Bhd. New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Kanzaki Specialty Papers, Inc. Tele-Paper (M) Sdn. Bhd. Sonofax Sdn. Bhd. Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd. Ebetsu Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Kanzan Spezialpapiere GmbH Ge-Pap Sdn. Bhd. Oji Kinocloth (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Sunshine Oji (Shouguang) Oji Paper (Thailand) Ltd. SRE-Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Chuetsu Co., Ltd. Specialty Paper Ltd. Oji Label (Thailand) Ltd. SPNL Print Sdn. Bhd. * Equity-method affiliates Oji Papéis Especiais Ltda. Forest Resources and Oji Green Resources Co., Ltd. Oji Paper International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Pan Pac Forest Products Ltd. Pan Pac Forest Products (Otago) Ltd. Oji Green Energy Shiranuka Co., Ltd. Environment Marketing Business Japan Brazil Paper and Pulp Resources Development Co., Ltd. Oji Forest & Products Co., Ltd. Oji Green Energy Nichinan Co., Ltd. Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A. Oji Forestry Co., Ltd. Oji Green Energy Ebetsu Co., Ltd. COMPANY Cenibra Logística Ltda. Southland Plantation Forest Co. of New Zealand Ltd. Oji Green Energy Tokushima Co., Ltd. Cenibra Internacional Serviços e Coｍércio (Sociedade Unipessoal) Lda Albany Plantation Forest Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd. MPM Oji Eco-Energy Co., Ltd. Cenibra Trading Ltd. Green Triangle Plantation Forest Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd. Oji-Itochu Enex power retailing Co., Ltd. * Equity-method affiliates Cenibra, Inc. Albany Plantation Export Co., Pty. Ltd. Oji Ecomaterial Co., Ltd. Kyokushin Recycling Resources Co., Ltd. PT Korintiga Hutani * Equity-method affiliates Oji Cornstarch Co., Ltd. Oji Saito Paper Recycle Co., Ltd. Quy Nhon Plantation Company * Intermediate holdings companies Oji Trading Co., Ltd. Printing and Communications Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Tomakomai Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Quy Nhon Plantation Forest Co. of Vietnam Ltd. Binh Dihn Chip Corporation Media COMPANY Tomakomai Kyowa Service Co., Ltd. Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Yonago Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Tomioka Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Nitinan Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. O&C Ivory Board Co., Ltd. * Equity-method affiliates Corporate Management Group Oji Management Office Inc. Oji Real Estate Co., Ltd. OCM Fiber Trading Co., Ltd. Oji Oceania Management Co., Ltd. Oji Fibre Solutions Group Chuetsu Pulp & Paper Co., Ltd. * Equity-method affiliates Mitsubishi Paper Mills Limited * Equity-method affiliates Kyokuyo Co., Ltd. Oji Forest Products Vietnam Co., Ltd. Oji Fibre Solutions (NZ) Ltd. Fujikako Co., Ltd. Yupo Corporation * Equity-method affiliates Oji Fibre Solutions (AUS) Pty. Ltd. Ginpo Pack Co., Ltd. Oji Paper Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Oji Foodservice Packaging Solutions (AUS) Pty. Ltd. Oji Hall Co., Ltd. Oji Asia Management Sdn.Bhd. Oji Fibre Solutions (QLD) Pty. Ltd. Oji Paper Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Oji Myanmar Packaging Co.,Ltd. Oji Cardboard Carton Solutions Pty. Ltd. Hotel New Oji Co., Ltd. Shared Service Companies Oji Logistics Co., Ltd. Oji Engineering Co., Ltd. Oji Machinery Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Oji Machinery Chubu Co., Ltd. Oji Business Center Co., Ltd. Oji Human Support Co., Ltd. 96 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 97 Corporate Data / Stock Information From the Publisher of this Integrated Report Company Profile (as of March 31, 2019) To provide information about the Oji Group to stakeholders including investors, we have released the Environmental and Company name Oji Holdings Corporation Sustainability Reports and the Oji Group Report. For FY2019, we released the Oji Group Integrated Report, including more Director of the Board, President Masatoshi Kaku (appointed April 1, 2019) detailed financial and non-financial information about us, prepared in a more easily understandable manner. In recent years, the Earth, where we live, has been facing crises never previously experienced, such as climate change and Headquarters address 7-5, Ginza 4-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0061 Japan the issue of plastic in the ocean. Under these circumstances, the Oji Group, operating a paper manufacturing business since Start of business February 12, 1873 our foundation, with forest resources as the core of our business, has held numerous discussions by obtaining internal and external cooperation to sincerely and carefully communicate what new values can be created, how it could be possible to Corporate establishment August 1, 1949 commercialize them, and how we can contribute to the global environment and society through the new businesses. Capital ¥103,880 million We hope that the Oji Group Integrated Report 2019 will help you understand more about the Oji Group and our initiative to fulfill our mission to continue innovating to implement our business activities that contribute to advancing our society, with a Total number of authorized shares 2,400,000,000 shares view toward the future, through deeper communication with stakeholders. Total number of issued shares 1,014,381,817 shares (23,369,691 shares) (treasury stocks included in the total) Number of shareholders 59,813 Number of employees of the consolidated Group 36,309 Oji Holdings Website Scope of Coverage of this Report Please refer to the corporate website for more detailed information. In general, this report covers Oji Holdings, 190 consolidated subsidiaries, and 24 equity-method ● Homepage: affiliates (as of March 31, 2019). In cases where Stock Information (as of March 31, 2019) https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/ coverage differs, this is indicated. ● Investor Relations Listing stock exchange Tokyo Stock Exchange https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/ir/ Reporting Period The reporting period is from April 1, 2018 to Securities Identification Code 3861 ●S  ecurities report March 31, 2019. Share register manager and account https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/ir/library/security.html With the exception of numerical data, however, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited administration authority for special ●E  SG Data Collection activities carried out after April 2019 are also 4-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Japan accounts https://www.ojiholdings.co.jp/english/environment/esg_data.html referenced. Transfer Agency Department, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Mailing address 8-4, Izumi 2-chome, Suginami-ku, Tokyo 168-0063 Japan Editorial Policies Disclaimer Regarding Forecasts and Toll-free telephone number +81-120-782-031 When preparing this Report, and reference was made to the following. Other Forward-looking Statements Additionally, the report is structured in relation to the 10 principles in Forecasts and other forward-looking statements four areas found in the United Nations Global Compact. in this report represent projections by Oji Holdings based on information available at the time of Principal Shareholders (as of March 31, 2019) Distribution of ●G  RI Standard (Global Reporting Initiative) publication and reasonable judgments and therefore contain uncertainties. Please be advised Name of shareholder Shares held Percentage of total Shareholders ●G  uidance for Collaborative Value Creation that actual results may differ substantially due to (Thousands) various factors. shares issued Treasury stocks 2.3% (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 81,771 8.3% ● ISO 26000 Other This Report is Printed on Forest domestic (International Organization for Standard) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 64,734 6.5% corporations Certified Paper ● International Integrated Reporting Framework 8.7% This report uses OK Top Coat Matte N Eco Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 35,452 3.6% Individual (International Integrated Reporting Council) Forest paper (cover: 157.0 g/m2; body: 104.7 and others Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 31,668 3.2% 17.6% Financial institutions / g/m2) manufactured by Oji Paper, an Oji Group Securities companies 47.8% Ensuring Reliability company. Paper products from the Eco Forest Nippon Life Insurance Company 25,658 2.6% To ensure the reliability of this report, FY2018 figures marked with series are FSC™ forest certified paper made from Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 23,063 2.3% Foreign investors a star (★) have been assured in accordance with the International resources harvested from responsibly-managed 23.6% Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISAE 3410 by forests (Oji Paper’s license code is FSC™ Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 21,636 2.2% KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. C014119). Oji Group Employee Stock-holding Association 19,419 2.0% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 17,303 1.7% Integrated Report p. 71 FSC™ Forest The Norinchukin Bank 16,654 1.7% Certification Programs * The Company holds treasury stock of 23,369 thousand shares, which is excluded from the above list. * The percentage of total shares issued has been calculated after excluding the Company’s treasury stock (23,369 thousand shares). * Numbers less than one thousand are rounded down to the nearest thousand 98 Oji Group Integrated Report 2019
