Sustainability Report 2019 M AÎTRE CHOCOL ATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 18 45 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Lindt & Sprüngli portrait For 175 years, Lindt & Sprüngli has maintained its reputation as one of the most innovative and creative companies in the premium chocolate market. 8 Production, Marketing, and Sales 1 Kilchberg, CH 2 Aachen, DE 27 13 3 Paris, FR 6 9 2 4 Induna Olona, IT 10 5 Vienna, AT 5 3 28 6 London, GB 1 7 Barcelona, ES 4 8 Stockholm, SE 12 9 Warsaw, PL 7 10 Prague, CZ 11 11 Moscow, RU 12 Luserna S. Giovanni (Caffarel), IT 18 13 Rotterdam, NL 16 14 15 14 Kansas City, USA 17 24 15 Stratham, USA 16 Toronto, CA 23 26 17 Kansas City (Russel Stover), USA 22 18 San Leandro (Ghirardelli), USA 19 19 Mexico City, MX 20 São Paulo, BR 21 Cape Town, ZA 22 Hong Kong, CN 23 Shanghai, CN 24 Tokyo, JP 25 Sydney, AU 20 Regional offices 21 25 26 Dubai, UAE 27 Dublin, IRL 28 Budapest, HU Quality chocolate from Lindt & Sprüngli is distributed via its own subsidiaries, regional offices, an extensive global network of distributors as well as in 500 of its own shops. Lindt & Sprüngli’s main markets are in Europe and North America. Its portfolio features Lindt, Ghirardelli, Russell Stover, Whitman’s, Pangburn’s, Caffarel, Hofbauer and Küfferle. The company is present in more than 120 countries worldwide with its extensive and innovative range of fine premium chocolate. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Content Foreword by ou r CEO a nd CFO 4 Per formi ng toget her 42 Ma in commitments a nd prog ress 2019 5 Bu si ne s s i nteg r it y 43 Oc c upat iona l he a lt h a nd s a fe t y 44 Li ndt & Spr ü ng l i Susta i nabi l it y Pla n 6 E nabl i ng a nd mot iv at i ng work i ng env i ron ment 45 O u r pu r p os e a nd fo c u s a re a s 8 O u r r aw a nd pac k a g i ng mater ia l s 10 Del ig ht i ng consu mers 49 Tr a nspa rent a nd re sp onsible c om mu n ic at ion 50 Improv i ng l ivel i hoods 11 P ro duc t qu a l it y/ P ro duc t s a fe t y 52 Ru r a l de velopment 12 Hu ma n r ig ht s i n t he supply cha i n 31 Susta i nabi l it y approach 54 G over na nc e 56 C ont r ibut i ng to a n i ntac t env i ronment 34 Mater ia l it y pro c e s s a nd st r ateg y de velopment 57 Biod iversit y a nd e c os y stem s 35 Mappi ng of mater ia l topic s to fo c u s a re a s 58 CO 2 a nd c l i mate 38 St a keholder approach 59 Water 40 Wa ste a nd re c yc l i ng 41 About t his repor t 60 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Foreword by our CEO and CFO Dear readers, Sustainability plays an essential role for all of us at Lindt & Sprüngli manufactured and creative chocolate products. In this sense, we are – not only for our business success, but also to ensure future supplies delighted that after 12 years of groundwork, we are well on track to of our high-quality ingredients. In the following report, we will use reach our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program goal in 2020: All the this opportunity to address our stakeholders’ concerns, needs and cocoa beans we use come from a fully traceable and verified supply interests. chain. However, we do not intend to rest on our laurels but will keep The Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan is the pathway we are moving forward. taking in this direction, demonstrating our commitment for a We believe that a sustainable future can only be achieved through better tomorrow. Our comprehensive strategy addresses the susworking together proactively with different partners and society. Our tainability issues that are impacted most through our business long-term commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten princiDr Dieter Weisskopf, CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group activities – both from a risk and opportunity perspective. Alongside ples reflects our values. Together with our outstanding employees, our environmental protection, we are also paying special attention to valuable partners and their continuous support, we aspire to minimize the people who are most closely linked to our company: the farmers our negative and maximize our positive influence on the environment, and factory workers who produce our valuable raw and packaging society and the economy along our value chain. materials, the employees who are crucial for our long-term success, We feel proud and gratified to continue the progress we have and the consumers who choose our products. Our updated stratealready made with our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan by gy will embed sustainability even further and drive progress at presenting our tenth and most recent Sustainability Report. every level of our organization. Clearly defined responsibilities and the strong commitment of our entire team will be the key elements that support us on this journey. The year 2020 marks Lindt & Sprüngli’s 175th anniversary, and we are proud to look back on what our organization and people Martin Hug, CFO Lindt & Sprüngli Group have accomplished during this time. Throughout our history, we Dr Dieter Weisskopf Martin Hug and Head of the Sustainability Executive Team have established a reputation for providing traditional, exquisitely CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group CFO Lindt & Sprüngli Group L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Main commitments and progress 2019 Focus area Main commitment Progress Rural development 100% of cocoa is sourced through sustainability programs by 2025 On track Human rights in the supply chain 80% of our procurement expenditure for raw and packaging materials bearing significant sustainability risks is covered by a sustainable On track sourcing program by 2025 Biodiversity and ecosystems 100% of sourced cocoa is free from deforestation by 2025 (=covered by a fully implemented No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan) On track CO2 and climate 10% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the production process by 2020, per ton produced Commitment Base year 2015 = 100% achieved Water 10% reduction of municipal water used in the production process by 2020, per ton produced Commitment Base year 2015 = 100% achieved Waste and recycling 50% reduction of chocolate waste in the production process by 2025, per ton produced On track Base year 2015 = 100% Business integrity We do not participate in any corrupt or anti-competitive behavior No deviations Occupational health and safety We continuously reduce our safety risks to achieve our long-term vision of zero lost-time accidents On track Enabling and motivating working 40% women on senior leadership level by 2025 Measures environment initiated Transparent and responsible We market and advertise our products according to national/ No communication international laws deviations Product quality/Product safety We comply with Lindt & Sprüngli quality and food safety standards on an ongoing basis No deviations L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan Our Commitment for a Better Tomorrow Sustainability plays a key role in ensuring our business sucOur aim is to foster successful collaboration within Sustainability Plan, we updated our existing analysis of key cess. Our 175 years of history prove us to be a long-termthe company, improve the livelihoods of our farmers sustainability issues and integrated new aspects. We took oriented company that continues to perfect and deliver in the countries of origin, contribute to an intact into consideration the needs of our stakeholders as well as traditional, exquisitely manufactured products with high environment, and delight our consumers. This purpose our impact on the environment, society and the economy quality. Nevertheless, preserving our traditions does not with its four components forms the framework of (> see Materiality process and strategy development p. 57). mean stagnation for us, but rather continuous improvement. our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan. The Sustainability Executive Team assists with and Meanwhile, we also take into consideration the dynamics We want to exert a positive influence on sustainable develmonitors the implementation of the Lindt & Sprüngli of sustainable development. Challenges, priorities and opment and minimize negative influences as much as posSustainability Plan. The Sustainability Plan is put into stakeholder expectations evolve constantly due to new insible along the entire value chain. The Lindt & Sprüngli action by the relevant departments with strong implemensights and developments. We have built the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan focuses on the areas that are most aftation responsibility placed on the respective subsidiaries. Sustainability Plan – our commitment for a better tomorfected by our business activities and on which we can have This governance structure provides us with the necessary row – to equip us to handle these developments in the best the greatest impact. From a business perspective, this apflexibility to implement our strategy in local contexts as manner possible. proach will not only reduce operational risks and increase well (> see Governance p. 56). With the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan, we are employee engagement, but will also guarantee the longOur main commitments are what guide us. We rely on intensifying our commitment to a more sustainable future, term supply of high-quality key raw materials and consoliagile implementation to achieve our goals within these and, together with our partners, we want to generate longdate financial sustainability. guidelines. We review our progress annually and adapt our term value for the environment, society and economy. Our The Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan was signed management approaches to meet new challenges. Our “Lindt & Sprüngli Promise” remains the same. All products off by the Group Management and the Board of Directors annual Sustainability Report forms the central means of that leave our factories will ultimately live up to our commitat the end of 2018. It builds on the previous sustainability communication on the progress we are making in implement to sustainability along the entire value chain. strategy. During the drafting of our Lindt & Sprüngli menting our Sustainability Plan. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Overview of our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan along the value chain with our purpose, focus areas, and main commitments Value chain rced ly sou b ina usta S Purpose We comply with Lindt & Sprüngli 100% of cocoa is sourced through quality and food safety standards on an sustainability programs by 2025 ongoing basis g Im in liv pr ht ers 80% of our procurement expenditure for Focus area el We market and advertise our products D m ih g raw and packaging materials bearing sigaccording to national/international laws co elig in s nificant sustainability risks is covered by Sustaina ov od lity/ qua R deve ural ns uct t safety a sustainable sourcing program by 2025 bly c lop u od Pr oduc Pr me nt o ons um Tran ghts and r spare n ri ma e ed e comm spons nt Hu in th ain h uni ibl ly c 100% of sourced cocoa is free from cat e pp ion su deforestation by 2025 Bioin g E n a b l a ti n g diver sity 10% reduction of greenhouse gas t iv emissions in the production process an d mo ing and e c os wo r k e nt y s te m s by 2020, per ton produced nm e n v ir o CO base year 2015 = 100% 40% women on senior leadership level O c li 2 a n m at e d up by 2025 cc h e an d a a tio sa l th n a l r tin fe Wa te ir o g t ed 10% reduction of water from municipal nm o an ty r fo Bus supply in the production process by in Waste inte e ss Pe toge We continuously reduce our safety risks g ri t y uc 2020, per ton produced and to achieve our long-term vision of zero rm recyclin g en od th i n g u t base year 2015 = 100% ri b nv pr lost-time accidents er n t e ly C o ta ct ab in 50% reduction of chocolate waste in ta We do not participate in any corrupt s in the production process by 2025, Su or anti-competitive behavior per ton produced base year 2015 = 100% L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Our purpose and focus areas The Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan is organized into the Improving livelihoods Contributing to an intact environment four components of our purpose and eleven focus areas. Each We want to support people in our value chain to create An intact environment is essential for our company and the focus area covers at least one material topic. These material decent and resilient livelihoods. The farmers, their families, entire value chain. Therefore, we are focused on protecting topics have been identified based on our materiality analysis employees, and the corresponding communities in our the environment and reducing the environmental footprint (> see materiality process and strategy development p. 57). supply chain are at the center of our activities. of our chocolate as well as its packaging. We have defined several measurable commitments with corresponding indicators to assess each focus area. We have Rural development Biodiversity and ecosystems also highlighted one target in each focus area as the main Our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and other sustainWhen it comes to preserving biodiversity and ecosystems, commitment (> see Sustainability Plan p. 7). To achieve our ability initiatives for the sourcing of raw materials enable us we focus in particular on stopping deforestation in cocoacommitments, we have outlined effective measures, which to support farmers and their families to create decent and growing areas. To address this challenge, we have developed will be implemented over the coming years within the resilient livelihoods. and published a ▶ No-Deforestation and Agroforestry Action framework of our Sustainability Plan. Plan for all countries of origin. In addition, the promotion Our Sustainability Report follows the structure of the Human rights in the supply chain of biodiversity using ecologically sound cultivation methods four purpose components and the corresponding focus We respect the UN Guiding Principles on Business and and the promotion of cocoa diversity are also key elements areas described below. Human Rights, and we conduct our due diligence by means of the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan. of a risk-based approach of the raw and packaging materials we source. Our ▶ Supplier Code of Conduct is a key instruCO2 and climate ment in this endeavor, as it requires adherence to social and We are steadily reducing both our direct greenhouse gas environmental standards by our partners throughout the emissions and our energy consumption. This is an important entire supply chain. contribution to curb climate change, which we recognize as a threat to our environment. We are also assuming our responsibility within the supply chain with our measures in the focus areas of rural development, human rights in the supply chain, and biodiversity and ecosystems. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Water Performing together Delighting consumers We consider water to be a valuable resource, and – as one As a premium chocolate company committed to high To remain successful in the long term, Lindt & Sprüngli of our direct measures – we are continuously reducing our quality standards, innovation and sustainability, our emstrives to continuously surprise and delight its consumers consumption of water from municipal water supplies. We ployees are a key factor for our future. Workplace safety is with innovative, premium chocolate products. Our consumare also assuming our responsibility within the supply a top priority, and we encourage and motivate our employees ers’ trust is the indispensable basis for achieving this. We chain with additional measures in the focus areas of rural to achieve mutual success. We support equal opportunities assume a high level of responsibility toward our consumers development and human rights in the supply chain. in the workplace and an attractive working environment. to ensure product quality and product safety as well as transparent communication. Waste and recycling Business integrity We are reducing our material waste during production by We are committed to the principle of free competition and Transparent and responsible communication optimizing our processes on an ongoing basis. Furthercondemn any form of bribery or corruption. We hold both We are committed to transparent communication to fulfill more, our product packaging will be assessed over the our employees and business partners to these standards. our consumers’ information requirements, in particular with coming years and – where necessary – improved in order regard to allergens and nutritional values. We market and to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging in Occupational health and safety advertise our products according to national/international line with our vision. We adopt a proactive approach to preventing work-related laws and in a responsible manner, especially through our injuries and illnesses in our factories. Our measures in the pledge for not advertising to children as primary media target. focus areas of rural development and human rights in the supply chain enable us to also address health and safety issues Product quality/Product safety in our supply chain. We have developed an all-encompassing quality management system and place strict demands on our chocolate. Enabling and motivating working environment Comprehensive internal and external controls ensure that We create an attractive and enabling environment for our our chocolate meets our high quality standards all around employees in order to acquire and retain talented staff. This the world. includes, above all, an inspiring work culture, the promotion of diversity and equal opportunities, employee development and training, and employee satisfaction and retention. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 Our raw and packaging materials Significant social and environmental impacts related to the Material Main focus areas Page production of chocolate affect the supply chain and thereby the cultivation, processing, and transport of raw and packCocoa beans Rural development pp. 13–17 aging materials. Sourcing these materials sustainably is of Biodiversity and ecosystems pp. 20–29, 35–36 particular importance to Lindt & Sprüngli. We constantly observe and review environmental and human rights risks Cocoa butter and other cocoa products Rural development p. 30 associated with our sourced raw and packaging materials. We report on raw and packaging materials within differBiodiversity and ecosystems pp. 35–36 ent focus areas, depending on the main issue and challenges to be addressed. The following reference list provides an Hazelnuts Human rights in the supply chain p. 32 overview of the main raw and packaging materials mentioned in this report. Palm oil Biodiversity and ecosystems p. 37 Soy lecithin Biodiversity and ecosystems p. 37 Eggs Biodiversity and ecosystems p. 37 Packaging material Human rights in the supply chain pp. 32–33 Waste and recycling p. 41 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Improving livelihoods 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Rural development Many farmers and farm workers producing raw materials Lindt & Sprüngli takes its responsibilities for these farmers used for chocolate face complex and structural challenges. and its influence on their livelihoods very seriously. Through Most farmers in developing countries, including cocoa our active engagement in the supply chain, we can support farmers, have small and/or overaged farms. Many of these farmers producing our raw materials to secure a decent and smallholders have limited knowledge of good agricultural resilient livelihood, and thereby foster rural development. practices, limited access to farming equipment and planting Our aim is to improve living conditions on the ground and materials, and face depleted soils, pests and diseases as well conserve natural resources with our engagement for susas high input and transportation costs due to poor infratainable supply chains. Furthermore, we also fulfill our structure. This often leads to low incomes for farmers, customers’ and consumers’ expectations and build trust in which gives rise to social challenges such as poverty and our brands. child labor. In this context, farmers are also often confronted Our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, a sustainability with limited access to financing and a lack of opportunities program for cocoa bean sourcing, is at the heart of our and infrastructure. Finally, environmental challenges such activities involving rural development. In addition, we as climate change and deforestation are crucial issues that have implemented sustainability programs for other cocoa need to be resolved in order to foster rural development. products such as cocoa butter (> see p. 30). These comprehensive sustainability programs, which are implemented in partnership with our suppliers, will be presented on the following pages. These programs serve to foster rural development in the long term. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Cocoa beans purchases and processes chocolate and chocolate products. and their families, and a sustainable intensification of agThe Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program We put this bean-to-bar advantage to work in achieving ricultural practices. At the same time, it helps us to secure 100% of our cocoa beans are sourced through the our sustainability goals. That is why we implemented our the supply of high-quality cocoa beans from a stable base Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program (traceable and own sustainability program for the sourcing of cocoa of farmers. We aim to achieve this vision through higher verified) by 2020 beans: the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. With this productivity on the farms, diversified household incomes, Our commitment to sustainability begins with a bean, a flagship program, we can have a positive effect on the preservation of biodiversity and natural ecosystems, reduced tree, and a farmer – because high-quality cocoa beans are farmers who cultivate and harvest the cocoa beans that risk of child labor, and improved infrastructure in comthe heart of our chocolate. We want to know where those we use in our production. For our consumers, this means munities (> see Theory of Change, p. 18). beans come from and under which conditions they are that they can be sure that we source and process the beans The 4341 field staff in the countries of origin, all figrown and harvested. Lindt & Sprüngli is one of the few from the farmers in our own Lindt & Sprüngli Farming nanced by the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, are inchocolate makers that produce from bean to bar – from Program. volved on a daily basis with the 78,4251 farmers, working the selection of the fine cocoa varieties through to the Our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program strives to enwith great passion to fulfill this vision. The farmers, their finished product, except for our Russell Stover brand, which sure decent and resilient livelihoods for our cocoa farmers families, employees, and the corresponding communities 2008 2013 2015 2017 2019 Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana with a focus on Establishment of the Lindt Cocoa Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Launch of the No-Deforestation & Agroforestry traceability and community development Foundation Program in Madagascar Program in Papua New Guinea Action Plan for Cocoa 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 Expansion of the Program to include four Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Cocoa bean supply chain in Ghana Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Our goal: 100% of our cocoa beans are Program elements, including external Program in Ecuador becomes fully traceable and verified Program in the Dominican Republic sourced through the Lindt & Sprüngli verification Farming Program (traceable and verified) 1 Figures by end of September 2019 (end of cocoa season 2018/2019) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Dominican Republic Ghana Papua New Guinea Ecuador Madagascar Lindt & Sprüngli sources high-quality cocoa beans from the renowned cocoa-producing regions in the world such as Ghana, Ecuador, Madagascar, Papua New Guinea and the Dominican Republic. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program has been established in all our countries of origin since 2018. are given top priority in our activities. Having our own points compared to 2018, resulting in a total of 92% of all Traceability and verification of all cocoa beans sustainability program for cocoa beans ensures that these sourced cocoa beans. We implemented the Lindt & Sprüng% of the sourced cocoa beans that were traceable and stakeholders are also the actual beneficiaries of our investli Farming Program in all the countries of origin where we verified (from the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program) ments. Long-term and stable partnerships with our supplisource our cocoa beans, i.e. in Ghana, Madagascar, Ecuaers are a key factor for success in this area. The implemendor, Papua New Guinea and the Dominican Republic. tation of the four elements (> see pp. 16–17) in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program is financed with a price 92 premium per metric ton of cocoa beans sourced from the 86 Program and co-funding from other organizations. Since 79 2008, we have invested a total of USD 37 million2 in the 57 Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program for cocoa beans, with 32 more than USD 8 million of that invested in the 2018/2019 13 cocoa season alone. Additionally, the ▶ Lindt Cocoa Foun0 dation has contributed around USD 2 million annually in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 investments for farmers and communities since 2014. In 2019, we succeeded in increasing the amount of traceOur cocoa beans come from Ghana, Ecuador, Madagascar, able and externally verified cocoa beans by six percentage Papua New Guinea and the Dominican Republic. 2 Figures by end of September 2019 (end of cocoa season 2018/2019) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in numbers – Our achievements Theory of change (> see p. 18) indicators by end of September 2019 (end of 2018/2019 cocoa season) 92% of the cocoa bean volume sourced through 434 field staff support and advise 37 million USD invested since start of the Program, 78,425 farmers participating in the Program the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in 2019 the farmers on a daily basis more than USD 8 million in 2019 Higher productivity on farms Diversified long-term incomes and increased 159 resilience of farming households 6,242 cocoa-farming model farms in place 5,665,746 cocoa seedlings distributed since start farmers with additional income generating activities through Program of the Program (with 2,250,039 cocoa since start of the Program 16,964 1,567 seedlings distributed in 2018/19 cocoa season) farmers trained in additional income community members participating in a generating activities total of 87 village savings and loan groups since start of the Program (VSLAs) or equivalent (41% women) Conservation of biodiversity and natural ecosystems 13 permanent shade trees per hectare on average 61,104 1,274,074 shade tree seedlings distributed since start 41,711 (53%) farmers with at least 5 permanent farmers with all farms GPS located of the Program (with 371,339 shade tree shade tree species per hectare 57,608 seedlings distributed in 2018/19 cocoa season) (73%) farmers proven not to be located 3.8 10,584 (13%) farmers with at least 25 in protected areas as per local laws shade tree species per hectare on average permanent shade trees per hectare Reduction of the risk of child labor Improved community infrastructure 29 schools currently under construction, ≈130,000 expected to benefit 3,034 children upon community members benefit from water completion infrastructure improvements 12 child labor cases found, 100% 211 boreholes and 3 bigger water systems built, of these child labor cases remediated 1 bigger water system repaired L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Elements of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Traceability and farmer organization Training and knowledge transfer Traceability of the cocoa beans is the key for ensuring Familiar with the local circumstances and needs, the 4343 sustainable cocoa bean sourcing. This transparency enables local field staff train and coach the farmers to professionalize us to improve the quality of the cocoa beans while at the in the following areas: same time being aware of the social and ecological farming conditions on the ground. This in turn allows us to provide Agricultural practices: Farmers learn everything targeted support for the farmers (> see Elements 2 and 3). about planting, cultivating, harvesting, fermenting, and drying the cocoa beans. The 159 model farms At the end of the 2018⁄2019 cocoa season, 78,425 farmers were also form an important component of the training, participating in the Program, of whom 29% were women. enabling the farmers to observe firsthand the effects of the professional practices being taught. Thanks to our traceability system, we know which farmers’ groups the cocoa beans come from and the Environmental practices: Farmers are educated amount each farmer contributed to the deliveries. about biodiversity and environmental protection (e.g. the production of organic fertilizers). As a basis for our engagement, we gather baseline data about farms (including GPS coordinates), farmers, Social practices: Farmers are sensitized to issues and communities to assess their specific needs. such as health, labor safety, and labor standards (e.g. child labor). The farmers are organized into groups for the implementation of the Program. Business practices: Farmers learn how to operate their farms as professional businesses, with a focus on increasing yields and reducing costs to raise net profits. They also receive advice on how to diversify their income (> see e.g. Ghana p. 20, Ecuador p. 25). 3 Figures by end of September 2019 (end of cocoa season 2018/2019) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Farmer investments and community development Verification and continuous progress The Program helps farmers to professionalize their farms In order to ensure the Program’s effectiveness and provide and supports community development by means of the verification, a structured internal and external program following services: evaluation is carried out annually in accordance with our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program ▶ Verification Guidance Distribution of higher-yielding and disease-resistant Document. cocoa seedlings and shade trees to rejuvenate older and unproductive cocoa trees or entire plantations and foster agroforestry systems. As part of the internal monitoring, the project partners examine the continuous progress of the farmers’ social, ecological, agricultural, and economic practices. The internal monitoring visits are conducted by the 4344 local field staff, who personally visit each of the farmers Provision of farming supplies (e.g. rubber boots, pruning on their farms every year. tools, fertilizer) that allow the farmers to work more efficiently and apply the professional practices acquired during the training to increase their harvests. The external review by the independent non-profit organization ▶ Earthworm Foundation (formerly The Forest Trust) evaluates the entire Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, including its internal monitoring system. Construction of water systems and boreholes for Earthworm then draws up recommendations for clean drinking water and distribution of gray water improvement and further development measures for filter systems. the Program to combat the underlying reasons behind non-compliance with sustainable farming methods. The verification is the result of the combined internal and external evaluations. This allows us to evaluate to Renovation of primary schools to combat the risk of what degree the farmers’ improved agricultural, social, child labor as well as support of sensitization efforts ecological and economic practices are influencing and monitoring measures in at-risk countries (> see sustainable agricultural development – and in particular update on the implementation of the Action Plan the livelihoods of the farmers and their families. Against Child Labor in Ghana p. 23). The Program also provides investments in fermentation and drying installations to improve the cocoa’s quality, increase efficiency and reduce environmental impacts. Furthermore, it supports the establishment of savings groups to strengthen the farmers’ economic resilience. Starting capital and credit are also made available to encourage additional income sources such as snail and fish farming, beekeeping, and the production of organic fertilizers. 4 Figures by end of September 2019 (end of cocoa season 2018/2019) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Theory of Change of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program aims to create decent It demonstrates which direct results as well as which outand resilient livelihoods for current and future cocoa-growcomes and longer-term effects the Program should obtain ing families and sustainable agricultural intensification. At with its inputs and activities (the four Program elements). the same time, its goal is to secure the supply of high-quality Parallel to this, we list our most important contributions cocoa beans for Lindt & Sprüngli from a stable base of to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs farmers. Our Theory of Change provides a simple descripare 17 goals for sustainable development from the United tion of the relationships that make up the transformation Nations (UN). that the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program wants to achieve. Theory of Change framework Input and activities Output Outcome Impact The four Program elements Direct results Benefits thanks to the Program The long-term benefits of the Program 1. Traceability and farmer organization — The farmers are registered and — Higher productivity on farms Decent and resilient livelihoods for today’s 2. Training and knowledge transfer organized in groups —D  iversified long-term incomes and future cocoa farmers and their families, 3. Farmer investments and community — The farmers are trained in good and increased resilience of farming and a sustainable agricultural intensificadevelopment agricultural, environmental, social, households tion while securing the supply of high-­ 4. Verification and continuous progress and business practices — Conservation of biodiversity and quality cocoa beans from a stable base of — The farmers have access to agricultural natural ecosystems farmers services, inputs, and equipment — Reduction of the risk of child labor — Rejuvenated and diversified cocoa — Improved community infrastructure farms and additional income sources (e.g. clean drinking water) — The farmers have access to financial products — Child labor monitoring and remediation systems (CLMRS) are in place — Investments in community infrastructure (based on needs assessment) — Farmers are monitored L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Alignment of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) SDG 1 No poverty: End poverty in all its forms SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation: Ensure availability SDG 15 Life on the land: Protect, restore and promote everywhere and the sustainable management of water and sanitation sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably By promoting sustainable economic growth, the Program for all manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and is able to address some of the root causes of poverty in the Building water supply systems, conducting training sessions reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss long-term. The goal is to achieve higher net incomes, more on water, sanitation and hygiene, distributing drinking The Farming Program supports sustainable intensification employment opportunities, and higher profitability for water filters and promoting agroforestry cultivation systems of agriculture through training and coaching of farmers in cocoa cultivation among targeted small-scale farmers. improves access to drinking water and promote sustainprofessional environmental and agricultural practices as well (> see Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 16–17; Ghana pp. 20–21; able water management. as the promotion of climate-smart farming methods and Ecuador p. 25) (> see Element 3 on p. 17; Ghana p. 21; Madagascar p. 27; agroforestry. At the same time, it contributes to the preserPapua New Guinea p. 29) vation of natural ecosystems and prevents the further clearing of high conservation value forest areas for cocoa cultivation through the implementation of the ▶ No-Deforestation­ & Agroforestry Action Plan, piloting satellite monitoring systems and participation in landscape projects. (> see Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 16–17, No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan p. 36; Dynamic agroforestry in SDG 2 No hunger: End hunger, achieve food security SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth: Promote Ecuador p. 25) and improved nutrition and promote sustainable stable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, agriculture productive full employment and decent work for all During specific nutrition training sessions in Ghana, farmThe Program supports decent work for all by offering training ing households learn how they can enrich their diet with sessions in labor standards, regular inspections on the foods that they can plant and raise themselves to ensure a ground, and specific measures strive to prevent, monitor more balanced and healthy diet for their families. In all our and ultimately abolish child labor in at-risk countries. countries of origin, agricultural training and coaching sesThanks to its wide-­reaching support measures, the Program sions aid the farmers in learning how to make more optimal also promotes sustainable economic growth and a secure use of their own farmland with agroforestry systems, which livelihood for farmers’ families. also helps them to achieve greater self-sufficiency and in(> see Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 16–17; update on the implecome diversification. Farmers also receive suitable fruit or mentation of the Action Plan Against Child Labor in nut shade trees. Ghana p. 23) (> see Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 16–17; Ghana pp. 20–21) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Farming Program in Ghana In Ghana, our largest country of origin for cocoa beans, Sustainable intensification of cocoa cultivation Creation of additional income sources the Program continues to evolve and foster innovation. A This Program area focuses on increasing productivity while The seasonal nature of cocoa cultivation results in unstable total of 64,812 farmers organized in 1,812 clusters (societies) maintaining the farmer’s land size. We increase farmers’ cash flows for cocoa-farming households. Consequently, were part of the Program in the 2018/2019 cocoa season. capacity through group trainings and coaching sessions to farmers need additional and alternative income sources to As of the beginning of the 2016/2017 cocoa season, all of enable them to adopt practices that will prepare them for meet their expenses. To address this, we will develop new our cocoa beans from Ghana are traceable and externally the negative effects of climate change on their farms. To initiatives such as the establishment of a revolving fund verified. This year, interventions addressing major challenges date, 63,003 farmers (97%) participated in training sessions aimed to provide financial support to farmers who particifor cocoa production in West Africa have been intensified on good agricultural, social or environmental practices, pated in our additional-income training. Since the start of once again, including farmers’ income insecurity, food and more than 6,300 received focused training sessions on the Program, 14,780 farmers have received training on how self-sufficiency, environmental impacts of cocoa cultivation climate-smart practices. In addition to Farmers’ Farm to generate additional income. These farmers will be the and child labor risks. We continue to work tirelessly with Schools held in each cluster (society), which demonstrate initial target of the revolving fund that will be put in place our local implementation partner and with support from good practices to farmers, we established 79 model farms in cocoa season 2019/20. funding partners to offer innovative solutions to support the to train farmers in soil sampling and fertilization. The Profarmers and their communities. gram also supports the renovation of the overaged farms With the invaluable financial support from the Swiss registered in its Program by distributing high-yielding and State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) within the disease-resistant cocoa seedlings. During this cocoa season, framework of the private sector co-financing facility on the the Program distributed a total of 1.9 million cocoa seedlings. Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa, we have strengthened our Farming Program in three main areas: L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Secured incomes and asset building Climate change We also strengthened our activities which aim at securing To mitigate the negative impacts of climate change, the and building assets such as land and savings. We collaboProgram focuses on promoting resilient farms by various rated with ▶ Meridia to pilot the provision of land documenmeans, such as fostering agroforestry systems with the tation services to farmers in one cocoa-growing district. distribution of shade trees (2019: 335,875, plan for 2020: Eighty-nine farmers signed up for the services, and almost 600,000). Our interest in protecting the environment was half of them paid for their services in full and received their also the basis of our commitment to the Cocoa & Forests land document. The land document states the rights of Initiative and the start of the implementation of the farmers to cultivate on their farm and is typically signed ▶ No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan in Ghana by the village chief and local leaders in the community. (> see Biodiversity and ecosystems p. 36). The organization of Village Savings & Loan Associations (VSLAs) is becoming a key success factor within the ProCommunity development gram to promote savings in an environment of small family Furthermore, with regard to the improvement of commufarms excluded by formal financial institutions. In total, nity water infrastructure, we have succeeded in bringing the 87 VSLAs were established in Program communities, and total number of water access points to 211 since the Pro1,567 members saved a total of GHS 81,744 ($ 17,056). gram began, constructing 60 new boreholes in 2019. We also adapted the training materials according to climate Cocoa nutrition initiative impact zones to strengthen the training and increase farmer Like these long-term income-security initiatives, our initiaawareness. tive for vegetable farming and animal rearing is contributing to the generation of additional income. The initiative is part Child labor of our participation in the Cocoa Nutrition Initiative, Within our own supply chain, we continue to be rigorous in co-funded by the IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative and protecting children and work towards finding relevant solulaunched in cooperation with the Global Alliance for Imtions to addressing the root causes of child labor (> see proved Nutrition (GAIN). Within the context of this project, update on the implementation of the Action Plan Against 1,155 farmers have received training targeted at behavioral Child Labor in Ghana, p. 23). As part of our approach, we changes to promote the production and consumption of are investing in infrastructure measures like building new animal proteins and vegetables with an overall goal of imschools and providing school supplies. Our field staff proving nutrition intake. continues to hold training and sensitization courses and to monitor child labor issues within the supply chain. In order to strengthen our existing activities, we have engaged a child labor expert as our Sustainability Representative for Africa, who is based closer to the Program. With his support, we will further improve our Action Plan Against Child Labor in Ghana. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Harvesting season in Ghana – A sustainable intensification of cocoa cultivation, as fostered in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, means a long-term, larger cocoa harvest on a constant or smaller area of land. 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Update on the implementation of the 3. Elimination of child labor: income-generating activities. This will enable them to inAction Plan Against Child Labor The Program continues to favor local solutions agreed upon crease and extend their income over the entire year so that By 2020: 100% of cocoa farms for cocoa beans in with parents of children engaged in child labor practices. In they can more easily cope with the costs of educating and countries of origin with a risk of child labor are covered 2019, 12 cases of child labor were observed by field staff during caring for their children. by a Child Labor Monitoring and Remediation System their child labor monitoring visits in the communities, (CLMRS). By 2025: 100% of cocoa farms for all cocoa where of only three cases were related to Lindt & Sprüngli Improvement of the existing Lindt & Sprüngli CLMRS products in countries of origin with a risk of child labor Farming Program farmers. Of those three cases, two were A number of initiatives within the framework of the are covered by a Child Labor Monitoring and found working on cocoa farms and one child was found doLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program are directed towards Remediation System (CLMRS) ing work not related to cocoa farming. All of the 12 cases of creating an environment conducive to growth, education This year, our Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation child labor detected in 2019 were successfully and completeand the protection of children. This will support us in our System (CLMRS) is once again reaching all the farmers ly solved through conversations with parents, warnings or ambition to eliminate child labor in our communities. We involved in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana, advices being given, and sensitization training to promote have decided to move beyond our risk-oriented concept withfocusing on the following three elements: change. As a result of the interventions of the field staff, in the current “Action Plan Against Child Labor” to a more parents were able to understand the importance of not proactive and opportunity-based concept with a new “Action 1. Training and awareness-raising: sending their children to work because it is dangerous at Plan for Child Protection”. With this new orientation, we The Program’s field staff continued the awareness training their age. As well, they were encouraged to prioritize their will strengthen our activities by combining both our supply and sensitization of farmers regarding child labor issues children's school attendance rather than making them work chain and community-level approaches and focusing on two and educated them toward avoiding child labor. They infor the parents’ benefit on farms during school hours. major areas: monitoring and remediation. tensified these awareness-raising activities during high-risk In addition, having 29 schools currently under construcWe believe that child labor issues can only be resolved periods, such as harvesting and pruning season. The prition is expected to increase the reception capacity of existing by addressing their root causes. From our point of view, mary aim of these trainings was to allow farmers to distinschools to provide educational opportunities for more than combatting child labor consists of introducing long-term guish between appropriate and light work allowed to be 3,034 children in the communities each year. An estimatsolutions for correction but also for prevention. This is why, carried out by children in a family context and the hazarded 999 students in total, respectively around 111 students in the future, our approach will target complex and ous tasks prohibited for children – as well as understanding per year, have so far attended school in the three-unit classwide-ranging root causes of child labor even more, beyond the reasoning behind it. room block built in 2011/11. direct actions for corrective measures for children found The issue of insufficient income that affects farmers' at work. Through proactive preventative measures, our ap2. Identifying prohibited child labor: households and is reported as one of the major reasons for proach addresses the challenges encountered by households Each Program district is equipped with a CLMRS Steering child labor is also addressed in our initiatives by facilitatand communities directly. Committee, consisting of an average of eight field staff with ing the creation of additional sources of income for farmvarying levels of authority. The committees conduct aners and their spouses. nounced and unannounced visits to farms. The goal is to Establishing a revolving fund and accelerating the set-up identify prohibited child labor. The committees document of Village Savings and Loan Associations (VSLAs) in comboth the cases discovered at the cocoa farms they visit as munities will help farmers save money to develop additional well as those identified beyond the farm level. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Ghana Impact Assessment due to the resulting reduction of family labor, have a negLindt & Sprüngli response to the Impact Assessment by KIT Royal Tropical Institute (KIT) conducted an impact ative effect on yields. It should be noted that farmers from KIT in Ghana evaluation of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in new verified societies attended fewer training sessions on We thank KIT for the quality and professionalism of the Ghana in March 2019. Based on quantitative and qualitative these topics than farmers from old verified societies. work carried out in the context of this impact evaluation, methods, the evaluation covered a variety of topics in line Poverty is high among surveyed farmers, especially and we fully endorse the study’s findings and conclusions. with the Program’s ▶ Theory of Change. To monitor change among female-headed households, and most farmers do After ten years of having the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming over time, KIT compared cocoa-farming households from not earn a ▶ living income. Net annual income from cocoa Program in place in Ghana, it was gratifying to see that it ‘old verified societies’ that joined the Lindt & Sprüngli varies considerably between household categories and avhas had a positive impact on the farmers, and that farmers Farming Program in the 2013/2014 season with ‘new societerages USD 1,731 for typical male-headed households. This are happy to be part of the Program. We also noted that ies’ that joined in the 2017/2018 season. leads to a total annual household income of USD 2,503 for topics and activities that have already been a part of the Cocoa constitutes the cornerstone of farmers’ livelitypical male-headed households. Farmers from old verified Program for many years were well received and attended hoods. While households engage in different income-gensocieties have a smaller gap to the ▶ Living Income benchmark by the farmers. Furthermore, farmers who have spent more erating activities, cocoa production is, by far, the most than farmers from new verified societies (38% gap versus time in the Program have seen a greater impact than those important livelihood activity – accounting for 72% of 44% gap). who have recently joined. household income. Financial gains from crop diversification It is too early to measure the impact of the Nevertheless, we also discovered where we still have more seem to be low, suggesting that households sell relatively Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program on sustainable intenwork to do, and where impact is lagging behind our vision. little and/or that prices for the other crops they produce are sification. Thus far, the use of fertilizer and plant protection The Program in Ghana has recently been enriched with low. Despite the high dependency on cocoa, food security products is widespread among farmers, whereas adoption new activities that cover some of the recommendations is high among the surveyed households. It can be assumed of good environmental practices lags behind, particularly formulated by KIT. KIT’s suggestions are therefore a conthat the training by the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program for shade management and the use of organic inputs. Morefirmation for us that we are working in the right direction in crop diversification contributes to the diversity of crops over, 43% of households reported having increased their and encourage us to scale up the innovations introduced grown and therefore to food security as well. land size under cocoa cultivation in the last five years, mostin recent years. For those recommendations which are not The evaluation notes a positive impact of the ly by clearing shrubs or low bushes, but also by converting yet covered within the framework of our current activities, Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program on yields, as farmers forest. This suggests that sustainable intensification is not we will work with our implementing partner to integrate from old verified societies have significantly higher average yet practiced adequately. them progressively into our activity planning. yields (640 kg/ha) than farmers from new verified societies The findings indicate the need to revisit some of the (570 kg/ha). A number of Lindt & Sprüngli Program activassumptions of the Theory of Change from the ities correlate positively with yields, particularly recordLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Future programming keeping, post-harvest quality management, farmer business can benefit from an increased focus on farmer segmentation schools, field (coaching) visits and the use of fertilizer. and customized services to address the considerable differHowever, some activities of the Lindt & Sprüngli Program ences among farming household categories according to show a tradeoff when it comes to yields. For example, harvest their needs. management, due to the discarding of diseased or damaged For further information, please see the publications on pods during harvest, and child labor prevention training, the ▶ Farming Program website. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Farming Program in Ecuador Ecuador is our most important origin country for fine-flavor Training courses combined with farmer investments are Diversity of cocoa varieties cocoa beans. During the 2018/2019 cocoa season, a total of starting to show the desired results. More than 70% of farmA distinction is made between consumer and fine-flavor 8,473 farmers participated in the Farming Program (increase ers already implement most of the best practices, and yields cocoa. Consumer cocoa (generally of the Forastero variety) of 28% compared to 2017/2018 season). Most of the farmers have increased on average up to 100% (from 300kg/ha to accounts for the largest share (90–95%) of total cocoa proparticipate individually, but we also continued to integrate almost 600kg/ha) since the beginning of the Program. duction and is farmed mainly in West Africa. Around smaller cooperatives. Farmers also achieve a higher net income through the 5–10% of worldwide cocoa harvests is fine-flavor cocoa In the four years since the Program was established, reduction of production costs. As an example, mechanized (mostly of the Criollo and Trinitario varieties). Fine-flavor 79% of farmers attended all the basic training modules in pruning equipment reduces labor days from 5 to 2 per hectare cocoa is associated with nuanced, fine flavors. It is mainly good agricultural, environmental and social practices ofcompared to manual pruning. farmed in Latin America and the Caribbean. Around onefered by the Program. Individual coaching continues to To further support farmers in implementing what they third of all the cocoa beans processed by Lindt & Sprüngli increase in importance, with 72% of farmers receiving at learn in the training courses, necessary tools and inputs are fine-flavor cocoa beans. It is vital for Lindt & Sprüngli least one coaching visit during the last season. Additionally, were distributed, such as fertilizers, products for pest and to have a broad diversity of cocoa beans and to ensure that farmers can visit special workshops, e.g. on compost making disease control, mechanized pruning and weeding equipthe aromatic fine-flavor beans are readily available. or income diversification. Going forward, coaching and ment, or fermentation equipment and dryers for improved Lindt & Sprüngli therefore supports efforts to preserve the workshops targeted to farmers’ specific needs will play a post-harvesting. diversity of cocoa varieties, for example through partnerbigger role. A new project our suppliers started implementing with ships with the ▶ Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher In order to motivate farmers to continue planting ECOTOP Suisse is also of special importance to us. The Education Center (CATIE), which oversees the ▶ Cacao fine-flavor cocoa, another 127,700 high-yielding and disgoal is to develop Dynamic Agroforestry Demonstration Genetic Improvement Program, and with the ▶ Cacao Reease-resistant seedlings from ▶ INIAP and community Plots on different types of farms, which function as a system search Center of the University of the West Indies in Trinidad, nurseries were distributed. Compared to the previous season, so that external inputs become redundant. Farmers can which possesses the largest cocoa collection in the world. the number of seedlings was lower in 2018/2019, as an then learn how to apply all or some of the elements of this increased focus was placed on grafting to rehabilitate older regenerative approach on their own farms. farms. Grafting helps to rejuvenate old trees as grafts start producing cocoa after just one year, compared to three years for new seedlings. Along with cocoa seedlings and grafting, over 30,000 shade trees were distributed. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Farming Program Ecuador – Majority of farmers attended all the basic training modules in good agricultural, environmental and social practices. 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Farming Program in Madagascar The Program in Madagascar grew to include 2,014 farmers. Together with other partners, we will be starting a landThese farmers do not use any chemicals for cocoa producscape project in the cocoa-producing region in Sambirano, tion but learn which organic materials they may apply to which will be co-funded by the State Secretariat for Economincrease agricultural production or fight pests and diseasic Affairs (SECO) in the frame of the Swiss Platform for es biologically. We established the first two model farms to Sustainable Cocoa. The project has a time frame of approxshow farmers on different plots the effects of a variety of imately ten years and will support the development and good agricultural practices, such as tree maintenance, orimplementation of an adequate planning instrument that ganic fertilization, organic pest and disease management considers the competing interests in this multifunctional or a combination of the latter compared to no treatment. landscape. The overall goal of this collaboration is to have These approaches should also help farmers to measure insustainably managed landscapes in Sambirano contributing puts (e.g. labor hours, costs for cow dung or costs of organHow do the water systems built in Madagascar work? to resilient livelihoods for the local population and to cocoa ic pest and disease management) against outputs, enabling Solar pumps or gravity is used to pump water into a tank. production without deforestation. them to decide how to best treat their farms. Furthermore, The tank has the capacity to supply 5,000 residents with clean the Program supported two communities in small refordrinking water. To receive a private water connection, a fee estation activities and subsidized the distribution of 2,916 must be paid (one-off amount of CHF 150) and a contract is shade trees and 17,805 cocoa seedlings. made. When a family has a connection in their yard, they In October 2019, the third water system financed by the usually share it with their neighbors – on average approx. 30 Lindt Cocoa Foundation was inaugurated in the village of people. Many residents use the public tap where they can fill Marovato, in the country’s northwestern region. The three their plastic barrels. One cubic meter of water costs CHF systems now have a total of approximately 7,840 subscribed 0.50. This money helps to ensure that the system is self-susbeneficiaries. Additionally, as the result of the WASH (water, taining, e.g. that maintenance work and water quality control sanitation and hygiene) training, around 40 households can be financed. An experienced company, which has already (with 396 people) built latrines under the guidance of the built and maintained drinking water systems throughout Program in order to improve their sanitation situation. Madagascar, is responsible for the ongoing water quality control and maintenance of the infrastructure. A contract between the company and the municipality ensures a fixed water price for farmers for 15 years. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Farming Program Madagascar – Farmers learn how to apply organic materials to increase production or fight pests and diseases biologically. 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Farming Program in Farming Program in the Papua New Guinea Dominican Republic The Program grew from 1,117 to 2,670 farmers in the The number of farmers in our newest Farming Program has 2018/19 cocoa season, with a team of 14 field staff deploying more than doubled in the last season, now totaling 456 the Program in the field. The farmers are heavily involved farmers. A good participation rate of (on average) 85% in in the Program, with 96% of farmers having completed all farmer training sessions was achieved, with 278 (60%) farmof the six training modules offered with topics ranging from ers who already completed all of the basic training modules. good agricultural practices to conservation of natural reNew special workshops began to be offered to farmers, sources and social issues like gender equality and HIV/ including workshops on additional income-generation activAids. The practical part of the training was supported with ities for women, entrepreneurship for youth, conservation the 30 model farms in place. Nearly 90,000 cocoa seedlings of natural resources and biodiversity, as well as availability were distributed during the last cocoa season, adding up and quality of household water. These workshops were very to 108,000 seedlings since the start of the Program. The well received by the attendants, and also provided a great new seedlings should help farmers to increase productivideal of insight into how we could further move forward in ty by reaching the recommended tree density or replanting these areas. Farmers also received support to implement overaged farms while ensuring that no cocoa cultivation what they learned in the training sessions. expansion into forests takes place. Furthermore, all farmTo rehabilitate and renovate the farms, five seedling er groups received a set of tools in order to be able to imnurseries are now up and running, together producing alplement what they learned in the training courses. Based most 95,000 seedlings during the 2018/2019 cocoa season. on a needs analysis, two schools were renovated last season, The unusual dry weather conditions, however, affected the benefiting approximately 429 children, and one drinking survival rates on the farms, which were lower than projectwater system was refurbished, serving approximately ed (78%). The distributed seedlings are grafted in the nurser2,000 community members. ies with a combination of cocoa varieties that are categorized according to disease tolerance, flavor and quality, yields, and pollination. While the focus was mainly on renovation during the past season, next season will also focus on rehabilitation. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Cocoa butter and other cocoa products Taking into account all of the cocoa products (beans, butter, intensification, will also be a key aspect in our other coun100% of cocoa is sourced through sustainability powder and finished chocolate), 56% of the cocoa we purtries of origin such as Ecuador. Our Program in Ghana will programs by 2025 chased in 2019 was traceable/segregated and verified also continue to focus on the issue of child labor. We recCocoa butter is a crucial ingredient in chocolate production, according to the ▶ ICCO conversion factors. ognize the severity of child labor in cocoa production and with comparatively more cocoa butter than sugar used to prowill work toward strengthening our existing initiatives duce premium chocolate. In accordance with our commitCocoa sourced through sustainability programs through the adoption of a more rewarding, participative ment to traceability for cocoa beans, we have also set a goal to % of cocoa (beans, butter, powder and finished chocolate) and proactive approach. We will also scale additional insourced through sustainability programs (▶ ICCO conversion rates) purchase cocoa butter made from beans from sustainability come-generation activities and, wherever possible, combine 56 programs. To accomplish this, we rely on a segregation ap48 them with an environmental focus. 44 proach, which means that all of the beans from sustainability In Madagascar, we plan to shift our focus to topics like programs are processed separately from conventional beans. 29 income diversification, food security and balanced nutrition, The strict quality demands we place on cocoa butter presclimate-smart cocoa and agroforestry in 2020. In terms of 16 ent significant challenges in realizing this goal. Furthermore, community investments, assess further needs regarding 7 a lack of interest in sustainability by other market players electrification, schools and water and then define our next results in a low degree of willingness by them to purchase the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 steps. Finally, the implementation of the landscape project cocoa powder, a byproduct of the cocoa butter production, in collaboration with the other partners will be a special with a sustainability premium from our suppliers. Despite Evaluation and outlook priority for us in Madagascar. these challenges, we began to develop dedicated traceable and The goals we have set for 2025 are an acknowledgement of Our Program in Papua New Guinea will again grow in segregated systems to source cocoa butter in cooperation with our long-term commitment to sustainable cocoa. They unsize during the next season. New Program elements such our cocoa butter suppliers in 2016. After piloting projects, we derline our intention to improve the livelihoods of the as individual farmer coaching, financial literacy training are now confident that by 2025 all of our cocoa butter requirefarmers, their families, workers and the corresponding and access to banking will ensure that the Program remains ments can be fulfilled with segregated and verified cocoa butcommunities. Over the coming years, our approach will attractive to farmers who have been part of it for more than ter. In 2019, we achieved to source 27% segregated and verified increasingly focus on environmental topics, in particular two years. We will also focus on the distribution of more cocoa butter. We continue to work on improving our proenvironmentally friendly agricultural practices, agroforshade trees in order to achieve the agroforestry targets and grams. Accordingly, we have started the implementation of estry and no-deforestation, as well as improved protection to serve the farmers as an additional income source. In the the goals laid out in our ▶No-Deforestation & Agroforestry of water resources and water management. We have also Dominican Republic, our focus in the next season will Action Plan in the cocoa butter sustainability programs planned to implement more innovative and targeted trainmove from renovation towards rehabilitation, as well as the (> see Biodiversity and ecosystems p. 36). ing approaches in many origin countries. optimization of agroforestry systems. We are involved as co-leader of the working group ▶ TraceIn the Farming Program in Ghana, our focus in the comAlongside our Farming Program for cocoa beans, we are ability of Cocoa Butter from the ▶ Swiss Platform for Sustaining years will be on demonstrating the importance of shadplanning to further develop the sustainability programs for able Cocoa for Developing an Industry Solution. The long-term ing and crop diversification to farmers. In 2020 we aim to other cocoa products. For the cocoa products we source in goal is that cocoa butter suppliers will convert all or at least distribute 600,000 shade trees and establish special demo lower quantities, such as cocoa powder and chocolate (for part of their factories to process cocoa beans from sustainplots to teach agroforestry as well as farming without the use Russell Stover only), we are developing strategies so that by ability programs. This is similar to how palm oil suppliers in of chemicals. Fostering organic production methods to im2025 all of our cocoa products will come from sustainable Europe have implemented this change in the past years. prove productivity, in line with our objective for sustainable sources. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Human rights in the supply chain 80% of our procurement expenditure for raw and the focus areas “Human rights in the supply chain” in genpackaging materials bearing significant sustainability eral and “Rural development” specifically for cocoa. Further risks is covered by a sustainable sourcing program activities to support and respect human rights with regard by 2025 to our own operations and consumer-related issues are adHuman rights are universal and inherent to all human dressed in our focus areas such as “Occupational health and beings. Nevertheless, human rights violations are still safety”, “Business integrity”, “Transparent and responsible widespread. This includes various human rights issues communication” and “Product quality/Product safety”. such as discrimination, land rights, child labor, forced Group Procurement is responsible for coordinating the labor or the right to health. The impacts range from minor human rights activities in the supply chain in close collablimitations on individual rights to the total abandonment oration with the Raw Material & Sustainability Team. Our of self-determination or loss of life. In globally interconSupplier Code of Conduct is our main tool to raise awarenected value chains, companies are directly or indirectly ness and communicate our expectations to all of our suplinked to human rights risks and called upon to respect pliers and demand adherence to them. Furthermore, we human rights. observe and review human rights risks associated with our Recent political developments put further pressure on sourced raw and packaging materials on a regular basis to respect for human rights. Non-governmental organizations identify the most prevalent issues. Based on this, we define in particular have always been strong advocates of human specific approaches and programs to further assess, prevent rights and raise awareness among consumers. In recent and mitigate potential and actual human rights impacts. years, legislative requirements for businesses have inWe are committed to using our leverage in the value chain creased, and human rights considerations have largely been to encourage our suppliers and business partners to follow a part of the agenda of financial stakeholders. In line with our example. the interests of these stakeholders, focus must be on the Our flagship program, the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming affected rightsholders who are potentially or actually imProgram, covers human rights issues for cocoa sourcing and pacted by human rights violations. is managed under the focus area “Rural development”. In Lindt & Sprüngli recognizes its responsibility to respect addition, we have developed specific programs addressing human rights and international labor standards as defined human rights issues for hazelnuts from Turkey and for packin the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. aging materials from Asia. For raw materials where we have A significant part of our potential human rights impacts is less leverage, we cooperate with recognized standards and related to our supply chain and mainly managed through initiatives (> see Palm oil p. 37 and Soy lecithin p. 37). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Hazelnuts In 2019, we sourced 98% of all raw (unprocessed) hazelnuts Packaging 100% of Turkish raw (unprocessed) hazelnuts from a sustainability program. We are confident that we 90% of our procurement expenditure for are sourced through sustainability programs by 2020 will achieve our goal of sourcing 100% of raw (unprocessed) packaging material from Asian factories is covered Hazelnuts are a key raw material for our chocolate products. Turkish hazelnuts from sustainability programs by 2020, by a sustainability program by 2020 We source them from Italy, the US, and Turkey. Turkey’s thereby reaching a further milestone in the sustainable Packaging material plays a crucial role in the production Black Sea region produces around 70% of the global hazelprocurement of raw materials. chain at Lindt & Sprüngli because chocolate is a fragile nut harvest, yet it also presents serious challenges such as In 2020, we will continue to work closely with our Turkproduct. While packaging should be attractive to the conchild labor and poor living and working conditions for miish hazelnut suppliers and support them as they expand sumer and provide information about the contents, its main grant workers. We have been working closely with our and improve their sustainability programs. task is to protect the valuable chocolate inside. Turkish hazelnut suppliers since 2014 on implementing We work with leading packaging manufacturers in the sustainable hazelnut programs. Today, all of our Turkish Sustainable hazelnuts respective industries who are increasingly engaged in sus% of raw (unprocessed) hazelnuts from Turkey that were sourced from a suppliers are members of the ▶ Fair Labor Association (FLA). sustainability program tainability along the entire value chain. Their sustainability Following the same structure as the Lindt & Sprüngli performance is a selection criterion and influences our 98 Farming Program, ensuring supply chain traceability is the 88 business decisions. We assess significant packaging supplifirst step our suppliers work on. The second step is to sup74 ers regularly with off-site or on-site assessments depending port the farmers and workers with training courses. The on their risk profile and aim to develop our suppliers to training for farmers and their wives includes professional 44 improve the performance of our supplier portfolio over agricultural, ecological and social practices. Held both in 14 13 time. their home villages in southeastern Turkey and in the Black The majority of our packaging manufacturers rely on Sea region, the training for workers focuses on topics such 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 modern production technology and have robust manageas workers’ rights, occupational health and safety, and ment systems in place to minimize environmental and health protection in general. social impacts. The packaging material we buy often comes Investments in sanitation systems and the renovation from suppliers located near our factories in Switzerland, of workers’ accommodations, mobile health check-ups, and the EU, and the US. This helps to avoid long transportation summer schools for workers’ children also contribute to distances and high emission levels. improved living conditions. The internal monitoring of the farmers and the external evaluation of the projects support the tracking of program effectiveness and the identification of additional improvement potential. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 I M P R OV I N G L I V E L I H O O D S Nevertheless, around 10% of our packaging expenditure is The Program is carried out in close cooperation with our Evaluation and outlook with suppliers in Asia. This is particularly true for many of subsidiaries’ local purchasing organizations. These also We were able to significantly strengthen our existing our more decorative items for seasonal products such as tin conduct additional assessments harmonized with the SSP approaches for Turkish hazelnuts and packaging from Asia. boxes or plush toys. In Asia, we have access to a highly Program and enact support measures. In 2019, we also Our target of sourcing 100% of our raw (unprocessed) specialized market for this type of product. To ensure that increased the involvement of intermediaries, as they play Turkish hazelnuts from a sustainability program is within our Asian suppliers adhere to the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier a key role in long-term improvements. reach. A five-year review of our Supplier Sustainable PracCode of Conduct regarding issues such as guaranteeing freeIn 2019, out of 24 initial and follow-up assessments, 18 tice Program showed a significant improvement in the dom of association, we monitor and improve responsible suppliers received a satisfactory or positive overall result. sustainability performance of our packaging suppliers in production practices through the Supplier Sustainable Whenever we observe zero-tolerance violations or a supplier Asia. Nevertheless, there are still further improvements Practice Program (SSP). repeatedly fails to improve, we will also block suppliers. needed to address systemic industry issues such as overAs part of this Program, specialized sustainability exCurrently, we have nine factories on our Group-wide time. We are therefore continuing with the SSP Program perts make regular visits to our suppliers – and in some blocked list, including one factory from 2019. and further intensifying the collaborative approach with cases sub-suppliers – on the ground, uncover non-compliour long-term business partners. ance with social and environmental standards, and draft Four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli Based on our raw materials risk assessment, we have shortcorrective action plans together with the suppliers. To Supplier Sustainable Practice Program listed raw materials with significant sustainability risks and achieve this, Lindt & Sprüngli applies a cooperative, prog1 2 3 4 developed corresponding action plans. These will be adopted Sign the Conduct an Develop correcProvide supplier ress-oriented approach that encourages long-term imLindt & Sprüngli external on-site tive action plan support if in 2020 with the aim of setting up sustainability programs provements and offers targeted support services. The ProSupplier Code of assessment necessary that will put us on track to achieve our goals for 2025. gram currently covers 89.4% of our purchasing expenditure Conduct on packaging from Asia and is being rolled out to new suppliers on an ongoing basis. Supplier Sustainable Practice Program 23 24 24 Number of external on-site 20 18 17 assessments (initial and follow-up) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Contributing to an intact environment 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T Biodiversity and ecosystems 100% of sourced cocoa is free from deforestation functioning ecosystem through our Farming Program. by 2025 Moreover, intact biodiversity and ecosystems are essential Our global food system is highly dependent on biodiversity for the quality and availability of our raw materials. and the healthy functioning of our ecosystems. A wide vaWe observe and review the environmental risks assoriety of species can support ecosystem services that provide ciated with our sourced raw and packaging materials, clean water, air and enriched soils, for example. In so doing, including biodiversity and ecosystem aspects. We priorthese services can positively influence biological and agriitize raw materials with the most significant impacts on cultural productivity. At the same time, agricultural pracbiodiversity and ecosystems, develop suitable approaches tices affect biodiversity and ecosystems. Regenerative agrito prevent and mitigate potential negative effects, and cultural practices such as dynamic agroforestry schemes contribute to the recovery of ecosystems in collaboration and reforestation efforts can be beneficial for species and with stakeholders. In our Supplier Code of Conduct, we ecosystem conservation. On the other hand, deforestation have defined the expectation for all suppliers to minimize or the use of chemical inputs can lead to biodiversity loss. their impacts on natural resources including air, land, Environmentally sensitive stakeholders have shown forests and water. interest in these issues for a long time. However, the ecoOur Raw Material & Sustainability Team and Group Pronomic benefits from ecosystem services are increasingly curement coordinate the risk monitoring and approach-defibeing recognized by financial stakeholders such as invesnition process. The implementation of an approach is then tors and analysts. carried out by the most appropriate department. This means At Lindt & Sprüngli we realize that responsible natural that “Biodiversity and ecosystems” is closely linked to “Huresource management is more essential than ever for our man rights in the supply chain”, “Product quality/Product shared society. We believe that we must contribute positivesafety” and the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in ly by ensuring that our cocoa activities are occurring in har“Rural development”. As of now, we have defined specific mony with the rainforests found in our sourcing regions. We approaches for sourcing cocoa, palm oil and soy lecithin. have the most relevant impacts regarding biodiversity and In a broader perspective of ecosystems, we have also defined ecosystems in our supply chains, which are directly linked an approach for procuring cage-free eggs. to our sourcing activities. We also contribute directly to a L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T No-Deforestation Action Plan for cocoa More indicators, specifically for the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Once these forest areas are identified, we must work with The growth of the cocoa industry over the past decades, Program (cocoa beans only), can be found in the Rural local actors on the ground to identify and implement activcoupled with aging farms with decreasing productivity, has development section (> see Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Proities to ensure that no further forest land is converted for increased the pressure on forest areas, especially in West gram in numbers p. 15). cocoa production. Additional work is required for establishAfrica. Forests contain fertile soils for agricultural producThere are four primary objectives outlined in our Action ing and optimizing agroforestry systems on farms, including tion, which can potentially be used as cocoa expansion Plan, all of which are adapted to local contexts during regenerative agricultural principles and elements, as well as areas to fulfill the growing demands for chocolate. At the implementation: supporting reforestation efforts. same time, forests house vast amounts of biodiversity and As part of the activities to implement our Action Plan, provide critical environmental services such as carbon 1. N o cocoa bean sourcing from protected areas as per we are also signatories of the ▶ Cocoa and Forest Initiative storage and water purification. While forests are thus critlocal laws (CFI). Through this partnership, we engage with other key ical to regulate the water cycle and the earth’s climate, they 2. No expansion of land for cocoa cultivation into areas deplayers in the cocoa and chocolate industry, as well as the continue to be degraded at alarming rates. fined by the High Carbon Stock Approach or equivalent governments of Ghana and the Ivory Coast, to stop cocoaFor this reason, we launched our ▶ No-Deforestation & Agro3. Agroforestry systems for cocoa production related deforestation. Specific indicators on the CFI can forestry Action Plan in 2019 for all of our countries of origin. 4. Supporting (community) forest protection and restoration also be found in the 2019 ▶ No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Through this Action Plan and in partnership with our supProgress Report. pliers, we are implementing our commitment to source all Key milestones in 2019 included ensuring that all field staff of our cocoa from areas free from deforestation by 2025 working to implement our Farming Program are trained (= covered by a fully implemented No-Deforestation & in the various concepts behind the Action Plan. FurtherAgroforestry Action Plan). more, our suppliers now have robust traceability systems 2019 marked the first year of implementation of our Action in place that allow us to accurately identify the exact origins Plan. We have published our ▶ No-Deforestation & Agroof our cocoa beans. Shade trees have been distributed on a forestry Progress Report, in which we highlight our initial larger scale than in previous years. Additionally, we have successes as well as key learnings to guide our journey over committed to better understand and protect forests in cothe coming years. The current status is as follows: operation with the ▶ Earthworm Foundation. Together, we completed an integrated HCS/HCV assessment within the — 47% of cocoa sourced5 from farms proven not to be losupply chain in the Enchi district (Ghana). cated in protected areas as per local laws The ▶ High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) is a method— 56% of cocoa sourced5 from farmers covered by a ology that distinguishes forest areas for protection (together “No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan” with HCV – High Conservation Value) from degraded lands — 0% of cocoa sourced5 from farmers covered by a fully imwith low carbon and biodiversity values that may be develplemented “No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan” oped. In sourcing areas where HCS/HCV are not yet defined, — 484,332 permanent shade trees distributed in cocoa we will work with accredited third parties to determine sustainability programs in 2019 which regions we need to focus on. 5 All numbers for our sustainable cocoa products sourced are calculated as bean equivalents, based on ▶ conversion rates of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T Palm oil, soy lecithin and others Soy lecithin Eggs We use soy lecithin to create the desired consistency of our Just a few of our products produced in Europe, Australia and Palm oil melt-in-the-mouth chocolate. Soy cultivation is associated the US contain small amounts of egg. We are aware of the We purchase 100% certified sustainable palm oil according with different environmental and social impacts, in parconcerns for the well-being of laying hens and have set ourto the ▶ RSPO certification models. For our chocolate mass, ticular soy grown in rainforest regions. We rely on trustselves the target of not using any eggs from caged hens (shell, we only use cocoa butter as a vegetable fat. Palm oil, palm worthy external standards to address potential negative liquid or ingredients) in any of the products that are produced kernel oil, and their fractions, along with other vegetable impacts. Since 2018, almost all of the soy lecithin used in in our factories. fats, are only used in certain fillings. Palm oil and palm kerproducing our chocolate mass has been certified with the We commit to implementing this changeover globally for nel oil have outstanding melting properties, have a neutral ▶ ProTerra standard. Exceptions are Russell Stover choco100% of our sourced eggs (shell, liquid or ingredient) by the flavor, and remain solid at room temperature. Thanks to lates and very small quantities of white chocolate sourced end of 2020, with the only exception being Russell Stover. We these specific qualities, we are able to avoid using hydrogeby Ghirardelli. are currently unable to commit to a timeline for Russell Stover nated vegetable fats. We only use limited amounts of palm ProTerra is a widely supported and recognized standard due to ingredients which are unavailable on the market from oil and declare it on our product packaging. To overcome for social responsibility and environmental sustainability cage-free sources (no shell and liquid used). We will continue the challenges associated with palm oil, we have committed in the food industry based on the Basel Criteria for Responengaging with our suppliers, and as soon as the processed ourselves to purchasing sustainable palm oil according to sible Soy Production. Topics covered by the standard include, ingredients are available from cage-free sources in the required the RSPO certification models. for example, environmental impacts, human rights and quality, we will complete the changeover for Russell Stover as Lindt & Sprüngli has been globally sourcing 100% certiresponsible labor policies, and product traceability. Addiwell. We will continue to communicate annually our progress fied sustainable palm oil, palm kernel oil and their fractions tionally, ProTerra is a certified label indicating non-GMO soy. and information about the potential issues we could face. according to the RSPO certification models since December 2015. For all our products produced in Europe, we source 100% of our palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their fractions according to the RSPO “Segregated” standard. Under the segregation standard, sustainable palm oil from different certified sources is kept separate from ordinary palm oil throughout supply chain (see also the ▶ RSPO Segregation model). Our US subsidiaries use a mix of “Segregated” and “Mass Balance” palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their fractions. Along with our decision to use only palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm fractions that comply with RSPO standards, we also review the use of palm oil in each of our newly developed products and actively search for alternatives. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T CO2 and climate 10% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in of our supply chain emissions, which are addressed in other follow a no-deforestation strategy regarding cocoa sourcing the production process by 2020 per ton produced focus areas. Climate change impacts resulting from agricul(> see No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Action Plan p. 36). (base year 2015 = 100%) tural production are addressed through “Biodiversity and In 2019, our subsidiaries implemented a variety of projects Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of our ecosystems” and “Rural development”. Supplier environmenaimed at reducing energy consumption and increasing the time. It is mainly caused by greenhouse gas emissions and tal requirements are further addressed in the “Human rights use of renewable sources. Examples of such projects include insufficient CO2 storage due to land system changes. Among in the supply chain” focus area. the replacement of the central steam generation at its largest direct drivers is the increasing global energy deInternational Operations is responsible for defining our Lindt & Sprüngli Germany with decentralized, environmand, which is an area where we have a direct influence for energy and greenhouse gas emissions strategy for production mental-friendly and cost-efficient steam boilers and the inmitigation. Energy is required in the different production processes. The corresponding action plan is adapted and imstallation of solar panels at Lindt & Sprüngli Australia. steps for making chocolate, such as heating, cooling, and plemented at a subsidiary level. All of our factories are purtransport. Greenhouse gas emissions can result from all these suing the goal of further decreasing their energy consumption processes. Significant contributions to and impacts on climate in alignment with our Group commitment. We regularly change are linked to our supply chain, in particular in relation undertake a detailed analysis of the existing systems and futo agricultural production. ture investments to identify energy reduction potential and Simultaneously, we and our stakeholders are affected by share results from local projects on a global level. Some of our climate change challenges. Physical risks from climate factories also use certifications to improve their environmenchange, such as changes in temperature or rainfall, can have tal management and energy efficiency. For example, our facdirect impacts on our raw materials, affecting their quality, tories in Italy and France are ISO 14001 (environmental availability or price. Our approach to adequately manage management) certified, and Lindt & Sprüngli Germany is ISO energy and emissions can further influence our cost efficien51001 (energy efficiency) certified. Furthermore, we intend cy and the risk of not meeting regulatory requirements. At to increase the percentage of renewable energy within our the same time, we recognize the severity of climate-related overall energy consumption. impacts on our farmers and local communities, particularly To assume our responsibility within our supply chain, we those located in climate-sensitive regions affected by rising work with our suppliers, farmers and communities on these Lindt & Sprüngli Australia starts using its own temperatures and droughts. issues. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is our main instrument solar power Consequently, Lindt & Sprüngli is focused on improving for communicating our expectations for the sustainable manLindt & Sprüngli Australia finished a solar panel installaenergy efficiency and reducing the carbon footprint of its agement of energy and emissions to our suppliers as well as tion which takes advantage of the Australian sun on the chocolate. Our ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Environmental Policy is our demanding their compliance with the corresponding requirelarge warehouse and manufacturing roof. The installation shared basis for all activities relating to environmental proments (> see Human rights in the supply chain, pp. 31–33). has a capacity of 350 kW power with over 900 solar panels. tection. Within our “Climate change” focus area, we adWe educate farmers on the implications of climate change As a registered power generating site, Lindt & Sprüngli Ausdress our impacts by reducing energy use and greenhouse and on climate-smart farming through the Lindt & Sprüngli tralia has the ability to sell large-scale generation certifigas emissions at our factories and facilitating the mitigation Farming Program (> see Rural development, pp. 19–21). We cates (LGC) to generate further returns. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T Evaluation and outlook CO2 emissions Absolute CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per metric ton of We have been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 metric tons chocolate produced (2015 = 100%) per ton of chocolate produced by 14% since 2015, meaning that we have already achieved our overarching commit117* 116* 116 118 113 ment in this focus area. We anticipate further reductions 100 99 in 2020 due to our energy saving projects under develop93 91 ment. One significant contributor to this result is the in86 creased share of renewable electricity now used, up from 36% to 39%. The majority of the electricity bought by Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland, Lindt & Sprüngli Germany as well as Caffarel is from renewable sources. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Regarding energy, we were able to reduce our conNote: figures are for Lindt & Sprüngli production companies only. sumption by 8% per metric ton produced compared to * Recalculated values due to the use of more precise conversion factors 2015. As a result, we remain confident about reaching our (emission values in the years 2015/2016 were lower than stated in the 2016-2018 Sustainability Reports) 2020 sub-target of 10% reduction of energy use in the production process per ton of chocolate produced (base Energy consumption year 2015 = 100%) with our current measures. Absolute energy consumption Energy consumption per metric ton of Going forward, our aspiration is to set new targets bein 1,000 MWh chocolate produced (2015 = 100%) yond 2020 to further reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in our own operations and in494 494 507 507 100 99 486 94 92 92 clude emissions beyond scope 1 and 2 in our assessment in order to take into account the indirect emissions that occur in our upstream and downstream value chain. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: figures are for Lindt & Sprüngli production companies only L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T Water 10% reduction of municipal water used in our We aim to further limit our impact on the environment Evaluation and outlook production process by 2020 per ton produced and the water ecosystem. This includes our measures for In our operations, we are continuously reducing our con(base year 2015 = 100%) the reduction of fresh-water consumption as well as wastesumption of water from municipal water supplies. We Water is a valuable natural resource that is heavily used in water generation. In order to reduce the water consumed mainly use municipal water for cleaning operations (for the production of food products such as chocolate. Within in our manufacturing facilities, we are implementing soluexample to clean molds, wash hands and sanitary facilities) production processes, the efficient use of water and adequate tions to recycle our water internally. but also in some water-based filling products. We assess handling of wastewater are both crucial to avoid or reduce Alongside our operations, we strive to address water-­ our water consumption rates twice a year and continuously environmental impacts at a local level. Furthermore, we have related challenges in our global value chain. Furthermore, optimize our processes and systems. water-related risks in our supply chains such as water-intenwe expect our suppliers to adhere to our Code of Conduct, Since 2015, municipal water consumption per metric ton sive agricultural commodities from water stressed regions. which outlines requirements for water stewardship through produced has declined by 10% in the Lindt & Sprüngli proTherefore, water is becoming an increasingly important our onboarding and compliance process for suppliers. duction companies. We have already reached our 2020 comissue for Lindt & Sprüngli’s stakeholders, including local Adequate water infrastructure is built in cocoa countries mitment of a 10% reduction of the municipal water used in communities. We recognize the need to address our stakethrough the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and with our production process per ton produced (base year 2015 = holders’ interests and our responsibility for adequately financial support from the Lindt Cocoa Foundation as part 100%) thanks to our current measures. managing water consumption and wastewater treatment. of our engagement for “Rural development”. In the coming year, we aim to set new targets to further Lindt & Sprüngli is constantly focused on improving wareduce our municipal water consumption and report on ter efficiency and reducing the water footprint of its chocolate. further indicators that underline our engagement to susOur ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Environmental Policy is our shared Improving local cocoa communities’ water infrastructure tainable water management. basis for environmental protection, including our contribuwithin the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program tion to the responsible management of water resources. ImAs part of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program we are Municipal water consumption pacts in our value chains are addressed in the focus areas taking initial steps to further extend our water commitAbsolute water consumption Water consumption per metric ton of “Rural development” and “Human rights in the supply chain”. ment into our supply chain. Our activities are centered in 1,000 m3 chocolate produced (2015 = 100%) International Operations is responsible for defining our around sustainable water management and the protection 791 786 100 99 water management strategy for our production processes. of cocoa farms, but also focus on finding solutions for im750 767 743 90 87 90 The corresponding action plan is adapted and implementproving access to clean drinking water. Therefore, the ed at a subsidiary level. In our production facilities, a conLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program supports gray-water sistent amount of fresh, good-quality water is required for filters in Ecuador and constructs sustainable water systems production processes and cleaning. With respect to water and boreholes, which have reached approximately 130,000 scarcity, our specific business operations do not have a mapeople in cocoa-growing communities in Ghana, Madaterial impact on water, as a very small part of our producgascar and Papua New Guinea. In this effort, our intention 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tion takes place in water-stressed areas. Likewise, our imis to help both cocoa farmers and local communities in our pact from wastewater on water ecosystems is currently low. sourcing countries. Note: figures are for production companies of Lindt & Sprüngli only L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 41 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 C O N T R I B U T I N G T O A N I N TAC T E N V I R O N M E N T Waste and recycling 50% reduction of chocolate waste in our production Lindt & Sprüngli Production Way (LPW) Packaging Sustainability Initiative process by 2025 per ton produced; (base year 2015 = 100%) Material waste and post-processing in our operations have We have adopted a cohesive Sustainable Packaging InitiaMaterial waste is a significant factor for any impacts on the significant impacts on the environment and our cost structure. tive with a clear ambition to reduce the environmental environment, regardless of whether it is raw material, food We are constantly striving to optimize our processes while footprint and contribute towards the recyclability of mateor packaging material waste. This applies in particular to reducing non-value-added activities and any kind of losses. rials. The Sustainable Packaging Initiative integrates enviwasted material in the later stage of the value chain, as this We created the LPW to structure our approach. It follows ronmental criteria in the design process of a product-packmaterial has accumulated impacts from the previous prothe principle of analyzing, eliminating, and avoiding losses. aging combination while maintaining other aspects such cessing steps. Reducing the loss of chocolate is therefore It is implemented in each production facility and strengthens as food safety, quality and cost-effectiveness. Here is an key to minimizing a product’s environmental impact. Our our culture of operational excellence while making a positive overview of our current vision: packaging material also plays a decisive role. It protects our impact on business results and sustainability. valuable chocolate and reduces environmental impacts The improvements we have made to our processes are re— We work towards 100% recyclable packaging linked to chocolate production. However, packaging conflected in the increased efficiency of equipment and personnel, — We are committed to reduce our packaging waste in sumes resources itself and leads to environmental impacts as well as ultimately in the reduction of material waste. Our production as well as packaging destruction every year such as ecosystem degradation if not properly disposed of. know-how in chocolate manufacturing, the expertise of our — We are committed to constantly increase the % of plastic Consumer and customer awareness of material waste, esemployees and state-of-the-art technology enable us to set and free packaging we use on a global scale pecially regarding plastic and food waste, has increased expomonitor optimum process conditions and parameters to ennentially over the past years, followed by high NGO and mesure the best quality while minimizing waste. The main instrument to implement our vision is our dia attention. Relevance is also given through governmental During 2019, we kept the amount of chocolate waste to Packaging Sustainability Handbook, an implementation activities resulting in legislation. In addition, resource efficienthe same level as the previous year. We are on track with our guide for all of our subsidiaries. The handbook provides a cy also has beneficial impacts on our long-term cost structure. ambitious target of 50% waste reduction compared to our consistent understanding of our vision to develop local We are constantly striving to reduce the amount of wast2015 baseline. Moving forward, we will keep progressing by action plans with Group-wide tracking of KPIs. ed materials in our production processes and have set up a investing further in digitalization. In 2019, we aligned our vision and initiated a global basecohesive approach to sustainability in packaging. Our apline assessment for all KPIs to understand and catalog our proach for our own operations is summarized in our packaging materials. We have a broad range of initiatives Lindt & Sprüngli Production Way (LPW) Program. It is coChocolate waste in the production process across our Group to reduce packaging waste and further ordinated by International Operations with the implemenper ton produced (excluding destructions of finished goods) increase our use of recyclable materials, but we are detertation responsibility placed on the local operations team. mined to accelerate our progress in this area. Therefore, we 1.9% Our Sustainability in Packaging Initiative is facilitated by 1.8% 1.5% are currently completing the comprehensive gap analysis the newly formed cross-functional Global Packaging Coun1.3% 1.3% and the construction of an accelerated global action plan. cil, chaired by International Procurement. International Our annual performance evaluation by the Global Marketing is accountable for the initiative, which is rolled Packaging Council will start in 2020. We will be able to out to and implemented by all our local subsidiaries. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 publish our new and ambitious KPIs in the 2020 Report. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Performing together 43 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER Business integrity We do not participate in any corrupt or Group Human Resources (HR) is responsible for managing Evaluation and outlook anti-competitive behavior business integrity in our operations with support from our In 2019, our subsidiaries implemented various projects aimed Corruption and anti-competitive behavior result in ecolocal subsidiaries. We use awareness-raising and training at ensuring compliance and strengthening business integrity. nomic damage by causing commercial losses, promoting courses to support the implementation of our codes and enLindt & Sprüngli North America facilitated in-person social inequality and undermining democratic processes. In sure that everyone at Lindt & Sprüngli, including all memand online training sessions on antitrust/competition law order to avoid adverse effects on societies, foster political bers of management, supervisors and employees, follows our for all U.S. entities. To address sexual harassment, stability and support economic prosperity, companies need core values and complies with our business integrity policies. Lindt & Sprüngli North America conducted a comprehensive to ensure legal compliance and, above all, strive to act acWe encourage our employees to report any instances of training program for all U.S. entities through their Learning cording to ethical and moral standards. Business integrity illegal, fraudulent, unethical or undesirable conduct obManagement system. is therefore essential for any company whose aim is to be served in Lindt & Sprüngli business activities. Local HR In other Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries, local whisacknowledged as a responsible employer and business partner. and, if needed, Group HR act as an additional contact point tleblowing mechanisms have been put into place for emConsequently, Lindt & Sprüngli views business integrity outside the reporting line that is accessible to all employees ployees to issue their concerns and report non-compliancas the cornerstone of its business strategies and practices. to express any suggestions or concerns. es. For example, a whistleblowing hotline has been established The significance that Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responWe are working with our suppliers on these issues to at Lindt & Sprüngli South Africa, and Lindt & Sprüngli sible behavior is reflected in our corporate policies. Our assume our responsibility within our supply chain. Each Australia, Lindt & Sprüngli Italy and Lindt & Sprüngli ▶ Credo and our ▶ Business Code of Conduct clearly set out supplier is provided with the ▶ Supplier Code of Conduct, Canada have also developed a whistleblowing policy/speak our core values and expectations for our employees across which they are asked to sign. We expect our suppliers to up program. all business units and call for compliance. The Business take responsibility and implement the requirements of the Our commitment, approach and activities relating to Code of Conduct is communicated to all employees by the Code and the necessary due diligence processes with their business integrity directly support the prevention of corGroup Management and is monitored through our internal own employees, agents, temporary workers, subcontracruption and anti-competitive behavior. We had no concontrol system. tors, homeworkers, suppliers and sub-suppliers with whom firmed incidents of corruption or anti-competitive behavWe are committed to the principle of free competition they work to deliver goods and services to Lindt & Sprüngli. ior in the last year. In order to verify whether our business and comply with all applicable domestic and international Supplier requirements relating to business integrity are integrity values are lived out within the Lindt & Sprüngli legal requirements. The Lindt & Sprüngli Competition Law further addressed in the section “Human rights in the Group, we incorporate questions on these issues in our Policy outlines the generally applicable competition provisupply chain”. annual Employee Engagement Survey. sions that Lindt & Sprüngli employees are expected to adhere Going forward, Lindt & Sprüngli will continue to ensure to. Additional policies and mechanisms can also exist at a rigorous compliance with legal requirements. Being a responlocal subsidiary level. sible employer, we will strive to continuously improve our business activities to meet the highest ethical standards of conduct, with the aim of surpassing the required compliance with our standards. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER Occupational health and safety We continuously reduce our safety risks to achieve We strongly believe in adopting a proactive approach toEvaluation and outlook our long-term vision of zero lost-time accidents wards safety, which is why we are moving forward in the In 2019, three production companies set new records for Healthy and productive employees are the foundation of any implementation of our activity-based risk assessment. The days in a row without lost-time accidents: Lindt & Sprüngli successful business. Failing to provide health and safety proLindt & Sprüngli risk assessment protocol has been adoptFrance with 272 days, Lindt & Sprüngli USA with 460 days tection in the workplace leads to far-reaching impacts and ed at all production facilities. We have set the quality stanand Lindt & Sprüngli Australia with 888 days. costs for employees, businesses, society and the economy. dards for risk assessment higher than required by local laws The total number of lost-time accidents was lowered to Physical and psychological integrity is an unequivocal right and regulations. 34 in 2019 (36 in 2018). The number of lost-time days per of our employees and the main stakeholder interest to be In addition, we have started to introduce our safe be100,000 hours worked decreased from 7.51 in 2017 to 6.11 in considered in this focus area. havior system “One Minute To Think” as a second work2018 and to 5.05 in 2019 – a 33% reduction in two years. The Lindt & Sprüngli manufactures its products in a responstream and piloted by Ghirardelli. The aim is to increase number of lost-time accidents per 100,000 hours worked sible manner, and ensuring healthy and safe workplaces is awareness of the risks involved in a job and take precautions remained stable at 0.24 over the last two years. We had no a top priority for us. We follow our vision to achieve the accordingly. These two workstreams complement our efaccidents with fatalities in 2019. status of zero lost-time accidents and zero occupational forts to make equipment, workplaces and processes safer. In 2020, we will continue working on reducing risks and illnesses. Our ▶ Health and Safety Policy defines our common We also expect our suppliers to provide their employees improving behaviors, as these are the main proactive drivers principles that are to be adhered to by all manufacturing with a safe and healthy workplace as defined in our Supplier for preventing accidents. and distribution subsidiaries. International Operations is Code of Conduct. Beyond our approach to prevent acciresponsible for defining and rolling out our proactive apdents, we further promote the health and well-being of our Occupational accidents with lost time proach, which is implemented by all production companies, employees in our “Enabling and motivating working enper 100,000 working hours including Lindt & Sprüngli Australia. The approach is divironment” focus area. Number of lost-time accidents/ Relative lost-time accidents/100,000 vided into two workstreams: activity-based risk assessment 100,000 working hours working hours (2008 = 100%) and a safe behavior system. 2.65 100 0.30 0.23 0.25 0.24 11 8.7 9.4 9.0 2008 2016 2017 2018 2019 2008 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: figures are for production companies of Lindt & Sprüngli only, including Lindt & Sprüngli Australia L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 45 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER Enabling and motivating working environment We employ 40% women on senior leadership level subsidiaries. Requirements for an enabling and motivating Local HR and, if needed, Group HR act as an additional by 20256 working environment in our supply chain are further adcontact point outside of the reporting line, accessible to all Passionate, diverse and productive employees are a key dressed in the sections “Human rights in the supply chain” employees to express any suggestions or concerns. Some success factor for Lindt & Sprüngli. We have 14,621 highly and “Rural development”. subsidiaries have also put in place formalized whistleblowing motivated and engaged employees working around the Responsibility for managing the “Enabling and motivatsystems and policies. Regular consultation and engagement world to improve our premium chocolate products. Along ing working environment” focus area is split between Group with our employees and their representatives ensure that with the valuable work they do every day to secure our Human Resources (HR) and Local HR. The corresponding due account is taken of both staff and Group Management operations, our employees and their commitment to our action plan, including our HR roadmap and targets, is deexpectations. company are the best testimony for promoting fined on a global level and adapted as well as implemented We monitor our performance in the “Enabling and moLindt & Sprüngli as an attractive employer. In this role, we at a subsidiary level, according to the specific local contexts tivating working environment” focus area on an annual are responsible for our employees and can actively shape and employee needs. Our international HR conference serves basis and using our global KPIs. Our progress is evaluated their working environment. Our aspiration is to continuas a platform for sharing knowledge and making decisions. at our yearly international HR conference, where adaptaously improve as an employer, thereby addressing the inWe want to ensure that all members of the Board of tions and measures are defined based on the outcomes. creasing workplace expectations held by current and future Directors and Group Management, as well as all line manemployees as they strive to have an impact through the agers and employees, demonstrate an appropriate level of work they do. professionalism that reflects the company’s commitment It is of central importance for Lindt & Sprüngli to offer to our core values as set out in the company’s Credo and Freedom of association and collective bargaining an inspiring, innovative and inclusive working environBusiness Code of Conduct. To ensure coherent application, at Lindt & Sprüngli ment. Our ▶ Credo and ▶ Business Code of Conduct provide the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct are explained Regular consultation and engagement with our employees the basis for our work culture of respect, trust and fairness. to new employees during their onboarding period. Addiand their representatives ensure that due account is taken Within this focus area, we address the material topics “Emtionally, our Global Talent Management Workbook deof both staff and Group Management expectations. This ployee satisfaction and retention”, “Employee development scribes the values, competencies and behaviors expected facilitates negotiations and the implementation of operaand training” and “Diversity and equal opportunity”. from all our employees. tional changes. It goes without saying that Lindt & Sprüngli The “Occupational health and safety” focus area adIn addition to the two Group-wide policies in the form respects employees’ rights and the freedom to form and dresses our measures for providing a safe and healthy workof the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct, as well as join trade unions and bargain collectively. A total of 40% ing environment for our employees. Impacts related to our Global Talent Management Workbook, our subsidiaries of our Lindt & Sprüngli workforce is under a collective business ethics and specifically corruption and anti-comhave additional local policies promoting equal opportunity agreement. Currently, Lindt & Sprüngli employees are petitive behavior are addressed through “Business integriand measures against sexual harassment, to name just a few. collectively organized in Austria, France, Germany, Italy, ty”. Our commitment to providing an attractive working Moreover, online and in-house training courses are offered Switzerland and the US (Ghirardelli), as well as at the environment applies equally to all employees in all of our on a regular basis. Montrose factory of Russell Stover Chocolates. 6 Senior leadership level is defined as: Group Management, CEOs/Country Managers, CFOs, VPs, positions reporting directly to Group Management (excl. assistants). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 46 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER Employee satisfaction and retention By 2022: An average of 70 out of 100 points in the global — Lindt & Sprüngli Australia and Lindt & Sprüngli UK offer Week”, aimed at promoting awareness and tips to manage employee survey, which is conducted every three years. options for employees to spend more time with their famwork and personal challenges. Lindt & Sprüngli USA held This score is the average of: overall employee satisfaction ilies during the summer holidays. At Lindt & Sprüngli a Health and Wellness Fair for employees that included score, overall work engagement score, overall score of Australia, office employees are able to extend their weekvendors and well-being service providers to educate its the question “My work situation enables me to achieve a ends by working a condensed week so they can then employees in Stratham about the importance of physical, good work-life balance”, overall salary score leave work on Fridays at noon during the summer mental and spiritual well-being. Satisfied and motivated employees are the key to our success. months. Similarly, Lindt & Sprüngli UK offers summer We want to offer an attractive working environment and working hours to encourage people to spend more time Our main tool for measuring employee satisfaction is our continue to strengthen our already high levels of employee with their families during the summer. Group-wide employee survey conducted every three years. commitment, satisfaction, and retention. Satisfaction, how— To better address employee needs for flexible working Through the survey, we gain insights into our employees’ ever, is subjective and depends on how an employee is feeling times, Lindt & Sprüngli USA initiated measures to orgasatisfaction levels and then develop measures for optimiabout their current work relationship. The requirements and nize parental leave and volunteer time off (VTO). They zation. Our last employee survey was conducted in 2019 legal environment differ from country to country, which is introduced a new benefit to support new fathers so that and showed the following results for our main KPIs: why the majority of initiatives take place primarily at the they can stay home for two weeks (consecutively or Employee satisfaction KPIs 2019 level of the individual subsidiaries based on the ongoing spaced out) with their newborn child. For volunteers, a input from and communication with their employees. new VTO program (“Giving back to the communities Target by 2022: Ø 70 for all four KPIs Employee Group HR creates a space for sharing experiences across in which we live and work”) has been rolled out, giving satisfaction score 68/100 subsidiaries and streamlines common initiatives. Various every full-time employee one paid day per year to give Work engagement subsidiaries, for example in Germany, the US, Italy, and at back to the community by donating their time to the score 86/100 Ghirardelli, have started working on their employer value charity of their choice. Salary score 61/100 proposition to demonstrate to our employees and potential — Lindt & Sprüngli Australia offered a lunchtime learning candidates the advantages of working at Lindt & Sprüngli. workshop on stress management in 2019. The objective of Work-life balance 65/100 These initiatives are now being strengthened through the this workshop was to better understand stress, share tips score “Global Employer Value Proposition” project, which outlines and techniques on how to manage stress, introduce wellthe values and benefits of working at Lindt & Sprüngli. ness practices in order to control stress in the long term, Going forward, we are striving to better address the increasThe boundary between work and leisure time is becoming and develop a personal action plan for stress manageing expectations of current and future employees and thereincreasingly blurred, and finding the right work-life balance ment. The workshops were run by the Better@Being by reach our target of an average score of 70 for all four KPIs. is becoming ever more relevant for many employees across Committee, which is composed of employees from the our subsidiaries. We are committed to ensuring a healthy Lindt & Sprüngli Australia subsidiary. work-life balance and offer employees support to cope with — Additionally, several subsidiaries provided measures for increasing work-related demands. Our local subsidiaries orawareness-raising activities, information and training ganize various context-specific initiatives and activities on health and work-life balance. Lindt & Sprüngli UK throughout the year to contribute to fulfilling our commitlaunched an updated mental health portal with content ment. The following are some examples: to support the initiatives and organized a “Mental Health L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 47 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER Employee development and training Within our global Talent Management process, we conduct the core values of the Credo and Business Code of Conduct By 2022: 70 out of 100 points for the overall score for annual Talent Management dialogues with performance feed into candidate assessment. HR managers at all of our training and personal development opportunities in the appraisals, and we have established a structured succession subsidiaries use the Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model global employee survey, which is conducted every three planning process. This is our way of enabling managers to during the process and apply its ten criteria when assessing years. By 2022: 100% of white-collar employees and 80% coordinate a pool of talent and build appropriate developcandidates. A standardized questionnaire is used to impleof blue-collar employees receive a regular assessment of ment plans that match employees’ needs with the demands ment the criteria during interviews. Our subsidiaries have their performance and professional development of our business. also developed progressive onboarding programs, as the Passionate, diverse and productive employees are a key We continue to focus on individual development plans following examples demonstrate: success factor for Lindt & Sprüngli. Therefore, we ensure and apply our 70-20-10 model: 70% practical experience, — Thanks to the new e-learning platform in Australia, emthat all key positions are staffed with qualified and moti20% coaching/mentoring and team building, 10% formal ployees have an improved experience when joining the vated employees and that talented candidates are developed individualized training programs. We have also impleworld of Lindt & Sprüngli, with standardized modules internally to fill these positions. mented the following local measures: for all positions. Our Talent Management Workbook reemphasizes this — Lindt & Sprüngli Germany offers various development — As part of the cultural integration segment, all new emand is our central tool for managing employee development. opportunities to both train and develop current and ployees at Lindt & Sprüngli USA are invited to participate Our global Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model is our guide prospective managers and high-potential employees. in the full-day “Life of a Truffle” experience. They view to measuring the skills and abilities of candidates and emThis includes, for example, monthly training sessions transactions with Sales and Marketing, visit the Quality ployees as they advance along their development path. We for supervisors and the “New Leadership” series. For and R & D departments, and enjoy a full production tour. attach great importance to training and further development up-and-coming talents, Lindt & Sprüngli Germany offers — Lindt & Sprüngli Germany also offers an exciting welcome in order to acquire and retain high-performing employees. traineeships and apprenticeships. In 2019, 80 apprento all its new employees with a tailored two-day workshop. tices were welcomed in various departments in accorLindt & Sprüngli Competence Model dance with the country’s dual-education system. — In the USA, apprenticeships also play a key role in develOngoing and individual learning opportunities Leads by oping future leadership talent. In the Manufacturing in the UK Can excite example Thinks Apprenticeship Program at Lindt & Sprüngli USA, emLindt & Sprüngli UK offers a variety of training and develcustomers and acts strategically ployees engage in a formal program led by HR and the opment programs that specifically address the different Director of Production that involves a combination of needs of its employees. The initiative “Own Your DevelopWorks hands-on and classroom training. Currently there are 6–8 ment” ensures that all employees receive an individualized Fosters innovation Shares efficiently employees in the program who are considered “top talent.” development plan. Additional trainings are offered, for in a team passion — Lindt & Sprüngli Australia completed the rollout of its example one specifically for line managers and one focused “Learning Management System” in 2019 and included on external sales. A special learning opportunity in 2019 Promotes Open to self-developshort motivational learning videos in the package. for Lindt & Sprüngli UK employees was the “Learning Fest”, change ment & others’ develop­­ment an eight-week program that provided recommendations ResultsCommuniThe integration of newly hired employees is very important on self-directed learning as well as workshops on different oriented cates effecapproach tively to us. A good experience on the first day of work makes all topics such as resilience, time management, leadership, and the difference. As early as during the recruitment process, talks on career journeys. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 48 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 PER FOR M I NG TOGETH ER As part of our training and development measures, 85% of our younger workforce under the age of 30 is due in part been supported by the measures implemented at our subsidour employees received performance and career development to the group of apprentices and trainees that we enable to iaries in the last year. In line with our gender diversity target, reviews in 2019. We want to increase the percentage of emjoin our organization. Lindt & Sprüngli South Africa initiated two courses focused ployees who receive regular performance and career develon “Women in leadership” for their female management. opment reviews to 100% for white-collar and 80% for Age split To address cultural diversity, Lindt & Sprüngli UK is providblue-collar employees by 2022. Additionally, we want to iming awareness training for its employees. In total, employees 100% 5.9 60+ prove our employee development and training approach by 6.8 7.1 7.2 8.3 of Lindt & Sprüngli UK received 28.5 hours of cultural 2022 on all levels to reach 70 out of 100 points for the overall 21.3 21.1 21.7 20.7 50–59 diversity awareness training in 2019. 80% 20.5 personal development score in the global employee survey. 40–49 We are planning to introduce further measures at a sub60% 23.1 21.5 20.9 20.4 20.4 30–39 sidiary level that will help us achieve this goal. These will Training and Development 2019 include, for example, mentoring programs to support young <30 Overall personal Target by 2022: 70 40% 22.9 21.6 21.7 21.6 21.7 talents in their career paths. In the coming year, we aim to development 65/100 set new targets to further expand the training opportunities score 20% 26.8 29.1 28.7 30.1 29.1 for our employees, for example education about cultural awareness, diversity and fostering gender diversity. Diversity and equal opportunity 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 We employ 40% women on senior leadership6 level by 2025 We are committed to offering equal opportunity, promoting Women are one of the central target groups we strive to Women in senior leadership6 2019 diversity in terms of employment, and supporting the develpromote through our measures for diversity. As of today, Target by 2025: 40% opment and promotion of all those who meet the relevant around 61% of all employees at Lindt & Sprüngli are women. 30% 70% Senior leadership requirements. We do not tolerate any discrimination against To promote gender diversity at management level as well, employees or candidates on the grounds of gender, age, reour goal is to increase the percentage of women on senior 61% 39% Global workforce ligion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, nationleadership level to 40% by 2025. By last year, we were already al or social origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or color, or able to achieve a percentage of 30%. This target is now inWomen Men any other relevant characteristic. cluded in our global recruitment processes, where we require We believe that all people should be treated fairly. It is headhunters to balance the number of applicants recomour policy and practice, therefore, to ensure people enjoy mended to us based on gender. In 2019, we started to sysequal employment opportunities (both employees and tematically examine our workforce structure and processes candidates). We also support and promote gender diverbased on gender criteria to identify hidden barriers and desity and strive for age diversity in which younger and velopment potentials for women’s career paths. Subsequent older generations actively collaborate. The distribution of targeted action plans on a Group and subsidiary level will employees in our different age groups has remained balanced allow us to unlock our internal potential to achieve our goal. and stable over the past four years. The higher percentage of Our approach towards diversity and equal opportunity has 6 Senior leadership level is defined as: Group Management, CEOs/Country Managers, CFOs, VPs, positions reporting directly to Group Management (excl. assistants). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Delighting consumers 50 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 DELIGHT I NG CONSUM ER S Transparent and responsible communication We market and advertise our products according We display clear and easily understandable nutritional inConsumers can also get in touch with us using the feedback to national/international laws formation and calorie guidelines on the packaging of all form included in our packaging. Additionally, we are in diConsumers purchase chocolate according to their individual Lindt & Sprüngli products. Furthermore, we continuously rect contact with our consumers on a daily basis via more desires and needs. Their choice of product depends on a seek to simplify the ingredient lists and work towards rethan 100 social media channels, providing individual annumber of things, including the list of ingredients, nutrimoving artificial ingredients across our portfolio. To enswers to the inquiries and feedback we receive. In order to tional values or allergens. Increasingly, consumers are also courage responsible consumption, we recommend eating ensure professional and efficient consumer and customer taking into account issues such as the sustainability of prodsmall, appropriate portions of chocolate as a treat. service, we have introduced a management process designed ucts, production and cultivation conditions. Our ▶ Responsible Marketing Policy also defines clear to further optimize average processing and response times. Transparent and responsible communication as well rules on marketing to children by committing to not launch as product labeling are therefore very important to any advertisements with children as the primary media target. Lindt & Sprüngli. Our global requirements are defined in In general, all TV advertising needs to be approved by Interour Lindt & Sprüngli Quality Guidelines and our policy on national Marketing. All messaging in advertising, on packag▶ Responsible Marketing. International Marketing manages ing and on in-store materials is directed to gatekeepers. our approach on a global level, while our local marketing To inform consumers of our sustainability initiatives and local quality assurance are responsible for implemenand highlight the importance of sustainably sourcing tation and ensuring compliance with local legal requirehigh-quality beans, Lindt & Sprüngli products display the ments. Employees involved in external communication and logo of the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program on the back product labelling receive specific training relating to our of their packaging, and consumers are directed to seek adQuality Guidelines and Responsible Marketing Policy. ditional information about the Program on our website. While we always adhere to national and international Our Farming Program is addressed further in our “Rural legislation, our declaration guidelines often extend beyond development” focus area. what is legally required. Lindt & Sprüngli includes labels We maintain extensive interaction with our consumers. In that emphasize all major allergens in the ingredient list in case of questions or concerns, consumers can reach us via bold on all products and provides a clear warning about our Consumer Service, which is available in all 28 subsidany traces of specific allergens they may contain. We also iaries and two regional offices in the respective local lanfollow strict process requirements in order to avoid the guage(s). The most common questions are answered pubinadvertent contamination of our products (> see Product licly on our website in the ▶ Ask Lindt & Sprüngli section. quality/Product safety pp. 52–53). Specific issues relating to sustainability, such as farming conditions for cocoa or health-related questions, are recorded separately and taken into account during internal meetings for evaluation. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 51 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 DELIGHT I NG CONSUM ER S Evaluation and outlook KPIs and their development. This is supported by our Last year, we defined our ▶ Responsible Marketing Policy. International Marketing Meetings, which take place three with the goal of further enhancing our commitment to times a year. transparent and responsible communication. The policy Going forward, we will continue to ensure that our will be integrated into our business activities and rolled products are marketed according to national and/or interout to our subsidiaries. At the local level, marketing plans national standards. We will strive to make information will be reviewed on an annual basis. better accessible and more easily understandable to further In 2020, Lindt & Sprüngli is planning to become a sighelp our consumers make responsible food and lifestyle natory to the ▶ EU Pledge, a voluntary initiative in the choices. We are also planning to have our Ghirardelli difood sector aimed at changing the way companies advervision sign a similar pledge to the EU Pledge to extend our tise to children. As part of this initiative, we commit to commitment of changing the way we advertise to children not advertise to children under the age of 12 or in any in the US market. primary and secondary schools. Through the EU Pledge, our commitment on advertising to children will be third-party audited in the European market. As the EU Pledge is in line with our global Group advertising commitments, we are looking to make similar pledges in all countries where a comparable local initiative exists. In 5002018: 460 this regard, we have been in line with our own goal of zero Number of L&S Shops cases of advertising to children as the primary media target in 2019. During 2019, 113,391 consumer contacts7 were record20 2018: 18 0 113,391 ed in our system across the Group (excluding social me2018: 112,300 dia) and were processed or answered by our Consumer Countries in which Cases of advertising Service specialists. The number of inquiries increased by consumer satisfaction surveys to children as primary Responses to around 6% since 2018. In 2019, around 1,300 critical cushave been carried out media target in 2019 consumer contacts tomer inquiries were about sustainability issues, which 18,900 1,300 showed a slight increase in interest in this area compared to 2018 (1,100 inquiries). These inquiries represent approximately 1% of all consumer inquiries7 worldwide. All other inquiries concerned general topics, specific prod2018: > 18,300 2018: > 1,100 > 1002018: > 100 ucts, ingredients, or the quality of raw materials. Number of consumers being Responses to consumer asked for brand and contacts Number of We assess our performance through the regular and forproduct satisfaction regarding sustainability7 social media channels mal collection of data and by annually reviewing relevant 7 excluding social media post inquiries L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 52 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 DELIGHT I NG CONSUM ER S Product quality/Product safety We comply with Lindt & Sprüngli quality and food International Operations is responsible for managing prodLindt & Sprüngli also monitors its chocolate constantly to safety standards on an ongoing basis uct quality and product safety at Group level. Coordination detect the possible presence of more than 570 different types As a producer of premium chocolates, we are uncomproand operational responsibilities are cascaded to our local of pesticides. With the farmer training carried out by the mising when it comes to ensuring product quality and quality assurance in subsidiaries where required. Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, we promote improved product safety. Our understanding of product quality, howTo maintain high product quality and product safety agricultural practices that reduce the need for pesticides in ever, extends beyond the quality of raw materials to the standards, our requirements for key raw and packaging cocoa production and fight pests using natural methods. services we deliver to our customers and consumers. In this materials are stipulated in our product specifications and In addition to our raw materials, we also set requirements context, we recognize that quality and safety standards are subsequently inspected. All of our factories undergo comfor our packaging material, since it plays a major role in proissues that our consumers, customers and other relevant prehensive (unannounced) inspections conducted either tecting our delicate chocolate. However, we are also working stakeholders pay attention to. While compliance with qualinternally by Lindt & Sprüngli or externally by qualified on the reduction and recyclability of our packaging whenever ity and safety standards for products is required by law, it independent partners. Furthermore, regular supplier audits possible to conserve more natural resources (> see Waste and is also a key consumer expectation. are performed. This approach ensures that Lindt & Sprüngli’s recycling p. 41). Apart from product quality, we strive to offer For Lindt & Sprüngli, high quality standards and a comchocolate meets uniformly high quality standards all high-quality service to our consumers by continuously anamitment to food safety are part of our brand identity and, around the world. In addition, management systems for lyzing their needs and expectations as well as any preferences consequently, one of the core components of our business food safety (FSSC22000) and quality assurance are in they have. Moreover, we engage with consumers directly model. Through our approach, we strive to manage potential place at all our production facilities, except Russell Stover through channels such as our Consumer Service, which is part negative impacts that we view as posing the highest risk and Lindt & Sprüngli Australia. Russell Stover and of our approach in the “Transparent and responsible commuwithin production processes at our own facilities or at supLindt & Sprüngli Australia are currently working on the nication” focus area. plier factories. We have developed a comprehensive quality launch of a standardized management system for food safemanagement system, which is based on our own strict rety with the aim of also receiving FSSC22000 certification. quirements and defined in our Lindt & Sprüngli Quality Ensuring that our chocolate maintains its high quality Guidelines. These requirements include raw materials, proafter production and until it is delivered to our customers is cessing, storage and distribution. Compliance with legal food of particular importance to us. Therefore, we pay special atregulations and food safety standards is furthermore retention to transportation and storage processes, focusing on quired throughout all of our processes. controlling humidity and temperature. The guidelines for this apply to all of our own or rented warehouses for finished and semi-finished products. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 53 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 DELIGHT I NG CONSUM ER S Evaluation and outlook During the factory audits we conducted in 2019, there Lindt & Sprüngli position on GMO were zero non-compliances detected with regulations Lindt & Sprüngli is not involved in any research or develconcerning the health and safety impacts of products and opment associated with genetically modified foods. None services resulting in a fine, penalty or warning. of the Lindt, Caffarel, Küfferle, or Hofbauer brand products Furthermore, we revamped our product crisis managesource genetically modified organisms (GMO) ingredients. ment and trained the management of two major subsidiaries We will continue this practice as long as non-GMO raw in product quality and product safety. materials are available. Regular tests are performed to moniWe constantly evaluate our activities to assess measures tor these products and ensure compliance with relevant EU for improvement. We will continue to ensure compliance and Swiss regulations. Ghirardelli has also introduced meawith food regulations and food safety standards required sures to guarantee that all its products are free from genetiby law and set out in our guidelines. Moreover, we will cally modified ingredients in the future. Since the end of strive to further increase the level of transparency in our 2019, practically all Ghirardelli chocolate products do not processes in the future in order to improve our ability to contain GMO ingredients, with only a very minor percentage detect potential non-compliances at all our locations. Addiof toppings excluded. Options for using non-GMO raw mationally, we will aspire to respond better and more quickly terials for all Ghirardelli products are currently under reto our consumers and thereby further enhance the quality view. Russell Stover is currently not planning to switch to of service we deliver to them. non-GMO products. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Sustainability approach 55 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Sustainability approach With the Lindt & Sprüngli Promise, we ensure that all prodWe recognize that most challenges can only be overcome The pillars of our business model ucts leaving our factories will ultimately live up to our by working together. Therefore, we engage and collaborate commitment to sustainability along the entire value chain. with various stakeholders and partners to achieve our comWe are committed to managing the impact of our operamon goals (> see Stakeholder approach p. 59). It is particutions on sustainability throughout the entire value chain. larly important for us to have our direct business partners Global presence Sustainability is one of the main pillars of our business on board with us. When it comes to impacts that occur Marketing excellence model and rooted in our values as defined in our ▶ Credo. outside our organization, they most often provide the greatTrade relationships Our vision goes beyond making fine premium chocolates, est leverage. Technology because our high production standards deserve to be Our high standards also apply to the implementation of matched by equally high standards of ethics and sustainsustainability programs. In selected cases and where reaability. The significance that Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to sonable, we define our own path with our partners to Quality Innovation Sustainability responsible behavior is reflected in various policies and in achieve the greatest possible impact. This applies in particour Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan (> see Sustainabilular to our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. ity Plan pp. 6-9), which defines the way we manage our We aspire to achieve steady progress and are constantly entire business. striving to improve our contribution to a sustainable future. We are implementing our approach from To accomplish this, we concentrate on the most significant Lindt & Sprüngli International throughout the entire Group, aspects along our value chain. We monitor our progress on all the way down to the subsidiary level, involving all relevant an ongoing basis using a series of key performance indicators. departments. On the one hand, this broad-based implementation fits in with our decentralized organizational structure, while on the other hand, it allows us to take into account the respective local contexts (> see Governance p. 56). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 56 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Governance Lindt & Sprüngli sustainability governance At Lindt & Sprüngli, all issues relating to sustainability are dealt with by the highest level of management. Our CorLindt & Sprüngli Group porate Sustainability Committee of the Board consists of three members of the Board of Directors. It supports the Sustainability Committee of the Board Board of Directors in setting the strategic course for company activities, while promoting comprehensive sustainable management. The Committee is responsible for the develSustainability Executive Team opment and adoption of all globally valid corporate policies in this area and monitors compliance. It meets as often as Group Management required, but at least once a year. Group Management, represented by the CFO, is responsible for ensuring that the strategic decisions are impleSustainability Management mented. The Corporate Sustainability Executive Team, which includes representatives from all relevant departments, is responsible for steering the implementation of the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan. Sustainability ManageProcurement HR Marketing Legal R&D/QA Operations Communi­ cations ment coordinates the Sustainability Executive Team in implementing the Sustainability Plan. The Sustainability Executive Team meets every two to Subsidiaries three months and is also responsible for Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries. It ensures local implementation based on the policies and guidelines of Lindt & Sprüngli International. Each Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiary has one Sustainability Representative to ensure end-to-end communication between the Group and the respective subsidiary. In addition, each manufacturing subsidiary appoints a person responsible for health and safety management and for environmental management. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 57 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Materiality process and strategy development Our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan is based on a mateThe strategy was then drafted in close collaboration with our Corporate Sustainability Executive Team consolidated the riality process that aims to identify and validate the issues departments, which were in contact with the relevant reprevarious drafts into a single strategy and prepared it for approvwhich have the most relevance to our stakeholders and the sentatives of the subsidiaries in order to deliver a broadly supal. The strategy, including the material topics, was approved highest impact on the environment, society and the economy. ported strategy. All the inputs from the subsidiaries were by Group Management, the CEO and the Board of Directors. The resulting material topics are the building blocks for defingathered by the departments and included in the process. The ing the focus areas of our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan and at the same time constitute the content of our reporting. We have comprehensively updated our existing materiality analysis as part of the development process of our Human rights in the supply chain Sustainability Plan. Industry benchmarks, literature rePacking material sustainability Rural development views, consultations with sustainability experts as well as high Product quality and product safety the analysis of our stakeholders’ feedback resulted in an Biodiversity CO2 and climate change updated longlist of potentially material topics. We then Water efficiency assessed the importance of each issue for our stakeholders, Business integrity while building on a broad range of internal and external Relevance for stakeholders inputs. These inputs were gathered from our various direct Waste Occupational health and safety exchanges with our stakeholders, scientific papers, NGO Animal welfare Employee satisfaction and retention reports, and investor, media and consumer inquiries. We Conscious consumer lifestyle Diversity and equal opportunity further evaluated each issue in relation to the impacts of Responsible marketing Transparent labeling Employee development our operations on the environment, society and the economy. We considered scale, scope and remediability of poData management tential impacts in order to estimate the effects of our busimoderate Secured supply of raw materials ness activities. The stakeholder view and the impact view Philantropy Other emissions (odor, noise, other air) together determined the definition of material topics as Responsible business relations shown in the materiality matrix. Local economic contribution Food security As a result, we identified 15 material topics, which we then Political accountability grouped and merged into focus areas so we can address the issues more effectively. We allocated ownership of each focus area to the corresponding department. Therefore, our manmoderate high Impact on society, environment and economy agement approaches are defined on the level of focus areas, with some of them containing up to three material topics. Non-Material Delighting consumers Performing together Contributing to an intact enviroment Improving livelihoods L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 58 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Mapping of material topics to focus areas Material topic Allocated focus area Relevant impacts along the value chain Supply chain Production Customer / consumer Rural development Rural development Human rights in the supply chain Human rights in the supply chain Biodiversity Biodiversity and ecosystems CO2 and climate change CO2 and climate Water efficiency Water Waste Waste and recycling Packaging material sustainability Waste and recycling Business integrity Business integrity Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety Employee satisfaction and Enabling and motivating working environment retention Diversity and equal opportunity Enabling and motivating working environment Employee development Enabling and motivating working environment Transparent labeling Transparent and responsible communication Responsible marketing Transparent and responsible communication Product quality and Product quality / Product safety product safety Impacts related to the material topic that occurr in the considered value chain stage are managed… … in the allocated focus area … in a different focus area than the one the material topic is allocated to L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 59 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Stakeholder approach We want our sustainability approach to be relevant and credible. Stakeholder involvement is a central element of our approach. We maintain open dialog and work collaboratively with our stakeholders to find solutions for sustainable development. Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli approach Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli approach Consumers Consumers have specific information requirements regarding ingredients, origin of raw Universities/Research Lindt & Sprüngli works with various universities and research institutions along the entire materials and sustainability. Conscious consumption and a healthy lifestyle are other trends. institutions value chain. We support existing research facilities and projects, help develop new applied We communicate with our consumers through different channels. Consumer service science projects, and support students with academic assignments involving research specialists at the Lindt & Sprüngli Group handle each inquiry, compliment, and complaint that topics of relevance to us. is received with the necessary care. Consumers also have the opportunity to get in touch Retail/Distributors/ Buyers of semi-finished Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate products, as well as retailers, distributors, with our employees directly at the growing number of Lindt and Ghirardelli retail shops. Customers and other corporate customers for finished products ensure our products are available to Furthermore, Lindt & Sprüngli has a presence on various social media platforms such as consumers all year round. They have their channel-specific customer service representatives Facebook and Twitter, which allow direct interaction with consumers. at their respective subsidiaries to handle inquiries and concerns in a professional manner. Employees Employees are our biggest asset. The most relevant topics in this area include training and Lindt & Sprüngli brands are also represented at trade fairs and other events so that partners development, diversity and equal opportunity. We promote a feedback culture where open can discover our latest creations for themselves. and honest dialog is always welcome and maintain various communication channels and Governments Lindt & Sprüngli does not conduct active lobbying at a government level. However, Group dialog platforms. Our annual Talent Management dialog helps to identify, assess, and companies are members of several local industry associations. Government institutions are develop the professional skills and performances of our employees. We conduct an becoming increasingly important in terms of providing advice and support for sustainability employee survey every three years across the entire Group. projects. In addition, laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, social Investors We provide investors, analysts, and proxy advisors with our half-year and annual results and standards and human rights have been implemented or are in the process of being other relevant company news. The annual general meeting provides a forum for exchanging implemented in various countries. information and opinions, as do smaller conferences and telephone conversations with Media We proactively inform the media about relevant issues to ensure the public image of financial analysts, roadshows, and personal meetings. We also participate in some of the Lindt & Sprüngli is both exemplary and accurate. Our communication with the media is major environmental, social and governance ratings of analysts and investors. honest, fact-based, and transparent – while respecting any business secrets. We publish Civil society The Sustainability Manager is the main contact point for civil society organizations and reports and press releases regarding our half-year and annual results, as well as press releases organizations and NGOs. This person maintains ongoing one-on-one dialogue with a view to showcasing the on any other business-related matters such as media events, annual general meetings, and NGOs sustainability work done by Lindt & Sprüngli, asking for feedback, taking on board suggestions on-site visits, and answer questions from the media. and reservations, and assessing the potential for partnerships. Farmers and suppliers Consistent high quality in terms of raw materials and packaging, reliable partners for transport, logistics, and the development, supply, and maintenance of machinery, not to mention providers of a whole host of support services – these are all crucial for our business. Lindt & Sprüngli procurement staff in particular, as well as other employees, are regularly in touch with our supply chain partners. We follow a partnership approach to supplier development so that both parties can continuously improve, also with regard to sustainability. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 60 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 01 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H About this report This Sustainability Report is Lindt & Sprüngli’s 10th progress report relating to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the six UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB). This Sustainability Report provides stakeholders with The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Relevant company guidelines Report reference information about the goals that Lindt & Sprüngli has set 1. Companies should support and respect the protection of internationally Credo pp. 5–9, 31–33, 37, 57–59 itself, measures introduced, and the progress achieved. It proclaimed human rights. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 2. Companies should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Business Code of Conduct covers the period from January 1, 2019, to December 31, Health & Safety Policy 2019. Unless otherwise stated, all facts and figures are Supplier Code of Conduct correct as of December 31, 2019, and relate to the Lindt, 3. Companies should uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the Credo pp. 5–9, 15, 17–21, 23–24, Ghirardelli, Russell Stover, Whitman’s, Pangburn’s, Caffarel, right to collective bargaining. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 30–33, 45–48, 57–59 Hofbauer, and Küfferle brands of the Lindt & Sprüngli 4. Companies should work toward the elimination of all forms of forced and Business Code of Conduct compulsory labor. Health & Safety Policy Group. The facts and figures also relate to all production, 5. Companies should work toward the effective abolition of child labor. Supplier Code of Conduct distribution, and marketing sites, as well as regional 6. Companies should work toward the elimination of discrimination in respect Lindt & Sprüngli offices. This Sustainability Report was to employment and occupation. written with due regard to the principle of materiality in 7. Companies should support a precautionary approach to environmental Credo pp. 5–9, 16, 18–19, 35–41, terms of the issues addressed and the expectations of the challenges. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 57–59 8. Companies should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental Policy various stakeholders. Supplier Code of Conduct responsibility. 9. Companies should encourage the development and diffusion of environmenDate of publication tally friendly technologies. English version: April 2020 10. Companies should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Business Code of Conduct pp. 5–9, 43, 45, 57–59 and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct The expectations expressed in this Sustainability Report are based on assumptions. Actual results may vary from these. Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB) Report reference The company pursues food safety, health, and nutrition. pp. 6–10, 12–33, 52–53 The company is environmentally responsible. pp. 6–10, 35–41 The company ensures economic viability and shares value. pp. 6–9, 12–33 The company respects human rights, creates decent work, and helps communities to thrive. pp. 6–9, 12–33, 45–48 The company encourages good governance and accountability. pp. 6–9, 43, 56 The company promotes access to and the transfer of knowledge, skills, and technologies. pp. 6–9, 12–33 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 CHOCOLADEFABRIKEN LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AG Seestrasse 204 | CH-8802 Kilchberg Switzerland www.lindt-spruengli.com/sustainability www.farming-program.com L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845
