2020 Annual CSR Report COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TABLE OF CONTENTS STRATEGY, COMMITMENT & POLICY 4 Editorial: Integrated strategy and corporate transparency 5 Commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact 6 A CSR strategy to pursue sustainable development goals in seven areas 7 Policy for Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices 8 IDENTITY AND GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 10 Our History 11 Our certifications 12 Facts & key figures 13 Geographic locations 14 Expressions Parfumées site cartography 15 HIGHLIGHTS OF CSR ACTION IN 2019 – ACHIEVEMENTS AND INNOVATION 17 CSR, a core component of our strategy, our programs and our audits 18 Responsibility at the territorial level 18 A carbon-neutral production site 19 Givaudan Principles of Conduct and Purpose 20 Meal service for staff 20 ENSURE RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE THAT FULLY RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS 21 Responsible governance… 22 Top management works closely with the CSR committee 22 First publication of an annual report 23 Regular audits to track compliance with our CSR requirements 24 Objective : continual improvement of our value chain 24 EcoVadis Gold rating 25 SMETA audit scheduled for 2020 26 … And respect for human rights 27 An overarching approach to equal opportunity 27 Formal approval of a new policy regarding disabilities 27 Ongoing social dialogue, a factor for progress 28 ENSURE THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES AND PROVIDE WORKING CONDITIONS THAT ARE CONDUCIVE TO THEIR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT 29 Ensure employees’ health and safety… 30 Health and safety at work above all 30 Company and sector-wide reflection on risk prevention 30 …Working conditions that are conducive to employee development 31 Careful attention to better working conditions 31 Steps to improve quality of life at work 31 A fresh welcome for new employees 32 Horizon 2020/2025 : stable employment and mutual understanding 33 3 REDUCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT AND AUGMENT OUR RESILIENCE AND CAPACITY TO ADAPT TO CLIMATE CHANGE 34 Impact study 35 An analysis of environmental impacts spanning all our activities 35 Life cycle analyses of our products 35 Resource consumption 36 Close tracking of consumption and reduction measures 36 Smart energy management 36 A 100% green power study 36 Emission management 37 A carbon-neutral production site 37 Action plan for employee mobility 37 Waste management 38 Waste sorting is the rule 38 Phasing out single-use plastics 40 A new environmentally conscious building design 41 Lower energy consumption and better air quality 41 Save water and prevent pollution 42 Improve working conditions 43 BETTER TRACEABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE AND PRODUCTION CHAIN 44 Responsible procurement and sourcing policy 45 CSR, an integral part of our practices 45 Givaudan Principles of Conduct 46 INNOVATIVE, SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE PERFUMES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 47 Protecting the health of our staff and our customers 48 Certified natural and organic products and innovation 48 CREATION OF VALUE THAT IS SHARED ACROSS THE TERRITORIES AND THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE WORK 50 Fragrance is emblematic of our territory 51 Support for the Aromatic Fablab project and the Jardins du Musée International de la Parfumerie 52 Member of the Cercle Azuréen du Global Compact France 53 Sponsorship of academic activity and doctoral research 53 Training and job creation 54 Solidarity with the health care sector 55 ANNEX : INDICATORS 57 *indicators In the body of the report, you will regularly find an asterisk (* )indicating that the information is supported by an indicator in the annex 3 STRATEGY, COMMITMENT & POLICY Editorial: Integrated strategy and corporate transparency Serving customers since 1982, Expressions Parfumées brings its capacity for innovation and creativity and the know-how of its staff to its production process, to imagine and make the perfumes sought by its clientele. This process follows the criteria of three demanding standards. –Product quality and uniqueness to meet the needs of our customers. – Compliance with existing regulations. – Environmental responsibility to address the challenges of sustainable development. To mobilize our staff to meet these standards Expressions Parfumées has deployed an integrated management system to ensure quality assurance, health and safety measures and environmental stewardship, in addition to its roadmap for corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our strategy for sustainable development is also based on our long-standing commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, and on the social involvement of our parent company Givaudan. These approaches are coordinated to define and structure the clear, moderate and wellcharted goals that constitute our pathway to responsible growth. This overall policy to pursue quality, safety and security, environmental action and ethical values is described in detail in this document, our first corporate social responsibility report. This exercise in transparency is assuredly perfectible, and as in all domains we assume the duty of improvement. We owe it to our internal and external stakeholders, to Grasse where we will continue to consolidate our roots, and to future generations, to continue our journey on this path to responsible growth. Christophe MARIN Executive President 5 Commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact Expressions Parfumées is committed to a corporate strategy that gives priority to sustainable development and to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, focusing in particular on the following tasks: • Take action to limit the environmental impact of our activities and to preserve biodiversity, specifically by reducing our carbon footprint and compensating for our greenhouse gas emissions; • Create the best possible working conditions and ensure professional development for all our staff, and involve employees in our work to continually improve our achievements in terms of social and environmental responsibility; • Encourage and work with our suppliers and partners to build a genuine partnership to pursue our goals for social and environmental responsibility across our entire value chain and promote ethical and good-faith practices; • Conceive, design and bring to market solutions that continue to innovate and meet the requirements of our customers and consumers around the world, while fully respecting human rights and the environment. This document, our first social responsibility report, fulfils the requirement for an annual progress report on our practices as they relate to human rights, the environment, international labor standards, and action to fight corruption. 6 A CSR STRATEGY TO PURSUE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN SEVEN AREAS In 2015 the United Nations Organization adopted 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) to chart a path to equitable social and environmental progress and a prosperous and inclusive economy in 2030. Companies are explicitly asked to contribute to achieving these SDGs and to include them in their CSR strategies. Expressions Parfumées has adopted a strategy for substantial contributions to seven of these SDGs. The specific measures of this strategy are outlined in this report. • SDG 5 – Gender equality • SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth • SDG 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure • SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production • SDG 13 – Climate action • SDG 15 – Life on land • SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals 7 Policy for Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices « Our pathway to responsible growth » Our policy for Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices charts a development path that integrates all the action and measures taken within the company, and constitutes an appropriate response to the expectations of our stakeholders. This policy includes : • The nine aspects of our integrated management system stated on 1 February 2019; • The six commitments of our CSR roadmap based on ISO 26000 guidelines and adopted in 2019; • Adherence to the principles of the Global Compact; • The Principles of Conduct adopted by our parent company Givaudan in 2019. Through this integrated management system Expressions Parfumées seeks to guarantee customer satisfaction in all circumstances and ensure that its perfume formulas comply with all applicable regulations, while also providing its employees with good working conditions and a suitable environment. Social responsibility is at the heart of our strategy. We pledge to offer our customers highquality products that are increasingly respectful of the environment, as we pursue our quest for innovation and environmentally friendly practices at every stage of the life cycle of our products. The 14 principles of our policy for Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices have been reviewed and adopted by the company's executive management, and constitute our pathway to responsible growth: 1. Ensure responsible governance that fully respects human rights. 2. Deploy the resources and measures that are needed to address internal and external issues that have been identified, and in this way respond to the needs and expectations of stakeholders. 3. Adapt to rapid market evolution, whether related to regulations, economic conditions, material, human or financial resources, in order to pursue the objective of developing Expressions Parfumées and its activity globally. 4. Faithfully follow at all times the regulations that apply to our activities and continually aim for compliance with regard to our products, the health and safety of our employees, and protection of the environment. 5. Lower our costs related to poor quality, environmental impacts and work accidents, reduce our risks and constantly improve our performance and our internal organization, by instituting Quality, Health and Safety, Environment, Ethical Practices and Sustainable Development as the criteria of progress for our company. 8 6. Ensure the health and safety of our employees and provide working conditions that are conducive to their personal development. 7. Create a work environment that promotes inclusiveness and respect for diversity and equality. 8. Protect the environment and our employees by reducing our impacts, anticipating all pollution risks and developing a risk prevention culture to attenuate the dangers that are inherent to our activity. Our method is to consult with our employees and their representatives and obtain their active participation. 9. Reduce our carbon footprint, compensate for our residual greenhouse gas emissions by investment in specific projects, and augment our resilience and capacity to face climate change. 10. Work closely with outside suppliers and service providers so as to ensure the excellence of our products and full compliance with our environmental, social and ethical standards across our entire value chain, and reinforce the traceability of our activity. 11. Continually innovate to give our customers dependable and sustainable perfume solutions , via ongoing investment in research and development, and in this way position Expressions Parfumées as a leading innovator in our sector of activity. 12. Maintain our track record in terms of product design and manufacture on which our reputation is built, supported by the know-how and expertise of our staff, as well as our equipment, premises and industrial investments. 13. Adhere to principles of good practice and the fundamental rules instituted to prevent corruption, regulate corporate gift-giving and entertainment perquisites, to prevent unfair competition, insider trading and conflicts of interest, and comply with standards pertaining to corporate donations, sponsorship and lobbying, and generally speaking all norms of ethical behavior. 14. Contribute to creation of value that is shared across the territories and the communities where we work. The Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices policy concerns all employees who work for the company. To follow and apply this policy all employees must be involved in a constant search for efficacy, continual improvement and satisfaction of partners, both in-house and outside the company. A set of objectives and indicators has been drawn up on the basis of these 14 principles of action, for the purpose of tracking the company's performance in terms of Quality, Health and Safety, Environment and Ethical Practices. The executive management of Expressions Parfumées pledges to publish these objectives and information on progress indicators annually, and to provide the means and resources needed to attain these objectives. Each member of our staff has a role to play to help achieve these performance objectives, and to make Expressions Parfumées a responsible, stable and leading company in the world perfume industry. Christophe Marin, Executive President February 13, 2020 9 IDENTITY AND GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS Our History 19 Expressions Parfumées was founded by two perfumers, Jacques Lions & Claude Broggi. The teams dedicated to clients projects are pursuing this quest 82 for a mastered originality, result of the balance between tradition and an innovative breath. ORFITE, a leading company specialised in « shareholder » solutions to entrepreneurs, 20 06 entered the EP capital as majority shareholder. 20 Opening of our 1st subsidiary in Dubaï (UAE). This successful experience in France and on the international 13 scene, is activated by the universal aspect of the perfume, a sensitive language understood by everyone. 20 Expressions Parfumées integrated the GIVAUDAN group, the #1 global leader in flavours and fragrances. A key milestone to develop our 18 company internationally & reinforce our relationships with our customers. 11 Our certifications COSMOS certified pioneer company in the field of natural perfumery. « French Origin Guaranteed » thus placing EP as the only perfume composition house to have obtained this label. Quality & Environment certified in GRASSE: ISO 9001:2015 / ISO 14001:2015 Ensuring the quality of our productions, their perfect compliance with the regulatory standards & our commitment to the environment. • ISO 9001 since early 2016 • ISO 14001 since early 2018 (Grasse site) 12 Facts & key figures 2019 Production Fine Fragrances 3416 tons 41 % Our turnover Consumer Products €77,8 millions 59 % 2019 – PRODUCT CATEGORIES TURNOVER 3% 2% 1% 5% 14% 41% 15% 19% Fine Fragrance Skin Care Body Wash Air Care Hair Care Industrial / Techno Home Care Fabric Care NATCO® Turnover highlight Année NATCO® % Global CA 2019 6 383K € 8,2 2018 5 600K € 8,3 NATCO® = NATural COmpounds 2017 3 913K € 6,2 Perfumes of 100% NATURAL origin 2016 3 421K € 6 2015 2 842K € 5,2 2014 2 153K € 4,3 2013 2 285K € 4,8 13 Geographic locations Grasse Paris Barcelone Milan Varsovie Siège et bureaux EP EP capabilities Agents distributors Agents Grasse Grasse Algérie Algeria Nouvelle Zélande New Zeeland Paris Paris Allemagne Australia Pakistan Pakistan Barcelone Australie Bulgaria Philippines Philippines Barcelona Milan Bulgarie Roumanie Milan Germany Romania Varsovie Grèce Russie Istanbul Istanbul Greece Inde Russia Scandinavie Dubai Dubaï India Indonésie Scandinavia Sri Lanka Bangkok Bangkok Indonesia Israël Sri Lanka Taïwan Jordanie Israel Tunisie Taiwan Liban Jordan Tunisia Lebanon 14 EXPRESSIONS PARFUMÉES’ SITE CARTOGRAPHY All of Expressions Parfumées products are manufactured on the historic site in Grasse, which also houses the majority of the creative teams and support services. To be as close as possible to its customers, Expressions Parfumées has set up subsidiaries and offices in strategic development areas. These sites work closely with the head office in Grasse. In this first CSR report, most of the items reported concern the Grasse site that houses the vast majority of our employees and most of our environmental aspects. The objective is nevertheless to integrate more closely, over the years, all of our employees and our sites into the CSR approach, regardless of their geographical location. 2 210 4 6 2 13 8 2 Number of Employees and activities FRANCE FRANCE EAU ESPAGNE ITALIE TURQUIE POLOGNE THAÏLANDE Grasse Paris Dubai Barcelona Milan Istanbul Warsaw Bangkok Production Creation Laboratory Commercial 15 Note to readers regarding the Covid-19 pandemic and this report This Corporate and Social Responsibility Report was finalized in April 2020. At the time of publication we are unable to project our 2020 action with certainty, given the circumstances of the global COVID-19 pandemic. In light of the exceptional measures taken to combat the epidemic it is likely that some projects will have to be postponed. 16 HIGHLIGHTS OF CSR ACTION IN 2019 – ACHIEVEMENTS AND INNOVATION CSR, a core component of our strategy, our programs and our audits To structure its Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR) program Expressions Parfumées has created a CSR committee made up of the heads of the departments most directly involved in this action. This committee drew up a roadmap to guide its work in 2019 and to serve as a template for communication. This roadmap is designed to provide structured, objective and ambitious goals that follow the principles set forth in the ISO 26000 standard. This CSR report is the fruit of these endeavors, our first annual accounting of measures taken in this domain. In the fall of 2019 Expressions Parfumées employees were introduced to the fundamental* concepts of CSR and the ways in which this policy will be carried out within the company. The aim is to ensure that all staff understand the principles of CSR and to firmly establish new practices. The CSR roadmap was presented at this training session, and employees contributed their comments, views, expectations and suggestions for further progress. Staff in our subsidiaries and offices around the world have also been informed of this undertaking. The CSR module is now a specific segment included in the welcome procedure for new staff In accordance with ISO 26000 6.7-5 Data protection and consumer privacy”, all employees have been informed* of measures for protection of personal data. They have been made aware of how their personal information is processed and of the basic rules enacted under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR, EU Regulation 2016/679), and of the steps taken by Expressions Parfumées to ensure their privacy. This information is now transmitted to new employees when they join the company. We have reinforced our team of internal auditors and included CSR audits in our integrated business management system. Each auditor has received ISO 26000 training, so that social responsibility is emphasized throughout our value chain. *See indicators p.57 Responsibility at the territorial level Expressions Parfumées began work in 2019 to expand and remodel the Grasse site. The 4,000 m2 extension comprises three levels and the reconfigured production facility will offer better working conditions. Construction is expected to be completed in 2020. 18 With this new building we wish to consolidate our presence in the Grasse territory, the world capital of perfume, and take action to reduce our environmental footprint and improve working conditions. We have also joined the brand-new Cercle Azuréen du Global Compact France as a signatory member, to pursue positive development for our territory. The members of this group, affiliated with the French chapter of the UN Global Compact, will share and disseminate best practices for responsible corporation action. A carbon-neutral production site Expressions Parfumées has implemented carbon accounting and measures to offset the carbon impact of the company's activity. In 2019 we conducted our second consecutive carbon assessment with the Bilan Carbone®* method. To voluntarily offset* the CO2 emissions released at our Grasse production facility and make this a carbon-neutral site, Expressions Parfumées made a new contribution in 2019 to the Madre de Dios program that is working to protect 100,000 hectares of forest in Peru 19 Givaudan Principles of Conduct and Purpose Expressions Parfumées has fully integrated the Principles of Conduct drawn up by our parent company Givaudan into our internal company rules. These principles cover the following areas: Legal and ethical business dealings (bribery and corruption prevention, rules governing lobbying, conflict of interest and competition); Responsible corporate citizenship (human rights, preserving the environment, fair employment standards and safe work environment, child labour); and protection of the group's property and assets. All employees of Expressions Parfumées participated in an awareness session* devoted to the Principles of Conduct. Givaudan Purpose was also presented and explained to all employees through information session. The objective was to fully integrate the Group approach into Expressions Parfumées Policy and Objectives. Givaudan’s environmental, social and ethical commitments are therefore at the core of our CSR roadmap and are reflected in our actions. Meal service for staff Expressions Parfumées set up a concierge service in 2018. This initiative met with great success. To compensate for the absence of a cafeteria at our Grasse facility we developed an original and convivial solution with the same partner in 2019, to allow employees to enjoy highquality lunches onsite. We have chosen local suppliers and work with them to provide food options for all tastes and preferences, at a reasonable and appropriate cost. 20 ENSURE RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE THAT FULLY RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS Responsible governance... Our CSR action is guided by a dedicated committee and follows a roadmap based on the ISO 26000 standard and integrated into the existing management system. Various coordination and facilitation tools are deployed. TOP MANAGEMENT WORKS CLOSELY WITH THE CSR COMMITTEE CSR was given a new place in our corporate governance with the creation of a dedicated committee. The Executive President takes part in the work of the committe, which meets at least four times a year*. The committee is headed and coordinated by the CSR manager. It is responsible for carrying out the CSR audit, establishing the roadmap, and implementing, monitoring and updating CSR strategy. Executive management validates this strategy and sets objectives. Each operational department works on deployment. Validates the CSR strategy and the roadmap. Sets the Executive Presidency objectives. The Executive President is a member of the CSR Committee. Carries out the diagnosis, defines the roadmap. Ensures CSR the deployment, monitoring Committee and updating of the CSR approach. Coordinates and leads the implementation of the CSR approach in the company. CSR Manager Ensures reporting and internal / external communication. Operational and support Contribute to the deployment services of the CSR approach 22 The CSR roadmap is designed in keeping with CSR goals that have been identified and ranked, on the basis of a materiality analysis carried out under the NF X30-029 standard. Consumer health and safety Anti-corruption Sustainable resource use Health and safety at work Consumer data protection Promoting social Organizational governance and privacy responsibility in the value and engagement with Discrimination and vulnerable chain stakeholders groups Sustainable consumption Civil rights and rights at work IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Prevention of pollution Human rights Employment relationships Responsible political Employment creation and Human development and Conditions of work and social skills development training in the workplace involvement protection Fair competition Social dialogue Climate change mitigation Respect for property rights and adaptation Protection of the environment and biodiversity Fair marketing practices Education and culture Access to essential services Health Education and awareness Community involvement Technology development and access Wealth and income creation Social investment IMPORTANCE FOR EXPRESSIONS PARFUMÉES Oragnizational Community governance and Fair operating Human rights Labor practices Environment Consumer issues involvement and engagement with practices development stakholders FIRST PUBLICATION OF AN ANNUAL REPORT To ensure that the CSR strategy is disseminated and understood by all staff, Expressions Parfumées conducted awareness sessions for discussion of key themes. In this way all employees were implicated in the strategy and could express their opinions and make suggestions for improvements. Expressions Parfumées has also decided to compile a CSR report once a year covering the preceding 12-month period. The CSR committee decides how to release and communicate this report, in a framework of total transparency on the social, environmental and ethical policies implemented, our objectives and the results achieved. This strategic document is established to raise awareness among our staff and our partners in our value chain, and to inform outside stakeholders. 23 REGULAR AUDITS TO TRACK COMPLIANCE WITH OUR CSR REQUIREMENTS Expressions Parfumées decided to reinforce its audit team in 2019. Fifteen volunteer employees completed 20 hours of in-house training to become familiar with the existing business management system, and then in early 2020 took a 42-hour AFNOR training course covering audit methodology and the four relevant standards – ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems; ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems; ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety; ISO 26000 Social Responsibility. Our outside suppliers and shipping partners are regularly audited to assess their compliance with our requirements under the relevant standards. These audits will be broadened in scope as of 2020, to include the four ISO standards listed above. To address the needs of specific vendors other norms and reference criteria may be applied, for instance the Good Manufacturing Practice guidelines of the European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients (EFfCI), shipping standards, security protocols, supplier terms of reference, responsible procurement policies, etc. An internal audit program has also been established for the four ISO standards and the existing management system. Ten or so audits are to be conducted each year, in a cycle that will cover all processes in three years. These audits will review system compliance and effectiveness, and identify ways to improve performance. OBJECTIVE: CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT OF OUR VALUE CHAIN At the beginning of each year the Quality, Hygiene, Safety and Environment (QHSE) department will outline the supplier audit program for the year, in agreement with the Purchasing, Quality Control and Regulatory Affairs units and according to criteria such as compliance shortcomings attributable to the supplier, number of deliveries and scoring of the outside supplier. An audit report will be systematically communicated to each audited supplier, to enable them to draw up an action plan that conforms to the requirements of the applicable norms and standards. The suppliers will be monitored to verify that appropriate steps are taken. 24 ECOVADIS GOLD RATING The EcoVadis Gold rating awarded to Expression Parfumées was renewed for 2020, with a score of 68/100, one point better than the year before. EcoVadis evaluates the quality of our CSR management system yearly, looking at the policies and measures implemented and the results obtained. Its findings are published on the EcoVadis platform. EcoVadis Rating 70 68 66 64 62 60 58 56 54 52 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 In this most recent assessment we registered progress in terms of our environmental footprint, with life cycle analyses for certain products. We also progressed in terms of corporate ethics, with the deployment of internal policies, creation of an alert procedure and awareness sessions on ethical issues, and advanced on social matters regarding career management and training. With a view to ongoing improvement EcoVadis also underscored ways to improve in each of the four areas covered. These potential improvements include better environmental reporting, a statement of objectives in relation to social matters and to human rights, and stronger action for responsible procurement and purchasing. This first annual CSR report shows how we have already addressed some of these issues. 25 SMETA AUDIT SCHEDULED FOR 2020 Sedex is a collaborative platform for data exchange on ethical questions in supply chains. This structure is designed to minimize risks for its members, protect their reputation and improve supply chain practices. The Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) is an audit methodology and report template that incorporates best practices in the auditing of ethical trade practices, notably the ten principles of the Global Compact and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). Givaudan has been a member of Sedex since 2008, and has pledged that all its sites will follow the four-Pillars SMETA program. Expressions Parfumées joined Sedex in 2017 and in the fall of 2019 adopted the SMETA program set up by Givaudan. An audit is planned for 2020. 26 ...And respect for human rights AN OVERARCHING APPROACH TO EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Expressions Parfumées is strongly committed to gender equality to offer men and women identical professional environments and perspectives for development. The Human Resources Division compiles a specific annual report on this aspect of equal opportunity. This approach is in line with Givaudan’s multi-year objectives : “Before 2030, we will be an even more balanced and inclusive Company”. More broadly, Expressions Parfumées seeks to increase the employability of its staff and to develop their skills through training. Expressions Parfumées consistently invests heavily in employee training with budget appropriations that are above the minimum required by law. An annual individual interview is held with each employee. These interviews give employees an opportunity to discuss their missions accomplished, objectives and training needs with their superiors, and express their desires in terms of advancement. These in-depth reviews are complementary to the biannual professional review that is required by regulations to consider career perspectives for each employee and the training that could aid their progression. FORMAL APPROVAL OF A NEW POLICY REGARDING DISABILITIES A new pro-active policy for the integration of employees with disabilities* is currently being set up and will be in full effect for the year 2020. This year the target for employment of people with disabilities is 5% of the total workforce compared to 4% in 2019. Work stations and equipment will be adapted to meet the needs of people in these jobs and to foster the autonomy of each employee concerned. Expressions Parfumées is working with the ergonomics unit of the occupational health inspectorate to make the appropriate changes. 27 ONGOING SOCIAL DIALOGUE, A FACTOR FOR PROGRESS Expressions Parfumées instituted a Social and Economic Committee (CSE) and a Commission on Health, Safety and Working Conditions (CSSCT) in 2018. CSE members are elected for a period of four years. Under the terms of a company agreement* with employees reached in 2019 on flexibility of working hours, employees (other than those in shift work) have the benefit of flexible start, lunch and quitting times. This flexibility has been granted while maintaining six days of legal work-week compensation time (RTT) per year and one afternoon off every other Friday, enabling employees to achieve a better balance between their personal and professional activities. Employee benefits include incentive programs and profit-sharing plans that distribute a portion of annual profits to employees. Employees received an extra bonus payment in 2019. With this payment Expressions Parfumées doubled the amount of the legally required minimum payment. 28 ENSURE THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES AND PROVIDE WORKING CONDITIONS THAT ARE CONDUCIVE TO THEIR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Ensure Sous-titre employees' health and safety... Parfumées pays close attention to health and safety issues, and works on a daily basis to improve working conditions for its employees. In this respect, Expressions Parfumées is taking actions to actively contribute to Givaudan’s objective : “Before 2025, we will improve how we care for our people”. HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK ABOVE ALL To prevent illness and protect the health and safety of employees* Expressions Parfumées has devised a global approach based on ISO 45001:2018, supplementing its management system in this domain. The company also offers all employees secondary health insurance* to reimburse health costs not covered by mandatory health insurance. This secondary coverage is available as an individual plan or can be extended to cover spouse and children under a family option. COMPANY AND SECTOR-WIDE REFLECTION ON RISK PREVENTION Expressions Parfumées undertook in 2019 a thorough revision of its company-wide evaluation of occupational risks (Document Unique d'Evaluation des Risques au Poste de travail). The company's Health and Safety Coordinator worked with the members of the health and safety commission (CSSCT) and a panel of employees from all departments to examine all aspects of risk in depth. This collaborative process implicated employees in identifying risks and ways to reduce them. The resulting comprehensive document (reviewed at least once a year) is the basis for procedures and action plans that are tracked in our health and safety management system. Our company also participates in occupational health and safety bodies organized by PRODAROM, the national syndicate representing manufacturers of aromatic products. These groups share information on procedures put into place and the lessons to be learned from incidents at members' facilities and plants. This feedback has contributed to our own risk documentation and planning for emergencies. 30 Along with health and safety measures, a global procedure to monitor and prevent absenteeism was implemented in 2019. This procedure involves regular communication on indicators, explanatory documentation and procedures to raise employee awareness, and training for managers to maintain ties during long periods of employee absence and to facilitate the return to work. ...Working conditions that are conducive to employee development CAREFUL ATTENTION TO BETTER WORKING CONDITIONS We are particularly attentive to the ergonomics of work stations. In recent years all stations in our weighing lab have been redesigned. Protective equipment is available as required for various jobs and tasks. Specially trained staff carry out monthly health and safety field audits, particularly in production laboratories and workshops. Through these audits employees are involved in verifying compliance with safety and security instructions and the availability of security apparatus, and in identifying risks and ways to reduce or eliminate them. The extension of the production facility now under construction will include features designed to improve working conditions. A circular drive will be created. Glazed surfaces will provide much more natural light, creating conditions of operational safety and comfort. The five automatic mixing vats will be installed at a comfortable height so that they can be readily loaded by workers, ensuring optimum use. STEPS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK Among measures to improve the quality of life at work Expressions Parfumées created in 2018 a company concierge service for its employees that proposes local goods and services selected according to social and environmental criteria. These services include child care services, housekeeping and gardening services, fresh fruit and vegetable deliveries, laundry and dry cleaning, assistance with administrative paperwork, and well-being sessions (massage, reflexology, sophrology, etc). 31 To address the lack of a cafeteria at the Grasse site Expressions Parfumées set up a service in 2019 to offer varied and attractive meals at a reasonable cost. This new service was developed jointly with our concierge service. With our employees' preferences in mind local suppliers have been selected to concoct a menu that includes vegetarian meals, bakery items, dishes made with local products, foods prepared in a sheltered workplace employing people with disabilities, among others. The menu offerings are regularly reviewed and improved on the basis of feedback and exchange between employees and the concierge. In addition to the onsite meal options a fresh basket of primarily local fruit is freely available daily to all employees, in accordance with the recommendations of the national nutrition and health plan in France. With the onsite meal service a concierge counter has been installed in the employees' lounge and entertainment is regularly proposed, making the lunch break more convivial. A FRESH WELCOME FOR NEW EMPLOYEES The procedure for welcoming new employees was entirely revamped in 2019. The onboarding process includes mandatory training sessions* on the four components of our integrated business management system, namely occupational health and safety, quality management, environmental management and corporate social responsibility. Specific training modules are also required as appropriate for the incoming employees' job functions. Each new employee is given documentation on the integrated business management system: a welcome brochure, a health/safety/environment/quality and CSR memo, waste sorting guidelines and a questionnaire designed to elicit suggestions for improving the welcome process. An integration tour and a site visit led by employees trained for this task are planned for each incoming employee. 32 In 2019 Expressions Parfumées increased its recruitment of employees under alternate work– study contracts, which constitute a growing proportion of new hires. This hiring policy is in line with the company's civic objectives and territorial commitments to support the professional integration of youth from surrounding communities and develop employment at the local level . Horizon 2020/2025: stable employment and mutual understanding Expressions Parfumées is close to finalizing its management plan for job functions and skills (Gestion Prévisionnelle de l'Emploi et des Compétences, GPEC). This plan will adapt job functions, employee skills and the workforce to the environmental constraints and strategic decisions of the company. In this framework the company also seeks to recognize skills and competence acquired through experience. With work starting in 2020 our roadmap outlines similar objectives to set up training and job paths in order to develop employees' skills and employability, and accompany their careers as they advance and evolve within the company. Expressions Parfumées is also committed to building a broad and holistic understanding of the company. Under the “Inside your shoes” program initiated in 2020 selected employees will experience another employee's job during a few hours, and thus learn more about their coworkers' activity. This familiarity will foster mutual understanding and collaboration between departments within the company. This type of experience has a globally positive effect on the work ambience and on company performance. 33 REDUCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT AND AUGMENT OUR RESILIENCE AND CAPACITY TO ADAPT TO CLIMATE CHANGE Impact study AN ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS SPANNING ALL OUR ACTIVITIES Expressions Parfumées updates its environmental analysis yearly, in order to focus on the most significant impacts of our activity. On the basis of this impact study we can identify and quantify risks, specify existing risk management measures and ways to improve them, across a range of close to 140 internal measures and business line procedures. The impact study provides details on the effects of all our activities on air, water and soil quality, on amounts of waste generated and energy consumed. From transport and storage of raw materials to manipulation of tanks, from creation of fragrance formulas to visits to customers, each and every business line activity and process is assessed to determine its direct and indirect impacts on the environment. This analysis is a central part of our Environmental Management System certified under ISO 14001. Significant Environmental Aspects Aspect Type Mode Environmental Aspects Field Environment Impact Direct Normal Hazardous waste generation Air Atmospheric pollution Direct Normal Water consumption Water Natural resource depletion Direct Normal Gaz consumption Gaz Natural resource depletion Direct Normal electricity consumption Electricity Natural resource depletion Air Atmospheric pollution Direct Accidental Fire / explosion Water/Land Land or water pollution Direct and indirect Accidental Accidental spillage Water/Land Land or water pollution Indirect Normal Greenhouse Gas Emissions Air Atmospheric pollution Last update : 31/10/2019 LIFE CYCLE ANALYSES OF OUR PRODUCTS To obtain an overall vision of the impacts of our various product lines, in 2018 Expressions Parfumées carried out a comparative life cycle analysis of AQUACO® products, highly concentrated alcohol-free microemulsions in water. The analysis demonstrated that this innovative product line had a lower environmental impact than products conventionally formulated with an alcohol base. A similar study was launched in 2019 to assess the NATCO® product line, and is still underway. These studies are of great use when making decisions that are intended to improve products, processes, value chains, ecodesign, etc. 35 Resource consumption CLOSE TRACKING OF CONSUMPTION AND REDUCTION MEASURES As a general rule our company seeks to reduce water, gas and electricity consumption. A three-year program* to reduce utility consumption was set up in 2018. All utility networks were localized and mapped. Measures leading to sharp reductions were put into place after consumption levels were analyzed. Washroom faucets were equipped with motion sensors and remote reading devices installed on water meters, in order to break down water consumption by area and detect excess consumption. Specific points of the steam heating system were insulated. Steps were taken to raise awareness of environmental issues among all staff and to encourage more responsible behavior. With the same objectives in mind, the expanded production facility in Grasse was designed to lower water and energy consumption from previous levels. SMART ENERGY MANAGEMENT Following up on an initial energy survey conducted in 2018, Expressions Parfumées undertook a full-scale energy audit in 2019, and laid the groundwork for an information and energy management system (IEMS). This IEMS is designed to track energy performance indicators in real time, so as to be able to act with precision on different parameters of energy use. The system was installed in 2019 and continually records outdoor temperature, circuit breaker temperature and the general power supply (3 amperages, 3 voltages); it can send warning messages by email. A 100% GREEN POWER SUPPLY Expressions Parfumées is voluntarily engaged in the energy transition and the development of renewable energy. The company has contracted with its long-standing electricity supplier for green electricity* to cover all annual power consumption at the Grasse site, via certified renewable resources. This choice is aligned with the greenhouse gas reduction trajectory adopted by Givaudan. Our commitment 100% renewable electricity. Expressions Parfumées participates, with its energy supplier, together with its energy supplier , in the energy transition and the development of renewable energy. 36 Emission management A CARBON-NEUTRAL PRODUCTION SITE Our company is actively pursuing efforts to reduce its carbon footprint, as part of action to mitigate climate change, and carries out an annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions inventory (GHG). As the French subsidiary of an international group, Expressions Parfumées tracks its emissions using two methods, Bilan Carbone® and the GHG Protocol. GHG emissions reduction initiatives are in line with Givaudan’s objective : « Before 2050, we will be a climate positive business ». In parallel to steps to reduce its GHG emissions, since 2018 Expressions Parfumées has contributed to carbon offsetting through voluntary participation in a program to preserve the Madre de Dios forest in Peru. With its financial donation for the protection of 100,000 hectares of forest that are the natural habitat of wildlife and the home of indigenous populations, Expressions Parfumées offsets its direct GHG emissions. The Grasse production site is thus carbon-neutral, via offsetting of all emissions due to energy consumption and other resource consumption, fixed assets and waste calculated using the Bilan Carbone® method. ACTION PLAN FOR EMPLOYEE MOBILITY With the aim of reducing GHG emissions caused by professional travel and employees' commuting between home and work, messages to encourage carpooling were issued in 2019. In 2020 we are working with the associated municipalities of the Pays de Grasse community to go even farther in this direction. To stimulate carpooling, participant options are posted in employee parking lots to make it easier for employees to contact each other and offer or find rides. Designated parking slots are reserved for carpoolers as of this year. 37 Our CSR roadmap calls for progressive renewal of the company vehicle fleet replacing conventional internalcombustion vehicles with hybrid or electric vehicles. Pursuing the same reasoning, installation of electric vehicle charging stations will be studied in 2020. All these measures are taken to reduce GHG emissions linked to travel, a category that accounts for 20% of the company's carbon footprint. By these steps Expressions Parfumées also aims to improve the quality of life at work, by reducing travel costs and accidents, and by fostering mutual assistance and solidarity between employees. Waste management WASTE SORTING IS THE RULE Expressions Parfumées has improved its waste management policy, with the aim of protecting the environment and biodiversity, and restoring natural habitats. Following the criteria of ISO 14001 certification, employees sort waste at work, so that all waste arisings can be traced from source to final disposal and recycled, recovered or processed by service providers*. Flame-resistant collection bins for hazardous waste have been installed. Waste sorting guidelines and information sheets have been compiled to familiarize all employees with good waste management practices, whether in the lunchroom, offices, production facility, formulation laboratory or workshop. Centralized waste sorting for company offices will be set up in 2020, to encourage waste reduction at the source, and to better sort and store the waste generated. 38 Packaging Glass Non-Recyclable waste Soiled Glass Paper Other Soiled Waste Cups 39 Expressions Parfumées recycles its kraft drums via a partnership with local businesses engaged in the social economy and community solidarity. This recycling initiative was started by PRODAROM to give a second life to the kraft drums used in our industry. Expressions Parfumées is a major contributor to this project. The drums are recovered and recycled by DRISSE, a nonprofit group based in Grasse that works to protect the environment and to help people get back to work. This contributes to the local circular economy and creates jobs. PHASING OUT SINGLE-USE PLASTICS Expressions Parfumées has also undertaken to eliminate single-use plastic items, and replace them with recyclable or reusable materials. Since the fall of 2019 the company has compiled a highly accurate inventory of plastics used in all of its activities, and has found and tested alternative products. Employees have taken part in this effort. Expressions Parfumées now uses padded envelopes made with environmentally friendly paper and kraftpaper adhesive tape, and has substituted recycled paper products for flow-pack packaging films. These steps follow the trajectory set by our parent company Givaudan : “Before 2030, we will replace single-use plastics by eco-friendly alternatives across our sites and operations”. 40 A new environmentally conscious building design The building extension at the Grasse site is expected to be in service at the end of 2020, and remodeling of the existing production workshops will immediately follow, in harmony with the new architectural design. Construction work, started in 2018, should be completed in the fall of 2020. These new buildings represent 4,000 m2 on three levels, for a cost of 20 million Swiss francs. The design complies with stringent regulatory, technical, topographical and environmental requirements and includes innovative features that meet the criteria of our CSR policy. LOWER ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND BETTER AIR QUALITY Natural daylighting will be used as much as possible through a glass roof of the ring road of Building E (Extension), and a wide bay window to the west. The new mixing area will be naturally lit by shed-type roof windows. 3D Visualising Atelier Martino Architecture Glazed bypass Overall view LED lamps will be installed throughout the production area (in the new building and in the remodeled premises) for further energy savings. An earth-air heat exchanger will be installed to supply incoming air to the air treatment equipment at the new production facility. With this heat exchanger our new extension will consume less energy for air treatment. 41 What is an earth-air or ground-coupled heat exchanger? This geothermal installation, also called Canadian or Provençal well, uses the thermal inertia of the ground. The air circulates through underground ducts and exchanges calories with the soil. Depending on the season the pretreated air for the ventilation system is either heated or cooled, and its quality improved, at a very low cost. An energy recovery system will also be installed to extract calories from heat released by air treatment equipment and preheat ventilation air for the production area. This double-flow technology will reduce energy consumption by using waste heat generated by air treatment. Adiabatic cooling will be used to cool storage areas for raw materials. This technique lowers the ambient temperature without consuming energy, by evaporation of water sprayed in air treatment equipment. The entire production area will be equipped with a centralized technical management system to control air conditioning according to the time of day or period of the week. The workshops will also be fitted with air mixing devices to obtain a uniform indoor temperature from building floor to roof. Exterior insulation for office buildings and for central air conditioning equipment will eliminate losses across thermal bridges and contribute to the lower energy consumption overall. SAVE WATER AND PREVENT POLLUTION The existing process for cleaning our five tanks consists of three cycles – prewash, wash and rinse. To cut down on water consumption rinse water will be recovered and reused in the following prewash cycle. A holding tank for accidentally polluted water has been created in the building basement. Prewash Wash Rinse 42 IMPROVE WORKING CONDITIONS The new building has been designed to improve working conditions for employees. Glazed surfaces in the workshops will provide daylighting, with better visibility and operational security. Natural light and the exterior view also increase comfort for occupants and make the space more agreeable. 3D Visualising Atelier Martino Architecture Overall view Equipment such as tanks will be installed at a comfortable height for workers, facilitating their work. Technical improvement to these tanks, which are at the heart of our production process, have been designed in a collaborative process involving operators. With this reorganization of the production workshops, operators have also been involved in improving other existing equipment, procedures and work methods, such as the way in which our heatinsulated tanks are loaded. Building insulation and advanced air conditioning equipment will provide greater thermal comfort to employees, a significant improvement in working conditions. 3D Visualising Atelier Martino Architecture Tank at eye level Roof 43 BETTER TRACEABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE AND PRODUCTION CHAIN Responsible procurement and sourcing policy Expressions Parfumées feels that social and environmental responsibility should be integrated across its entire value chain*. With this goal in mind a responsible procurement and purchasing policy is being progressively set up to assess our suppliers. The first stage of this policy has been initiated, to formally set out roles and define authorizations for purchasing decisions within the company. A new set of supplier terms of reference was drawn up in 2019 and came into effect at the beginning of 2020. These terms of reference include environmental and sustainable development criteria stipulating that Expressions Parfumées, as part of its overall CSR policy, expects the same concern for the environment of its suppliers, and will give preference to suppliers who have a structured environmental policy and to those who pursue sustainable practices for materials recycling, waste management, economical resource use and preservation of biodiversity. As of 2020 Expressions Parfumées has adopted the Responsible Sourcing Policy « By 2030, we will source all established by Givaudan for the selection and monitoring of the company's suppliers and thus materials and services in a integrates the objective of its parent company : way that protects people and the environment » CSR, AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR PRACTICES Our vendor selection process now includes a new CSR questionnaire for suppliers and shippers, validated in early 2020. Our employees who will handle future audits have been trained to address CSR issues according to ISO 26000 principles. Outside vendors (suppliers and shippers) will be audited more frequently to assess proper compliance with the new criteria adopted by Expressions Parfumées. With the inclusion of CSR principles in our procurement procedures, in 2019 Expressions Parfumées contracted with a new cleaning company, on the basis of social and environmental criteria. The vendor chosen is very attentive to employee training and skills development. The company meets all the environmental requirements set by Expressions Parfumées and recommends innovative solutions such as the use of ozonated water instead of detergents. 45 Givaudan Principles of Conduct Our new supplier terms of reference also refer to the Givaudan Principles of Conduct. https://www.givaudan.com/our-company/corporate-governance/principles-of-conduct All of our staff have been introduced to these Principles of Conduct, and have pledged to respect these fundamental rules instituted to stop bribery and corruption, to regulate corporate gifts, entertainment and hospitality, to prevent unfair competition, insider trading and conflicts of interest, and to comply with standards pertaining to charitable donations, philanthropy, sponsorship and lobbying, and generally speaking all norms of ethical behavior. Mandatory awareness sessions* were held between 18 November and 19 December 2019. 46 INNOVATIVE, SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE PERFUMES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Protecting the health of our staff and our customers Expressions Parfumées is subject to the European Union REACH regulations that came into effect in 2007 and which cover safe manufacturing and use of chemicals in European industry. All our customers are given detailed information on the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products and receive all the documents necessary under their terms of reference. Our regulatory affairs department strives to respond to information requests within two days, an objective that has been achieved for several years in a row. Our reactivity and the exhaustive information supplied actively contribute to the health of end consumers. Our quality assurance system is certified under ISO 9001:2015 and ensures rigorous traceability of the raw materials we use and our manufacturing process. For several years now Expressions Parfumées has had in place an advanced system to continually improve performance that integrates management and analysis of internal nonconformities and treatment of customer claims and requests. To communicate even better information to customers Expressions Parfumées will start a search for sustainable supply chains in 2020. Certified natural and organic products and innovation To keep up with the growing market for organic products, Expressions Parfumées has created the NATCO®* (NATural COmpounds) line of perfumes according to COSMOS specifications. This product line is certifiable under the ECOCERT quality standard that is designed to cover all organic production that complies with regulatory constraints. COSMOS specifications apply to cosmetic products labeled as natural or organic. These criteria certify practices that respect biodiversity, the environment and human health, through use of organically grown products that are transformed in a responsible manner according to the principles of green chemistry. 48 Other innovative advances* for sustainability and environmental stewardship have come from our Research and Innovation pole. Since 2018 Expressions Parfumées has been working on a bio-based encapsulation process. In 2018 the company applied for two patents for its AQUACO® line of highly concentrated perfumes micro-emulsified in water, without alcohol. At the end of 2019 a patent application was submitted for Touch NATCO®, a highly concentrated semi-solid perfume that complies with COSMOS specifications. Since 2017 Expressions Parfumées has worked in partnership with the Université Côte d'Azur and the French National Research Center (CNRS) to develop new captive molecules that present novel fragrances linked to chemical reactions with gold-based catalysts. This research project complies with the 12 principles of green chemistry. Some of the findings of this partnership will be published in scientific journals in 2020. Green chemistry, also called sustainable chemistry or environmental chemistry, is based on principles designed to reduce or eliminate the use or generation of environmentally harmful substances. Expressions Parfumées is also a member of the competitiveness cluster TERRALIA-PASS (Parfums Arômes Senteurs Saveurs) that addresses health issues, consumer safety and environmental protection measures that are fundamental to the future of the industry. 49 CREATION OF VALUE THAT IS SHARED ACROSS THE TERRITORIES AND THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE WORK Sous-titre Fragrance is emblematic of our territory Expressions Parfumées is part of the Grasse Expertise™ network that brings together perfume and fragrance professionals in the Grasse area who are committed to expanding local production of aromatic plants. This nonprofit group is dedicated to enhancing the attractiveness of the Pays de Grasse district and to developing its sustainable economy. In joining Grasse Expertise™ Expressions Parfumées pledges to respect and promote its principles and values: • Highlight the unique ecosystem of expertise found in and around Grasse, • Make known and obtain recognition for the group's commitment to preserve and extend local farming of the exceptional fragrance plants grown in the Pays de Grasse district, • Contribute to the dynamic energy and international attraction of the territory, • Bring positive attention to enterprises devoted to creating and maintaining stable jobs in the territory, • Participate in a professional community with emblematic expertise. https://grasse-expertise.com 51 Sous-titre for the Aromatic Fablab Support project and the Jardins du Musée International de la Parfumerie Expressions Parfumées has pledged support of €45,000 over three years to the nonprofit Les Fleurs d'Exception du Pays de Grasse and its Aromatic Fablab. This project aims to consolidate territorial excellence in the field of aromatic fragrance and medicinal plants through facilities for R&D, plant production, transmission and exchange of traditional know-how and practices. The creation of the Aromatic Fablab follows on recommendations made by Unesco in support of an application for World Human Heritage status for the perfume know-how and tradition of the Pays de Grasse region. Expressions Parfumées also provides financial support to the Jardins du Musée international de la Parfumerie (MIP). These gardens are a component of work in favor of a territorial identity conducted by the Pays de Grasse urban community, and constitute a conservatory of aromatic plants attached the museum, and a natural space that is typical of the olfactory landscape of local agriculture. Our support of these projects is part of our action to protect biodiversity and natural assets. http://www.fleurs-exception-grasse.com https://www.museesdegrasse.com/jmip/presentation 52 Member Sous-titre of the Cercle Azuréen du Global Compact France Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Expressions Parfumées has joined the Cercle Azuréen du Global Compact France founded in 2019. This group was formed for Global Compact signatories in the Alpes Maritimes and Var departments to encourage exchange of good practices between local members. The circle reinforces the territorial identity of the company and its contribution to sustainable and responsible practices in the local economy. http://www.globalcompact-france.org/evenements/reunion-cercle-azureen-du-globalcompact-france-283 Sponsorship of academic activity and Doctoral Research Expressions Parfumées is a financial supporter of the academic chair Smart City: philosophy and ethics. The company takes part in workshops that create a space for thinking on societal issues where businesses and social partners in the economy can meet and exchange views. The Smart City chair brings fresh thinking to higher education and life-long learning, and shapes professionals who are able to address the issues of the future. The chair also facilitates contact between its member enterprises and laboratories, between students and businesses, and contributes to curriculum development. Expressions Parfumées has pledged funding to this innovative partnership for a period of five years (2018-2023), in support of the development strategy of the Université Côte d'Azur. http://philosophiedelasmartcity.fr/ 53 Expressions Parfumées is also a partner of the Université Cote d'Azur in a collaborative business research project to explore the Rational conception of compounds that target taste, odors and their emotions. The project called CHEMOSIM is among the 16% of applicants selected for financing by the French National Research Agency (https://anr.fr/fr/1er-resultatsaapg-2019/). Expressions Parfumées is making its premises, equipment and raw materials available to the university, and has set up a volunteer test panel of employees that is crucial to the research project. Training and job creation Employees from Expressions Parfumées regularly visit schools* in the Grasse area to talk about their jobs and the perfume industry. More broadly, the company's dynamic economic performance makes it a creator of stable jobs* and an employer that works to develop its employees' skills. 54 Expressions Parfumées also supports the prestige of the cosmetics and perfume industry around the world through its participation in the main trade events (Beautyworld Middle East in Dubai, In-Cosmetics Asia in Bangkok, Comestorium in Barcelona H3i in Milan). The company is an active member of the PRODAROM professional syndicate. https://www.prodarom.com Solidarity with the health care sector Expressions Parfumées is one of the main sponsors of the Cosmetic Executive Women (CEW) Beauty Center at the Grasse hospital complex, through the nonprofit Une Rose, Une Caresse created by the Club des Entrepreneurs du Pays de Grasse. This amenity brings beauty care and wellness services to patients at the hospital, giving them hope, courage, comfort and self-esteem. Each year in May the Une Rose Une Caresse workshop holds a benefit day at the MIP gardens in Mouans-Sartoux in support of the CEW Beauty Center at the Grasse hospital complex. Beauty care is not futile, it helps people live better, it reconciles them with their body, and puts them on the path to recovering their health – this is the credo of CEW that since 1986 has created 28 CEW Beauty Centers in hospitals in France. The CEW Beauty Center in Grasse, inaugurated in 2008, is the only such center in the Alpes Maritimes department. Thanks to funds raised at the annual benefit days, as of 1 January 2017 the center offers the services of two social worker beauty counselors four days a week and reflexology sessions over a day and a half, for a total of 5 1/2 days of services each week. http://cew.asso.fr 55 In 2019 Expressions Parfumées supported staff members who walked or ran in the Odyssea race in Cannes. This race is a charitable fund-raising event that remits nearly the full amount of registration fees from participants to action to combat breast cancer. Our company is attached to solidarity expressed by participation in this event. In addition to supporting charities, our employees send a message of healthy living through sports. Many research studies have established the health benefits of walking and running in relation to various pathologies. 56 ANNEX : INDICATORS ECONOMIC DATA GRI 2016 2017 2018 2019 Correspondence Sales (million €) EC1 56.6M€ 62.5M€ 67M€ 77.7M€ Breakdown of sales by product category Fine perfumes 39% 41% Mass retail 61% 59% Share of NATCO® products in total sales 6.06% 6.25% 8.32% 8.2% ENSURE RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE THAT FULLY RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 2017 2018 2019 Objective Correlation Ecovadis score 66 67 68 Number of CSR committee meetings* N/A 4 4 Negotiated agreements (number per year) 5 2 2 5% Rate of employment of workers with disabilities 5.25% 4.76% 4.03% (2020) Return to work and continuation in same job after G4-LA3 parental leave, by gender Men NA NA Women 2/2 NA % of employees who had periodic individual interviews G4-LA11 100% 100 % 81% 100 % on their work performance and career prospects % women in the company 46% 50% 47% % women on Executive Committee G4-LA12 60 % 50% % women among senior leaders (Givaudan Purpose 50% Objective) G4-LA12 N/A 43% (2030) (% women among department managers) Gender equality ratio (men/women) according to 90% G4-LA13 N/A 94% national indicator issued by the French Labor Ministry) (2020) *Committee created in 2019 N/A : non applicable IP: In Progress at the date of publication of the report 58 ENSURE THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES AND PROVIDE WORKING CONDITIONS THAT ARE CONDUCIVE TO THEIR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT GRI Objective 2017 2018 2019 Correlation 2020 Total workforce (France and subsidiaries) – FTE G4-LA1 222.72 241.72 Total workforce Grasse site FTE G4-LA1 197.37 208.37 Number of new hires (France) G4-LA1 37 49 Turnover rate G4-LA1 17% 21% % employees covered by company secondary health 167 183 insurance % new hires receiving occupational health and safety, 100 % 100 % 100% quality, environment and CSR training % employees receiving CSR training (France) N/A 100 % 100% % employees receiving data protection and privacy N/A 100 % 100% training (France) % employees receiving Principles of Conduct training G4-SO4 N/A 100 % 100% (World) Confirmed instances of corruption and measures taken G4-SO5 0 0 (World) FRANCE Number of employees involved in training sessions 92 94 (conducted by an accredited organism) % of employees who received training at least once in 64% 45% the year Training payment 133.2 128.03 Number of employees trained per year, by gender and by professional category Workers and office staff – Women 14 10 Workers and office staff – Men 41 33 Technicians and supervisors – Women 5 15 Technicians and supervisors – Men 12 6 Managers – Women 9 13 Managers – Men 11 17 Number of work/study employees per year 7 9 Number of internships per year 20 19 Apprenticeship tax (thousand €) 62K€ 72K€ % of total workforce represented in occupational health G4-LA5 18 17 and safety committees Frequency of work accidents G4-LA6 11.95 27.87 16.31 < 12 Severity work accidents rate G4-LA6 0.05 0.33 0.44 < 0.2 Number of work accidents with medical leave of -50% (2025) absence (other than commuting accidents) – Givaudan G4-LA6 4 8 5 vs 2018 Purpose Objective Absenteeism rate 4.43% 4.37% <4% N/A : non applicable IP: In Progress at the date of publication of the report 59 REDUCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT AND AUGMENT OUR RESILIENCE AND CAPACITY TO ADAPT TO CLIMATE CHANGE GRI 2016 2017 2018 2019 Objective Correlation UTILITY CONSUMPTION – GRASSE SITE Water (m3) – (watering and domestic water) 6085 3836 5217 5375 Gas (GWh) G4-EN3 1,328 1,465 1,321 1,281 -15 % (2018Ratio gas/kg of product G4-EN5 0,52 0,52 0.43 0.38 2020) vs 2017 Electricity (GWh) G4-EN3 0,741 0,849 0.809 0.918 -15 % (2018Ratio electricity/kg of product G4-EN5 0.291 0.304 0.263 0.269 2020) vs 2017 % renewable electricity 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % GES EMISSION – GRASSE SITE GHG Protocol Total GHG emissions scopes 1-2-3 (tCO2eq) 25 846 25 623 IP Givaudan Purpose Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) G4-EN15 339 359 IP Objective: Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) G4-EN16 37 38 IP Climate Positive Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) G4-EN17 25 470 25 226 IP before 2050 Bilan Carbone® Energy 368 385 IP Exclusive of energy 74 81 IP Carbon offsets (tCO2eq) (based on Bilan 771 777 Carbone® Y-1) WASTE – SITE DE GRASSE Total waste (tons) G4-EN23 2 245 2672 2164 2319 Hazardous waste G4-EN25 108 Nonhazardous waste 2211 Total waste other than effluent discharge (tons) 157 196 294 332 Ratio kg non-effluent waste/kg of product 0,001 0,001 0.096 0.097 Grasse site Industrial effluent discharges (tons) Grasse 2088 2476 1870 1987 site -6% (2018Ratio industrial effluent/kg of product Grasse 0,819 0,885 0,607 0.582 2020) vs site 2017 Landfill* G4-EN23 0% Incineration* G4-EN23 2.5% Energy recovery by incineration* G4-EN23 2.2% Material recovery (recycling)* G4-EN23 95.3% >95% Total recovery (energy+recycling)* G4-EN23 97.5% *New segmentation in 2019. Waste treatment concerns both non-effluent waste and industrial effluents discharges N/A : non applicable IP: In Progress at the date of publication of the report 60 BETTER TRACEABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE AND PRODUCTION CHAIN GRI Objective 2018 2019 Correlation (year) % suppliers who have signed Code of Conduct* 87 % 87% N/A % suppliers of raw materials who have accepted suppliers' N/A 80% terms of reference* % suppliers of raw materials who have accepted the N/A 80% responsible purchasing policy % suppliers of raw materials who have returned the CSR N/A 80% questionnaire *Expressions Parfumées reviewed all documentation related to reinforcing its responsible purchasing action in early 2020. The Code of Conduct has been replaced by the responsible purchasing policy, and Terms of Reference and a CSR questionnaire have been implemented. INNOVATIVE, SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE PERFUMES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS CREATION OF VALUE THAT IS SHARED ACROSS THE TERRITORIES AND THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE WORK GRI Objective 2016 2017 2018 2019 Correlation 2020 % of replies within two days to customer 100 % 100 % 100% inquiries by the regulatory affairs department Results of customer satisfaction survey (% satisfied and very satisfied respondents) G4-PR5 93.6%* N/A 80% [survey conducted every other year) 1 à 2 tous Number of innovations per year 2 2 4 1 les 2 ans Number of patent applications for 1 0 2 1 innovations created *Panel of 244 customers contacted. Over 1,000 customers will be targeted in 2020. N/A : non applicable IP: In Progress at the date of publication of the report 61
