COP – UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals: 1). Statement of support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2). We refer to our written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses. Please, find attachment ”Code of Conduct”. 3). Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for this year (2020) are as follows: – To continue to work with gender equality issues, diversity in new recruits, and wellness (general health) issues. – To follow laws and regulations in each country where we have our business. Implementation: To continue to work with a broad perspective of all forms of new employments in order to provide opportunities for integrating employees with different backgrounds. Also, to focus on gender equality in these issues. Measurement: That Alfa has personnel who speaks more than 25 languages. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals 1). We refer to our written company policy ”Code of Conduct” to uphold the freedom of an association and collective bargaining and elimination of forced labour and employment discrimination. Please, find attachment ”Code of Conduct”. 2). Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for this year (2020) are as follows: – Implementation of a yearly employee survey to ensure knowledge and opportunities for comments regarding the company. – To follow laws and regulations in each country where we have our business. Alfa – The Scandinavian Mobility Services Company IMMIGRATION · RELOCATION · PEOPLE · MOVING www.alfamoving.com 1 (3) COP – UN Global Compact Implementation: Raising awareness of our employees occurs in connection with our employment introduction. Training in our code of conduct takes place on a yearly basis and it is the Managing Director responsibility to make sure that all employees are aware of, and act, according to the Labour Principles. Measurement: According to our goal, to follow laws and regulations in each country where we have our business, we are proud of that we have had non deviation during the last year. Evaluation of our employee survey show positive results. For this year (2020) we continue our work to have a high communication around the policy’s for UN Global with our personnel. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have focused on environmental challenges since 2003 and we are proud of that we since 2005 have been certified according to ISO14001 standards. Attached you will find our certificate. As proof of our commitment we have attached the following: Environmental Policy Environmental Objectives and Programs Implementation: Environmental information Sustainable and active environmental work are central parts of Alfa’s vision to provide sustainable global mobility. Today, all our offices are certified according to ISO 14001:2015 standards. We have launched an environmental strategy, focusing on our supply chains, engagement and competence within our organization, as well as proceeding our communication of Alfa’s core values in the environmental area. Based on the strategy, we are continuously working to achieve the following goals in 2020: • Develop supply chains regarding compliance, efficiency, and environmental adaption • Decrease the carbon footprint on European moves (kg CO2/m3) with 9% (21,2 kg/m3 2018) • Reach a load factor of 77% for our European moves (72% 2019) • Provide 100% Eco cars at Alfa • Reduce car travel by improved planning and implementation of digital solutions • Continue our work with implementation of activities as competence development, employee commitment and external communication Alfa – The Scandinavian Mobility Services Company IMMIGRATION · RELOCATION · PEOPLE · MOVING www.alfamoving.com 2 (3) COP – UN Global Compact Some examples of key indicators and results in 2019 regarding Alfa’s goals: • We have moved forward our positions partly for our supply chains, yet further work remains finalizing the processes for these. • Indicators for carbon footprint and load factor move in the right direction. The result of the load factor has improved compared to last year. The carbon footprint is well in line with goals set. • The amount of Eco cars at Alfa is the same as previous year. • Implementation of video surveys is ongoing and is used to a greater extent compared to last year. • Education and communication activities have been implemented during 2018/2019. Each office at Alfa has implemented “Local action plans” and workshops during the fall of 2018, focusing on improvements. As an example of our work with sustainability communication, we have presented two environmental cases on our website describing some of our work in practice. • We have implemented “food sharing” to avoid food waste. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, Policy and Goals: 1). We refer to our written company policy ”Code of Conduct” for a zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion. Please, find attachment ”Code of Conduct”. 2). Specific goal in the area of Anti-Corruption for this year (2020) is as follows: – To follow laws and regulations in each country where we have our business. Implementation: Raising awareness of our employees occurs in connection with our employment introduction. Training in our code of conduct takes place on a yearly basis and it is the Managing Director responsibility to make sure that all employees are aware of, and act, according to the AntiCorruptions principles. We have added training in our code of conduct together with information about our Anti-Corruption policy, and how we work with it, in our implemented On-Boarding program for all our employees to take part in. Measurement: According to our goal, to follow laws and regulations in each country where we have our business, we are proud of that we have had non deviation during the last year. Alfa 2002 Alfa – The Scandinavian Mobility Services Company IMMIGRATION · RELOCATION · PEOPLE · MOVING www.alfamoving.com 3 (3)
