Sustainability Report 2019 Transforming waste heat … … into cosy comfort Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents About Alfa Laval 3 Interview with Tom Erixon, our CEO 4 Our business 6 World-leading in three key technologies 8 Business Principles 10 Strategy and governance 11 Stakeholder engagement 12 Targets and target achievements 13 Growth drivers 14 About the report Contributing to the UN Global Goals 16 The Alfa Laval Sustainability Report 2019 is the annual overview of Enabling change the company’s sustainability activities and performance during the fiscal year 2019. All figures relating to the previous year are included Food & Water 18 in parentheses. The report is available in English. Energy 20 The Sustainability Report is Alfa Laval’s annual Global Compact Communication on Progress about how we live up to, and work with, Marine 22 the Global Compact ten principles. The report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Contributing to progress This report together with the risk section in the Alfa Laval Annual Planet 24 Report 2019 (pages 102–111) fulfil the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. People 26 The printing of this Sustainability Report has emitted approximately Business integrity 32 408 kg CO 2. Alfa Laval and the printer Rosendahls have offset this by working together with the organization climatecare.org. Responsible sourcing 34 Contact Community involvement 36 We welcome feedback, comments or questions to Auditor’s opinion 38 sustainability@alfalaval.com. Sustainability notes 39 Presence in over 100 countries Alfa Laval’s sales and aftermarket organization operates in more than 100 countries — either directly or in collaboration with external partners. The company’s production structure is also global, with 40 major facilities in Europe, Asia, the US and Latin America. Additionally, Alfa Laval has more than 100 service centres distributed worldwide to meet customer needs. 2 Our Purpose Our purpose provides the motivational force in our daily activities. Dedicated to outstanding customer service, an inspiring and embracing workplace, and with sustainability in our genetic code, we define our purpose as accelerating success for our customers, people and planet. Putting our customers first responsibility, we demonstrate trust, which We focus on cost effective and innovative makes our people grow. Everyone is treated solutions that support industries in their with respect and we lead by example. We endeavour to purify, refine and recycle are determined to attract, develop and material. Our commitment is to optimize retain the most innovative and curious our customers’ processes, creating people in our business. responsible growth and driving progress. We work seamlessly together with them Making our world better, every day and are responsive to their needs – always We regard sustainability both as a going that extra mile to support them in necessity and as a business opportunity. achieving their business goals and Our technologies promote a more sustainability targets. responsible use of natural resources. We constantly drive progress to help reducing Empowering our people the environmental impact of most Our Scandinavian origin embodies our industrial processes through improved corporate culture, which is open, supportive energy efficiency and heat recovery, better and informal. This creates an environment water treatment and reduced emissions. for our employees to develop their talents Both on land and at sea. It is all about and excel as professionals. By giving them living up to our motto Advancing better™. Ten largest markets Net sales Number of employees at year-end Order intake MSEK %* MSEK United States 6,959 15.8% 50,000 20,000 China 6,085 13.8% 40,000 Nordic 4,210 9.5% 15,000 South Korea 3,376 7.7% 30,000 Adriatic 2,519 5.7% 10,000 Mid Europe 2,111 4.8% 20,000 South East Asia 2,060 4.7% 5,000 35,314 40,666 46,517 16,367 17,228 17,497 10,000 Japan 1,951 4.4% Benelux 1,298 2.9% 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 France 1,266 2.9% * Percentage of total order intake 3 “At Alfa Laval we are always working to drive progress. Anticipating the best way forward, for our customers and for the planet.” 4 Interview with Tom Erixon, our CEO In 2019, what was Alfa Laval’s most significant transport, where the share of air freight is high. Making progress on contribution in the sustainability area? our carbon target requires that we review our global distribution Alfa Laval has achieved significant progress in a range of system, both in terms of cost efficiency and environmental impact. sustainability-related aspects. We managed to reduce our energy We have also worked to reduce water consumption and focused consumption despite large production increases. More than 70% on our service centres using high volumes of water located in of the electricity we use at our manufacturing sites is based on water scarce areas. renewable sources, largely as a result of acquiring most of our electricity with green certificates but also due to the installation What will be your sustainability priorities in 2020? of solar power at our Chinese factory in Kunshan. Health and safety, climate and water remain the three cornerstones of sustainability at Alfa Laval. We will continue our journey to ensure On the product development side, we have also invested in new a healthy and safe workplace. Our ambition is to become carbon energy storage solutions, which we hope will make the storage neutral within the next ten years and the plan for how to achieve of intermittent energy possible in the future. this will be developed during 2020. Water is another area of growing importance. We have a fair chance of becoming fully Last year, you prioritized improving the health and safety circular when it comes to how we process and use water, performance of your own operations. What initiatives especially for certain cleaning processes. In addition, we will start did you launch to support this, and what improvements looking into packaging material and plastics. have they generated? We launched the company-wide initiative “I care” focusing on What makes Alfa Laval an attractive employer? improving awareness about the importance of safe behaviour. Apart from the obvious benefits of working for a global company We also continued to work with protective equipment and safe with international opportunities and a strong knowledge base, processes. Although fewer LTIs were reported in 2019 than in the Alfa Laval has two unique traits that truly make it a fantastic place recent years, the pace of the decrease should be higher. We are to work. Firstly, our decentralized organization gives greater determined to ensure everyone working with Alfa Laval returns responsibility early on in one’s career, creating a challenging and home safely, every day. developing working environment. Secondly, our entire business has a very clear purpose to advance the success of our customers, How do you ensure your suppliers live up people and planet. I think this purpose glues us together. to your sustainability standards? All our suppliers are expected to live up to Alfa Laval’s Business How will the world’s increasing sustainability focus Principles. However, it is our responsibility to support those who fail support Alfa Laval’s business in the near future? to meet our requirements. We develop individual improvement The coming decade will be very different from the past ten years. programmes that help suppliers to get to an acceptable level. We Sustainability has already enabled significant shifts in our R&D do not audit all our suppliers every year. Instead, our focus is on the portfolio, technological processes, customer base and range of suppliers who need support, because this is where we can make products and solutions. Alfa Laval has the potential to address the biggest difference. This way of working with the supplier base many of the current and future sustainability challenges in the areas has proven to be effective where we operate. We support the marine industry in reducing their environmental footprint. Our products help modernize the entire Alfa Laval has targets for energy, water and carbon food production system, improve farming and develop new protein emissions set for 2020. In which area did you see sources. With our solutions, industries become more energy the best progress and how was it achieved? In which efficient and increase the pace of their progress towards the area did you make the least progress and why? global climate targets. For companies with growing production and market reach, such as Alfa Laval, it is often challenging to meet targets set in absolute Lund, February 2020 terms. This is a learning process, and we are constantly looking for efficient ways to set quantifiable targets and select relevant indicators. However, despite this challenge, we have been able to achieve a clear improvement in many areas. We see a positive trend regarding reduced energy consumption. We will achieve our goal regarding carbon emissions from our Tom Erixon manufacturing sites, but we are still struggling with goods President and CEO 5 Our business Dedicated to outstanding customer service, technological innovation, an inspiring and embracing workplace, with sustainability in our genetic code, we strive to accelerate success for our customers, people and planet. In a changing world, we are responsive to changing We help create better everyday conditions for people by customer needs. Our focus is on delivering cost-effective offering efficient and environmentally responsible products and innovative solutions that improve customer performance. and solutions in the areas of heat transfer, separation and Our products help to purify, refine and recycle material. fluid handling. The organization has three industry-oriented Business Divisions: Energy, Food & Water, and Marine. Input Energy Division 64,343 The Energy Division has customers in a range of sectors, including oil and gas extraction, processing and transportation, refinery, petrochemicals and power Total assets, MSEK generation. The division’s main technology is heat transfer and Alfa Laval is heating and cooling some of the world’s tallest buildings. 17,497 Employees Food & Water Division >100 The Food & Water Division has customers in various sectors, including food, pharmaceuticals, biotech, edible oils, breweries, and dairy products. The division also specializes Production and service on water and waste treatment. The offering includes heat operations transfer, separation products and flow management products, such as pumps and valves. 1,086 R&D investments, MSEK Marine Division The Marine Division’s customers include ship-owners, yards, 253,779 manufacturers of diesel engines, as well as companies that work with oil and gas extraction at sea. Its offering includes heat transfer equipment, high speed separators and pump Energy consumption, MWh systems. 6 Outcomes 46,517 7,198 Net sales, MSEK Operating income, MSEK > 3,700 37,911 Patents Carbon emissions, tonnes CO²e Economic value distributed in 2019 4% 1% Investments Payments to providers of capital 5% Public Sector (taxes) 6% Shareholders (dividends) 35,548 MSEK Distributed 53% economic value Suppliers (purchases) 31% Employee (salaries & remunerations) 7 World-leading in three key technologies Alfa Laval’s business is based on three key technologies — heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. These technologies play a major role in a number of industrial processes and Alfa Laval commands a world-leading position in all three areas. In 2019, heat transfer products accounted for 40% of sales, separation products for 17% and fluid handling products for 22%. Heat transfer Heating and cooling are basic needs for both the individual and in The main product in Alfa Laval’s offering — the compact plate heat most industrial processes. There are a large number of industries exchanger — is more efficient than alternative technologies. Heat today in which heat transfer solutions are required for heating, exchangers transfer heating or cooling, often from one liquid to cooling, ventilation, evaporation or condensation. Heat transfer another. Plate heat exchangers are made up of a series of plates products from Alfa Laval are used in numerous areas — from food assembled closely to each other. Between these plates run two production and petrochemicals to the creation of a pleasant indoor channels containing media at different temperatures. These flow on climate or domestic hot water in private households, to name only a either side of the thin plates and in opposite directions to each other, few examples. resulting in a heat transfer between the media. 40% of the company’s sales 8 Separation Separation is the technology that represents the origin of the Liquids, solid particles and gases can be separated from one Alfa Laval brand. The business began in 1883, with a continuous another with precision and a high degree of reliability. The liquid separator, separating cream from milk, and this technology remains with the highest density is separated naturally from the other liquid a core Alfa Laval technology to this day. Alfa Laval’s offering when it sinks to the bottom. By rotating the mixture, rather like what includes separators, decanter centrifuges, filters, strainers and happens in a washing machine, centrifugal force can be used membranes. Separation products are used, for example, in the to speed up the process. dewatering of sludge in wastewater treatment plants and in food and pharmaceutical processes. 17% of the company’s sales Fluid handling The transportation and regulation of fluids in an efficient and safe Pumps drive the flow of liquids, while valves are used to guide the manner is crucial to many industries. Alfa Laval focuses on fluid flow by opening and closing. Alfa Laval’s unique valves make it handling products, such as pumps and valves, for industries with possible to handle two liquids at once — in the same valve, without stringent hygiene requirements but also pumping systems for the the liquids coming into contact with each other. This makes it marine industry and the offshore market. Fluid handling products possible to create flow systems where cleaning and production fulfil an important function in, for instance, the production of mozzarella take place in parallel. cheese, in the pharmaceutical industry, in the production of various fruit juice concentrates and in pumping/offloading oil from tanker vessels. 22% of the company’s sales 9 Business Principles Alfa Laval’s four Business Principles – Environment, Social, Business Integrity and Transparency – describe the way we must act within society whilst achieving our business goals. Today we face several urgent global Environment — Optimizing the use towards child and forced labour and works issues: combatting climate change, of natural resources actively to prevent workplace accidents in bribery and corruption, while protecting Alfa Laval makes a significant contribution all our premises. human rights and ensuring there is to reducing the environmental impact of enough food and water for everyone. By industrial processes. We support a Read more about human rights in our supply following our Business Principles, we can precautionary approach to environmental chain on pages 34–35; about our work find many opportunities to contribute to a challenges and work to use energy and with diversity and learning on pages more sustainable future and advance water efficiently in our production and 26–28, with health and safety and working the success of our customers, people service operations. Read more about our conditions on pages 29–31; about our and planet. progress on pages 24–25. Equally community involvement on pages 36–37. important is our ability to design products Alfa Laval’s Business Principles and services in a way that provides our Business Integrity — High ethical — Environment, Social, Business Integrity customers with an opportunity to become standards and Transparency — form the basis of more resource efficient and competitive. Alfa Laval conducts its business with our sustainability work. Our approach Read more on pages 18–23. honesty, integrity and respect for others. is to focus on the areas where we have Our performance is governed by high identified the highest risks and where Social — Respect for human rights ethical standards and the principle is based we can have the greatest influence. Ensuring that we respect human rights, on following all relevant laws where we carry out due diligence and provide good operate. Read more about how we work The Business Principles apply to all working conditions is an essential part of with business integrity on pages 32–33. companies in the Alfa Laval Group. this principle. Alfa Laval has zero tolerance Transparency — Commitment to open dialogue Alfa Laval believes in open communication but is careful not to reveal commercially valuable information. Our ambition is to build trust through open dialogue with Business Principles our various stakeholders around sustainability opportunities and challenges. Read more about our stakeholder dialogues and materiality assessment on page 12. ENVIRONMENT Responsible sourcing is a priority at Alfa Laval. In order to ensure compliance and high sustainability standards at our suppliers’ operations, we have developed TRANSPARENCY SOCIAL a separate supplier code of conduct — Business Principles for Suppliers — that focuses on the most important sustainability BUSINESS aspects in our supply chain. Read more INTEGRITY about responsible sourcing at Alfa Laval on pages 34–35. 10 Strategy and governance Alfa Laval’s Business Principles together with other policies guide our employees in their everyday work. Sustainability is part of Alfa Laval’s DNA Our Business Principles and other relevant for improvements. Managing Directors and business model. Our Business codes and policies are based on of subsidiary companies have the Principles were developed to ensure we international guidelines, such as the responsibility to translate the Principles act in a way that does not infringe on OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational and associated policies into local rules and human rights, the environment or our Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding procedures. Line Managers ensure that business integrity. The Business Principles Principles on Business and Human Rights their employees understand the Principles are supported by a number of internal and the United Nations Global Compact. and receive the necessary training to policy documents, which expand on the implement them. Principles and provide employees with The Alfa Laval Board is responsible for more detailed information. Policies are monitoring the implementation of the An independent internal audit function supported by a management structure, Business Principles. A sustainability plan provides support in monitoring compliance. tools, guidelines and training activities with focus areas is agreed at Board Suspected breaches against the Business made available to managers and level and followed up annually. Group Principles and other relevant codes and employees via the company intranet. Management is responsible for policies can be reported to Alfa Laval’s implementing the Business Principles, whistleblowing system (read more about including setting and reviewing targets the upgraded system on page 33). 11 Stakeholder engagement Engaging with our stakeholders provides important input and helps us continuously improve and make progress towards our business and sustainability goals. We engage in both formal and informal Employees are encouraged to give are health and safety, legal compliance, dialogue with our stakeholders. The feedback directly to their managers and energy use, climate impact, supplier stakeholder groups identified as priority through annual employee surveys. business ethics as well as anti-corruption. groups for engagement on sustainability Moreover, the assessment highlighted the issues are customers, shareholders and Our suppliers are important partners for key role Alfa Laval’s products and services investors, employees, future employees, our business success. Regular interaction play in helping our customers achieve their business partners (including suppliers), with them results in mutual development. energy efficiency, climate and water goals. neighbours, authorities and the media. In addition, we regularly invite them to This was ranked as important, both conferences and workshops. internally and externally – internally because We have regular contact with our of the business opportunities created for customers and every third year we We have an open dialogue with the the company, and externally because our conduct a brand study, which provides us communities in which we operate, products and solutions can help customers with an in-depth understanding of how our including collaboration with universities reduce their environmental impacts. customers perceive our company. and local governments. Our assessment also shows that Our shareholders participate in Annual Materiality assessment stakeholder perceptions of Alfa Laval’s General Meetings and investors are invited Alfa Laval’s materiality assessment was performance in the prioritized areas is in to our annual capital markets days. carried out in order to review the line with their expectations. The materiality Alfa Laval’s potential to effectively respond sustainability topics where we can make matrix below details the results of the to future sustainabiltiy challenges is one of the greatest difference. The topics that are assessment. the topics discussed at these meetings. most material both internally and externally Materiality matrix The matrix shows areas of Very high high importance both to Alfa Laval and the company’s main stakeholders. Products’ environmental impact Importance to our stakeholders Environment Health and safety Water use Business integrity Legal compliance Hazardous materials Social Energy use Climate impact Supplier business ethics Working conditions Anti-corruption Supplier social aspects Employee development Medium Very high Importance to Alfa Laval 12 Targets and target achievements Alfa Laval’s environmental and social targets aim to drive efficiency and behavioural change to achieve better results in the long term. The graphs presented below are a selection of the company’s sustainability targets. Progress on the targets is presented in more detail within each section of the report as well as in the detailed index on pages 39 – 47. Environmental targets by 2020 Energy consumption Carbon emissions Water consumption Target: Reduce energy consumption by 10% Target: Reduce carbon emissions by 15% Target: Reduce water consumption by 10% between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. MWh Tonnes CO²e m³ 300,000 80,000 800,000 250,000 60,000 600,000 200,000 150,000 40,000 400,000 100,000 246,774 252,120 254,434 267,976 253,779 76,777 74,504 75,558 46,028 37,911 730,381 708,448 739,159 716,186 698,815 20,000 200,000 50,000 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 Energy consumption decreased by 5.3% Carbon emissions from energy consumption Water consumption decreased by 4.3% compared to 2018, mainly due to the energy (purchased energy, electricity and company cars) compared to 2015. Projects are currently efficiency initiatives that were ongoing during decreased by 51% compared to 2015. The decrease ongoing at our sites located in water-stressed the year. However, it has increased by 2.8% is a result of changed electricity agreements, from regions of China, India, Brazil and the US.* compared to 2015.* fossil-based to renewable sources.* Social targets by 2020 Accidents Absenteeism Gender equality Target: Reduce Lost Time Injuries by 30% Target: Reduce absenteeism by 6% between Target: Increase the proportion of women in the between 2017 and 2020. 2017 and 2020. company as a whole and also in leading positions year-on-year. Employees Senior Management Number % % 250 2.5 35 30 200 2.12 2.08 1.91 25 152 2.0 150 20 122 119 100 15 1.5 10 50 5 19.7 25.8 19.2 30.6 0 1.0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 18 19 Lost Time Injuries have decreased by 22% Absenteeism has decreased by 10% compared In 2019, the proportion of women employed in compared to 2017. The improvements are to 2017. The decrease is a result of fewer days the company (excl. non-Alfa Laval branded attributable to local and company-wide lost due to injuries. acquisitions) was 19.2%. The proportion of women programmes and initiatives, such as “I care”, in senior management position was 30.6%, a focused on ensuring safe behavior. 18.6% increase compared to the previous year. * The figures presented in the graphs above refer to the sites included in the baseline year 2015 in order to enable relevant comparisons. 13 Growth drivers As the world changes, new challenges but also new opportunities arise. Global trends in the areas of food, transport and energy are creating new ways for our business to grow. These structural changes include: the global response to climate change and rising temperatures; the growing demand for more sustainable methods of energy generation due to rising energy needs; the increasing demand for processed foods from the growing middle class; the rising number of water-stressed regions globally; the increasingly stringent legal requirements on emissions to air and water; and international trade creating a need for more sustainable marine transport solutions. 14 Drivers Opportunities If the climate challenge is not We provide technology to improve energy efficiency, addressed properly with new which is essential for reducing climate impact technologies, policies and from industry. In addition, we provide solutions in behaviours, the consequences other areas such as water, chemical and effluent Climate may be devastating. management to mitigate climate change risks. The world’s energy needs are growing. Our solutions for power generation, oil and There are two ways to manage this gas exploration, renewable fuels production, challenge: to increase the total energy refinement and other industries play an generation, and to improve efficiency important role in the transition to more energy Energy or recycling of the energy generated. efficient processes. Water is becoming a scarce resource Our solutions and technologies enable the in many regions of the world. The reduction of water consumption in industrial increasing demand for fresh water processes and improve water quality. These together with the challenges caused solutions have the potential to significantly Water by climate change will affect the global population and ecosystems. increase volumes of reused water. The growing middle class and Alfa Laval’s history began in 1883 with the urbanization are two global trends that development of a separator for separating cream from are evolving at an undiminished rate, milk. Today, hygienic applications in the food industry resulting in a growing demand for include heat exchangers, pumps and valves. These Food ready-made food and supply chains with increased resource efficiency. products meet the strictest hygiene requirements and can help to optimize the use of raw materials. Human impact on the environment is Alfa Laval has products for managing various driving increasingly stringent laws, environmental challenges, such as energy while companies are encouraged to demand and marine fuel emissions. Environmental take voluntary steps that contribute to improved environmental performance. legislation International trade connects a world For over 100 years, Alfa Laval has provided the where raw materials are extracted in marine industry with equipment: engine room one country and processed in separators for cleaning fuel, heat exchangers for another, and where final products generating freshwater, loading and unloading World trade are transported to customers around the globe. pumping systems, systems for treating ballast water and reducing sulphur content in ship exhaust gas. 15 Contributing to the UN Global Goals Alfa Laval contributes to progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. We continuously improve our own sustainability performance and enable change by supporting customers to reach their environmental targets. Zero hunger S  ustainable cities and communities 2 11 Alfa Laval’s products and solutions improve shelf life, Alfa Laval provides solutions for energy efficient district reduce waste and make food production hygienic heating and cooling — often using waste heat as well and safe. as thermal storage solutions. G  ood health and well-being R  esponsible consumption and production 3 12 Alfa Laval delivers hygienic equipment enabling Alfa Laval’s ambition is to make every new product efficient and safe production in the pharmaceutical more efficient than its predecessor from a lifecycle industry. perspective. Many of our products contribute to turning waste into value in different production processes. Quality education 4 Alfa Laval is committed to ensuring competence Climate action 13 development in our own business. We also support Alfa Laval works to minimize climate impact throughout charities and volunteering projects related to school the value chain. Our diverse products improve energy education around the globe. efficiency which, in turn, lowers the consumption of fossil fuels and thus reduces carbon emissions. Gender equality 5 Diversity and inclusion are key priorities for Alfa Laval L  ife below water 14 and the aim is to increase the proportion of female Alfa Laval offers a whole range of products in the areas employees and managers year-on-year. of energy and environment that contribute to reducing marine pollution and protecting marine biodiversity.  lean water and sanitation C 6 Alfa Laval offers a wide range of technologies to treat L  ife on land 15 wastewater and generate fresh water. These solutions Alfa Laval provides a cooling solution that protects contribute to improved access to clean water around the world’s largest seed collection stored to provide a the globe. backup if a natural catastrophe, environmental damage or war would deplete the Earth’s crop diversity. A  ffordable and clean energy 7 Alfa Laval’s products are involved throughout the  eace, justice and strong institutions P 16 renewable energy production process, from heating Decent working conditions are a requirement in and cooling to mixing and separation. Alfa Laval’s Business Principles. With our global reach, we can potentially make a positive impact on local  ecent work and economic growth D societies’ anti-corruption and anti-bribery activities. 8 Alfa Laval’s Business Principles require decent working conditions. Working conditions and safety are highly P  artnership for the goals 17 prioritized areas both in our own operations and in the Alfa Laval has been a signatory of the UN Global demands we place on our suppliers. Compact since 2011. We actively engage with stakeholders throughout our entire value chain to I ndustry, innovation and infrastructure develop common solutions and create shared value. 9 Alfa Laval invests heavily in research and development. The company launches between 30–40 new products per year and has over 3,700 patents. 16 Enabling change Contributing to progress Enabling change Contributing to progress Alfa Laval’s products and solutions enable our customers to By implementing our Business Principles, setting improve the efficiency of their production processes by, for measurable goals and working to continuously improve, example, improving energy efficiency, reusing water or we contribute to several of the Global Goals. Examples are reducing waste. Moreover, Alfa Laval supports the transition improving the health and safety of our employees, to a more sustainable future in the energy, food and marine competence development, gender equality, responsible industries. For more information on how our products and supply chain and reducing corruption risks, see more on solutions create value today and enable change for pages 24–37. tomorrow, see pages 18–23. 17 Challenge: How can we help supply the planet’s fast-growing population with sustainable food? The global population is increasing, and with it, the demand for food. At the same time, food producers are challenged by negative environmental impacts from the production of food, including the need to reduce waste. 18 Today: Creating value from by-products Alfa Laval is constantly developing new processes that enable customers to turn by-products or waste into valuable resources. One example is the processing system installed at a Norwegian fish factory. It is the world’s first fish factory that makes use of the whole herring and mackerel. After removing the fish filet, the remainder of the mackerel is turned into oil and fish meal for human consumption. Using Alfa Laval products, the fish factory can both manufacture more sustainable products and become The Alfa Laval Centriflow system used by the fish factory consists more profitable by using all parts of the fish and reducing of contherms, decanters, separators and evaporators, which together enable the reduction of food waste. food waste. Tomorrow: Turning insects into a sustainable source of protein Finding alternative sources of protein is a necessary step can also be used as fertilisers in the process, contributing to meet the growing protein demand while limiting our to minimized waste in the food value chain. negative impact on the environment. As the consumption of meat, fish and plant-based protein is projected to Alfa Laval equipment help to make this exciting new increase, the alternative protein market offers a fastbusiness a reality, by optimizing the heating and growing, sustainable alternative. Significant investments separation phases of the protein production process. are now being made both in cultured meat and insects. Insects, in particular, offer a unique opportunity to address two of the major global challenges: protein supply The alternative protein landscape diversifies and organic waste. The insects can be processed to in the coming decades become an alternative source of protein. Moreover, the Protein Consumption (MMT) insects can recycle nutrients from organic waste to bring 1,000 them back into the local food value chain. Tonnes of 800 organic residues, including agricultural residues, food 600 industry by-products and kitchen waste, can be made into 400 safe and high-value ingredients for animal food every day. 200 0 The black soldier fly larvae are particularly suited for 2014 2024 2034 2044 2054 alternative protein due to its rapid growth cycle and high Meat + Seafood Alternatives capacity to break down organic matter. The larvae residue Source: Lux Research Sustainable Development Goals By enabling food waste reduction, Alfa Laval contributes to SDG 2 Zero hunger, SDG 9 Industry innovation, SDG 12 Responsible consumption and production and SDG 13 Climate action. None of these breakthrough technologies and applications would be possible without partnerships with scientists and our customers, SDG 17. 19 Challenge: How can we achieve the climate goals of the Paris Agreement? Energy efficiency will be the primary contributor to meet the world’s increasing energy demand while staying within the 1.5-degree temperature goal. At the same time, new technologies aim to enable a much greater use of renewable energy. Alfa Laval products, know-how and investments are crucial to the success of both strategies. 20 Today: Converting waste heat to useful energy Industry consumes about 30% of the world’s energy, where heat transfer solutions are required for heating, cooling, ventilation, evaporation and condensation. Alfa Laval is the number one manufacturer of heat exchangers in the world, and 80% of the products sold in our Energy division are related to energy savings and energy efficiency. One example is from Denmark, where the world’s most extensive district heating system uses heat exchangers from Alfa Laval. The system generates district heating by recovering excess heat from municipal wastewater, requiring minimal additional use of electricity. The full-scale plant will produce 65MW of energy, supplying Alfa Laval heat exchangers are crucial to waste heat 1,100 households in Nyhavn, Copenhagen and reducing recovery. Above is an Alfa Laval semi-welded plate heat exchanger. about 500,000 tonnes of CO² annually. Tomorrow: Enabling the storage of renewable energy Consumption of renewable energy is growing rapidly, driven by investments in wind and solar power. However, Pathways to reducing CO 2 emissions (by source) sun and wind are not always available when and where it is needed – meaning that energy storage with more Gt CO2 extended duration capacity than batteries is necessary. Current Trends 40 Stated Policies Scenario Alfa Laval believes that thermal energy storage will be Efficiency essential to provide reliability and stability in the renewable Renewables energy grid. For this reason, we invested in Malta Inc, the Fuel switch, molten salt energy storage company founded by Google, CCUS and other with Bill Gates’ Breakthrough Energy Ventures as the Sustainable main shareholder. Their unique thermal energy storage Development Scenario plant will use new and ground-breaking heat exchangers 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 from Alfa Laval. These heat exchangers will work in extremely high and low temperatures. Source: IEA 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval’s products contribute to achieving several of the UN Global Goals. Our cooperation with Malta and other organizations prove to be invaluable partnerships. Energy efficiency and reducing the use of fossil fuels are part of achieving SDGs 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 17. 21 Challenge: How can we reduce the environmental impact of global maritime shipping? More than 90 percent of global trade is tied to international shipping. Maritime shipping is expected to triple by 2050, due to the boom in e-commerce, infrastructure investments and the ambitions of emerging economies rich in natural resources to find their place in global trade. Shipping needs to reduce its environmental impact, including reducing carbon emissions and other pollutants. 22 Today: Cleaning oily water to exceed strict legislation Bilgewater treatment is required by law to avoid oily waste polluting marine waters. Alfa Laval PureBilge is a fully automated centrifugal separation system that cleans oily water on board vessels at sea and ashore, without using chemicals, adsorption filters or membranes. Due to the centrifugal separation technology, PureBilge performs continuously even in the roughest sea conditions. By effectively removing oil pollution well below five ppm – far stricter than the 15 ppm required by the International Maritime Organization – it sets a new standard in the Alfa Laval PureBilge on the picture above removes oily waste quality of the water discharged overboard. on board vessels. Tomorrow: Enabling the transition to decarbonisation As the marine industry works towards a future based on non-fossil fuels, Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) is projected to Energy use and projected fuel mix 2018–2050 become the transition fuel towards decarbonisation. The Units: EJ/yr lower carbon content of LNG compared to traditional ship 14 fuels enables a 20–25% reduction of carbon dioxide 12 emissions. 10 8 6 Alfa Laval enables this transition by offering leading 4 products for fuel conditioning, thermal fluid heating, 2 heating and cooling, gas combustion and steam 0 production technology. 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 LSFO or MGO LPG LNG Liquefied methane (bio/electro) Hydrogen HFO and scrubber Electricity from grid Ammonia Advanced biodiesel LSFO, low-sulphur fuel oil; MGO, marine gas oil; LPG, liquefied petroleum gas; LNG, liquefied natural gas; HFO, heavy fuel oil; Advanced biodiesel, produced by advanced processes from non-food feedstocks ©DNV GL 2019 Sustainable Development Goals By reducing oil pollution in water, the PureBilge solution contributes to SDG 14 Life below water. By enabling the shift to LNG, our solutions also contribute to SDG 13 Climate action and SDG 9 Industry innovation. None of these solutions would be possible without partnerships both with our customers, suppliers and other organizations, SDG 17. 23 Planet To remain successful, we need to grow and at the same time Alfa Laval works to optimize the use of natural resources in our respect the planetary boundaries. At Alfa Laval, concern for the own and our customers’ operations. As part of this commitment, environment and sustainability is a natural part of the way we think we work continuously to reduce our energy and water use, and act, while also presenting a business opportunity. We make it decrease carbon emissions as well as improve waste management possible to reduce the environmental impact of most industrial processes in our production and service operations, in accordance processes, both on land and at sea. We contribute to the with the Alfa Laval Environment Policy and environmental strategy development of better and safer food. towards 2020 that apply to the entire company. Environmental targets 2020 with baseline 2015 Reduce energy Knowledge is power intense facilities, premises and processes Knowledge of how energy is consumed in will be identified. Secondly, energy consumption by 10% our operations is central to resource efficiency action plans will be applied We aim to reduce energy consumption by efficiency and improved environmental accordingly. The data collection and 10% compared with 2015 in absolute performance. In 2019, Alfa Laval initiated a analysis will be performed through a terms. We work to achieve the target by global project to measure and analyse digital platform. focusing on the analysis and improvement energy and water consumption. Over of the company’s energy use on different time, the data gathered through the We cannot rely only on technology in the levels, from individual behavioural changes project will help us decide where the transition to a more energy efficient to concrete energy saving projects. For company should direct its energy business. A change in behaviour can more information, see below and pages efficiency investments. The project will effectively replace costly technical 41–42. cover several crucial steps. Firstly, energy solutions, and therefore we will continue to consumption data will be collected for strengthen competence and knowledge further analysis, and the most energy sharing in this area. “Our ambition is to use knowledge Solar energy and synergies created in Kunshan powers new Chinese factory in our coming renewable energy projects.” In July 2019, Alfa Laval opened a new manufacturing Magnus Roth, Head of Group Category, Group Indirect Procurement and facility in Kunshan (China), where 30% of energy supply Size of the installation is generated by the solar panels on the factory roof. The 3,276 solar panels Nathan Hu, Project Manager at cover 15,000 m2 of roof Operation Development China. Kunshan factory will produce a wide range of products for the Asian market where the demand for Alfa Laval Facility’s annual products is constantly growing, thus becoming one of energy consumption the most energy intense facilities in the company. 3,500 MWh Expected annual Sustainability was in focus when the factory was generation capacity designed and constructed. In addition to the solar 1,000 MWh, or 30% of the panels, it has natural light from skylights, LED lighting factory’s energy supply and natural ventilation in the roof, sensor-controlled water and heat recovery. Closing the loop During 2019, 60,000 m³ of water were used at Alfa Laval’s 66 service centres. A handful of service centres stood for 60% of that volume. This year, a project was initiated to investigate technologies that can reduce our use of potable water at these sites. In the initial phase of the project, processes where water is used and the requirements on water quality were analysed. The project identified the possibility to reuse water for hydrostatic testing as a straightforward solution. At one of the sites, the potential reduction of water consumption was estimated to be 30%. Technical solutions will be implemented during 2020, prioritising sites located in regions with water scarcity. Arash Fayazzi, Service Operations Development Manager, and Jonas Anehamre, Material Specialist, are responsible for the water reduction project. Reduce carbon a 9% increase compared to the baseline Recycling 2015. CO ² emissions by 15% 85% of waste To ensure Alfa Laval achieves its carbon Goods transportation emissions per tonne We aim to recycle 85% of the waste emissions target, we work to increase the kilometre were 99 gram/tkm compared generated in operations by 2020. In 2019, proportion of renewable electricity used. with 92 gram/tkm, which was the baseline Alfa Laval operations recycled 79% of For more information, see below and 2015. Our progress is still not satisfactory, waste. An example of a local initiative is pages 24 and 41–43. as our carbon emissions from goods the reuse and recycling of paper and transport remain high due to greater wooden products. Renewable sources of electricity transport need and more air freight In 2019, 73% of Alfa Laval’s electricity was compared to sea freight. Read more on sourced from renewable sources, pages 41–43. compared with 27% in 2015. Solar power No banned generates 30% of the electricity used in chemicals our Kunshan factory inaugurated in 2019. During the year, we further increased the Reduce water We aim to eliminate banned chemicals share of power purchase agreements in consumption by 10% from our operations. Alfa Laval has a our global electricity supply. We focused robust material and chemical selection on sites where electricity was generated The water target is focused on our sites process for its products and we work to from coal or other fossil fuels. In 2019, six in water-stressed regions. In 2019, the reduce the use of substances of very of our large operation sites in China and total water consumption was reduced by high concern and to eliminate chemicals India began to source 100% of their 2.4% compared to 2018 and by 4.3% listed as banned on our Black and Grey electricity from renewable sources. compared to the baseline year 2015. The list. The use of chemicals listed as banned challenges to reduce water consumption decreased by 56% compared with 2017. Emissions from goods are increased production and testing. The decrease was mainly due to an transportation For more information, see pages 41–43. updated method for removing paint in During the year, emissions from goods service centres. Removing the paint transportation amounted to 50,123 tonnes mechanically has enabled us to phase of CO², a 19% decrease from 2018 but out dichloromethane. Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval works to optimize the use of natural resources. This involves reducing carbon emissions by improving energy efficiency and increasing the proportion of renewable electricity. We also work to reduce water consumption and improve our waste management processes. Alfa Laval contributes to SDG 7 Affordable and clean energy, SDG 12 Responsible consumption and production and SDG 13 Climate action. 25 People We are a global company. We provide an open, supportive, Gender balance in 2019 informal and international environment for our employees to excel, with focus on safety towards all stakeholders. This empowers us Women Men to create and contribute to impactful and creative solutions. We lead by example by giving responsibility and treating everyone with respect. Group Management Women 22% Men 78% Diversity and inclusion Alfa Laval’s vision is to create an inclusive is to identify, retain and develop emerging Senior Management Women 31% workplace where diversity is essential to female leaders within Alfa Laval in order to Men 69% achieving the company’s objectives. We increase the number of management believe that diversity maximizes the positions held by women. The 2019 potential of individuals and of the programme involves 12 participants from organization as a whole. different organizations within Alfa Laval. Since 2009, 43 participants have Alfa Laval works to increase the proportion completed the programme. Other Employees of women at management level and the Women 19% number of women in the company as a Another example of Alfa Laval’s work with Men 81% whole. Our ambition is to recognize diversity is “Inspire”, a talent programme women with executive potential at an early launched in 2019 with a focus on aligning stage. The proportion of female employees diversity in the senior leadership with that in the total company was 19.2% (19.7%) of the global business. The programme is and the proportion of female managers open for Alfa Laval’s employees from Asia, The charts present the proportion of men and women within different roles in Alfa Laval. was 30.6% (25.8%). Oceania, Middle East and Africa. The The figures do not cover non-Alfa Laval participants are expected to get a better branded acquisitions. One initiative within this strategy is the understanding of Alfa Laval business and development and mentorship programme organization, and to be more proactive in — “Impact”. The purpose of the programme their own career development. 26 Truly global Our work with diversity helps us ensure that the composition of employees reflects the geographic markets in which we operate. About 100 nationalities are represented within the Group. We are determined to attract, develop and retain the most talented people, regardless of gender or nationality. The four employees below share their view on what it’s like to be a part of a truly global workplace. Name: Robert Barnes “My favorite thing about working at Alfa Laval is the Position / department: Head of tremendous openness and willingness to share Marketing and Portfolio information and work together. With this collaborative Management in BU Energy environment and high levels of emotional intelligence, Separation Alfa Laval is a perfect workplace in an increasingly digitalized world. You can work here for years with no Originally from: Virginia, USA risk of getting stale. There is always a new challenge, Years with Alfa Laval: 13 years a way to learn and apply your skills.” Name: Elena Tyabina “We have a very open style of communication and Position / department: ALPS collaboration, and we have fun working together. I Facilitator in Operations work with a wonderful community of professional Development and skilled colleagues from literally all over the world. And I appreciate a lot that Alfa Laval values its Originally from: Korolev, Russia employees and everyone has the possibility to Years with Alfa Laval: 14 years balance professional and personal life.” with a 1-year break Name: Guilherme Tambascia “I do enjoy Alfa Laval’s global reach. I am in Lund, Position / department: Global but my colleagues are in the US, Malaysia and other Service Manager for Evaporation countries, and we work together every day across Systems national and cultural boarders. I also have the freedom to influence my work because the company Originally from: Campinas, puts so much trust in people’s competence.” SP, Brazil Years with Alfa Laval: 10 years with a 2-year break Name: Carrie Yue “Alfa Laval’s open supportive culture helps you grow Position / department: Global and realise your dreams. You can always open up, Process Owner Talent share with others, try new things and not be afraid to Acquisition fail. At Alfa Laval, I have wonderful colleagues who always support me and who basically became my Originally from: JiangSu, China family when I was new in Sweden.” Years with Alfa Laval: 9 years 27 The core competencies that enable business success Action Judgement & Decision Making Acumen Agility Interaction Customer Focus Satisfaction Networking & Learning Ability Influencing Drive for Results Leading Others & Self Talent acquisition compliance, including Alfa Laval’s Training Half of the roles that are needed to become Business Principles, was one of the focus a successful company in our industry today areas. For more information, see pages 10 Providing employees with learning didn’t exist just seven years ago. In order to and 32–33. opportunities is an important tool to ensure continuous development. adapt to the changing market, we need to identify and hire new talent with potential. Employee Satisfaction To do this, it is important to find people Every year, Alfa Laval conducts an 144,000 number of training hours with the ability to constantly learn and to be agile, instead of only looking at previously acquired skills. We have defined eight employee survey that includes aspects such as employee motivation and satisfaction. The 2019 employee survey provided to employees core competencies to ensure that current showed that our employees are highly and future employees continuously motivated and confident about the future 700 develop to support Alfa Laval’s strategy, success of Alfa Laval. The results securing business success, see figure highlighted that 82% of all employees feel above. engaged. This figure is 2%-points higher number of courses in the global programme than last year and more than 14%-points Learning and development higher than the benchmark within our 10,800 We provide all our employees with training industry. The survey indicates that our in several different areas through our own company purpose, Advancing Better, training platform, the Alfa Laval Academy. contributes to increasing employee number of employees The platform includes a broad range of engagement. In other words, employees who took part in trainings courses from basic training to advanced are motivated by being a part of programmes in areas such as leadership “accelerating success for our customers, and project management. In 2019, people and planet”. Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval has more than 17,000 employees globally. As a large employer, we contribute to SDG 4 Quality education and SDG 5 Gender equality. Our employee philosophy includes four important components: • We provide safe and healthy working conditions • We continually develop employee competence and flexibility • There shall be no direct or indirect discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin • We recognize the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining 28 Health and safety Alfa Laval’s safety vision “We return home safely. Every day!” means that our ambition is to have a workplace that is free from accidents and work-related illnesses. At Alfa Laval, we work to continuously Targets and progress improve our health and safety (H&S) performance. Our global H&S Policy requires Alfa Laval’s key target in the H&S area In addition, we have an annual target to that our workplaces have high standards of towards 2020 is to reduce lost time injuries reduce absenteeism by 2%. Absence safety and well-being. The Alfa Laval Global (LTIs) by 30% compared with 2017. Sites among Alfa Laval’s employees due to H&S Manual underlines the accountability of with zero LTIs are expected to continue illness or work-related accidents reduced our managers to fulfil and uphold this policy. their proactive work. In 2019, the total to 1.91% (2.08%). The work is supported by local H&S number of LTIs was reduced to 119 (122). management systems. Additionally, all The total number of lost working days Alfa Laval’s facilities are expected to comply decreased to 2,314 (2,794). with local legislation and regulations. Injuries Health and safety indicators LWD LTIF 2017 2018 2019 5,000 2.5 Lost Time Injury ¹ ) 152 122 119 4,000 2.0 Lost Time Injury Frequency ² ) 0.97 0.78 0.74 3,000 1.5 Lost Working Days ³ ) 3,975 2,794 2,314 0.97 2,000 0.78 0.74 1.0 Absenteeism (%) 4) 2.12 2.08 1.91 1,000 0.5 3,975 2,794 2,314 0 0.0 17 18 19 Figures include all entities. Lost Working Days ¹ ) Number of reported accidents including travel accidents ³ ) Days lost due to accidents Lost Working Lost Time Days Injury FrequencyLost Time Injury Frequency ² ) Number of accidents per 200,000 working hours 4 ) Days lost due to any form of illness (including LTIs) 29 Health and Safety priorities Milestones in the “I care” initiative During 2019, the focus remained on enhancing H&S performance in three main Sustain & Improve: areas: safe behaviour, protective equipment Follow up & and safe procedures. action plans Engagement: Safe behaviour Local adaptions Promoting behavioural change is necessary to create a safety culture in the Interest: workplace. Alfa Laval’s methods to raise Dilemma talks awareness, “Stop-Think-Act” and 3PR, Safety walks both applied during 2018 and 2019, gave Awareness: positive results and significantly improved Insight the safety culture in the company. During the year, we launched the 2019–2020 2020–2021 2021– company-wide initiative “I care” with the purpose of promoting safe behaviour. The initiative builds on four crucial steps: Awareness, Interest, Engagement and Sustain & Improve. designed to create insights and initiate a During the next step, Interest, which will be conversation about safe behaviour. Using initiated in 2020, we will work to create and The first step, Awareness, was successfully these tools, we discuss dilemmas and sustain interest in safe behaviour through implemented in 2019 and will continue to everyday situations where Alfa Laval’s ongoing dialogues on different levels of be in focus next year. More than 200 top employees health or safety can be the organization. managers took part in an “I care” compromised, and by doing so we train-the-trainer programme. Furthermore, improve risk awareness and understanding tools, such as workshops, information of what behavioural changes are required material and regular dialogues, were in different situations. Behaviour-Based Safety Programme “Driving injury rates to zero doesn’t necessarily mean your In 2019, the Alfa Laval facility in Richmond, Virginia (US) facility is safe. Changing the operational work structure, implemented a Behaviour-Based Safety Programme environment and educating the employees will eventually for its 300 employees. The process to re-energize the lead to a solid and engaged safety culture and climate.” safety culture included three steps: a train-the-trainer workshop for the facility’s safety committee and George Karalus, Environmental Health & Safety Manager, US selected unit and team managers; a cultural safety Also on the picture: Michael Clinton, Environmental Health & assessment; and a training for facility managers and Safety Specialist, US team leads on job hazard analysis to better understand the actual working environment of employees. The process revealed that, despite the overall strong regulatory compliance, safety should become more integrated into the decision-making and personnel management. Following the above mentioned steps, facility’s health and safety management developed an observation checklist as a tool to promote a safety culture. Since its implementation, we have seen a 57% drop in minor injuries and zero lost time injuries. Another positive effect is the upswing in employee engagement in H&S issues. 30 Protective equipment risk for employees and the environment as During 2019, Alfa Laval continued to invest well as to increase the efficiency of in improving the safety of machines and day-to-day activities. Priorities to improve equipment. We successfully finalized a health and safety programme focused on the upgrade of Good health and well-being machines and equipment used in At Alfa Laval, ensuring good health is both Alfa Laval’s service centres. about concern for the individual as well as Safe behaviour promoting Alfa Laval’s continued business Safe procedures success. Local conditions determine the The development of standardized nature of the actions implemented to procedures for all service centres improve health and well-being. Examples remained focused on safe procedures for include company sponsored physical degasketing with liquid nitrogen and the exercise for employees during their free safe handling of hazardous materials. In time and ergonomics training. 2019, safety policies for marine service engineers were reviewed and updated. Moreover, a new standard for handling of Safe Protective chemicals was launched with the purpose procedures equipment to improve chemical management, reduce Sustainable Development Goal SDG 8 is intended to promote decent work for all. This means protecting labour rights and promoting safe working environments for all workers. Working conditions and safety are highly prioritized areas for Alfa Laval. 31 Business integrity Operating our business with integrity is essential to ensure that we live up to the expectations of our stakeholders. We should be able to guarantee that we conduct our business in a responsible and fair manner. Compliance with laws, regulations Alfa Laval’s sales organization means that and Business Principles we are active in several countries where Proportion of employees trained It is important for Alfa Laval to conduct its there is a high risk of corruption. One of in anti-corruption in 2019 business with honesty, integrity and many tools used by Alfa Laval in assessing respect for others. This means that we risk is Transparency International’s follow the Business Principles of Alfa Laval Corruption Perception Index. 100% as well as all applicable laws and The Group Management regulations in the countries where we Alfa Laval’s Anti-Bribery and Antioperate. We carefully monitor the Corruption (ABAC) Policy outlines the development of international legislation, expectations the company has on all social standards and voluntary initiatives, employees. Alfa Laval has built its work including anti-bribery, anti-corruption and with anti-bribery and anti-corruption on the conflict of interest. During 2019, the focus six steps outlined in the UK Bribery Act, has been on a stronger business integrity and is based on the “prevent, detect and culture and increased transparency, where correct” methodology. the updated whistleblowing system is a key component. Risk assessments are made on a global level. More than 80% of Alfa Laval’s sales Anti-bribery and anti-corruption companies have been evaluated for risks 85% Alfa Laval has a zero-tolerance approach related to corruption and the highest White-collar employees towards any form of bribery and exposure was found connected to the use corruption. The international scope of of agents and distributors. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption process Top level commitment Risk assessment • Group ABAC Policy • Annual risk assessment • Commercial Ethics Council • Risk assessment in supply chain • Corporate Governance sign-off Proportionate procedures Communication & training • Risk mitigation actions • ABAC information available on the intranet • Supplier contracts include ABAC clause • ABAC training for employees • ABAC training for suppliers Due diligence Monitoring & review • Agent and distributor due diligence guidelines • Internal audit • Due diligence on mergers and acquisitions • Whistleblowing function • Annual Sustainability Reporting 32 No public legal cases regarding corruption have been brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period. Leading by example The Commercial Ethics Council, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for ensuring that we have the appropriate policies and processes in place. All managers are responsible for ensuring compliance with our policies, including the ABAC Policy and the implementation of local guidelines. Line managers are reminded about their responsibility to implement all Alfa Laval corporate policies each year through an annual sign-off. Internal audits are conducted regularly and are intended to ensure that appropriate processes are in place and function properly. Increased transparency with our updated whistleblowing system We encourage our employees to resolve work-related issues and disagreements EN CY EN VI RO AR through an open dialogue. If this is not P N NS M TR A EN T BUSINESS possible, a company-wide whistleblowing PRINCIPLES BUS ENVIRONMENT system enables both internal and external Business Principles IN TRANSPARENCY ENVIRONMENT ES IA L SIN C TE GR SO IT Y stakeholders to report suspected One of Alfa Laval’s Business BUSINESS TRANSPARENCY SOCIAL breaches anonymously. Principles is Business Integrity. PRINCIPLES BUSINESS BUSINESS SOCIAL INTEGRITY INTEGRITY During 2019, Alfa Laval upgraded its whistleblowing system to a more robust, secure and efficient tool that enables Alfa Laval employees to combat fraud and uphold the good reputation of the company. The system complies with the ABAC Policy EU data privacy regulation (GDPR) as well Employees have received information on as upcoming EU-wide standards to Alfa Laval’s policies and procedures protect whistleblowers. Each report is regarding anti-corruption. encrypted and password-protected and can only be decrypted by designated individuals within Alfa Laval Group Legal who decide if and how whistleblowing messages shall be escalated. Whistleblowing system A group-wide whistleblowing system enables stakeholders to report suspected breaches of our Business Principles anonymously. Sustainable Development Goals SDG 16 is intended to substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all its forms. We cannot achieve sustainable development without tackling corruption and Alfa Laval continuously works to eliminate all forms of unethical behaviour. 33 Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing is a prioritized area for Alfa Laval. Our ambition is that all Alfa Laval suppliers live up to our Business Principles. Performance beyond compliance support suppliers when there is a need for Supplier audits and action plans Alfa Laval is a global company with more improvement due to non-compliance. During the year, internally certified auditors than 40 production sites and distribution Master auditors are also responsible for and third-party auditors conducted more centres in Europe, Asia and America. We training and certifying internal auditors. than 100 audits to assess suppliers’ social expect our suppliers in all these regions to Supplier managers are in charge of the and environmental performance and act ethically and in full compliance with the ongoing dialogue with our suppliers. They compliance with our Business Principles. applicable local regulation. Furthermore, implement Alfa Laval’s Business Principles We follow up all cases of identified Alfa Laval’s direct suppliers are to comply and follow up to enable continuous potential or actual negative impacts with with sustainability requirements in our improvement. an improvement action plan. Business Principles, which enables us to monitor and assess their capacity to meet Business Principles training Our audit platform highlights six critical stricter demands and to improve their for sourcing organization areas: child labour, young labour, forced overall operations. We work continuously The Alfa Laval Business Principles are labour, freedom of association, health and to make this process more effective. the foundation of our sourcing process. safety, fire protection and environment. However, we can never be completely All employees in the global sourcing Deviations in any of these areas require satisfied with our progress. organization are required to undergo immediate correction, both from new and mandatory training on the Business established suppliers. Sourcing organization Principles. During the year, 40 managers and Alfa Laval’s global sourcing organization purchasers completed a one-day in-depth Alfa Laval’s main objective is to drive defines the strategy for supply and training in supplier Business Principles. progress throughout the supply chain, supplier management, while the which is why we focus on suppliers with responsibility for the sourcing of products Supplier risk assessment significant deviations and high risks. and services is allocated locally. The The sourcing organization collects data Suppliers with serious breaches get a Alfa Laval Supplier Risk and Compliance using a scorecard of critical indicators limited time to implement the necessary Council, with representatives from the such as anti-corruption, environmental improvements with the support of an Business Units and the global sourcing issues and working conditions. The effective supplier development programme. organization, ensures that suppliers follow supplier risk assessment (see figure below) If the follow-up audit shows insufficient our Business Principles and set annual includes an initial screening to ensure that progress, Alfa Laval has an escalation improvement plans. Alfa Laval’s master we prioritize the suppliers with the highest process to terminate the supplier auditors conduct supplier audits and risk of breaches of our Business Principles. relationship as a final resort. The most Assessing supplier risk The following three areas guide our risk assessment of suppliers Country risk Product & production process risk Governance & policies Risk related to human rights Risk related to occupational health and Risk based on analyses and screenings breaches or bribery/corruption in the safety or environmental impacts associated of the supplier’s available documentation country where the supplier is based. with supplier production processes. of policies and governance. 34 Improved supplier healthcare in India The annual employee health check is a central element in Alfa Laval’s Business Principles for Suppliers. It is a legal requirement in India, however, non-compliance with this requirement was a major deviation in most of the audits conducted in India. In order to address this challenge, Alfa Laval initiated a cooperation with the company’s Indian healthcare providers in 2019, and now local healthcare contracts also apply to our suppliers. In 2019, more than 300 employees of Alfa Laval’s suppliers in India completed health checks, resulting in two positive effects: Alfa Laval benefits from stronger supplier relations, while suppliers improve their health and safety performance and employee satisfaction. Supplier health check in cooperation with Lokmanya Medical Research Centre, India. common deviations were in the areas of identified three areas of particular Conflict minerals health and safety, emergency preparedness, importance. Health and safety is vital both The Dodd-Frank Act requires companies working hours and wages (see the diagram for Alfa Laval’s sourcing organization and to conduct due diligence to ensure that below). During 2019, Alfa Laval phased out for our suppliers’ operations. Here, the the minerals used in their products are not eight suppliers due to Business Principles priority is given to improved processes sourced from mines that finance armed breaches or other major deviations. and routines and a safer work groups guilty of human rights violations. environment. The other two focus areas Since 2013, Alfa Laval has been following Enhanced sustainability focus for 2020 are energy efficiency/climate the company-wide policy on conflict In 2019, Alfa Laval’s global sourcing change and plastic. minerals available on www.alfalaval.com. organization revised its strategic focus and A supplier assessment platform was launched in 2016 to increase transparency and visibility in order to identify suppliers that require an assessment. In 2019, Alfa Laval assessed and initiated dialogue Most common deviations in supplier audits in 2019 with 419 suppliers to ensure compliance. 2% 13% Modern Slavery Act Discrimination Environmental Forced labour and human trafficking are 7% severe global issues with significant Transparency negative impact. Alfa Laval has zero tolerance to these issues within its 14% organization and supply chain. Modern Personal protective equipment and Slavery is included in training programmes machine safety 24% for employees and suppliers, as well as in Health and safety the monitoring, auditing and follow-up activities with suppliers. Read more in 19% Working Alfa Laval’s Modern Slavery Act hours / wages Statement, available on our website. 21% Emergency preparedness Sustainable Development Goals The core of SDG 8 is to promote decent work for all. This involves protecting labour rights and promoting safe working environments for all workers, both in our own operations and through the demands we place on our suppliers. With our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption that applies to the entire supply chain, we contribute to the progress towards SDG 16. 35 USA 2 4 14 15 17 17 Colombia 1 4 Brazil 12 17 4 Argentina Community involvement Alfa Laval strives to be a good corporate citizen that has a positive impact in the communities we work in. We support local charities and volunteering projects in many countries where we are present. In this year’s report, we highlight some of the many initiatives where Alfa Laval is involved, based on their contribution to the relevant Sustainable Development Goals. 36 Norway 17 3 4 Sweden 4 17 Russia Holland 12 17 17 4 5 17 3 15 Germany 1 3 15 France 15 17 Italy 17 Japan 3 4 5 China 6 17 India 14 Malaysia Australia 15 17 1 17 South Africa Sustainable Development Goals The icons marked on the map refer to the Sustainable families in Brazil, ocean-cleaning initiatives in Norway and Development Goals that the local projects and initiatives cooperation with NGOs and academia in Holland and contribute to. Some examples are clean drinking water Russia. More information about these initiatives can be projects in India, an on-site school for children from poor found on alfalaval.com. 37 Auditor’s opinion Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. To the general meeting of the shareholders in in accordance with FAR’s auditing Opinion Alfa Laval AB (publ), corp. id 556587-8054. standard RevR 12 The auditor’s report on A statutory sustainability report has been the statutory sustainability report. This prepared. Engagement and responsibility means that our examination of the The Board of Directors is responsible for statutory sustainability report is different Lund, 9 March 2020 that the statutory sustainability report and substantially less in scope than an has been prepared in accordance with the audit conducted in accordance with Ernst & Young AB Annual Accounts Act. International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Staffan Landén The scope of the audit Sweden. We believe that the examination Authorised Public Accountant Our examination of the statutory has provided us with sufficient basis for sustainability report has been conducted our opinions. Karoline Tedevall Authorised Public Accountant Global Compact Index Global Compact Index Principle Page Human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 1 10, 12, 26-37, 39-47 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 2 10, 12, 26-37, 39-47 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 3 10, 40 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 4 10, 47 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 5 10, 12, 47 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 6 10, 12-13, 26-27, 46 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principles 7 10, 12-13, 24-25, 41-44 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principles 8 10, 12-13, 24-25, 41-44 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principles 9 10, 12-13, 18-25, 41-44 Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 10, 12, 32-33, 41 38 Sustainability notes The report covers the 2019 calendar year and focuses on material topics and activities in line with stakeholder concerns. The table below contains our GRI disclosures. Data and sustainability information for previous years are available at www.alfalaval.com/about-us/sustainability/. GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page General Standard Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Alfa Laval AB (publ), corporate identity number 556587-8054 102-2 Activities, brands, products, SR 3, 6-9, 14-15, and services 18-23 102-3 Location of headquarters Lund, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations SR 2-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form Alfa Laval AB is a publicly owned company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Three largest shareholders are Tetra Laval BV, Alecta and Swedbank Robur Funds. 102-6 Markets served SR 2-3, 6-7, 14-15, 18-23 102-7 Scale of the organization SR 2-3, 6-7 102-8 Information on employees Unless stated otherwise, all information in this report concerning the number of SR 3, 6, 13, 26 and other workers employees refers to data from the actual number of employees on 31 December for each year. The total number of employees amounted to 17,497 (17,228), of which 20.3% (20.5%) are women. The number of employees (excluding non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions) was 15,571 (15,530) employees of which 96.6% (96.8%) were full-time and 3.4% (3.6%) part-time. 102-9 Supply chain SR 34-35 102-10 Significant changes to the SR 4-5, 13, organization and its supply chain 34-35 102-11 Precautionary Principle or According to Alfa Laval’s Business Principles and the corporate Environment Policy, SR 10 approach we support a precautionary approach and establish measurable objectives for improved environmental performance and resource utilisation in order for our own operations to become as efficient as possible. 102-12 External initiatives SR 2, 16-17, 38-39 102-13 Membership of associations SR 38-39 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 4-5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and SR 3, 6, 10-12, norms of behaviour 24, 26-37 Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 11 39 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page General Standard Disclosures Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our Business Principles stipulate that all employees shall be free to form and to join trade unions or similar external representative organizations and to bargain collectively. The coverage varies from country to country. Globally, approximately 49% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 12 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 12 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the Entities included in Alfa Laval’s consolidated financial statements can be found in AR 126-130 consolidated financial statements the Annual Report. The entities are also covered by this report. However, the reporting on our progress towards the environmental targets includes the sites that were part of the Alfa Laval Group during the baseline year 2015. 102-46 Defining report content and topic The Sustainability Report covers the sustainability topics that are material both SR 12 boundaries for the company and for our key stakeholders. 102-47 List of material topics SR 12 102-48 Restatement of information No restatements of information provided in the previous reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in the reporting scope or method. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2019 – 31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 8 March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions sustainability@alfalaval.com SR 2 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Alfa Laval reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the GRI Standards Standards: Core option. All reported GRI-Standard modules refer to version 2016, unless specified otherwise. 102-55 GRI Content Index SR 39-47 102-56 External Assurance No external assurance has been undertaken. SR 38 Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 200: Economic standard series Economic performance 103 Management Approach ¹ We create wealth for our stakeholders by providing our customers with innovative SR 6-7 products and solutions. Economic value generated is distributed among a number of stakeholder groups thus benefiting the societies where we operate. Alfa Laval’s annual financial reporting reflects the company's current value generation progress. 201-1 Direct economic value generated SR 7 and distributed ¹) Includes 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries, 103-2 The management approach and its components, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 40 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 200: Economic standard series Anti-corruption 103 Management Approach ¹ Alfa Laval’s work with anti-bribery and anti-corruption is a cornerstone of our SR 10, 12, 32-33 business integrity. The work is defined by our Business Principles and local laws and regulations and is regularly monitored by the global complaince function. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks SR 32-33 related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training on Mandatory anti-corruption training for white-collar employees, held on a biennial SR 32-33 anti-corruption policies and basis, includes different scenarios with examples of dilemmas that various roles procedures within the company may encounter. Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures for white-collar employees 2019 85% 13,235 2018 2017 8.2% 1,209 64.8% 10,059 GRI 300: Environmental standard series 103 Management Approach ¹ The following information refers to the entire section (GRI 300: Environmental SR 10, 12-13, standards). 24-25 The environment is a highly prioritized area at Alfa Laval regulated by the Group’s Environmental Policy and Business Principles. The strategy towards 2020 refers to Alfa Laval’s operations and includes targets for carbon emissions, energy and water consumption, waste recycling and the use of chemicals. The environment is also part of the supplier assessment process. The environmental impact of Alfa Laval’s products is one of the most material areas for internal and external stakeholders. We report on our environmental performance in the annual Sustainability Report. The carbon emissions data and factors are in accordance with the GHG Protocol. ¹) Includes 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries, 103-2 The management approach and its components, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 41 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 300: Environmental standard series Energy 302-1 Energy consumption In 2019, the normalized energy consumption for comparable sites decreased by SR 13, 24-25 within the organization 5.3% from 2018. However, it increased by 2.8% compared with the baseline year 2015. Energy converted internally accounted for one quarter of Alfa Laval’s energy consumption. Renewable energy includes biogas and renewable energy converted, which includes energy from photovoltaic systems. All other energy sources are fossil-based (non-renewable). Direct energy consumption within the organization (MWh) MWh % 300,000 100 Renewable 267,976 energy 246,774 252,120 254,434 253,779 240,000 80 Other energy 69,425 72,880 70,336 69,581 73% 61,900 converted 64% internally 180,000 24,552 29,749 60 22,828 23,785 28,154 Heat, purchased 120,000 40 Electricity, 34% 33% purchased 27% 60,000 20 154,521 155,456 159,546 168,646 163,724 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy converted internally in 2019 3% 2% Renewable Heavy oil energy converted 4% Biogas 6% LPG 4% Light oil 82% Natural gas 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 13, 24-25 Water 303-1 Interactions with water as Alfa Laval’s main production processes do not require significant amounts of water. SR 13, 25 a shared resource Most of the water consumed is used in the testing of our products and in service procedures. We use the World Resources Institute ‘Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas’ tool in our assessments of water-related impacts. The global water action group initiated in 2018 that consists of Alfa Laval sites with the highest water consumption in water stressed areas continued its work in 2019. During the year, the data quality for water consumption has been further improved. 42 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 300: Environmental standard series Water 303-3 Water withdrawal In 2019, Alfa Laval’s total water withdrawal equalled 698,815 m³, a 4.3% decrease SR 13, 25 compared with 2015. We have sites in 10 water-stressed regions, see the chart below. The water consumption from these sites represents 13% of the company’s total water consumption. Water stress Extremely high risk 0 High risk 10 Medium-high risk 79 Low-medium risk 64 Low risk 16 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Direct (Scope 1) emissions include energy consumption within the organization and SR 13, 24-25 company cars. Scope 1 emissions equalled 18,063 tonnes CO2e. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Indirect (Scope 2) emissions include indirect market-based emissions. Scope 2 SR 13, 24-25 GHG emissions emissions equalled 26,798 tonnes CO2e. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Other indirect (Scope 3) emissions include goods transportation and business travel SR 13, 24-25 GHG emissions (air travel and rental cars). Scope 3 emissions equalled 76,051 tonnes CO2e. 69% of goods were transported by road, 23% were shipped by sea, 7% were transported by air and 1% by rail. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Alfa Laval works to reduce carbon emissions in all three scopes. Our work in scope 1 & SR 13, 24-25 2 is further explained on pages 24–25. Regarding the transportation of goods, our main challenge is to increase the share of transport by land and sea while reducing air freight. However, there are occasions when we have limited opportunity to inﬂuence the choice of transport means (e.g. an urgent customer request). Alfa Laval has an important role in providing customers with details on the environmental impacts of various transport choices. The table below presents Alfa Laval’s Scope 1–3 emissions from the baseline year 2015 till 2019: Carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes CO 2 e) 200,000 155,092 157,825 161,553 143,448 Total 150,000 Scope 1 70,614 75,964 78,650 120,912 90,050 Scope 2 76,051 100,000 Scope 3 64,991 61,682 63,663 50,000 33,250 26,798 19,488 20,179 19,240 20,148 18,063 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 43 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 300: Environmental standard series Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and During 2019, Alfa Laval generated 21,603 tonnes of waste, a 15% decrease SR 13, 25 disposal method compared with 2018. 11% of waste was hazardous. Most of the waste is generated by Alfa Laval’s operations. See the figure below for waste treatment methods used during the year: Total weight of waste per treatment method in 2019 20,000 Non-hazardous Hazardous 15,000 10,000 5,000 14,802 964 1,149 1,189 1,018 1,314 0 173 560 433 0 Recycling Composting Recovery, Incineration Landfill including (mass energy recovery burn) 306-3 Significant spills In 2019, Alfa Laval recorded no significant spills. There were two larger spills reported in 2017, that occurred in Sweden and Norway. Investigations have been conducted in conjunction with both the incidents in order to ascertain the causes of the spills and, wherever possible, to institute measures that will prevent similar spills from happening again. Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with Legislative compliance ensures our business legitimacy. No significant fines or environmental laws and non-monetary sanctions regarding environmental or socioeconomic performance regulations have come to Alfa Laval’s attention during 2019. Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened All new suppliers in the identified risk countries were screened using SR 34-35 using environmental criteria environmental criteria. GRI 400: Social standards 103 Management Approach ¹ The following information refers to the entire section (GRI 400: Social standards). SR 10, 12-13, 26-37 Alfa Laval’s social targets include the increase of the proportion of female employees and a reduction of LTIs and absenteeism with targets set for 2020 based on 2017 figures. The Alfa Laval Business Principles, Global Health and Safety Policy and related documents define how we work with health & safety, training, development and human rights. All legal entities must secure the necessary competence and shall identify specific training needs based on country legislation or other requirements, as well as training in the different tools such as Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment, Injury Analysis and Job Safety Analysis. The method for calculating health and safety data was recently updated. Frequency rate data is now calculated based on 200,000 worked hours. ¹) Includes 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries, 103-2 The management approach and its components, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 44 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 400: Social standards Employment 401-1 New employee hires and 2,037 (2,006) employees were hired in 2019. employee turnover Employee turnover was 13% (12%). New employee hires and employee turnover 2017 2018 2019 Number Percent Number Percent Number Percent Total number 1,104 7% 2,006 13% 2,037 13% and rate of new employee hires – of whom 291 26% 453 23% 512 25% are women Total number and 1,646 11% 1,795 12% 1,957 13% rate of employee turnover – of whom 364 22% 349 19% 427 22% are women This table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, SR 29-31 occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities 403-8 Workers covered by an SR 29-31 (2018) occupational health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries Total figures include all Alfa Laval entities and like-for-like figures include sites in SR 29-31 the 2017 baseline. 2017 2018 2019 Total Like-for-like Total Like-for-like Total Like-for-like LTI 152 150 122 122 119 119 LTI Frequency 0.97 0.96 0.78 0.78 0.74 0.74 LWD 3,975 3,903 2,794 2,794 2,314 2,314 Absenteeism (%) 2.12 2.12 2.08 2.08 1.91 1.91 45 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 400: Social standards Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year Training hours per employee SR 28 per employee 145,477 144,000 Average training 150,000 15 hours per employee 106,868 120,000 12 Number of training hours provided 90,000 9.4 9 9.2 to employees 60,000 7.2 6 30,000 3 0 0 2017 2018 2019 This table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. 404-2 Programs for upgrading During 2019, a new learning management system was launched that will re-shape SR 28 employee skills and transition the way we work with the planning and assessment of trainings in the Alfa Laval assistance programs Academy. In the new system, each employee will get an access to a customized dashboard that displays selected trainings and e-learnings relevant for the employee’s current projects and goals. The system will be open for Alfa Laval’s customers, service partners and other external parties that need to deepen their understanding of our products and solutions, which will strengthen Alfa Laval’s customer offering. 404-3 Percentage of employees At Alfa Laval, every employee is entitled to a performance and career development receiving regular performance review with their manager at least once a year. and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Alfa Laval works to increase the proportion of women and one of the targets is SR 13, 26-27 and employees to recruit 30% women. Diversity of governance bodies and employees in 2019 38% 100% 22% 100% 31% 44% 19% 15% Women 59% Men 81% 78% 69% <30 years 62% 56% 30–50 years >50 years 26% Board of Group Senior Other Directors Management Management Employees Diversity data in the table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. The data for the Board of Directors is excl. employee representatives. Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and In the recent employee survey, 86% (86%) of the participants responded that their corrective actions taken working group is free from any kind of discrimination and harassment. In 2019, 34% (29%) of the legal entities had projects or initiatives in place to prevent discrimination or harassment. There have not been any court cases regarding discrimination or harassment during 2019. 46 GRI Standards Disclosures, comments and omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures GRI 400: Social standards Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which The risk of Alfa Laval’s suppliers violating worker rights to exercise freedom of SR 32-35 the right to freedom of association or collective bargaining is greatest in our defined high-risk countries. association and collective Three of the identified countries are China, Russia and Mexico where Alfa Laval bargaining may be at risk focuses on training to create awareness. Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant SR 32-35 risk for incidents of child labour Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at SR 32-35 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human SR 32-35 rights policies or procedures Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community SR 36-37 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were All new suppliers in the identified risk countries were screened using social criteria. SR 34-35 screened using social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the SR 34-35 supply chain and actions taken Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints Alfa Laval handles the personal data of our customers and employees with due concerning breaches of customer care. The main policies covering data privacy are the Alfa Laval Privacy Policy privacy and losses of customer supported by guidelines related to the GDPR, and local and global HR policies. The data Group Privacy Responsible works on the highest level and persons responsible for data privacy have been appointed at all Alfa Laval legal entities. They are in turn supported by each corporate function. Alfa Laval has also appointed a Data Privacy Board consisting of the Chief Information Officer, Vice President and Group General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President Human Resources. Alfa Laval has a structured approach to handling potential breaches of personal data with processes in place for reporting to the authorities and individuals involved in a breach of personal data. The organization regularly audits how personal data is processed or stored to assess the need for changes. In 2019, Alfa Laval did not receive any substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or identified leaks or losses of customer data. Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Legislative compliance ensures our business legitimacy. No significant fines or regulations in the social and non-monetary sanctions regarding socioeconomic performance have come to Alfa economic area Laval’s attention during 2019. 47 160,000,000 kWh Advancing better™ That’s the annual amount of waste heat created by a Alfa Laval is active in the areas of Energy, Food, Water copper smelting plant located in the Hamburg harbour and Marine, offering its expertise, products and service area. By why let this energy just disappear into the to a wide range of industries in some 100 countries. open air? The company is committed to optimizing processes Recently, some 3,400 new apartments have been and creating responsible growth. We drive progress, built in the close neighbourhood – and they need always going the extra mile to support customers to power for heating. Alfa Laval is providing a sustainable achieve their business goals and sustainability targets. connection between these two projects. By installing Alfa Laval’s innovative technologies contribute to eight high-capacity plate heat exchangers at the smeltenhanced energy efficiency, improved heat recovery, ing plant, surplus heat from the copper production can responsible use of natural resources, better water effectively be absorbed and made useful. It is delivered treatment, and reduced emissions. Thereby not only directly – in copper pipes, of course! – to the inhabitaccelerating success for our customers, but also for ants of the new housing area, creating a comfortable people and our planet. Making the world better, every living for them. Overall, this co-operation has boosted day. Creating a comfort zone for everyone involved. energy efficiency at the plant substantially, and at the same time reduced carbon dioxide emissions to the Hamburg air by some 20,000 tonnes annually. Alfa Laval in brief Alfa Laval is active in the areas of Energy, Food, Water and Marine, offering its expertise, products and service to a wide range of industries in some 100 countries. The company is committed to optimizing processes and creating responsible growth. We drive progress, always going the extra mile to support customers in achieving their business goals and sustainability targets. Alfa Laval’s innovative technologies are dedicated to purifying, refining and recycling material. They contribute to enhanced energy efficiency, improved heat recovery, responsible use of natural resources, better water treatment, and reduced emissions. Thereby not only accelerating success for our customers, but also for people and our planet. Making the world better, every day. It’s all about Advancing better™. How to get in touch Alfa Laval Contact details for all countries are continually updated on our website. Please visit www.alfalaval.com to access the information 100002219-1-EN 2003
