SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION METHODOLOGY, SCOPE AND ASSURANCE CEO foreword ............................................................... 3 This report covers the relevant and significant Sustainable business ................................................... 5 social, ethical and environmental issues for the Together Towards ZERO ........................................... 6 financial year 1 January to 31 December 2019. It gives our stakeholders an overview of our OUR AMBITIONS performance in these areas, complementing our Annual Report, which primarily covers our financial ZERO performance. CARBON FOOTPRINT ....................................................... 9 The first section presents our strategy, along with ZERO details of Together Towards ZERO, our global WATER WASTE ............................................................. 18 sustainability programme. The second section describes performance against our four Together ZERO Towards ZERO ambitions, presenting selected case IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING ........................................................ 22 stories from across the Group. The third section provides additional information under the headings: ZERO Responsible business, Economic contribution, and ACCIDENTS CULTURE ......................................................... 28 Data and assurance. This report serves as our annual communication on RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS progress to the UN Global Compact and as the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ........................................... 33 statutory statement on CSR in accordance with section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION ..................................... 37 DATA AND ASSURANCE ............................................ 41 SDG actions .................................................................41 Materiality matrix......................................................45 carlsberggroup.com @carlsberggroup Data summary table.................................................46 Reporting process and scope .................................53 Indicator definitions...................................................55 @carlsberggroup Carlsberg Group List of reporting sites ................................................63 Tax contribution principles ......................................65 Economic contribution methodology ..................67 Assurance report ........................................................68 Introduction CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 3 PARTNERING TOWARDS ZERO Our purpose is brewing for a strong margin improvement and and cutting the carbon impact of better today and tomorrow. strong cash flow. This success packaging. We brew and sell quality beers enables us to invest in the that are highly appreciated by technology, innovation and efficiency We need to move faster to achieve our consumers every day and needed to meet the targets of our ambition of ZERO water waste secure our commercial success. Together Towards ZERO at this and our target to halve water usage And we contribute to a better critical time for the planet. At COP25 at our breweries by 2030. In 2019, tomorrow by investing and in Madrid, we signed the Business we reduced relative consumption by innovating in our sustainability Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge, 3% to 3.0 hl/hl. To go further, we programme, Together reconfirming our commitment to need to invest in state-of-the-art Towards ZERO. fighting climate change and pursuing water-recycling technology. We science-based targets that align our were pleased to announce that the “Together” is a critical word. The business with the more ambitious Fredericia brewery in Denmark will success of our business is bound up level of the Paris Agreement. be the first to virtually eliminate with our partners, our consumers water waste, moving from 2.9 hl of and the natural world on which we We have made steady progress on water per hl of beer to just 1.4 hl/hl. all depend. Nobody can solve the our ambition of ZERO carbon. In This project has been made possible challenges the world faces alone. By 2019, we reduced relative emissions through a progressive public-private working in partnerships, we are able at our breweries by 13% and partnership and will provide learnings to make faster progress and deliver increased renewables to 56% of our for our other breweries around the change that would otherwise not be total electricity use, while five of our world. possible. A belief in the power of sites are now carbon-neutral. We partnerships is deeply rooted in our are making good progress with On our ambition of ZERO Nobody can solve the business – stemming from our sustainable packaging innovations, irresponsible drinking, we sometimes challenges the world faces founder’s belief that bringing including breakthrough technologies hear cynicism. But this ambition is alone. By working in together bright minds is the most such as the Green Fibre Bottle, which crucial for us – it sends a clear signal partnerships, we are able to effective way to improve our reached the next stage of its to consumers, encouraging make faster progress and business and society. development when we unveiled two responsible and moderate research prototypes. We were consumption. While we cannot deliver change that would In 2019, the Carlsberg Group delighted to welcome more leading ultimately control how people otherwise not be possible. delivered a strong set of results, companies and brands as partners in consume our products, we can Cees ’t Hart, including healthy top-line growth, advancing paper bottle technology market our brands responsibly and CEO, Carlsberg Group CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 4 inform consumers better. We can Finally, we were pleased to find WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIPS IN ACTION also enable greater choice by through our latest employee survey increasing the availability and that over 90% of our employees acceptability of alcohol-free brews. believe they work for a socially and While we are already doing a lot environmentally responsible ourselves, partnerships are probably company. Employees see what we even more important in this field really do every day, so their than elsewhere. feedback is very important. We are on the right track, but there is much Together with the industry, we have more to be done to achieve our already taken action to ensure that ambitions and progress towards our communications reach the right ZERO. people at the right time and support sound judgements, including the industry-wide Digital Guiding Cees ’t Hart Principles for responsible advertising CEO, Carlsberg Group PARTNERING TO PARTNERING TO and promotion on digital platforms. This year, along with the other CEOs RETHINK PACKAGING REDUCE WATER WASTE in the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking, we reinforced our commitment in this area. On our ambition of a ZERO accidents culture, I am pleased to report another significant reduction in our accident rate, down 15%. This demonstrates what can be achieved with hard work and relentless focus on health & safety. But there is still plenty to do. We are continuing to focus training and communication on the areas where it matters most, especially through our Life Saving PARTNERING TO PARTNERING TO Rules programme. More broadly, we miss no opportunity to ensure that GROW ALCOHOL-FREE BUILD A SAFE WORKING health & safety remains top of mind BREWS ENVIRONMENT with all our people. WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIPS IN ACTION carlsberggroup.com/partnerships CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 5 SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS IS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We believe sustainability and profitability can work together in harmony. Our aim is to create sustainable value growth by optimising the balance between our financial performance and our sustainability progress. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 6 TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO Our purpose of brewing for a ZERO. It identifies four sustainability individuals to act on climate change. ecosystems and supporting the our focus is on enabling positive better today and tomorrow ambitions: ZERO carbon footprint, We have a key role to play and are growing human population. It is also choice through alcohol-free brews, has guided our business for ZERO water waste, ZERO determined to be part of the a vital ingredient for brewing. We informing consumers and working over 170 years. It means we irresponsible drinking and a ZERO solution. We thus remain committed aim to eliminate water waste at our with governments, communities and are committed to brewing accidents culture. Strong and to the science-based targets we set breweries, halving usage from 2015 others to promote a better, more quality beers today while measurable targets for 2022 and in 2017, aligned to the more to 2030 and partnering to safeguard responsible drinking culture. striving to combat global 2030 underpin each ambition. This ambitious level of the Paris shared water resources in high-risk challenges for a better world report is an update on progress Agreement to limit global areas. To focus on addressing global tomorrow. during 2019. temperature rise to 1.5°C above challenges, first we must ensure a pre-industrial levels. Public health challenges continue to healthy work environment for our Our response to the global issues of MEETING GLOBAL CHALLENGES affect people around the world, people. Every person should go to climate change, water scarcity and In 2019, we have seen Climate change will add pressure to including irresponsible drinking. We work knowing they will get home public health is our sustainability unprecedented global action calling already stressed water systems. want to prevent the harmful safe, and we are dedicated to programme, Together Towards on governments, businesses and Water is fundamental for healthy consumption of our products, and pursuing a ZERO accidents culture CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 7 for our colleagues across our breweries, field-based sales teams and offices. PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) form a blueprint for a prosperous and sustainable world. We have aligned our ambitions and targets to the SDGs where we can have the greatest impact. SDG17, Partnerships for the Goals, is key, with “together” being the only way we will move towards ZERO. See the SDGs and targets that Together Towards ZERO impacts to the right, with examples of specific actions taken on pages 41-44. FOCUSING ON THE MOST IMPORTANT TOPICS Together Towards ZERO was designed following an extensive stakeholder engagement process – spanning social, environmental and economic experts – and a thorough SPECIFIC SDG TARGETS materiality assessment that we 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive carried out in 2016 with Business for treatment of substance abuse, including share of renewable energy in the global generation through prevention, reduction, capacity to climate-related hazards and harmful use of alcohol. energy mix. recycling and reuse. natural disasters. Social Responsibility. These actions helped us identify our most 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 12.6 Encourage companies, especially 13.3 Improve education, awarenessimportant sustainability deaths and injuries from road traffic improvement in energy efficiency. large and transnational companies, to raising and capacity on climate change accidents. adopt sustainable practices and to mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction management topics, risks and 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote integrate sustainability information into and early warning. impacts, which you can see on page 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase safe and secure working environments for their reporting cycle. 45. The assessment represents an water-use efficiency and ensure all workers. 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable withdrawals and supply of 12.9 Support developing countries to sustainable development, complemented overview of the topics that have the fresh water to address water scarcity. 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable strengthen their scientific and by multi-stakeholder partnerships. biggest influence on society and our management and efficient use of natural technological capacity to move towards business, considering both risks and 6.5 By 2030, implement integrated water resources. more sustainable patterns of consumption 17.17 Encourage and promote effective resources management at all levels. and production. public, public-private and civil society opportunities. We postponed a partnerships. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 8 planned update to the assessment enables us to keep growing into an across our markets. Our Executive from 2019 to 2020, when we will even more successful business. Committee (ExCom) assumes refresh our materiality assessment to ownership of Together Towards include updated input from initiatives We have a long history of innovation ZERO, overseen by the Supervisory such as the Task Force for Climate and research, centred at the Board and supported by relevant Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Carlsberg Research Laboratory in governance committees – such as and the Intergovernmental Panel on Copenhagen. Today, our Young the Integrity Committee, chaired by Climate Change (IPCC). Scientists Community, a group of our CFO. postdoctoral researchers, is tasked performance towards our overarching Together with the New Carlsberg BUILDING A RESILIENT specifically with developing and A network of subject-matter experts goals is checked daily. Furthermore, Foundation, which supports art and BUSINESS scouting for technologies to help us is responsible for achieving the sustainability KPIs are included in our cultural activities, and the Tuborg Our corporate strategy, SAIL’22, meet the carbon and water targets relevant key performance indicators annual bonus scheme for both the Foundation, which supports civil defines clear strategic priorities for of Together Towards ZERO. In 2019, (KPIs), with supporting processes to CEO and the EVP, Integrated Supply society activities, in 2019 the strengthening our core business while it explored solutions for cutting water facilitate regular reporting to senior Chain, and in 2020 will be extended Carlsberg Foundation granted positioning us for future growth. waste from cleaning in breweries and management. This approach aims to to the CFO and others responsible for around DKK 689m. This is the Together Towards ZERO is upcycling wastewater, as well as empower the functions to be driving implementation of Together highest amount ever, underlining embedded as a key priority in opportunities for balancing and accountable for the implementation Towards ZERO. that the better the Carlsberg Group SAIL’22, defining our intention to reducing energy requirements of our sustainability strategy. performs financially, the more address global challenges while throughout the brewery. THE CARLSBERG FOUNDATION support the Foundations can give building resilience in our business. ExCom receives an overview of Our majority shareholder, the to society. STRONG GOVERNANCE AT progress on selected sustainability Carlsberg Foundation, has been Our business success enables EVERY LEVEL KPIs across the business on a supporting scientific research since it investment in the latest technology Our clear global ambitions, quarterly basis. Many of these KPIs was founded by J.C. Jacobsen and innovation to achieve our frameworks and governance are built into daily routines at sites in 1876. sustainability targets. In turn, this structures are embedded locally across our markets, ensuring that CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT PARTNERING TO RETHINK PACKAGING We are innovating across our packaging portfolio to find better solutions, in the short and longer Radical innovation like this term, that reduce our beer-in-hand carbon footprint. is only possible when experts from With the Green Fibre Bottle project, we are working across the value chain come together on developing the world’s first 100% bio-based to find sustainable solutions. “paper” beer bottle made from sustainably sourced Gittan Schiöld, wood fibres. Starting in 2015 with a number of Interim CEO, Paboco partners, the project has now matured into a formal partnership with the independent company Paboco. WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIP IN ACTION carlsberggroup.com/partnerships Zero Carbon Footprint CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 10 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT By 2030, we aim to eliminate Among other impacts, this will affect carbon emissions at our crop yields and reduce food security, breweries and cut our beer-incausing volatile prices. That is why hand carbon footprint by 30% we have aligned our targets with the compared with 2015. We can more ambitious 1.5°C level of the only achieve this by partnering Paris Agreement. with others. In order to continuously improve our We can already see the impacts of climate governance, we report to the climate change. Continued warming Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and will exacerbate land degradation, were pleased to achieve a B rating spells of hot, dry weather and in 2019. intense rainfall. 2030 TARGETS 2022 TARGETS ZERO 50 15 CARBON REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS AT CARBON EMISSIONS BEER-IN-HAND OUR BREWERIES AT OUR BREWERIES CARBON FOOTPRINT 30 100 100 REDUCTION IN ELECTRICITY FROM LOWBEER-IN-HAND RENEWABLE SOURCES CLIMATE-IMPACT CARBON FOOTPRINT AT OUR BREWERIES COOLING ZERO 30 COAL PARTNERSHIPS TO AT OUR REDUCE SHARED BREWERIES FOOTPRINT CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 11 ELIMINATING Energy efficiency improved by 2%, Equipment upgrades in 2019 BREWERY from 25.6 kWh/hl in 2018 to 25.1 included: EMISSIONS kWh/hl in 2019. This was despite a reduced quality of barley crop during • Installing heat-recovery systems at 2019 PERFORMANCE UPDATE 2019, necessitating more energy in our brewery in Estonia, thereby We reduced relative carbon the brewing process. reducing heat consumption by 8% emissions by 13%, from 5.6 kg compared with 2018. CO2/hl in 2018 to 4.9 kg CO2/hl in We now have five carbon-neutral 2019 (a 30% reduction since 2015, sites across the Group: the breweries • Switching from tunnel pasteurisation our baseline year). in Falkenberg, Sweden, and Utena, to more efficient flash pasteurisation Lithuania, and three water plants in in Italy, thereby reducing specific We reduced our absolute emissions Western Europe. heat consumption by 9% compared by 9%, from 704 kt in 2018 to 638 kt with 2018. in 2019, through our energy EFFICIENCY PROGRAMMES efficiency programme, fuel We are aiming for world-class • Reducing beer filtration conversions and an increased efficiency by improving every part of temperatures to cut electricity proportion of electricity from the brewing process. We share best usage for cooling in Russia, with renewable sources (a 25% absolute practices across our breweries further modifications due in 2020. reduction since 2015). The key levers through the Carlsberg Operating to reduce carbon emissions at our Manual and invest in more efficient breweries can be seen on the right of equipment wherever feasible. this page. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 12 • A range of heat-loss reduction improvements in Vietnam, thereby reducing heat consumption by 22%. A similar initiative In China reduced heat consumption by an average of 10% across our 24 breweries in that country and by 7% across our three sites in Laos. ELIMINATING COAL We aim to eliminate the use of coal at all our sites by 2022, as it is a carbon-intensive, polluting fuel. In 2019, we reduced coal usage by 11pp compared with 2018 (an 89% reduction by weight from our 2015 baseline). At the end of 2019, we replaced the last remaining coalfired boilers in China in favour of less carbon-intensive natural gas, meaning that from 2020 we have eliminated the use of coal in China as a source of thermal heat. In 2020, we will turn our attention to the last two coal-fuelled sites, working to convert a wastewater YOUNG SCIENTISTS IN treatment plant in Poland from coal to natural gas, and a boiler at our THE PURSUIT OF ZERO Aurangabad brewery in India from coal to biomass. In total, we have Reaching ZERO will not be easy. And many of Their research includes: • Assessing the viability of new sources of eliminated the use of coal at ten the viable solutions for eliminating carbon and energy, using brewery by-products to breweries between 2017 and 2019. water waste at our breweries do not yet exist. • Building a digital twin of our St. Petersburg generate green power and heat to fuel brewery to identify ways to maximise energy brewery processes. Our Young Scientists Community – a group of efficiency and assess the impact of new postdoctoral researchers – was created to find solutions. • Identifying and testing improved methods these solutions from their base at the Carlsberg and technologies for reusing water and Research Laboratory in Copenhagen. chemicals after cleaning equipment. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 13 RENEWABLE ENERGY 52% of our electricity usage, breweries in China, India, Lithuania THERMAL ENERGY FROM In Switzerland, we increased the In 2019, 56% of our total electricity contributing to the significant and Switzerland. BIOGAS AND BIOMASS share of renewable fuels we consumption came from renewable increase in renewables used across As of 2019, 29 breweries are fully or generate from biomass, including the sources, a 10pp increase since 2018. our operations during 2019. In Norway, we converted our partially using renewable thermal by-product of our alcohol-free beer Taken together, energy from primary oil-fuelled boilers to run energy. This is through either biogas production, to 62% in 2019, renewable thermal and electricity In Western Europe, we have used completely on renewable electricity, extracted from our own wastewater, compared to 51% in 2018. sources, including biomass, biogas 100% renewable electricity at all our largely hydropower. biomass, renewable district heating and solar, has grown to 24%, sites for several years. In total, or biogas certificates. Many of our compared to 20% in 2018 and 15% 425,291 MWh were sourced with In 2020, we will continue to explore breweries use a mix of these. in 2015. renewable energy certificates across grid-connected power-purchase the Group in 2019, while we also use agreements for renewable electricity In China, I-RECs (International on-site solar installations at our in more of our markets. Renewable Energy Credits) covered CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 14 REDUCING OUR PACKAGING INNOVATIONS PRIMARY PACKAGING SECONDARY PACKAGING BEER-IN-HAND Packaging accounts for around 40% EMISSIONS of our value-chain carbon footprint. We are always looking for ways to Beer crowns › Corrugated cardboard To play our part in keeping global minimise environmental impact for packaging › warming below 1.5°C, we must go without compromising on the quality beyond eliminating emissions from of our beers. In 2019, we focused on Aluminium cans › Solidboard (cardboard) our direct operations. Around 86% of improving efficiency and using for packaging › emissions associated with our materials from recycled sources. business are outside our direct Examples include: PET preforms › INGREDIENTS influence. Our target is a 30% reduction in our beer-in-hand • Washed and refilled 5.3 billion Ingredients for carbon footprint by 2030. We can returnable glass bottles – our most Paper labels › beer and cider › only achieve this by working with circular packaging type. partners across our value chain, sharing our expertise and learning • Introduced Snap Pack – which REFRIGERATION from theirs, and demonstrating replaces plastic shrink wrap or Glass bottles › leadership together. plastic rings on multipacks with an Fridges innovative glue solution, reducing and coolers › We measure our progress through plastic usage by up to 76% – to Fridges in-depth assessments of our beermore markets. and coolers › in-hand footprint every three years, and the next is due in 2020. While • Continued the use and roll-out of we are making good progress in Cradle to Cradle™ certified inks and many areas, we know there is far more to do. In some cases, achieving paper labels on Carlsberg bottles. We use certified inks in 21 markets, SUPPLIER PARTNERSHIPS TO our target will require transformations in the way drinks and in 11 of those we also use certified paper labels. They are REDUCE CARBON are delivered. We will not be able to easier to recycle and made using achieve this overnight, but we will renewable energy. In 2019, we formed specific partnerships with commitments such as adopting approved continue to make progress by ten suppliers, with the aim of reducing our science-based targets. sharing ideas and expertise through shared carbon footprint (shown above). They cross-industry partnerships. will disclose detailed carbon-related We are engaged in dialogue on carbon with information about the products and services many other suppliers, a number of which we they supply so that we can work together to expect to announce in the near future. cut carbon emissions and reach our targets. A total of 110 of our suppliers have committed We will develop carbon-reducing roadmaps to science-based targets, out of only 732 1 Science Based Targets Initiative. sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-action/. 2019. towards our 2022 and 2030 targets, with companies to have done so globally1. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 15 • Use of shrink film containing 50LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 100% recycled plastic in Denmark, In 2019, we unveiled two prototypes Norway and Sweden, and of the Green Fibre Bottle – the latest continued work with partners to step in achieving our vision of test the inclusion of more and creating the world’s first “paper” beer different types of recycled plastic in bottle that is fully bio-based, our shrink. biodegradable and recyclable. Three companies joined us in working • Cutting the carbon impact of PET towards this vision to reduce reliance bottles in Norway and Sweden by on non-renewable resources. introducing 100% recycled PET on 0.5 litre and 0.65 litre Imsdal water LOW-CLIMATE-IMPACT bottles, and reducing the weight of REFRIGERANTS other PET bottles, saving 550 Our consumers should be able to tonnes of virgin PET material. enjoy cold beers from fridges and on draught. Refrigeration comprises 9% Every year, hundreds of thousands of our carbon footprint, so we are of festival-goers enjoy our beer. We transitioning to low-climate-impact are working with organisers to switch refrigerants such as hydrocarbons, from one-way plastic to reusable along with fridges that are energycups. In 2019, we achieved this in efficient and use LED lighting. In Denmark, France, Latvia, Norway, 2019, 93% of the fridges and beer Portugal, Switzerland and other coolers purchased met these markets. This can be challenging, as standards, compared to 88% in 2018. festivals are often in rural areas Achieving 100% will be challenging without the infrastructure to wash due to legal and technical restrictions cups on site. Read about how we on refrigerants in some countries. overcame this at Roskilde Festival in Denmark on the right. ROSKILDE FESTIVAL AND We are committed to making the TUBORG PARTNERSHIP most of the materials we use to make our packaging. We support In partnership with Roskilde Festival, in 2019 All our bars were powered by renewable efficient return systems with high we delivered new sustainable solutions as well electricity – symbolised by a Smartflower solar collection rates, improved quality as exceptional beer experiences. We replaced installation. With its petal-like panels, it and recycling rates, and reuse of over 1 million one-way plastic cups with rotates to track the sun, making it 40% more refillable glass bottles. sustainable cups that can be used up to 25 efficient than conventional systems. In 2020, times, as well as undertaking collection and we will continue our partnership by building a washing for reuse. permanent solar installation together. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 16 In 2019, we established supplier We are investigating alternatives to trucks for 2020 and plan to use them carbon footprint. on identifying new climate-tolerant partnerships with refrigeration diesel for our own fleets of delivery at our Swiss brewery, traits in barley in order to develop suppliers Frigoglass and Klimasan. trucks. Using learnings from trialling Feldschlösschen, to service our 15 AGRICULTURE new robust, profitable and highThese will help to enable the an electric truck in Switzerland, we logistical sites. The Carlsberg Research Laboratory quality varieties that can be adapted availability of low-impact cooling, requested specific features from is focused on improving the quality to a broad geographical area and and together we will explore the Renault Trucks to optimise We cannot achieve progress alone. of our beers while reducing the different climatic environments. latest technologies and solutions sustainable beer delivery. We Our expert partners are vital for environmental impact of our available, helping us to reach our ordered 20 fully electric heavy-duty finding solutions to reduce our brewing. Our scientists are working 2022 target and, in turn, reduce the energy consumption of our fridges when in-trade. Read more about our supplier partnerships on page 14. WHAT WE SAID 2018 WHAT WE DID 2019 ACTIONS 2020 Breweries Breweries Breweries LOGISTICS Implement actions from roadmaps to achieve carbon Achieved carbon reductions through energy Around 14% of our carbon footprint reductions, improve energy efficiency and continue efforts efficiency programme, equipment upgrades and Phase out coal at our two remaining coal-fuelled sites is from logistics. We are improving to phase out coal converting from coal to natural gas efficiency and transforming our network at every stage: Increase use of renewable heat and renewable electricity by Increased electricity from renewables to 56%, Increase use of renewable heat and electricity through utilising biogas from new wastewater plants, switching to sourcing of renewable power (I-RECs, PPA), driven by sourcing of 52% renewable power in biomass, generating more on-site renewable electricity and generation of biogas and exploration of on-site solar China • Converting to electric forklifts in using market instruments projects warehouses in China, Denmark and Researched and evaluated new technologies Finland. through Carlsberg Young Scientists Community and Explore new technologies in energy generation and usage Upgrade equipment to improve heat recovery Supply Chain organisation, including the conversion of CO2 from fermentation into electrofuels • Delivering our shipments by rail where feasible, for instance in Denmark, France, Norway, Russia, Beer-in-hand Beer-in-hand Beer-in-hand Sweden, Switzerland and Ukraine. Refine approach to reduce scope 3 carbon emissions, Undertook analysis of most effective scope 3 Update beer-in-hand carbon-footprint analysis using including carbon KPIs for suppliers and the incorporation of carbon-reducing actions with selected suppliers 2019 data • Improving route-planning software carbon footprint in the tender process and two pilot markets to reduce mileage and stops, thereby minimising fuel Agreed specific partnerships with ten suppliers in Support local market teams with tracking and reducing Engage with key suppliers to promote and support their consumption. carbon emission ambitions categories including packaging and refrigeration, beer-in-hand carbon footprint and engaging with focusing on carbon disclosure and carbon action suppliers to reduce joint carbon footprint • Maximising fill rates and efficiency Onboard new carbon-reducing supplier partnerships, in places such as the UK by with a focus on primary packaging outsourcing logistics to a shared user network. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 17 TOGETHER These developments are vital for cutting our beer-in-hand carbon footprint, of which Snap Pack, for example, removes the need for plastic shrink wrap or plastic rings by holding weighting to reduce the amount of aluminium used. And we’re not done yet.” WE CAN packaging accounts for around 40%. cans together with small glue dots. We worked with a number of partners to develop this over In 2019, we launched the lightweight 33 cl Star We have been brewing for more than 170 “We can only achieve our target of a 30% three years. Once the technology existed, we can across six markets, which will save over years. Cans have been around for half of this reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 by needed the right suppliers to implement it in 1,000 tonnes of aluminium a year. time and hold over 35 million hectolitres of the partnering with suppliers who share our values each market. That is where Ball came in, beverages we make each year. Over time, they and ambitions – contributing expertise and enabling us to roll it out in the UK. Our “While we have expertise in developing and have become lighter, and they are now made learning from one another. That’s why we work partnership extends globally. improving aluminium cans, we need partners to of infinitely recyclable materials, packed in with companies like Ball to develop many of qualify and roll out the technology. We’re different ways and recycled at higher rates our cans, a company that is keen to “The carbon footprint of a standard 33 cl delighted to work with Carlsberg, making use than ever. collaborate on cutting carbon through sciencealuminium can is around 65% less than in the of their distribution and scale, and working based targets,” says Johan Keerberg, VP, 1980s,” says Simone Cafferty, Director, Global together to cut our shared carbon footprint,” Group Procurement at the Carlsberg Group. Key Account Management at Ball. “That’s says Kathleen Pitre, Chief Commercial and thanks to our continued focus on light Sustainability Officer at Ball. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 ZERO WATER WASTE Public-private partnerships are extremely important because they bring everyone together around the table from the beginning of a project. In DRIP, partners from the industry have been connected with experts from universities and government agencies to solve the challenges in the sustainable reuse of water. Lisbeth Truelstrup Hansen, Professor, Microbial Food Safety and Environmental Hygiene, Technical University of Denmark PARTNERING TO ELIMINATE WATER WASTE At our Fredericia brewery in Denmark, we are installing state-of-the art total water-recycling technology that will allow us to safely reuse 90% of process water, taking our usage from 2.9 hl/hl to 1.4 hl/hl for brewing. This ambitious project is the result of a public-private partnership called DRIP, in which some of the thinkers and doers in water technology have agreed to try and push the boundaries of the possible. WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIP IN ACTION carlsberggroup.com/partnerships Zero Water Waste CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO WATER WASTE 19 ZERO WATER WASTE We are committed to latest technologies to maximise eliminating water waste from efficiency at our breweries and to brewing through world-class increase the availability of fresh efficiency, and to safeguarding water for the local communities shared water resources in whose resources we share. high-risk areas. Water is essential to our products and for cleaning during brewing. But in a changing climate, drought will become more widespread, reducing the quality and availability of water. That is why we are investing in the 2030 TARGETS 2022 TARGETS 50 25 REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN WATER USAGE WATER USAGE AT OUR BREWERIES AT OUR BREWERIES PARTNER TO EXPLORE GOING SAFEGUARD SHARED BELOW 2.0 HL/HL WATER RESOURCES IN AT ALL HIGH-RISK HIGH-RISK AREAS BREWERIES PARTNER TO SAFEGUARD SHARED WATER RESOURCES IN HIGH-RISK AREAS CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO WATER WASTE 20 ELIMINATING Actions in 2019 included: WATER WASTE • Optimising clean-in-place and 2019 PERFORMANCE UPDATE rinsing operations to reduce Water efficiency improved by 3%, unnecessary cleaning and reuse from 3.1 hl/hl in 2018 to 3.0 hl/hl clean rinsing water in Bulgaria, in 2019 (a 12% improvement from China, France, Greece, Lithuania, our 2015 baseline). Poland, Russia and Sweden. While this represents a strong • Maintaining bottle washers and performance by industry standards, tunnel pasteurisers, cutting water we need to move faster to achieve and heat consumption in Bulgaria, our 2022 and 2030 targets. Building China, Finland, France, India, Laos, on the hard work of our people to Poland, Russia and Sweden. maximise efficiency, we are investing in the latest technology to transform • Converting from wet to dry how we work with water. In 2019, cleaning of packaging in France by we announced an investment in a using compressed air instead of pilot wastewater treatment plant at water. Fredericia in Denmark, which will make it the first brewery to virtually • Revising risk assessments for eliminate water waste – moving to water-stressed areas, particularly 1.4 hl/hl for brewing. We will use Asia, to identify where to focus our our experience to speed up progress efforts and investments. across the Group. Read more on page 18. MAXIMISING EFFICIENCY In 2019, we continued to implement NEW PARTNERSHIP our global operational standards for water. They reflect industry best WITH DESOLENATOR practice and equip our sites to continually improve efficiency. Our In 2019, we entered a partnership with covering complex contaminants such as ZERO water waste roadmaps outline Desolenator – a venture specialising in lowarsenic. This will provide high-quality water the investments in equipment and cost sustainable desalination using solar for communities at the edge of the water crisis. technologies needed to cut our water energy. Desolenator has developed an We will announce details of our first consumption beyond what is possible integrated system that captures both electrical installation in 2020. through efficiency alone. and “waste” heat from solar panels to enable 100% solar-powered purification of seawater, CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO WATER WASTE 21 TREATING WASTEWATER water consumption targets. We processes through a combination of PROTECTING We are updating the water risk FOR REUSE engage with local authorities in these technologies. For upcycling of SHARED WATER assessment at all 82 of our sites Treating and reusing wastewater in the brewing process by investing in areas to share our learnings and experience. brewery effluents, the Community is exploring the potential use of RESOURCES around the world, analysing operational water risks at the technology is key to cutting water microalgae. This nutrient removal While reducing water usage is breweries and assessing the impact usage. Highlights in 2019 included: CARLSBERG YOUNG SCIENTISTS process accumulates algal biomass, important, we recognise that more on crops such as barley, rice and COMMUNITY which could be used for feed or food needs to be done to protect water hops. Based on this, we will • In India, water usage decreased by Further innovation and development purposes. And by regenerating the resources for local communities at recommend best practice for water 9%, primarily as a result of are needed to achieve our 2030 used cleaning liquids, they can be sites identified as being at high risk stewardship and action plans to increasing the usage of recycled target. Our Young Scientists reused again and again. of water scarcity. reduce water impacts. water for cleaning at four of our Community is helping to address this breweries. A new water-recycling by pursuing new technologies to help In 2020, the technologies will begin PARTNERSHIP WITH WWF ON We also project our water risk plant will open in Kolkata in 2020. eliminate water waste at our stress testing in a brewing WATER RISK exposure for 2030 by developing breweries. environment. Read more about the Together with WWF, we are scenarios combining forecasts for • In Russia, we invested in three new Community’s work on page 12. developing an effective strategy for climate and socioeconomic changes. wastewater treatment plants to In 2019, the Community focused on safeguarding shared water resources. treat wastewater for discharge into reuse of water from cleaning communal water sources, in line with local legislative changes (operational in 2020). WHAT WE SAID 2018 WHAT WE DID 2019 ACTIONS 2020 • In Bulgaria, we began building a Reduced water usage through efficiency wastewater treatment plant at our Implement actions from roadmaps to achieve higher water programme and extension of existing wastewater Continue efficiency programme and conduct Shumen brewery (operational in efficiency and conservation treatment facilities. 57 wastewater treatment equipment upgrades facilities in operation across the Group 2020). Best-in-class wastewater technology identified. • In Denmark, we announced Explore new technologies for cutting-edge water reuse and Carlsberg Young Scientists Community explored Build new wastewater treatment plants in Denmark recycling next generation of water-recycling and reuse and Bulgaria investment in a wastewater technologies treatment plant that will recycle 90% of process water and cut water Conduct projects in water-stressed areas to protect shared Extended and upgraded water-recycling plants, Optimise existing wastewater treatment plants to revised risk assessment for water-stressed areas usage for brewing from 2.9 hl/hl to water resources and improve local water management enhance efficiency with WWF and partnered with Desolenator 1.4 hl/hl while reducing carbon emissions by 10% (operational in Three wastewater treatment plants built in Russia Use results of water risk assessment to engage with 2021). Ensure that wastewater discharge standards are up to date for discharge into communal water sources, and local communities and specific water projects in highto ensure compliance globally one upgraded in Nepal risk areas Wherever local legislation prevents wastewater recycling at our sites, it is challenging to make significant Fully Partially Not progress towards our 2022 and 2030 achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 ZERO PARTNERING TO GROW ALCOHOL-FREE BEER IRRESPONSIBLE People are increasingly looking for greattasting alcohol-free brews as a positive choice. Partnerships with restaurants and bars, such DRINKING as the newly opened Copine restaurant in Stockholm, Sweden, increase availability of alcohol-free beer to consumers. Alcohol-free beer is very important to me because I want everyone to feel included. Sometimes you want to go out and have a beer, but you don’t want to get the ‘buzz’. Jonathan Mattsson, co-owner, Copine WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIP IN ACTION carlsberggroup.com/partnerships Zero Irresponsible Drinking CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 23 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING Our beers are at the heart of Drinking cultures are improving in social occasions and we want many parts of the world. According them to be enjoyed to the World Health Organization, responsibly. heavy episodic drinking decreased by 11% in Europe between 2010 and Partnerships are key to our 2016, with positive trends in 29 out approach. We collaborate with of 30 countries1. And the governments, customers, other key International Alliance for Responsible stakeholders and industry partners to Drinking reported a decline in drinkidentify where irresponsible drinking driving fatalities in 34 out of 36 takes place and to enable, inform, countries2. However, serious educate and encourage consumers to problems still exist. drink responsibly. 2030 TARGET 2022 TARGETS 100 100 100 OF OUR MARKETS RESPONSIBLE AVAILABILITY OF IMPROVE ON DRINKING MESSAGING ALCOHOL-FREE RESPONSIBLE THROUGH PACKAGING BREWS (AFBs) DRINKING YEAR AND BRAND ON YEAR ACTIVATIONS 100 OF OUR MARKETS RUN PARTNERSHIPS TO SUPPORT RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 1 World Health Organization. Status report on alcohol consumption, harm and policy responses in 30 European countries. 2019. 2 International Alliance of Responsible Drinking. Trends report drink driving. 2019. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 24 We need to continue to challenge ourselves on what more can be Blanc Sans Alcool in France and Karhu alcohol-free in Finland, while INFORMING achieved, and we are developing in many markets Carlsberg’s We are empowering consumers to partnerships in each market to tackle alcohol-free brew is available. In make informed choices by providing the most relevant issues at a local 2019, we introduced Brooklyn information and ensuring that the level, such as underage drinking or Special Effects, an alcohol-free messages reach the right people at drink-driving. We are working with hoppy lager, in Finland, Norway, the right time and place. an advisory group of behavioural and Italy, Sweden and the UK. In 2020, societal experts to design effective we plan to take it to more countries. PACKAGING programmes to stimulate change. Consumers have a right to know Many supermarkets and convenience what is in their beer. Ingredients are stores are increasingly creating listed on 90% of our packaging ENABLING dedicated alcohol-free areas in globally, while 65% contains fridges and on shelves, displaying the nutritional information – which can ALCOHOL-FREE BREWS (AFBs) diversity of beer styles available, also be found online. 99% of Beer is a low-alcohol beverage, but raising awareness and prompting packaging also carries messages or we are working to enable all purchase, while in bars and icons advising consumers not to consumers to be able to choose from restaurants we now offer AFBs on drink-drive and not to drink when a wider range of alcohol-free brews draught. Consumers who prefer their underage or pregnant. We encourage (AFBs) whenever they wish to enjoy beer on tap can already enjoy our all producers of alcohol to take the these products. AFBs are growing in draught AFBs in Denmark, Norway, same approach. popularity, with three particularly Sweden and the UK, and we will strong trends driving consumer continue to roll out this option in MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS interest: a focus on health and well2020. Consumers are three times Our global Marketing being, a shift towards moderation, more likely to choose AFBs if they Communications Policy sets out strict and recognition of the increasing are on draught – and they are global controls for advertising high-quality range of AFBs on offer. proving to be particularly popular on placement and content that meet or occasions such as working lunches or exceed local legal and regulatory In 2019, volumes of our AFBs grew with a meal. requirements. These include never by 7%, with our brands now available using people who are or look under in more than 60 markets. 25 years of age in our advertising, preventing appeal to minors, never Our portfolio of AFBs is growing, placing ads unless at least 70% of the with over 30 variants available audience is expected to be of legal across the Group, including four drinking age, and never placing ads added during 2019. We often offer near areas that are likely to be an alcohol-free brew under our frequented by minors, such as leading brand in each country. This schools and zoos. includes Baltika 0 in Russia, 1664 CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 25 On digital platforms, we work to help ENCOURAGING ensure that those under the legal drinking age do not see alcoholIrresponsible drinking is often the related communications through our result of complex societal issues that Digital Guiding Principles (DGPs), vary from country to country, such which set clear guidelines for online as drink-driving or underage marketing and social media usage. drinking. That is why we are working To reinforce this commitment, in with local partners to develop locally 2019 we and other member relevant programmes that support companies of the International dialogue and engagement with Alliance for Responsible Drinking consumers to encourage responsible (IARD), together with Facebook choices. (including Instagram), SnapChat and YouTube, publicly pledged to work SUPPORTING A POSITIVE together to improve age-screening DRINKING CULTURE and give users the choice to block We need to identify where we can marketing. have the most successful impact and which stakeholders to work with. At the end of 2019, an internal audit With long-term learnings, these showed that compliance for all five approaches can be replicated in other DGPs on our global channels was markets around the world. 87%. Recognising that there is more to do, we will continually monitor Examples of this approach include: compliance with the DGPs and improve the safeguarding of data • Carlsberg UK partners with the PREVENTING DRINK-DRIVING privacy. In 2020, we will continue charity The Drinkaware Trust. Its working with partners to embed Drink Free Days campaign targets automatic age-screening wherever our alcohol brands advertise on middle-age drinkers, identified as being high-risk, encouraging them THROUGH OUR BRANDS digital channels, and we will to take days off from drinking introduce a new central tool to through the week. In 2019, there In 2019, many markets used the power of our discounted taxi vouchers helped people get monitor compliance of local were over 500,000 unique visitors brands to raise awareness of the dangers of home safely. In Germany, a joint campaign channels. to the Drink Free Days landing drink-driving. with the German Brewers Association reached page, and almost 20,000 people over 1 million people, with messaging from committed to taking drink-free Carlsberg UK partnered with Drinkaware at brands including Astra, Holsten and Lübzer. In days each week. Classic Ibiza concerts across the country, India, social media messaging encouraging handing out 2,000 cans of San Miguel 0,0% to people to “leave the car behind” reached over 3 people driving their friends. At the annual million consumers. Feldschlösschen Oktoberfest in Switzerland, CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 26 • Carlsberg Azerbaijan partnered with UAFA (United Aid for Azerbaijan) to develop guidance and support for those dealing with alcohol abuse at home. • In France, Kronenbourg SAS joined with other alcohol producers to create a not-for-profit organisation called Prévention & Modération with the aim of preventing harmful behaviours among the most vulnerable people, including young people and pregnant women. In 2019, the organisation financed a national campaign to raise awareness of the dangers of alcohol consumption during pregnancy (SAFTHON). More is planned for 2020. • In Poland, Carlsberg Polska continued with its campaign “I think soberly – I think reasonably”, which aims to provoke people to make responsible decisions both when GLOBAL BEER consuming alcohol and in everyday RESPONSIBILITY DAY life. In 2019, a media campaign featuring local influencers targeted pregnant women, parents of young On 20 September 2019, we celebrated the fifth binge drinking in Serbia. Our global activities In Russia, Carlsberg employees visited people, and drivers, reaching over 6 annual Global Beer Responsibility Day – an reached 57 million people in 2019. 100,000 customers together with the Russian million people. industry-wide global effort to promote the Brewers Union to help prevent underage sales. responsible consumption of beer – in markets In Serbia, a campaign entitled “I know what I around the world. did last night” prompted dialogue with 6,000 A similar initiative in Ukraine engaged 20,000 young adults on a night out about the dangers customers with a corresponding media Campaigns focused on tackling drink-driving in of binge drinking and the value of good campaign targeting parents with advice from a India and Nepal, underage drinking in Belarus, memories. leading psychologist on how to speak with China, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine, and children about alcohol and protect them. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 27 PILOTING INTERVENTIONS ALCOLOCKS Following advice from our panel of Alcolocks fitted in cars prevent experts, we initiated a partnership people from driving if they are over between a local municipality in the legal BAC limit. In Western Denmark, the student association of Europe, 37% of our company cars a major Danish university and an are fitted with alcolocks (24% in external research body. The 2018) and in Eastern Europe 31%. partnership project is researching We will continue to implement this which types of intervention are most in 2020. effective at encouraging a more responsible drinking culture among university students and how behaviours are affected by the availability of alcohol-free brews and information about the consequences of irresponsible drinking. Although most young people develop healthy drinking behaviours, it is important to focus on the whole target audience to reach those at risk of irresponsible drinking behaviours. WHAT WE SAID 2018 WHAT WE DID 2019 ACTIONS 2020 Initiatives include: • Asking students to decide to drink Continued to implement Digital Guiding Principles, Continue to implement and measure compliance of responsibly before they go out. Continue to implement and measure compliance with with 87% compliance on global brands by end global brands with Digital Guiding Principles through Digital Guiding Principles 2019. Developed central process for continuous new centralised process monitoring • Offering alcohol-free brews on Strengthened partnerships with third-party draught in student bars for those experts through our responsible drinking advisory Accelerate the formation of global and local partnerships Strengthen responsible drinking partnerships on a local who want to cycle home or simply board. Activated 12 local partnerships during for responsible drinking level Global Beer Responsibility Day to raise awareness consume in moderation. of responsible drinking in local contexts • Nudging students to drink Brought four new AFBs to market, with volume Expand availability of AFBs by increasing volume and Expand our global offering of alcohol-free brews (AFBs) responsibly through text messages growth of 7% globally number of different brews during consumption moments. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE PARTNERING TO BUILD A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT Training is key to building a ZERO accidents culture and equipping our people with best-in-class practices to stay safe while at By working in cooperation with work. By combining the knowledge of our experts from Carlsberg, we're able to safety leaders with that of safety experts share best practices from Carlsberg’s from partners such as 3M, we are building global operation and make sure that tailored training programmes specifically our training exercises are constantly for our industry. updated to replicate real-life working conditions as much as possible. WATCH OUR PARTNERSHIP IN ACTION Florian Rappelsberger, Transnational Account Manager, carlsberggroup.com/partnerships 3M Personal Safety Division Zero Accidents Culture CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 29 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Safeguarding the health & safety of everyone working for Carlsberg is key to how we do business. Keeping it top of mind takes committed leadership, personal engagement and strict adherence to safety routines. We are making good progress, but there is no room for complacency. 2030 TARGET 2022 TARGET ZERO LOST-TIME REDUCTION IN ACCIDENT ACCIDENTS RATE YEAR ON YEAR CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 30 2019 PERFORMANCE UPDATE #4. Always follow work at height We are pleased to report a strong procedures improvement in our performance #5. Always follow confined space in 2019. entry procedures. The Group lost-time accident rate Those most at risk received bespoke (LTAR) fell from 4.3 in 2018 to 3.7 face-to-face training. in 2019. Employee lost-time accidents (LTAs) fell from 169 in All locations undertake self2018 to 146 in 2019. assessments of compliance with the Life Saving Rules that are This performance demonstrates independently validated. Average improved awareness and strict compliance rates have risen from controls in the highest-risk areas, under 80% in 2018 to approximately partly due to the implementation of 90% in 2019. our Live Saving Rules programme and increased awareness and The Life Saving Rules are our engagement among our people. number one priority when it comes However, injuries among contractors to health & safety. Nothing is more have increased. We will continue to important to us than ensuring our enhance controls over contractor people go home safe. In 2019, there services at our sites and improve were no work-related fatalities in the management of temporary contract Group. This should always be the workers. minimum expectation and zero fatalities will always be a nonLIFE SAVING RULES negotiable top priority. TWO-WHEELER SAFE RIDING The Life Saving Rules have been embedded across our organisation with a company-wide training programme and communication TRAINING packages at all sites for each of the five rules: In Asia, where a significant number of Working together with professional driving employees ride scooters and motorcycles to schools, tutored classroom sessions are #1. Always follow traffic rules (on visit city-based customers, we have deployed a followed by instructor-led practice training on site and on the road) practical safe riding programme for twoa circuit, covering safe riding practices such as #2. Always follow lock out/tag out wheelers, training over 2,000 people. riding posture, braking technique and slalom procedures driving – enabling proactive anticipation of #3. Never remove, bypass or impair dangerous situations. safeguards or interlocks CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 31 MORE TRAINING INCREASED REPORTING give their full attention to health & Life Saving Rules, and to achieve a our sites, in 2020 we will establish a Our training programmes include To achieve a ZERO accidents culture, safety during a tour of our sites to ZERO accidents culture. new programme to improve the tailored solutions developed in we rely on increased employee obtain feedback on practices or management of temporary contract partnership with industry experts. engagement and participation. An barriers to further improvement. The programme covers every stage workers. indicator of engagement is the of working with a contractor: preWorking with world-class workplace number of observations and near CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT qualification, selection, induction, LOOKING FORWARD health & safety leaders, we misses reported. In 2019, there were To address the risks faced by reviewing pre-work planning, In 2020, we will focus on increasing developed training specific to our 280,000 observations across the contractors providing services at evaluating, checking that work is compliance with the Life Saving business and sites in areas such as Group, a 60% increase since 2018, Carlsberg sites, we launched a carried out as agreed and feeding Rules, keeping health & safety top of working at height (Life Saving Rule supported by simple reporting comprehensive contractor back, ensuring a continuous cycle of mind with employees through #4) and working in confined spaces systems and digital solutions. management programme. This will improvement. engagement campaigns and ensuring (Life Saving Rule #5). Read more on help to ensure adherence to our consistent levels of safety for page 28. There was also a record of 115,000 health & safety standards and our To complete the comprehensive contractors, including temporary safety walks, where people leaders management of contract workers at workers. We began to roll out our comprehensive driver training programme as part of our work to embed Life Saving Rule #1. It includes online lessons for all employees driving a company WHAT WE SAID 2018 WHAT WE DID 2019 ACTIONS 2020 vehicle, followed by practical defensive driving training. Meanwhile, together with Run communication campaign to strengthen employee Continue to roll out H&S leadership training and reach at Trained over 5,800 people leaders (> 95%) engagement in the reporting of H&S near misses and professional driving schools, we are least 65% of people managers through our H&S leadership programme observations training relevant staff in Asia in how to safely ride two-wheel vehicles Introduced or revised standards for all Life Saving Continue to implement the Life Saving Rules by upgrading needed for visiting city-based Rules, with validated monthly market Increase compliance with Life Saving Rules standards Group standards and ensuring compliance through selfassessments showing an average of 90% to maintain at least 90% compliance rate globally customers. Read more on page 30. and independent assessments compliance Continue roll-out of Carlsberg Safe Driving training One year ahead of schedule, we Introduce a new Safe Driving training programme for the Launched online driver safety training programme programme to all company drivers through online in Western and Eastern Europe. Rolled out have reached almost all our people sales organisation training and reach at least 25% with practical inpractical two-wheeler training programme in Asia leaders – a total of 5,500 – with our person training Safety Leadership training. The Developed and implemented contractor Continue implementation of the contractor programme is enabling our people Implement the new contractor management programme management standard in all markets, with management standard. Introduce new standard on across the organisation leaders to become effective role compliance rates above 85% temporary labour management models in health & safety and to engage with their teams. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 We are working to ensure that, in all areas of our business, we operate with a strong ethical approach. FIND POLICIES ON OUR WEBSITE carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/ download/download-our-policies RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible Business CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 33 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LIVING BY OUR are entitled, irrespective of the requirements deriving from relevant These reinforce the required alongside the roll-out of a new antiCOMPASS country in which they work. laws and regulations. behaviours and are continually bribery and corruption e-learning enhanced. They are supported by a course. While commercial success and the DIVERSITY & INCLUSION POLICY COMPETITION COMPLIANCE POLICY strong tone from our leadership achievement of targets are This helps ensure that all employees This helps ensure compliance with team on the importance of Training is essential for maintaining important, they should not be at the are valued and respected in an applicable antitrust and competition compliance for our reputation and awareness of the importance and expense of conducting our business atmosphere of inclusion and equal laws wherever we operate. sustainable commercial success. details of our policies and our in an ethical way. Our dedicated opportunity, regardless of social compliance programme as a whole. programme, Live by our Compass, identity. During 2019, we had a particular OUR APPROACH was launched in 2016 and forms focus on enhancing the competition We undertake annual risk COMMUNICATION part of our SAIL’22 strategy. ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION law compliance programme. This assessments in each market to Company-wide communications POLICY work included detailed face-to-face identify the relevant activities needed further maintain awareness around This outlines and explains the training for employees in higher-risk The Compass programme consists of to control specific risks. These compliance and required behaviour. prohibitions against bribery and teams, and a programme of on-site the Code of Ethics and Group controls form a “control framework”. Engaging media such as video, corruption in all our operations, spot checks in selected markets, with Policies, and sets out the expected Control frameworks are in place for posters, e-mails and “dilemma highlights the specific compliance input from external lawyers. standards of behaviour within the areas of law, including competition cards” encourage employees to requirements relating to these company and towards external law, data protection, and anticonsider their own responses to a prohibitions, and reinforces our ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY business partners such as customers bribery and corruption. Markets are series of ethical dilemmas. commitment to conducting business This prevents and controls potential and suppliers. It aims to instil a periodically required to report on globally with the highest level of risks to the environment, mitigating culture of compliance across the their implementation of the relevant Compliance was a separate agenda honesty and integrity. the impact of climate change, organisation, emphasising the control frameworks. item on all senior management importance of integrity at all levels. supported by our targets in Together gatherings during 2019. RECORDS MANAGEMENT & Towards ZERO. PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION TRAINING Our policies and accompanying POLICY In 2019, employees across the Group DATA PROTECTION manuals help guide behaviour in This defines our commitment to The measures and tools to in higher-risk roles received face-toGeneral Data Protection Regulation specific areas. They include: establishing and maintaining records implement the standards of face training on data protection, (GDPR) enforcement across the EU management practices and to behaviour detailed in our policies anti-bribery and corruption, and and EEA is increasing, leading to a LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY ensuring that processing of personal include annual risk assessments, a competition law. We also continued far greater internal and public focus This defines the labour & human data is compliant and meets our framework detailing compliance to enrol new joiners in e-learning on on data protection. Outside the EU rights standards to which all business needs as well as the legal controls, training, regular competition law and data protection. and EEA, some countries are employees in the Carlsberg Group communications and internal audits. This will continue into 2020, CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 34 adopting similarly comprehensive data protection legislation. During 2019, we focused on key activities, including embedding our data protection rules throughout the organisation and introducing a new control framework for the main data protection risks at Carlsberg. SPEAKING UP We have made significant investments to strengthen our compliance focus, but it is never possible to guarantee that no wrongdoing occurs. Our people are strongly encouraged to report any suspected misconduct via our anonymous Speak Up system. Employees can raise concerns about any alleged breaches of the Code of Ethics, from bribery, fraud, competition law issues and conflicts of interest to management behaviour. Speak Up is operated by a third party and provides employees globally with the opportunity to anonymously raise concerns 24 hours a day in their local language. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 35 Investigation of the most serious freight train as the likely causes of work across the organisation, and at ease to be their true selves when the high standards set out in our allegations of misconduct is overseen the accident. integrated in all HR processes to they come to work at Carlsberg. Supplier & Licensee Code of Conduct, by the Integrity Committee, which is make expected behaviours clear. working to ensure that it is chaired by the CFO and includes the In August 2019, new material was We are focused on creating a global understood and followed while General Counsel, SVP, Group HR, presented involving allegations of All Carlsberg leaders are trained to mindset, building a diverse talent identifying and understanding any VP, Group Internal Audit and VP, facilitation payments and bribery in understand and apply the triple A base, providing equal opportunities issues and measuring their Compliance. 2015-2016 at a local joint-venture framework in their leadership role to and ensuring that leadership is compliance. brewery in India. A 2017-2018 nurture and promote how we work inclusive. This constitutes the basis In 2019, 168 alleged breaches of the internal investigation into the same together. All employees are assessed for effective management, We updated the Supplier & Licensee Code of Ethics were reported through issue had not been able to against the framework’s behaviours supporting both our business and our Code of Conduct in 2019 to take the system – up from the 95 reports substantiate any wrongdoings. The as part of our annual performance people. In 2019, we piloted cultural account of recent developments. received in 2018. The increase was original investigation was hampered review process. awareness training in our commercial Changes include new sections due to increased awareness of the by a lack of material, and the function. Our focus in 2020 will be covering carbon emission compliance programme and regular reporter wanted compensation in IMPLEMENTING OUR POLICY on rolling out unconscious-bias management, water and waste communications about Speak Up, return for handing over alleged We have implemented our Labour & training. management, data protection, which has led to greater evidence. Based on limited new Human Rights policy through our ecompetition and fair trade, human transparency and usage. We review material received in September learning module. During 2019, this LEADERSHIP ACADEMY rights and conflicts of interest. all reports received, and in 2019 we 2019, a new and expanded focused on Western Europe We run a number of training Updates also clarify audit rights, take fully or partially upheld 48% of cases, investigation has been initiated. following the focus on Eastern programmes across the Carlsberg account of the Modern Slavery Act, resulting in sanctions being imposed Europe and Asia in previous years. Group, providing potential future and refer to climate change and on those involved. In total, we received 13 complaints The module is mandatory for people leaders with the skills to progress to water conservation in line with at our sites in 2019 concerning, for managers and for employees at our management positions. In 2019, Together Towards ZERO. The Code RESPONDING TO INCIDENTS example, odour or noise caused by central office. participants comprised 34% women applies to our suppliers’ entire supply When incidents occur, our policies the brewing process. We always and represented 32 different chain. and manuals guide our response. engage in dialogue to resolve such DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION countries. 43% of developmental complaints as quickly as possible. Our new policy on diversity and short-term assignments were In 2019, we carried out 197 As an example, in January 2019, a inclusion outlines our commitment, undertaken by women. integrated quality audits, focusing on freight train loaded and operated by LABOUR & HUMAN our ambitions and our approach to glass, malt and cans, to ensure that an external provider was involved in RIGHTS making change. We recognise that suppliers are complying with our a fatal accident while carrying empty glass bottles back to Carlsberg’s We are committed to supporting a diversity is found in any social identity such as gender, age, culture, RESPONSIBLE Code and other relevant quality standards. Danish brewery site. We cooperated company culture based on a safe, ethnicity, physical abilities, political SOURCING with the official investigation, and in healthy and empowering and religious beliefs, sexual We use thousands of suppliers and March 2019 a preliminary report environment for our people in which orientation and other attributes. We take measures to work only with QUALITY & SAFETY from the Danish Accident everyone is treated in a fair and equal way. This is driven by our triple strive to create and sustain an those who share our belief in doing OF OUR PRODUCTS Investigation Board identified strong atmosphere that actively embraces business the right way. Through our wind and inadequate safety bolting A behavioural framework diversity and fosters inclusion, Brewing high-quality beers and supplier relationship management by the external provider of the (alignment, accountability and ensuring that people are completely beverages is core to everything we practices, we select those who share action), which defines how we should do. We implement the highest CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 36 standards every time, working to build on our learnings to develop the RESPONDING TO QUALITY throughout production to ensure that have been reviewed and necessary ensure our products are always high tool and roll it out more widely, ISSUES our products are “right first time” – control measures put in place to quality and safe when they reach aiming for global use with our most We are rigorous in identifying any minimising the need for retrospective significantly reduce the risk of consumers. important suppliers. quality issue at its root cause before market actions. In 2019, we recalled reoccurrence. any products leave our sites. As a three products. Two of the recalls CONTINUOUSLY RAISING result, it is very rare for a quality were due to labelling issues and one STANDARDS issue to arise after this stage, and we to inadequate quality of PET bottles. To ensure that consumers can have have detailed checks and controls In response, all related processes total confidence in all our products, we constantly monitor our systems and supply chains. We are part of WHAT WE SAID 2018 WHAT WE DID 2019 ACTIONS 2020 the Global Food Safety Initiative Live by our Compass Live by our Compass Live by our Compass (GFSI), a scheme for continuous New legal risk and control framework launched, improvement in food safety Roll out the legal risk and control framework through supported by awareness programme, e-learning Introduce new anti-bribery & corruption e-learning throughout the supply chain. In awareness programmes, e-learning, face-to-face training and face-to-face training. Risk assessment and course for white-collar employees and monitoring reporting on control implementation completed Western and Eastern Europe, 100% by all markets of our sites are certified under GFSIUpdated the Third Party Screening procedure and recognised schemes as achieving the Implement the updated Third Party Screening process and Gift, Entertainment and Donations Manual Implement upgraded risk and control framework and Gift, Entertainment and Donations Manual. Develop a highest standards of food safety. In launched. 2019-2021 monitoring plan for anti2020 monitoring plan 2019-2021 monitoring plan for anti-bribery & corruption bribery & corruption developed Asia, 77% of our sites are certified, with a roadmap in place to reach Implement new governance, risk and compliance 100% by 2021. (GRC) tool for recording and assessing compliance controls PARTNERING WITH OUR SUPPLY CHAINS Labour & human rights Labour & human rights Labour & human rights We monitor our suppliers and their materials to ensure they are safe. Revise labour & human rights e-learning and make it Labour & human rights e-learning revised and Continue in-market audits in selected higher-risk Using our Supplier Management available and mandatory for all new managers to take made mandatory for all new managers in markets to monitor effectiveness of Labour & Human through our HR system platform in selected markets markets with supporting HR systems Rights Policy implementation Tool, in 2019 we worked with key suppliers of food and packaging, starting in Western Europe, to assess Implement supporting initiatives to ensure compliance with Awareness campaigns developed and Develop initiatives to conduct value-chain risk their vulnerability to risk and their Labour & Human Rights Policy in selected areas implemented in markets deemed higher-risk assessments in line with the UN Guiding Principles transparency on food safety performance. In 2019, we trained Conduct in-market audits in all selected markets to Audits conducted in selected markets across Asia, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, including three major packaging suppliers, and monitor effectiveness of Labour & Human Rights Policy gap analyses and identification of mitigating this will be extended to include other implementation actions key suppliers in 2020. We will also Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 000 Beer creates value and positively contributes to economies across the globe. With a presence in more than 100 countries, we make a significant economic contribution through the production, distribution and sale of our products. LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE carlsberggroup.com ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Economic contribution CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 38 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY CREATING JOBS Many work at the breweries, which CREATING JOBS IN OTHER The sale of our products contributes approximately 1.2 million THROUGHOUT THE often provide vital employment in SECTORS to linked employment – jobs created employees*, equivalent to more than rural areas. We also employ highly Our breweries generate a significant in the hospitality (bars, restaurants) 28 additional jobs created for every VALUE CHAIN skilled people in sales & marketing, number of jobs via suppliers in the and retail (grocery stores) sectors. Carlsberg Group employee. 40,000+ EMPLOYEES finance, procurement, research & agricultural, packaging and logistics In 2019, the Carlsberg Group directly development, logistics and sectors, stimulating indirect Taking all these activities into Through our operations around the employed more than 40,000 people administrative functions. employment. account, the research consultancy world, we support the global in our majority-owned businesses Europe Economics estimates that in economy by contributing to economic around the world. 2019 we created total indirect and prosperity, increasing productivity and induced employment amounting to innovation. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 39 ECONOMIC finance dividends for our TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION TOTAL GOVERNMENT VIEW OUR TAX POLICY VALUE shareholders and support future In addition to taxes borne, we also REVENUES GENERATED carlsberggroup.com/media/34544/ tax-policy_eng_sep-2019.pdf business growth. collect taxes on behalf of Our products generate substantial Economic value generated is a governments in the countries in revenues for governments, support combination of gross revenue, other In 2019, economic value generated which we operate. These include public services and stimulate income, financial income and income totalled DKK 96bn. Our total tax taxes paid on behalf of our economic growth in the countries in included in special items. Our contribution, including both taxes employees, VAT and other relevant which we operate. In addition to our contribution is distributed among our borne and taxes collected, amounted taxes, including excise duties. In total tax contribution mentioned stakeholders through payments to to DKK 44bn. 2019, our total tax contribution above, government revenues are also suppliers for goods and services, amounted to DKK 44bn. generated in related sectors such as wages to employees, financial TAXES BORNE agriculture, retail and hospitality. expenses to those who provide Taxes borne by the Carlsberg Group capital and taxes paid to include direct taxes such as corporate governments. The economic value income tax, social security taxes, retained is the profit we use to environmental taxes and other taxes. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 40 DETAILED OVERVIEW OF ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION In 2019, the Carlsberg Group generated a total of DKK 96bn in economic value. Total taxes borne by Carlsberg, together with excise duties collected, represent 34% of our economic value generated. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 41 SDG ACTIONS SDG TARGETS EXAMPLE ACTIONS AMBITION PAGE NO. 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and Achieved 7% global volume growth in alcohol-free brews (AFBs). ZERO 22-27 treatment of substance abuse, including IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING harmful use of alcohol. Made AFBs available on draught in Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden and the UK. Further roll-out in 2020. 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic Reached 57 million people with responsible drinking campaigns on Global Beer Responsibility Day. accidents. Reinforced commitment to Digital Guiding Principles (DGPs) alongside member companies of the International Alliance of Responsible Drinking (IARD). Achieved 87% compliance on global brands. Equipped 37% and 31% of company cars in Western Europe and Eastern Europe respectively with alcolocks. 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase waterCommitted to invest in a total water-recycling plant to reuse 90% of process wastewater at Fredericia ZERO 18-21 use efficiency and ensure sustainable brewery, Denmark, which will take water efficiency from 2.9 hl/hl to 1.4 hl/hl for brewing. WATER WASTE withdrawals and supply of fresh water to address water scarcity. Reduced water usage in India by 9%, primarily by increasing the use of recycled water for cleaning at four of our breweries. 6.5 By 2030, implement integrated water resources management at all levels. Continued research and innovation for reusing water from cleaning processes and upcycling brewery effluents through Carlsberg Young Scientists Community. Initiated strategy with WWF to safeguard shared water resources, including update of water risk assessment at all 82 sites. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 42 SDG TARGETS ACTIONS AMBITION PAGE NO. 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the Sourced 56% of electricity from renewable sources (2018: 46%) and increased total share of renewable ZERO 9-17 share of renewable energy in the global energy to 24% (2018: 20%). CARBON FOOTPRINT energy mix. Used 100% renewable electricity at all sites in Western Europe. 52% of electricity usage in China covered 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of with I-RECs (International Renewable Energy Credits). improvement in energy efficiency. Used renewable thermal energy (partially or fully) at 29 breweries through biogas extracted from our own wastewater, biomass, renewable district heating or biogas certificates. Assessed viability of new energy sources using brewery by-products through Carlsberg Young Scientists Community. Agreed to purchase 20 fully electric 26-tonne trucks in Switzerland to commence beer deliveries from 2020. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe Reduced lost-time accident rate to 3.7 (2018: 4.3). ZERO 28-31 and secure working environments for all ACCIDENTS CULTURE workers. Reduced number of lost-time accidents to 146 (2018: 169). Reported observations and near misses increased by 60% compared with 2018. Trained over 5,800 people leaders in our H&S leadership programme, one year ahead of target. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 43 SDG TARGETS ACTIONS AMBITION PAGE NO. 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable Unveiled two new research prototypes of the Green Fibre Bottle (the world’s first “paper” beer bottle), now ZERO 9-17 management and efficient use of natural containing beer. CARBON FOOTPRINT resources. Replaced over 2 million one-way plastic cups with reusable cups in Denmark. Reusable cups also used at 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste festivals in France, Latvia, Norway, Portugal and Switzerland. generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Washed and refilled 5.3 billion returnable glass bottles (2018: 5.3 billion). 12.6 Encourage companies, especially Introduced Snap Pack – which replaces plastic shrink wrap or plastic rings on multipacks with an innovative large and transnational companies, to glue solution, reducing plastic usage by up to 76% – to more markets. adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their Extended roll-out of Cradle to CradleTM certified inks to 21 markets; these inks are easier to recycle and reporting cycle. made using renewable energy. 12.9 Support developing countries to Introduced 100% recycled PET bottles for 0.5 litre and 0.65 litre Imsdal water in Norway and committed strengthen their scientific and technological locally to increase share of RPET in e.g. Denmark and Sweden. capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive Signed Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge, emphasising commitment to science-based targets. 9-17 capacity to climate-related hazards and ZERO natural disasters. CARBON Increased proportion of newly purchased fridges and beer coolers using low-climate-impact refrigerants, FOOTPRINT such as hydrocarbons, and LED lighting to 93% (2018: 88%). 13.3 Improve education, awarenessraising and capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 44 SDG TARGETS ACTIONS AMBITION PAGE NO. 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for Agreed partnerships with ten suppliers to cut joint carbon footprint. ZERO 9-17 sustainable development, complemented CARBON FOOTPRINT by multi-stakeholder partnerships. Unveiled two new research prototypes of the Green Fibre Bottle (the world’s first “paper” beer bottle), now containing beer. Three leading companies joined the project together with Paboco (the paper bottle 17.17 Encourage and promote effective company). ZERO 18-21 public, public-private and civil society WATER partnerships. WASTE Invested in total water-recycling plant to reuse 90% of process wastewater at Fredericia brewery, Denmark, which will take water efficiency from 2.9 hl/hl to 1.4 hl/hl for brewing – a result of a publicprivate partnership with DRIP. Initiated strategy with WWF to safeguard shared water resources, including update of water risk assessment at all 82 sites. ZERO 22-27 IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING Formed partnership with Desolenator to bring clean water to water-stressed areas. Initiated a partnership between a local municipality in Denmark, the student association of a major Danish university and an external research body to research the most effective interventions to encourage a more ZERO responsible drinking culture. 28-31 ACCIDENTS CULTURE Worked with local partners to reach 57 million people on Global Responsibility Day to encourage responsible drinking, addressing locally relevant issues. Developed training programmes with world-class workplace health & safety leaders in areas including working at height and in confined spaces and safe driving. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 45 MATERIALITY MATRIX Together Towards ZERO was designed following an extensive stakeholder engagement process – spanning social, environmental and economic experts – and a thorough materiality assessment that we carried out in 2016 with Business for Social Responsibility. These actions helped us identify our most important sustainability management topics, risks and impacts, which you can see here. This helped inform the focus of Together Towards ZERO, launched in 2017. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 46 DATA SUMMARY TABLE ENERGY, CARBON AND WATER 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 General production figures Number of reporting sites 110 92 85 85 82 Beer production (million hl) 105.4 100.9 97.9 102.2 101.4 Soft drinks production (million hl) 13.9 14.3 14.2 15.6 16.1 Total production of beer and soft drinks (million hl)* 119.3 115.2 112.1 117.8 117.5 Malting (kt) 547.2 311.5 301.3 314.1 307.5 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drinks and malt production) Total thermal energy consumption (GWh)* 2,943 2,481 2,326 2,341 2,340 Total electricity consumption (GWh)* 988 914 869 885 870 Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption) (kt)* (market-based) 945 768 698 701 626 Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption) (kt) (location-based) 883 802 801 766 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 1,695 815 731 509 446 Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 1,562 1,163 1,075 1,027 1,419 Total water consumption (million m³)* 41.2 37.7 35.6 37.5 35.9 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 26.6 24.2 23.0 23.8 23.3 Solid waste & by-products Incinerated (kt) 8.7 5.7 5.1 9.2 6.0 To sanitary landfill (kt) 68.6 56.9 68.6 60.9 82.5 Special waste (kt) 0.7 1.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 Recycled (kt) 189.2 225.5 222.0 162.6 172.9 Disposed of for land applications (kt) 165.9 127.4 117.4 125.1 115.2 Total solid waste (kt) 433.1 416.9 413.8 358.3 377.6 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast utilised (kt) 1,348.9 1,265.0 1,236.0 1,372.8 1,501.3 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 68-69). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 47 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Relative figures for beer and soft drinks production Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 21.2 20.0 19.3 18.3 18.0 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 7.8 7.7 7.6 7.3 7.1 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 29.0 27.7 26.9 25.6 25.1 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* 7.0 6.3 5.9 5.6 4.9 Water (hl/hl)* 3.4 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.0 Relative figures for malt production Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 692.2 489.3 457.9 436.4 430.7 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 84.1 73.2 67.1 65.6 64.7 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 776.3 562.5 525.0 501.9 495.4 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.18 0.13 0.12 0,11 0.11 Water (m³/tonne) 2.2 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 Other figures Complaints 33 36 32 9 13 Number of ISO 14001-certified sites 74 66 70 76 80 Number of ISO 50001-certified sites 3 4 18 20 20 Water source split Municipal water 48% 46% 48% 49% 52% Own boreholes 42% 47% 46% 45% 42% Surface water 10% 7% 6% 6% 6% Wastewater destination Public sewer with wastewater treatment 67% 66% 66% 69% 73% On-site treatment, followed by public sewer without wastewater treatment 3% 2% 2% 1% 0% On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake 28% 28% 28% 26% 24% Other 2% 4% 4% 4% 3% Thermal energy mix Natural gas 66.1% 71.9% 69.1% 72.9% 75.4% Coal 15.6% 7.0% 5.9% 3.5% 1.8% District heating 6.4% 7.1% 7.6% 7.4% 6.8% Heavy fuel 2.8% 3.1% 3.6% 3.0% 3.0% Renewable energy 6.9% 8.2% 9.8% 11.8% 12.3% Light fuel 1.2% 1.4% 3.0% 1.4% 0.8% Other 1.0% 1.3% 1.0% 0% 0% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 68-69). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 48 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants HFC-based refrigerants (kt CO2)* 14.9 9.8 6.8 2.9 12.3 Together Towards ZERO brewery target Scope 1 Absolute CO2 emissions (excl. logistics) (kt CO2)** 436* Scope 2 Absolute CO2 emissions. Market based. (kt CO2) ** 202* Scope 1+2 Absolute emissions (Together Towards ZERO 2015 baseline) (kt CO2) 846 777 704 704* 638* Renewable electricity Percentage of electricity from renewable sources 41 43 45 46* 56* Sites using coal Number of sites using coal 31 17 12 6* 5* Packaging mix Cans 26.6% 27.4% 28.6% 29.9% 30.6% RGB 33.7% 31.5% 29.8% 28% 29.2% NRGB 9.2% 9.5% 11.6% 12.3% 11.9% PET 23.0% 23.0% 20.8% 20.3% 19.8% Kegs 6.4% 7.6% 7.8% 7.7% 6.8% Bulk 1.0% 0.9% 1.2% 1.4% 1.4% Other 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.4% 0.4% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 68-69). ** Indicator added for 2019. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 49 HEALTH & SAFETY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Figures for Production*** Number of lost-time accidents* 114 105 73 59 53 Lost-time accident rate* 6.2 7.0 5.1 4.5 4.1 Number of lost days* 1,911 1,281 1,219 1,393 2,247 Days lost rate* 104.5 85.6 85.6 105.4 172 Figures for Logistics*** Number of lost-time accidents* 140 109 62 48 40 Lost-time accident rate* 15.5 13.8 8.2 7.5 6.3 Number of lost days* 2,511 1,619 1,128 1,393 1,473 Days lost rate* 277.2 205.1 149.5 218.0 233 Figures for Sales & Marketing*** Number of lost-time accidents* 52 95 43 58 46 Lost-time accident rate* 3.3 6.2 2.5 3.5 2.7 Number of lost days* 565 2,787 961 1,545 1,623 Days lost rate* 36.2 183.0 56.3 94.1 97 Figures for Administration*** Number of lost-time accidents* 6 2 5 4 7 Lost-time accident rate* 1.4 0.6 1.4 1.2 2.0 Number of lost days* 43 30 57 271 123 Days lost rate* 9.7 8.2 16.3 82.0 35 Figures for the Group*** Number of lost-time accidents* 312 311 183 169 146 Lost-time accident rate* 6.6 7.4 4.3 4.3 3.7 Number of lost days* 5,030 5,717 3,365 4,602 5,466 Days lost rate* 106.2 136.9 79.4 117.0 138 Fatalities (Carlsberg Group employees on and off site, contractors and members of the public on site) 5 5 1 3 0 Number of lost-time accidents, contractors* 42 54 Number of lost-time accidents, members of the public* 0 0 Lost-time accidents – department split Percentage in Production 37 34 40 35 34 Percentage in Logistics 45 35 34 28 35 Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 19 31 26 37 32 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 68-69). *** Carlsberg Group employees. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 50 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING AND MARKETING COMMUNICATION 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives 78 75 90 76 97**** Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text* 54 85 97 96 99 Percentage of total beer volume that lists nutritional information* 65 65 Percentage of total beer volume that lists ingredient information* 85 90 Number of responsible drinking campaigns 239 194 248 159 162 LIVE BY OUR COMPASS 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees trained in the Code of Ethics & Conduct 4,336 34,500 2,911 4,700 Number of incidents reported through our Speak Up system 87 55 53 95 168 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 68-69). **** 34 out of 35 companies. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 51 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total workforce (FTE*****) 47,464 42,062 41,430 40,837 41,248 Percentage of employees by employment contract Permanent employees 88 86 89 86 87 Temporary employees 12 14 11 14 13 Percentage of employees by employment type Full-time 98 93 93 94 91 Part-time 2 7 7 6 9 Percentage of employees by employment category Total presidents + top managers 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.8 1.9 Total managers 12.3 12.6 13.2 13.5 14 Total specialists 39.9 36.7 36.9 38.5 39 Total workers 46.3 49.2 48.5 46.2 46 Percentage of employees by gender Male 72 69 71 68 67 Female 28 31 29 32 33 Percentage of management level by gender Male 78 77 76 75 73 Female 22 23 24 25 27 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.19 0.11 0.13 0.02 0.03 19-29 22 23 25 23 19 30-39 33 33 35 35 38 40-49 29 27 25 26 26 50 or older 16 17 15 16 17 ***** FTE data from Carlsberg Group Annual Report 2019. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 52 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee turnover Employee turnover percentage 19 21 24 19 17 Employee turnover percentage by age Younger than 18 19-29 32 31 31 36 35 30-39 33 34 38 35 37 40-49 20 20 18 16 15 50 or older 15 15 15 13 13 Employee turnover percentage by gender Male 71 69 63 70 73 Female 29 31 37 30 27 Hours of training per employee Average for the Group 15 15 15 16 18 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 73 74 74 72 72 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Number of integrated quality audits 171 182 154 166 197 CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 53 REPORTING PROCESS AND SCOPE REPORTING APPROACH AND global megatrends, take part in Joint ventures and companies over The following companies have been BALANCE CRITERIA industry initiatives and assess the which the Carlsberg Group does not renamed/restructured since 2018: We are committed to communicating activities of our competitors. This have the opportunity to exercise honestly and openly about our SCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY ensures that we fully understand the management control are not CHINA: performance, both when it has REPORTING key issues and keep up to date. covered. However, we work with our Carlsberg Hong Kong has been improved and when it has not. Our This report covers the relevant and partners routinely to ensure ongoing included in Carlsberg Brewery Hong aim is to provide our stakeholders significant social, ethical and The report focuses on the topics that focus on sustainability issues. If a Kong. with sufficient information about our environmental issues for the financial we consider most important to our majority-owned entity is acquired company for them to form their own year 1 January to 31 December business and society. It is based on a during the financial year, it will be Carlsberg Procurement (Shenzhen) judgements concerning the Carlsberg 2019. It gives our stakeholders an range of inputs from our included in the following year’s has been included in China National Group’s position and role in the overview of our performance in these stakeholders, including, but not report. Office (HQ). societies in which we operate. areas, complementing our Annual restricted to, the materiality Report, which primarily covers our assessment from 2016, water risk COMMENTS ON BOUNDARY The following companies have been CLARITY financial and economic performance. assessment work undertaken with SETTING excluded from the 2019 reporting: We strive to make our sustainability WWF in 2019, the UN’s Sustainable The following sites have been reporting accessible and easy to read For many years, we have been using Development Goals (SDGs), carbon closed/sold since 2018 and have MYANMAR: for anyone, but we are always open the standards of Global Reporting footprinting analyses undertaken therefore been excluded from the Myanmar Carlsberg (due to jointto feedback about the way we Initiative (GRI) as guidance for our with the Carbon Trust and guidance 2019 reporting: venture status) communicate on our material issues. sustainability work. For this 2019 from the advisory group helping us report, the GRI G4 Sustainability CHINA: CAMBODIA: ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY with responsible drinking. Reporting Guidelines were applied in CBC, Guoren Changde Brewery Cambrew (will be included from Since 2009, our dedicated preparing the underlying data and 2020) sustainability reporting system has BOUNDARY SETTING framing our reporting principles; VIETNAM: helped us collect data from local Entities included in this report’s however, the Carlsberg Group no Carlsberg Vietnam, SEAB ENSURING DATA QUALITY sites and consolidate this at Group performance data include majoritylonger applies GRI-specific In gathering information about our level. Every year, we have improved owned subsidiaries, which are disclosures. The following company has been sustainability performance, we the indicator definitions for our defined as companies that the added to the 2019 reporting scope: applied the widely used principles of performance indicators in order to Carlsberg Group directly or indirectly We receive recommendations on our balance, clarity, accuracy, reliability, help our entities report accurately owns, in which it controls more than sustainability activities and reporting POLAND: timeliness and comparability. Please and reliably. 50% of the voting rights or that it from our assurance provider, PwC, Carlsberg Shared Services find additional information on each otherwise controls. while we ourselves routinely analyse of the topics below: CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 54 However, it is a challenge to obtain a TIMELINESS DEFINITIONS These have been developed by each complete and fully aligned overview Internally, we report our During the reporting process, we of the area owners in cooperation of all our data that, at the same sustainability data with varying identified some differences in the with Group Sustainability and may time, takes into account local degrees of frequency, depending on interpretation of certain indicators at be adjusted following significant procedures for data gathering. For the nature of the data. Where site level. However, we do not feel changes in the business, such as this reason, we are continuously necessary, we revise the reporting these differences significantly impact major acquisitions and divestments. working on improving data accuracy. frequency in order to strike the right the validity of the reported data. As far as possible, we include such Since 2009, we have been using an balance between obtaining the Within the environmental data, any changes by applying scenario international provider of correct data and observing reference to “production site” or “site” planning to our target-setting sustainability software solutions to appropriate time intervals for refers to sites where the Carlsberg process. systematise and collect our data. reporting on them. Annual data Group produces beer, soft drinks or This gives us a higher degree of gathering and external reporting are malt, as well as combinations of control over the data-gathering aligned with financial data collection, these, and the water and energy process, helps local companies following the calendar year. consumption at these sites. The term compare data year-on-year, and “production site” does not include enables instant consistency checks COMPARABILITY off-site consumption such as during the data-gathering phase. As On pages 55-62, we have published logistics and off-site administration. well as the system, we use internal the definitions we use for the key Definitions for environmental data management systems to collect indicators in the report, which are indicators and health & safety are information such as employee also the data points on which PwC available on pages 55-62. headcounts. An additional tool used provides assurance. to improve our sustainability data is TARGETS the Carlsberg Operational Manual We include threeor five-year data We communicate through actions (COM), which sets out details in all cases where a comparable and targets: regarding processes and best threeor five-year data history is • One-year short-term actions practices. available. towards ZERO • 2022 targets PwC has been appointed to provide • 2030 targets independent assurance regarding selected economic, environmental and safety indicators. In each section of the report, we indicate which data has been assured. For further details, see pages 68-69. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 55 INDICATOR DEFINITIONS In the following, we explain the indicators we use to measure our sustainability performance. We define them and clarify their scope and any relevant assumptions we have made when collecting data globally. INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Total production of beer and soft drinks Definition: Million hl Volume of fermented and non-fermented products produced. Production output that has passed through the production process on the company's own premises is included. Output is defined as approved packaged product to warehouse, plus volume of bulk beer and volume of bulk non-fermented products. Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 54. Total thermal energy consumption Definition: GWh Total thermal energy consumption used for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Thermal energy originates from different energy sources such as light fuel oil, heavy fuel oil, natural gas, town gas, biogas from wastewater treatment plants, coal, biomass, district heating, grid electricity and biogas with renewable certificates (documented and traceable). Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Thermal energy sold to third parties, fuels for on-site logistics and fuels used for electricity production from on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants are excluded from Total thermal energy consumption . Losses from CHPs are included. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 56 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Total electricity consumption Definition: GWh Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Electricity originates from different sources such as renewable electricity generated on site (solar, wind), electricity bought with renewable certificates (e.g. Guarantees Of Origin, Renewable Energy Guarantees Origin − REGO), electricity from grid and electricity from on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Electricity sold to third parties is excluded from “Total electricity consumption”. Total CO2 emissions (from direct and Definition: kt indirect fuel consumption) Total fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect). Direct emissions are from the combustion of fuels for thermal energy and indirect emissions are from purchased electricity and district heating. CO2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and International Energy Agency statistics. Electricity grid emission factors from IEA are updated annually. Renewable energy types have an emission factor of 0 g CO2/KWh. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Assumptions: CO2 emissions related to sold thermal energy and electricity are not deducted from “Total CO2 emissions”. Relative thermal energy consumption Definition: kWh/hl Thermal energy needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total thermal energy consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Thermal energy used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total thermal energy consumption”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 57 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Relative electricity consumption Definition: kWh/hl Electricity needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total electricity consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Electricity used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total electricity consumption”. Relative CO2 emissions Definition: kg CO2/hl Fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from energy used to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption)” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 54. Assumptions: CO2 emissions related to malting or other extraordinary site activities are deducted from “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption)”. Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants Definition: kt CO2 equivalent emissions caused by refrigerant losses from on-site refrigerant systems. Emission factors for refrigerants are generic table values. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Percentage of electricity from Definition: % renewable sources Share of electricity from renewable sources. Renewable sources can be on-site renewable electricity generation or electricity supplied with Guarantees Of Origin, Renewable Energy Guarantees Origin or similar standards. RE100 requirements provide the guiding principles for how renewable electricity is reported. “Total renewable electricity intake” / “Total electricity intake” Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Assumptions: Electricity generated from on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants is not included in “Total electricity intake”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 58 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Number of sites using coal Definition: Number of sites Number of breweries that used coal as the primary thermal energy source during the reporting period. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Assumptions: The brewery does not use coal on site to generate thermal energy. Scope 1+2 Absolute CO2 emissions Definition: kt (Together Towards ZERO brewery Sum of “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption)” and “Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants”. target) Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Scope 1 Absolute CO2 emissions Definition: kt (excl. logistics) (kt CO2) Sum of “Total CO2 emissions (from direct fuel consumption)” and “Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants”. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Scope 2 Absolute CO2 emissions. Definition: kt Market based. (kt CO2) Sum of “Total CO2 emissions (from indirect fuel consumption)”. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 59 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO WATER WASTE Total water consumption Definition: million m³ Total water consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Water originates from water withdrawal from own boreholes, municipal water supply, surface water or other sources. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Water intake to brewery sold to third parties is excluded from “Total water consumption”. Relative water consumption Definition: hl/hl Water needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total water consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 54. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Water used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total water consumption”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 60 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING Percentage of fermented produced Definition: % volume carrying responsible drinking “Volume of packed fermented products that carry responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text” / “Total packed fermented production volume x 100%”. guiding symbols and/or equivalent text Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. Assumptions: Volume in kegs and bulk is excluded from “Total packed fermented production volume”. Percentage of total beer volume that Definition: % lists nutritional information “Volume of total beer volume that lists nutritional information (on primary packaging, excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)” / “Total beer volume (excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)”. Nutritional declaration: nutrition declared on consumer-facing primary packaging. Minimum requirement is to present energy in linear form (e.g. “Energy: 190 kJ/46 kcal per 100 ml”). Primary packaging: all consumer-facing primary packaging for beer products, excluding kegs. Does not include alcohol-free brews. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. Percentage of total beer volume that Definition: % lists ingredient information “Volume of total beer volume that lists ingredient information (on primary packaging, excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)” / “Total beer volume (excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)”. Ingredient declaration: ingredients presented on consumer-facing primary packaging in linear form (e.g. “Water, barley malt, hops”). Primary packaging: all consumer-facing primary packaging for beer products, excluding kegs. Does not include alcohol-free brews. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 61 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Lost-time accidents (LTAs) in Definition: LTA Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Administration Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. “Accident” and “injury” are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. Days lost (DL) in Production, Logistics, Definition: DL Sales & Marketing, Administration Calendar days, starting the day after the incident and ending the day before return to work, including weekends, holidays etc. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. Full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Definition: FTE Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Full-time equivalents (FTEs) is equal to the average number of employees on the payroll. Part-time employees are converted into FTEs proportionally. Administration Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Definition LTAR Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Number of lost-time accidents (LTAs) x 1,000 / Number of full-time equivalents (FTEs). Administration Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 62 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Days lost rate (DLR) in Production, Definition: Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Number of days lost (DLs) x 1,000 / Number of full-time equivalents (FTEs). Administration DLR Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. Lost-time accidents (LTAs), contractors Definition: on Carlsberg site Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. Contractor: any individual who works for a service provider (or who is self-employed) and performs an outsourced activity for Carlsberg (including individuals who work for LTA subcontractors). Carlsberg site: any site managed by Carlsberg, or where construction work is being carried out on our behalf, including greenfield and brownfield project sites. “Accident” and “injury” are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. Lost-time accidents (LTAs), members of Definition: the public on Carlsberg site Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. Member of the public: any individual who does not correspond to the definitions of regular employee, temporary employee or contractor (e.g. visitors, delivery personnel, suppliers, consultants, students, family members). LTA Carlsberg site: any site managed by Carlsberg, or where construction work is being carried out on our behalf, including greenfield and brownfield project sites. Accident and injury are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 54. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 63 LIST OF REPORTING SITES COUNTRY COMPANY SITES WESTERN EUROPE Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewery, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries No production sites Estonia Saku Õlletehase as Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava France Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei Hamburg AG, Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz Greece Olympic Brewery S.A. Thessaloniki, Ritsona Brewery Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys Utenos Alus Utena Norway Ringnes Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Carlsberg Shared Services (CSS) No production sites Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija − Celarevo Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, S Rheinfeld, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company No production sites UK Carlsberg UK Northampton CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 64 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES EASTERN EUROPE Azerbaijan Baku (Company) Baku Belarus Alivaria Alivaria Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan (brewery site) Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St. Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula Brewery Tula, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh Carlsberg Eastern Europe (Grain Co) Malt Plant Yaroslavl, Malt Plant Tula Ukraine Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery Lviv, Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev ASIA China Xinjiang Group Akesu Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Yining Brewery, Korle Brewery CIB & TMH Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong (Huizhou), Changzhou Tianmuhu Beer Co. Ltd, Anhui Tiandao Beer Co. Ltd Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan, Dali Beer Co. Ltd CBC Mawangxiang Brewery, Dazhulin Brewery, Hechuan Brewery, Liangping Brewery, Wanzhou Brewery, Fuling Brewery, Panzhihua Brewery, Xichang Brewery, Boke Brewery, Shizhu Brewery, Yibin Brewery, Guoren Lixian Brewery, Guoren Yongzhou Brewery China National Office (HQ) No production sites Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong No production sites India Carlsberg India Kolkatta, Alwar, Aurangabad, Paonta Sahib, Hyderabad, Dharuhera, Mysuru Karnataka brewery Laos Lao Brewery Pepsi Plant Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse, Lao Brewery Vientiane Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Singapore Carlsberg Singapore No production sites Vietnam Carlsberg Vietnam Phu Bai CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 65 TAX CONTRIBUTION PRINCIPLES BASIS OF PREPARATION Data is collected for consolidated SCOPE OF REPORTING AND governments for the period from 1 Government GENERAL COMMENTS entities in the Carlsberg Group. DEFINITION OF KEY TERMS January to 31 December. Amounts Any government body or nation, This Basis of Preparation presents “Tax” in this Section means any are included as paid when cash is state, region or district. the scope and methodology of the Companies over which the Carlsberg amount of money required to be released from or received by the collection and reporting of the data Group exercises a significant paid to, or collected and Carlsberg Group. on tax payments used in the influence, but does not consolidate, subsequently remitted to, a SCOPE OF REPORTING Economic Contribution section (“the government. Operating costs 1. BORNE TAXES are considered to be associates. Data Section”). Include cost of sales, sales and These are the taxes that the for associates is not part of the Terms defined in the Carlsberg distribution expenses, administrative Carlsberg Group is obliged to pay to Carlsberg Group tax contribution. The Section aims to provide readers Group’s Annual Report 2019 are not expenses and other operating a government on its own behalf, or with an overview of the total tax described below. expenses, but exclude employee taxes that the Group is obliged to Entities acquired or formed during contribution to society that the wages. pay to a third party and that cannot the year are recognised in the Carlsberg Group (excluding Taxes borne and taxes collected are be recovered from a government. Section from the date of acquisition associates) has generated during the or formation. Entities that are the taxes due in respect of an Employee wages accounting period as defined in IFRS, Include wages to employees, Corporate income tax year. The total tax contribution is disposed of or wound up are as adopted by the EU. excluding social security costs. Corporate income tax comprises any defined as taxes borne and taxes recognised in the consolidated tax on the business calculated on the collected by the Carlsberg Group. income statement up to the date of KEY TERM DEFINITIONS Providers of capital basis of its profits, income or capital disposal or winding-up. gains. Typically, these taxes would Economic value generated Include financial expenses recognised It is the responsibility of the Economic value generated comprises in the income statement, but exclude be reflected in corporate income tax management of the Carlsberg Group The data includes a degree of gross revenue, other income, financial expenses recognised in returns made to governments and to ensure that appropriate estimation, as tax per entity is not financial income and income included other comprehensive income. tend to become payable, and are procedures are in place to prepare reported in detail if a type of tax is in special items, and share of profit paid, either in the year the profits reporting in line with this Basis of below DKK 100,000 per year. after tax in associates and joint Economic value retained were made or up to one year later, Preparation. Instead, taxes below DKK 50,000 Consolidated profit after tax. ventures. Income recognised in other depending on the local tax rules as are not reported, and taxes above to timing of payments. comprehensive income is not All data, unless otherwise stated, has DKK 50,000 but below DKK Employee taxes included. been prepared for the year from 1 100,000 are reported as DKK Include personal income taxes and Energy taxes (net, non-refundable) January 2019 to 31 December 2019. 50,000. The data is reported by the Total tax contribution social contribution for employees Energy taxes comprise entity in local currency in multiples Total tax contribution is the sum of (collected). environmental taxes levied on the of 1,000. borne and collected taxes paid to consumption of energy borne by CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 66 companies’ own supply of energy. Transportation taxes from the Group’s business activities Withholding tax on dividend Such taxes may include taxes on the Transportation taxes comprise flight and are therefore part of the Group’s distributions made by Carlsberg A/S consumption of electricity, oil, gas or tax, petrol tax, registration duties total tax contribution. This comprises taxes that are coal. and other taxes levied on the required to be withheld in advance mobility of goods and employees. Excise duties (beer and soft drinks on payments made to shareholders. Environmental fees etc.) Environmental fees comprise Social contribution for employees Excise duties are indirect taxes on VAT/GST additional environmental taxes that Social contribution for employees the consumption of alcoholic VAT is a broadly based consumption may apply depending on company comprises the social security beverages etc. tax assessed on the value added to operations. Such taxes may include contributions levied on and borne by goods and services. It applies more other taxes and duties on the supply the employing company. Such Excise duties are generally imposed or less to all goods and services that of goods and services that are contributions may include the by the tax authorities and are are bought and sold for use or potentially harmful to the employer’s national insurance collected by the Group on behalf of consumption. environment and have not been contributions, employment insurance the authorities when the goods are included in the energy taxes. tax, employees’ provident fund, oldtransferred to the customers and are VAT is assessed and collected at age, survivors’ and disability thereby ready for consumption. each point in the manufacturing– VAT (non-deductible) insurance tax. distribution–sales process of a good Non-deductible VAT is the part of Personal income taxes or supply of a service. the input VAT that cannot be Stamp duties These comprise employee taxes recovered, e.g. VAT on gifts or Stamp duties comprise taxes that withheld from employee wages and Like VAT, the Goods and Service Tax entertainment. arise on transfers of assets or paid to governments, i.e. tax (GST) is a value-added tax assessed capital. Typically, these taxes would collected and remitted to on most goods and services bought Real estate taxes be reflected in stamp duty returns governments on behalf of and sold for consumption. Real estate taxes comprise any made to governments and tend to employees. property-related taxes, including become payable, and are paid, to property, land and estate tax (other governments shortly after the capital Social contribution withheld by the than stamp duty, which is shown or assets have been transferred. company below). Typically, these taxes tend These comprises social contributions to become payable, and are paid, to Other taxes payable by employees to social governments throughout the year. This category comprises all paid security, and private funded and taxes that are not included in the unfunded schemes. Generally, the Withholding taxes on dividends, above categories. employment of staff requires the royalties, interest and professional employing company to administer fees 2. TAXES COLLECTED, INCLUDING employees’ social security Withholding taxes comprise the final EXCISE DUTIES contributions by deducting these tax burden on payment of dividends, These are taxes not finally borne by from wages and salaries. interest etc. after possible tax relief. the Carlsberg Group, but for which the Group bears an administrative burden of collection. These taxes are, however, indirectly generated CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 67 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION METHODOLOGY Estimates for this report on jobs To calculate indirect effects Indirect effects Induced effects To obtain figures for induced created throughout the value chain (accounting for the Carlsberg Group’s To calculate indirect employment, Calculation of the induced effects employment, Europe Economics were calculated by the research purchases upstream in the supply Europe Economics used ratios of starts from a total consumption used ratios of turnover per person consultancy Europe Economics using chain), Europe Economics also turnover per person employed. For value in each of the onand offemployed. For European countries, an established methodology that is collected data on domestic purchases European countries, the ratios were trade markets (hospitality and retail Europe Economics used Eurostat also used by the Brewers of Europe. of goods and services in the areas of: sourced from Eurostat using NACE sales respectively). The value is data for the NACE Rev. 2 sectors of Data has been collected from 29 agriculture; utilities; packaging and Rev. 2 sector classifications1. For calculated using the average “Retail sale of beverages in Carlsberg companies across the bottling; transportation and storage; non-European countries, Europe consumption values (in hectolitres), specialised stores” and “Beverage world. equipment and other industrial Economics used ratios taken from the Carlsberg shares in each of the serving activities”. For non-European activities; media, marketing and the World Bank (available for three national markets and the relative countries, Europe Economics used The variables collected included: communication; and other goods categories only: Agriculture, Industry prices of the final products sold World Bank data for the sector employment (number of people in and services. To calculate induced and Services). therein. The market values are then “Services”. each market), production (in effects (downstream into the converted to pre-tax values by hectolitres), turnover, value added hospitality and retail sectors), Europe removing the VAT2. and personnel costs (in national Economics collected data on prices currency), and taxes borne and and shares of Carlsberg Group sales collected by Carlsberg in each of the in offand on-trade markets. Both markets (excise duties, VAT, indirect and induced effects relate to corporate, environmental, employee the production and sales of beer. income, social contribution and other taxes, in national currency). 1 The following associations were used: “A: Agriculture” and “H: Transportation and storage” ratios were used for the agriculture and transportation sectors respectively, whereas “C: Manufacturing” was used for the sectors of packaging and equipment. A combination of “D: Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply” and “E: Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities” was used for the utilities sector and a combination of “L: Real estate activities”, “N: Administrative and support service activities”, and “M: Professional, scientific and technical activities, Media and marketing” was used for media and marketing. Finally, an average of the manufacturing and marketing sectors was used for the sector representing other goods and services. 2 Excise duties are not removed, as the productivity ratios used from statistical sources contain such duties. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 68 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR The Carlsberg Group engaged us to WHAT WE ARE ASSURING that lists ingredient information” Financial Information”. A limited Control 1 and accordingly maintains provide limited assurance on the The scope of our work was limited to (page 50); assurance engagement is a comprehensive system of quality selected data described below and assurance on selected data for the • Health & Safety: data on “Number substantially less in scope than a control, including documented set out in the Carlsberg Group period 1 January – 31 December of lost-time accidents”, Lost-time reasonable assurance engagement in policies and procedures regarding Sustainability Report for the period 1 2019 in the section “Data summary accident rate”, “Number of lost relation to both the risk assessment compliance with ethical January – 31 December 2019. table” (pages 46-52), namely: days” and “Days lost rate” in the procedures, including an requirements, professional standards Carlsberg Group and “Number of understanding of internal control, and applicable legal and regulatory OUR CONCLUSION • Energy, carbon and water: data on lost-time accidents, contractors” and the procedures performed in requirements. Our work was carried Based on the procedures we “Total production of beer and soft and “Number of lost-time response to the assessed risks; out by an independent performed and the evidence we drinks”, “Relative figures from beer accidents, members of the public” consequently, the level of assurance multidisciplinary team with obtained, nothing has come to our and soft drinks production”, “Total (page 49); obtained in a limited assurance experience in sustainability reporting attention that causes us not to thermal energy consumption”, • In the “Economic contribution” engagement is substantially lower and assurance. believe that data in scope for our “Total electricity consumption”, section, the following information: than the assurance that would have limited assurance engagement are “Scope 1 – Absolute CO2 emissions “Total tax contribution”, “Taxes been obtained had a reasonable UNDERSTANDING REPORTING free of material misstatements and (excl. logistics)”, “Scope 2 – borne” and “Excise duties paid” assurance engagement been AND MEASUREMENT are prepared, in all material respects, Absolute CO2 emissions. Market (pages 38-40). performed. METHODOLOGIES in accordance with the accounting based”, “Total water consumption”, Data and information need to be principles as stated in the sections “HFC-based refrigerants”, We do not provide any assurance on OUR INDEPENDENCE AND read and understood together with “Reporting process and scope” “Percentage of electricity from the achievability of the Carlsberg QUALITY CONTROL the accounting principles (sections (pages 53-54), “Indicator definitions” renewable sources” and “Number of Group's objectives, targets and We have complied with the Code of “Reporting process and scope”, (pages 55-62), “List of reporting sites using coal” (pages 46-48); expectations. Ethics for Professional Accountants “Indicator definitions”, “List of sites” (pages 63-64) and “Tax • Responsible drinking and marketing issued by the International Ethics reporting sites” and “Tax contribution contribution principles” (pages 65communication: data on PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS Standards Board for Accountants, principles”), which Management is 66) of the 2019 Carlsberg Group “Percentage of fermented produced APPLIED AND LEVEL OF which includes independence and solely responsible for selecting and Sustainability Report. volume carrying responsible ASSURANCE other ethical requirements founded applying. The absence of a drinking guiding symbols and/or We performed a limited assurance on fundamental principles of significant body of established This conclusion is to be read in the equivalent text”, “Percentage of engagement in accordance with the integrity, objectivity, professional practice on which to draw to context of what we say in the total beer volume that lists International Standard on Assurance competence and due care, evaluate and measure non-financial remainder of our report. nutritional information” and Engagements 3000 (revised), confidentiality and professional information allows for different, but “Percentage of total beer volume “Assurance Engagements other than behaviour. The firm applies the acceptable, measurement techniques Audits and Reviews of Historical International Standard on Quality CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 69 and can affect comparability by all production sites for • The content of the Carlsberg Group between entities and over time. consolidation at corporate level; Sustainability Report for the period • Evaluated relevant internal and 1 January – 31 December 2019. WORK PERFORMED external documentation, based on We are required to plan and perform sampling, to determine whether the OUR RESPONSIBILITIES our work in order to consider the risk selected data in scope for our We are responsible for: of material misstatement of the assurance engagement is supported • Planning and performing the data. In doing so and based on our by sufficient evidence; engagement to obtain limited professional judgement, we: • Reconciled selected tax information assurance about whether selected • Completed a media search to with the audited consolidated environmental, health & safety, identify relevant risks and issues financial statements of Carlsberg social and economic contribution within the scope of the assurance A/S; data in the 2019 Carlsberg Group engagement for Carlsberg during • Read other information included in Sustainability Report are free from the reporting period; the 2019 Carlsberg Group material misstatement, and are • Reviewed the suitability of the Sustainability Report in order to prepared, in all material respects, in reporting criteria; identify any material accordance with the accounting • Evaluated the design and inconsistencies with the selected principles; implementation of the systems, data in scope for our assurance • Forming an independent and processing and internal engagement and our limited conclusion, based on the controls over the selected data in assurance report thereon. procedures performed and the scope for our assurance evidence obtained; and engagement; MANAGEMENT’S • Reporting our conclusion to the • Conducted interviews with relevant RESPONSIBILITIES stakeholders of the Carlsberg policy owners at corporate levels, Management of the Carlsberg Group Group. who are responsible for collecting, is responsible for: consolidating and carrying out • Designing, implementing and internal control procedures on the maintaining internal control over Copenhagen, 4 February 2020 selected data in scope for our information relevant to the assurance engagement; preparation of data in the Carlsberg PricewaterhouseCoopers • Visited production sites in Group Sustainability Report that is Statsautoriseret Azerbaijan, China and Serbia to free from material misstatement, Revisionspartnerselskab obtain insight into local whether due to fraud or error; CVR no. 3377 1231 sustainability management, review • Establishing objective accounting data and assess the robustness of principles for preparing data; Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Gert Fisker Tomczyk the sustainability data • Measuring and reporting data in State Authorised Public State Authorised Public management systems; the Sustainability Report based on Accountant Accountant • Conducted an analytical review of the accounting principles; and Mne21404 Mne9777 the selected data in scope for our assurance engagement submitted CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE 70 Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416 Editor: Carlsberg Group Corporate Affairs Design & layout: Operate & SkabelonDesign Copywriting & proofreading: Onestone & Borella projects
