Represent Communications UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2019 ABOUT THE COMPANY Represent Communication is an integrated communications agency in Serbia and the Balkans region. For the past 18 years, Represent Communications has gained experience in working with prestigious clients who run business in different areas including multinational companies, state owned companies but also government representatives and international donors. We are a team of 62 dedicated and talented professionals who provide services for 80 clients across four markets – Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are a Weber Shandwick global network affiliate and part of Interpublic Group. COMPANY’S CORE VALUES: 1. QUALITY AND EXPERIENCE 2. TALENT HUB 3. COURAGE 4. TEAM DEDICATION 5. OPTIMISM As of Septembar 1st 2019č, Represent Communications is regulating its business thorugh Code of Conduct, Represent Communications guidelines for company ethics that apply to members of the board of directors, managers and other employees of Represent System as well as others acting on behalf of Represent System. Each employee is introduced and has signed Code of Conduct. COMMITMENT STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR Dear all At the moment of sending this CoP the whole world is fighting COVID 19 pandemic. Business and everyday life are affected, but being in the line of communications practice, enable us to provide support and help our partners, clients, employees, families and friends. At the moment we have to be responsible not only to these principles, but to much more: to enable safe environment to our employees, our families and friends. The Agency has managed to stay strong, build additial capacities, and remain focused on the principles we’ve agreed to respect. In the past period, we have additionally contributed to fulfilling these principles and joined many additional activities which promote mainly environmental and labour principles, reflecting our everyday work. As of September 1st, 2019, we have introduced Codes of Conduct, accepted and signed by each of our employees. Our Codes of Conduct covers following areas: human rights, working environment, occupational health, safety and employee security, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, loyalty, impartiality, conflict of interests and related party transactions, confidentiality, private interests and actions, duty, positions and ownership of exernal business, political activity and relations to clients, suppliers, competitors and public authorities including competition, corruption and bribery as well as environment property and assets, protection of personal data, internal control, accounting and reporting. With this document, we have succsesuflly moved one step forward in promoting responsible, transparent and ethical business environment. We are pleased to be part of this project and we will continue to respect and promote the principles we’ve adopted, bearing in mind their exceptional importance. Sincerely, Tamara Jokanović, Managing Director OUR APPROACH TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Represent System supports the internationally proclaimed human rights including the UN Declaration and conventions on human rights. We respect the personal dignity, privacy and rights of each individual you interact with during the course of work and shall not in any way cause or contribute to the violation or circumvention of human rights. Our Company’s goal is to motivate our employees, partners, suppliers and clients to participate and actively respond to human rights related concerns aiming to secure dignity and equality for all. Implementation Represent System shall be a professional workplace with an inclusive working environment and shall comply with recognized international conventions, including the International Labour Organisation's core conventions. We:  Act with integrity and treat with respect colleagues and others that we meet through our work  Represent System is opposed to discriminatory practices and shall do its utmost to promote equality in all employment practices  No direct or indirect negative discrimination shall take place based on race, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, language, religion, legitimatepolitical or other opinions, national or social origin, property, birth or other status  We do not tolerate degrading treatments towards any employee, such as mental or sexual harassment or discriminatory gestures, language or physical contact that is sexual, coercive, threatening, abusive or exploitative.  We have continued to collect hygienic products, food and clothes for the imigrants, migrating from different countries Activities 1. Summer Get Together The Knowledge Academy team, Represent Communications educational department, openned the doors to all friends of the Agency during hot summer days and launched a large-scale humanitarian and educational campaign, with a revolutionary concept in our region. We’ve decided to talk about various topics and open many questions and ideas for consideration and development with support of 10 regional experts in the world of communications, business and networking bin the course of 10 weeks (every Thursday in July and August). Every time, a lecturer decided on a donation recipient, based on their wishes and preferences. We’ve supported Grammar School of Mathematics, NURDOR, Children from Zvečanska, Anfiteatar Festival, LiceUlice, Be Humane, SOS Childrens Villages, Childrens Heart and few individuals. Activity resulted in +EUR10,000 (in RSD) of humanitarian aid raised 2. New Year Charity Represent Communications has decided to support the “Candy for my friend” humanitarian action; money collected we’ve spent each year on corporative gifts, buying candies for our friends in various institutions. “Candy for my friend” action was started by Nevena Vrtulek, a journalist at RT Vojvodina. The candy was going to the children at “Children’s safe house”, Halfway house for children and youths, Department of Oncology at the Children’s hospital, Association for people with disabilities “Love, faith, hope” and the Home for disabled children and youth in Veternik. The goal of this humanitarian action is to bring back humanity and solidarity for children and color with candy and other necessities the somber reality of the children who have celebrated the New Year festivities without the warmth of a family atmosphere. Also, during this humanitarian initiative, employees of Represent Communications gathered clothes, shoes, books, and toys to donate to the children at “Children’s safe house” in Belgrade. Other activities  We have continued to support of children’s shelter in various activities throughout the year  We have provided support and collaborated in the National kitchens project, aiming to delever food for all in need and build a central kitchen where homeless can dine.  Part of our employees have continued to sign organ Donor cards and set an example and encouraged others to do so in the future.  Our employees have participated as educators and trainees at Universities and different digital and PR conferences Measurement of outcomes We monitor and measure the progress of social enterprenuers we are helping through the mentoring program. Also, we have a system in place that encourages our employees to report if they recognise any human rights issue. Also, we have annual (six month) evaluations as a tool for employees to report on human rights violations. Our Human Resources Department regularly documents and keeps track of grievances issues in this area. Each employee had signed Codes of conduct and is obliged to act upon it. Labour principles Assessment, policy and goals Represent Communications shall be a pioneer in the field of health, safety and employee security to promote good health and safe working environment in compliance with internationally recognized Represent System recognizes the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining in mature labour environments. In such environments Represent System shall allow its employees to freely elect representatives among the employees, unless this would represent a breach of national laws and regulations Any employment relationship with Represent System shall be freely chosen and free from threats. Represent System oppose the use of forced or compulsory labour, including but not limited to exchange of labour for payment of debt. Our company obtains written documents which clearly state and identify employees’ rights, responsibilities and benefits. We also have a functioning system in place and a separate e-mail address where employees can report on violation of any labour rights and principles. Implementation We are commited to use number of tools to ensure appropriate reporting on violation of labour principles. The tools that we use in that sense are open doors and regular meetings. In 2019, we’ve established Knowledge Academy for our employees that comprises of varios internal trainings based on employees needs but also wishes and competencies development. We systematically invest in our employees and contribute to their continual education through team buildings and personal development plans. Our company has continued with its trainee program where one-half of our trainees get hired after the program completion. We have strenghtened our internal communication resources and have continued to build capacity and invest in knowledge sharing throughout our offices in the region. The Agency is still implementing employee-related educational project, focused on improving know-how skills and informing them on the most important UN Global Compact principles. Represent Communications offices in Sarajevo have received and LGBTIQ Equality index award for labour rights, with the support of UN women offices in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have implemented a series of educational employee trainings regarding first aid and fire protection. In addition, we provided internal training for our management and employees to better understand GDRP rules and regulatives. Measurement Our HR Department regularly documents employees’ reports on violation of labour principles. A constant upgrade of policies regarding labour principles most adequately demonstrates the improvement in this field. Regular reports are being provided to management and board. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Represent System is at the forefront in protecting the environment and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Represent System adheres to relevant local and internationally recognized standards, minimize its environmental impact and continuously improve its environmental performance. We promote development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We continue to reduce the environmental impact of our business by educating our employees and motivating them to act environmentally friendly in and outside the offices where we perform our daily activities. Implementation Activities within our company We are continuously encouraging our employees to recycle paper, plastic and cardboard and to that end we have placed several recycling boxes in our offices. Our policy is to use energy-saving light bulbs in the entire building. As a socially responsible company, the Agency is still actively participating in raising and recycling cans within the “Can by Can” Project of the Foundation for Can Recycling “Recan” and recycling corks. As our premises are in the city center, at the beginning of the pedestrian zone, we agreed not to have one single parking spot. We stimulate our employees to use bicycles and have “everything but the car days”. We’ve created set of instructions, tips and tricks for our employess in order to help them to save more energy, e.i. turn off your connectors when your phones are not connected etc Activities outside our company Our company has participated in many environmentally oriented actions together with its clients. We helped EPS Public Utility Enterprise to organize media workshops on the energy savings and expectations We continued to participate in the organization and communication of Danube Eco parks – where we are raising awareness on maintaining Danube river ecosystems and saving water for the future. We have also built communication and supported SEPEN, environmental protection and packaging association, that has various iniciatives around these topics. We are still taking part in „Our Belgrade” movement that gatheres many socially responsible companies around different voluntary activities. Among those are environmentally friendly iniciatives. Measurement Represent Communications keeps record of employees who participate in environmental actions, encouraging and stimulating them to continue with these activities. The company also tracks the progress on recycled materials and compares the progress with previous periods. In addition, from the beginning of 2019 we closely monitor energy associated consumption and costs and try to follow up on a trend of a reduced consumption. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Represent Communications is firmly opposed to all forms of corruption. We shall never offer or accept illegal or inappropriate monetary gifts or other remuneration in order to achieve business or personal advantages for our self or others. Nor shall we use agreements with middlemen to channel payment to anyone in such a way that may be interpreted as corruption. Represent Communications is firmly opposed to all forms of money laundering and shall take steps to prevent its financial transactions from being used by others to launder money. Each employee signed Code of conduct that covers anti-corruption policies we adhere to and is obliged to strictly follow it. As a member of the Serbian Public Relations Association, the Agency and its employees are obliged to respect and act in accordance with the Ethical Code proclaimed by this Association. The Code identifies concrete violations in the mentioned area of work and emphasises fraud, harmful damage to reputation and disclosure of protected information as key violations. Our employees are members of UN Global agreement Anti-coruption working group through which we actively participate and strive to enable citizens and partners to take part in a more active dialog on corruption. Implementation As a member of the Serbian Public Relations Association, Represent Communications continually and actively engages in improving ethical and anti-corruption standards. Measurement HR Department together with Financial department closely monitors adherence to Codes of Conduct in the domain of anti-corruption. If the Ethical Code proclaimed by the Serbian Public Relations Association is violated, the members will appear in front of the Society’s Court of Honour and suffer pre-defined consequences. Our company also has a system in place where violations regarding anti-corruption can be reported and registered.
