COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for the UN Global Compact Roland Berger GmbH Reporting period: December 2019 to December 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 About Roland Berger Roland Berger, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy of German heritage and European origin. With 2,400 employees working from 35 countries, we have successful operations in all major international markets. Our 52 offices are located in the key global business hubs. The consultancy is an independent partnership owned exclusively by 250 Partners. We consider corporate responsibility and sustainability to be strategic business approaches that are increasingly becoming part of our core business. From our consulting experience we see that those topics have highest relevance for international companies in recent years, as they reconcile economic, social and environmental success. It is becoming more and more important to practice respectful interaction with each other and the world we live in. We are convinced that any corporate strategy developed in the coming years will also be a sustainability strategy. Sustainability is here to stay. This conviction, we have anchored in our own corporate strategy and purpose, aiming to support our clients in managing the worlds challenges for a better future for them and the communities they are active in. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we are also part of a community – the society in which we work. About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger GmbH, as the German pillar of our group of companies, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is our eighth report since we became a member of the UN Global Compact. The following report describes the current status, past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. PAGE 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 CONTENTS P.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P.13 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P.21 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P.28 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P.4 OUR GLOBAL MANAGING PARTNER'S DECLARATION OF CONTINUED SUPPORT P.32 THE ORIGIN OF OUR GOALS PAGE 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Our Global Managing Partner's declaration of continued support Since 2012, Roland Berger has been committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company's efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities. It is no surprise at all that this year was dominated by COVID-19 and thus by urgent decisions and near-term planning. Most of our activities, for example in the field of personnel development, had to be rethought and rescheduled at short notice. We drastically reduced our travel activity and redesigned collaboration to virtual formats, but above all, the main focus of our efforts was keeping our employees healthy and navigating them as well as possible through turbulent times. We set up a taskforce , which has done a great job giving guidance to our employees, developing hygiene concepts for the work with our clients and our offices and supported our teams that have directly been affected by COVID. We are proud to have handled the crisis with care and as much safety for our colleagues as possible. But there is no doubt that in the long run the topic of sustainability will remain one of the most pressing issues facing the world. It affects every aspect of our lives, from day-to-day decisions to the fate of future generations, from the world of politics to business and our private lives. Accepting this responsibility we pay special attention to the further development of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at Roland Berger and make a particular effort to improve in this regard. In the summer of 2020, for example, we set up a special taskforce to address the issue of sustainability within the ESG framework (Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance). The recommendations of this group of experts with profound know-how on sustainability topics helped us set very ambitious targets for ourselves particularly with regard to environmental protection. Having achieved Carbon Neutral status since 2019, we are intent on becoming Net Zero by 2028. To ensure transparency about where we stand, we have committed to the Science Based Targets Initiative and will regularly publish our progress on those topics in a special sustainability report. With our new strategy that puts sustainability at the heart of all our operations including many of our client focused activities, we are committed to making a difference. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue and further intensify our efforts to move forward in the four areas of the Global Compact over the next 12 months. Stefan Schaible Global Managing Partner Roland Berger PAGE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Human rights COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, and our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS We have a Code of Conduct in place to provide clear guidelines for our work and the way we interact with clients, business partners, communities and colleagues. The Code reflects our value statement and describes how we put it into practice. It is a compulsory contractual annex for all employees, freelancers and subcontractors. Additionally, an e-training session with a compliance test is compulsory for all permanent employees and contractors. This e-training has been replaced by a completely new and more extensive training course as of December 2020, which is mandatory for all employees – not only new recruits. The new concept includes an introductory course covering knowledge checks, and regular refreshers on selected topics. This seminar consists of sessions to foster awareness of ethical behavior such as respect in the workplace, equal treatment and preventing sexual harassment. Any failure to complete this course is reported to the Compliance Officer, who acts accordingly. If employees suspect a human rights violation, they can communicate their concern to the Compliance Officer through several channels. We are proud to be able to say that to date no human rights violations have occurred at Roland Berger. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we set up a totally anonymous internet-based whistleblowing platform in 2014. We regularly inform our employees about this channel and have integrated references and links to this important tool in our core HR processes. PAGE 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 As a second pillar of our human rights activities, the partnership has agreed on diversity being one of the core items on our strategy agenda and we have bundled diversity initiatives and increase visibility of this topic in all our markets. Please find more details on this in the chapter Diversity Management . HEALTH & SAFETY We care about the wellbeing, health and safety of all our employees and it is our ultimate goal to keep them safe when at work, on travel or in the office, especially in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have an extensive network of health and safety measures in place. We reacted quickly to the challenges of the pandemic by establishing a Corona Taskforce . It focuses on safeguarding employees during travel, establishing guidelines for hygiene and office presence, procedures for reacting to COVID-19 infections in the company, contact tracing, ensuring communication with and notification of employees, providing masks, sanitizers, air filters, influenza vaccines and COVID-19 testing possibilities to employees. These measures were acknowledged positively during the annual workplace inspection. We made home office possible without bureaucracy to enable social distancing and have reduced office capacities to help mitigate the spread of the virus. We introduced virtual collaboration platforms and increased their use to allow for virtual meetings and discussions. To limit A large majority of COVID-19 infection risks we decided to strictly limit and RB employees voted regulate any travel within and outside Germany. the Corona Taskforce To address issues such as stress resilience, Roland Berger as winner of the employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual leave. A trust-based vacation policy has been implemented COVID-19 Response for our managers, to ensure they get sufficient down time. Award in December. To allow a better work-life balance, we increased the number of paid vacation days for all our employees in Germany in 2019. When our consultant teams are working on location at a client, our Office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices instead of with the client. Since the COVID-19 pandemic hit, many teams have been practicing remote or hybrid working models where they spend parts of their week working from home. To help our colleagues better deal with the special challenges of remote working, such as adequately separating professional and private life and dealing with purely virtual team interaction, we kept and virtualized our seminar offerings on stress management, mental health and resilience. In 2019, we held thirteen seminars for a total of 120 experienced consultants and service staff. For 2020, we set up ten virtual trainings and impulses on the new stress , stress management and mental health, which have so far reached 130 employees. We also introduced a measuring instrument called the Team Barometer nine years ago to monitor team spirit and situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. This Team Barometer PAGE 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 will be replaced and upgraded by our new Project Commitment agreement as of January 2021. It will help our Project Managers monitor their teams' moods and workloads, initiate conversations on personal needs and define approaches that could help to better manage and support the individual team member's wellbeing. In addition to these pandemic-specific regulations and measures, we also have regular control mechanisms in place to ensure our employees' safety while travelling. To offer optimal care and coverage, Roland Berger has engaged a global service provider to help us with medical, health, insurance and security matters. The services it provides include a 24/7 hotline for all colleagues, emergency services worldwide (for health or security problems) and pre-travel advice on security situations, medical standards and visa information. We provide our employees with an e-training session about these services within our travel community. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic we pushed this app to employees' mobiles to ensure they get immediate alerts on COVID-19 restrictions and unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters in the country they are travelling in. We also track whether any colleagues are in the country or city concerned. Affected colleagues are contacted directly to arrange a safe trip home or hotel bookings and to offer general support. In the event of insecure situations over protracted periods, Roland Berger tries to arrange long-term solutions. We also maintain a foreign travel health insurance policy for our employees. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is not usually confronted with human rights issues. Our employees all work for us of their own accord and they are all of legal age. The prevention of forced, compulsory and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guidelines thus far, mainly because German legislation already addresses and enforces this corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any human rights situation at Roland Berger. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We truly believe that our company's success is not only about market performance, but strongly driven by our people and culture – and that it can always get better. Since May 2019, we have therefore been running a monthly Global Employee Engagement Survey for all employees, to feed a continuous feedback and improvement process. This survey regularly reflects the way we work and communicate with each other and the way we help our people develop. With the help of this tool we successfully achieved more transparency on overall employee satisfaction worldwide, identified best practices and improvement potential, and offered an additional channel for compliance matters. The results of the Employee Engagement Survey have become part of our regular management report on all countries and regions. During the COVID-19 lockdown, the Employee Engagement Survey proved to be an important tool for us as a company for conducting regular pulse checks of our employees PAGE 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 working from home, and for staying in close contact with them and taking action where needed. As a result, we raised the frequency of management communication and touch points with the management, piloted first training nuggets on leading remotely, stress management and mental health while working from home and provided ideas for formats and good practice on how to stay connected as a team. With the relaunch of the survey in October 2020, we adapted the former questionnaire to the New Normal by replacing some of the questions with questions on remote working, remote leadership and also on diversity to feed our above-mentioned diversity initiative with relevant KPIs. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our activities in the field of human rights protection. GOALS COMMENT We want to keep the rate of successfully We fully achieved this goal. completed e-seminars on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. We want to select and pilot a new e-training We launched the new training in December 2020. course on the Code of Conduct that allows refresher seminars on specific Code of Conduct topics to be issued and monitored. We want to keep the number of stress We achieved this goal and piloted these trainings management seminars at the same level. among the first virtual seminars during the COVID-19 pandemic. We want to develop the Employee The Employee Engagement Survey has become a Engagement Survey into a regular and regular management tool that is regarded even more globally accepted process for constant highly since it has proved its value during times of feedback and improvement. remote working. We aim to increase the number of colleagues We fully achieved this goal. Since April with lockdown participating in our work and life balancing in a lot of regions we have received increasing programs by 10%. requests and supported a significant number of additional days of unpaid leave, sabbaticals, parttime models and home office work. PAGE 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. We will strive to reach the following goals in particular: • We want all employees to take the new Compliance e-learning seminar in 2021 to refresh their knowledge and awareness of this topic • We want to keep the global participation rate of the Employee Engagement Survey at least at the same level as in 2020 • We want to establish a global compliance platform as an approval body for clients, suppliers and sub-contractors • Based on the comments documented in the Employee Engagement Survey we want to extend our seminar offering and launch new seminars on remote working and remote leadership to better help our employees master the challenges of new work . • We want to keep at least the same number of stress management and health (physically/mentally) related activities • We want to equalize and enhance our mentoring quality as an important pillar for personal safety and wellbeing in uncertain times, e.g. via clearly defined mandatory standards • We want to globally launch new RB Project Commitments and Barometer to improve personal balance and development on our project teams and to be able to regularly measure the pulse of the teams • We aim to increase the number of colleagues participating in our work and life balancing programs by 10% PAGE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger GmbH does so too. But we go further, proactively taking steps in line with the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, Roland Berger established general rules for ethical behavior in our business dealings. That document is a formal element of every employment contract CODE OF CONDUCT we offer, and we expect our employees to comply Living up to our values with it. Additionally, all Roland Berger Partners have to confirm their compliance with the Code of Conduct on a yearly basis. Our compliance management system and anti-corruption rules, intellectual property encompasses all tools and mechanisms that rights, insider information, respectful conduct, define and implement the principles and values recruitment standards, health and safety at work, of our organization, including the guidelines of the human rights and environmental protection. Code of Conduct. Thus, it enables us to uphold them in our strategic and operational business. To emphasize the importance of anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules we have summarized and The Code was designed to meet the specific supplemented the existing rules in a separate demands faced by Roland Berger. It provides anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. guidance for behavior in our dealings with clients, colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Following the implementation of the European Our Code of Conduct is built on the pillars of General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) corporate responsibility, professional integrity, during the last reporting period, we have expanded confidentiality, safety and personal conduct. It our Rules for Handling Inside Information ( Insider covers issues such as data security, anti-bribery Policy ). PAGE 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Responsible business The Insider Policy provides a comprehensive For a large number of high-risk and emerging overview of what needs to be considered when countries, we have introduced a binding Know dealing with inside information (e.g. maintaining Your Customer process supported by an external strictest confidentiality and keeping an insider provider, to ensure that we do not enter into list) and what the consequences are if the relevant business relationships with companies or legal provisions are violated. individuals that are in conflict with international regulations. Moreover, as part of our compliance policy, Roland Berger Group (RB Group) is committed to Our Code of Conduct is a living core document of obeying internationally applicable sanctions law our firm that undergoes constant amendment. (sanctions as imposed by UN, EU, UKHMT, HKMA, Thus, it now even more explicitly covers the four OFAC, or as part of national sanctions law). In this areas that the Global Compact addresses. context, specific rules have to be observed in order to ensure compliance with existing laws and FIND THE LATEST VERSION OF OUR CODE OF regulations. We have expanded and introduced CONDUCT HERE: a standardized and regular sanction check, https://www.rolandberger.com/en/Publications/pub_ especially for selected high-risk countries, and code_of_conduct.html extended the list of countries in which we do not provide services. PAGE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Labor Standards COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Everyone at Roland Berger is dedicated to our three corporate values: entrepreneurship, excellence and empathy. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT To provide our clients with the best possible consulting services, we offer our employees a broad educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills and individual coaching. Currently, consultants attend 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. Relevance of the topics and the quality of the training measures are guaranteed by a carefully arranged selection and quality-management process as well as regular reviews of emerging needs and topics. For example, during the past months of the COVID-19 pandemic we not only transformed most of our existing seminars into virtual formats, we also successfully launched new seminars to assist our consultants and support staff with the challenges of New Work . In these courses we offered various virtual learning nuggets on topics such as Leading at a distance , Video etiquette , Selforganization and Mental health and stress management . More and longer seminars on these topics will be added to our regular development program for 2021. Another focus of our seminar offerings is still on fostering a digital mindset and big data literacy in our company. To support these data skills our Data Analytics Bootcamps and Data Science Bootcamps were among the first training blocks to be conducted virtually. At Roland Berger, we try to provide an attractive, flexible working environment and offer several programs to balance personal and professional life and foster individual development. We enable our employees to pursue their academic interests by sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs and offer a sabbatical to pursue interests beyond Roland Berger's daily operations. To further expand and institutionalize our program portfolio we PAGE 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 recently asked all consultants for their preferences, and we plan to also launch new programs over the next months within our B&me initiative. Several colleagues took the chance in 2020 to apply for the first Entrepreneurial Fellowship and pitched their own business idea in front of a selection commission. One successful colleague started his fellowship. Following the launch of the Entrepreneurial Fellowship, we move another step forward and launched a new Start-up Fellowship, which offers the opportunity to gain a different perspective and discover the start-up world first-hand. One first fellow is currently working at a tech company; one of our Terra Numerata cooperation partners. As a last addition to our B&me portfolio we recently opened the application process for a new Social Fellowship. With this offering we want to nurture our corporate value empathy as one of the building blocks of Roland Berger's corporate culture by supporting our employees' individual commitment. The Social Fellowship will offer the freedom to the fellow to support a non-profit or social organization of their choice. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. We have extensive evaluation mechanisms installed: regular project assessments (both top-down and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2015, we introduced an evaluation process to further improve the feedback quality, make the assessment more objective and give even better career and personal development advice. A bottom-up leadership assessment (BULA) of all Principals, Partners, Directors and SVPs is also held annually, also with a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2020 we upgraded the questionnaire with additional questions on diversity and innovation. The international participation rate of consultants in these bottom-up assessments for 2020 was 65%. The service staff participation rate was 67%. DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Diversity is critical to Roland Berger, because as a firm we exist in a diverse society. For us to deliver the next higher standard of service to our clients, we must reflect the society we exist in. We truly believe that diverse teams come to better results. This belief will allow us to future-proof ourselves in a fast-changing world by embracing all types of talent. Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above all, they are strong and creative personalities regardless of their backgrounds. Diversity and non-discrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and are thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. Germany's Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz or AGG) is part of every employee's contract in Germany. To underscore its importance, all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course on this subject. To further foster an even more diverse workforce and a diversity friendly company culture, the global Partnership of Roland Berger jointly decided at the beginning of 2020 to explicitly also root diversity in Roland Berger's corporate strategy. That is why we want to hire and develop people from different PAGE 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 backgrounds with different talents and strengths, with diverse cultural and ethnic origins and different genders and sexual orientations at Roland Berger. Together we drive a modern work culture based on respect. This ambition is also reflected in our Global Management Team. Twelve colleagues out of its 25 members are new and have not been in a global management role before. Seven are younger than 45 and three are female – a number that we want to further increase. Furthermore, one of our five Supervisory Board members is female. Roland Berger strives to offer an inclusive work environment where lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and transgender (LGBT+) colleagues are valued and respected, where they can be themselves and can help lead the way for others. In 2016 we started Just be , our internal global community for gay and lesbian colleagues, which became a caring network for these colleagues and a forum to help them raise questions or concerns. Members of this global community get together annually for a day of networking and brainstorming. With Just be Friends , a network of LGBT+ supporters, which is now the largest social community of our company, the global Just be community is receiving even more support from members at every level and geography. In 2020 we organized the first virtual Roland Berger Pride Week as a companywide celebration of diversity to support an environment where LGBT+ employees feel safe to be their true and full selves, irrespective of their sexual orientation or identity. And we are also aiming at driving diversity and inclusion outside Roland Berger as well, by supporting BeyondGenderAgenda, a new organization promoting diversity and inclusion in German businesses. The 2020 German Diversity Award and its LGBT+ category was sponsored by Roland Berger. Another step towards more diversity is the formation of a new Global Diversity Team in June 2020 consisting of 42 senior members across all geographies. The goal of this team is to launch and drive local and global initiatives for a diverse workforce. A broad range of actions have already been initiated such as the enforcement of a Diversity Self-Assessment by all countries, the compilation of a Diversity Dashboard for comprehensive global and local diversity KPIs, a regular report on diversity activities and KPIs, the upgrade of our regular Employee Engagement Survey and our bottom-up leadership assessment (BULA), a pilot of a team workshop on unconscious bias, and a series of short training interventions on Unconscious bias to help 80 Principals and Partners become aware of their own internal barriers and biases and to create the foundation for an even more diversity-friendly company culture. Among the different aspects of diversity, the topic of women in consulting is also receiving special attention. Although women are increasingly active in business today, there is an imbalance higher up in the hierarchies. Women today need to support and inspire one another by sharing their experiences on career advancement and professional achievement. Males in management need to know and challenge their unconscious biases, in order to promote women equally and avoid always choosing the known. Creating a gender-balanced work environment remains at the top of our management agenda, and it is for this reason that Roland Berger hosted several women's events at different venues during the year. Our company supports various initiatives such as Women in Africa, which aims to create the first global network of women executives and leaders in Africa, and to promote their role and economic, social and political influence in Africa and beyond. PAGE 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Internally we again hosted several activities related to women@RB , such as career talks with female business leaders and alumnae, fireplace talks with female Partners, our internal Global Women Leaders Meeting and trainings for women at Roland Berger. We express how much we value diversity through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charta). RECRUITING PRACTICES Roland Berger is a strategic partner of several international business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. These partnerships further strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. We apply state-of-the-art methods to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly to their rank within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance, so the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program is also designed to foster diversity at the workplace. In 2020, 117 employees and 26 different countries participated in the exchange program. At the same time, we increased the amount of regular cross-border staffing. Crossborder networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced even in times of limited travel by events like our virtual international trainings and our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. This program – which includes the most promising high potentials within the firm – aims to contribute to the individual development of the consultants. The members – up to 66 consultants from 23 countries – usually meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Challenge Club met virtually in 2020, enjoying learning nuggets, four virtual half-day sessions on remote leadership with a neuroscience approach, and fireplace chats with our Global Management Committee. The diversity of our employees is also reflected in the array of nationalities represented in our offices. Currently, Roland Berger in Germany has employees from 16 countries. At the end of 2018, 35% of Roland Berger employees in Germany were female and 15% of employees in management positions were women. Globally at the moment 36% of our employees are female. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we have implemented measures to improve the work and family life balance and we have a special buddy program for female consultants in place. To better attract and retain female consultants and to strengthen the role and number of female leaders, Roland Berger recently launched the Women in Consulting@RB initiative. Within this initiative we have introduced special recruiting events and new recruiting formats focused on female consultants (i.e. web chat and university marketing formats). Since September 2017, we regularly compile a management report to track activities and progress of this initiative. In order to raise awareness for Roland Berger as an employer embracing diversity, consultants and HR colleagues recently teamed up for a recruiting fair specifically targeting LGBT+ high potentials. In June, a group of consultants represented Roland Berger at the Sticks & Stones Job Fair in Berlin for the fifth consecutive year. PAGE 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 WORK-LIFE BALANCE The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men and women alike – is expressed by the berufundfamilie certification which was awarded to Roland Berger six years in a row. For instance, in 2020, 50% of our employees on parental leave were men. Nonetheless, male colleagues still take much shorter leave compared to mothers, which leaves room for further efforts and improvement. To foster the opportunity to combine sports and work, we launched an internal task force in Germany in 2016, with the goal of pushing all kinds of joint physical exercise. Local sports ambassadors were also elected. These local sports ambassadors organize and coordinate several sporting events during the year at all German office locations, such as beach volleyball, canoeing or just going for a run together. For a limited time, there is even a personal trainer for small groups of employees. We are proud to be ranked among the top three employers in our industry in our European core markets. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. B&ME INITIATIVE Our Employee Engagement Survey has proven the increasing demand for flexible working models and individually tailored solutions. We already offer several programs for our employees to balance personal and professional life and foster their development. With our B&me initiative that started in 2019 we move one step further. The program features part-time and sabbatical programs and offers the opportunity to ask for additional unpaid vacation days. In addition, we have expanded our program portfolio and offer the opportunity to work on own business ideas, and spend time with a start-up or a non-profit organization. Every year, all consultants in Germany, Austria and Switzerland have the chance to indicate their preferred programs and working models in a survey. Similar programs are discussed and implemented in other Roland Berger countries. PAGE 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS As expressed in the previous report, we aim to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. GOALS COMMENT Regarding the seminar program, we want to at Data trainings have been launched and least increase the number of training days per even transformed into virtual delivery employee, while introducing new mandatory global formats, but training days were reduced training courses to promote data literacy among compared to 2019 due to the COVID-19 our consultants, Principals and Partners (e.g. Data pandemic. Analytics, Data Science, Data for Leaders). For 2020, we plan to achieve at least the same We fully achieved this goal. participation rates in the leadership assessment as in 2019. We want to increase the number of participants in We managed to keep the number stable the International Staff Exchange Program. but couldn't increase it due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We want to increase the number of female We managed to keep the number stable colleagues. but couldn't increase the ratio of female colleagues due to reduced recruiting activities after lockdown. We want to better support work-life balance and We postponed this goal due to other personal development, also for our support staff, by prioritized activities related to the adapting and extending the B&me initiative to this COVID-19 pandemic. employee group. We want to successfully complete the pilot of our We fully achieved this goal by rolling out B&me initiative by rolling out the first round of the first round of measures and even measures to support the use of flexible working adding additional fellowships to the models, sabbaticals and development programs in program. Since April/lockdown we have Germany, Austria and Switzerland. received increasing requests and supported a significant number of additional unpaid leave days, sabbaticals, part-time models and home office work. PAGE 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to accomplish the goals regarding our work force. • We want to launch a new training seminar on Unconscious Bias, mandatory for all consultants • We want to launch team workshops on Unconscious Bias for all Competence Centers in DACH to foster a truly diversity-friendly team and company culture • We want to relaunch our Interview Techniques, including sessions on how to recruit a more diverse work force and on how to best avoid own biases • We want to increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange, Fellowship and Job Rotation Programs • We want to extend the activities of women@RB by launching new global training offerings and networking formats for all levels • We want to install training, coaching and mentoring offerings to attract and assist especially female Senior Consultants and Project Managers in making their way up to Principal and Partner • We want to move forward towards our ambition for 2024 of 35% female applications, 30% female consultants, 25% female Project Managers and 10% female Partners/ Principals • We want to at least maintain the same participation rates in the leadership assessment as in 2020 PAGE 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Environment COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 OUR COMMITMENT As a professional services company, Roland Berger is certainly less exposed to environmental issues than many other companies, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we strive to minimize our negative ecological influence. We accept our responsibility as a role model and see our opportunity to assume the role of a game changer. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION We believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT Our greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling done by our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. Our employees can choose between plane, train, leased car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transport as possible modes of transportation. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2018, 6,332,119 kilometers of German train travel were realized using environmentally friendly electricity (2017: 5,484,919 kilometers). We also give benefits to every employee who chooses the train instead of the plane. Since April 2019, we have been taking part in a CO₂ compensation program within Germany, Austria and Switzerland, in order to offset our flight emissions (current status: April 2019 March 2020, CO₂ offsetting 1,559.82 tons). The year 2020 is strongly influenced by the corona pandemic. Of course, this also has a significant impact on our global travel activities: We reduced our travel to a minimum (e.g. international flights -70% from January to October 2020 compared to the same period last year) with the corresponding impact on our CO₂ balance. PAGE 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Since October 2020 we have been running an internal project about our own sustainability. Among other things, it is about our course on CO₂ neutrality. First measures will be introduced in 2021. We also encourage telephone and video conferencing instead of travel. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices, and all employees have an individual equipment set for their laptops. Since March 2020 we have established the use of MS Teams as a video conferencing tool available for every employee globally. Influenced by the Corona pandemic, the number of virtual meetings increased from 265 realized in March to 48,560 in November 2020. Although this incredible boost is triggered by the travel restrictions, the acceptance and strong usage shows that it is here to stay as way of communication, and that it will continue to replace some business trips in the future. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices, several processes has been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Recently we changed our entire range of supplies (i.e. coffee and tea), and now offer only certified regional and organic products. We now order a range of beverages that are not only organic but also donate part of their income to sustainable projects. We also switched our coffee machines from environmentally unfriendly capsules to sustainably reusable capsules. We also separate trash, such as paper, batteries and other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We also started separating plastic waste this year. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. We try to use as many unpackaged products as possible, although we had to interrupt this initiative due to hygiene standards during the pandemic. We have, however, changed our product range for cleaning liquids to ecological and vegan products. When moving our head office in Munich in 2015, we were able to reduce our energy consumption by about 75%. The current building has a high standard of energy conservation, using shade, lighting, etc. in a way that wastes as little and stores as much energy in the building as possible. And like our offices in Frankfurt and Düsseldorf, it has been certified with the LEED® Gold standard. We only have customary air-conditioning installed in technical rooms, and instead use heating/cooling ceilings in the offices. This concept will be assigned to all German offices in future. We want to save as much energy as we can in our office buildings and with our equipment and travel policy, etc. As shown in the table below, we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices in the past. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 68% since 2011. PAGE 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Office 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 buildings [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 33,738 30,560 42,054 38,974 40,619 38,635 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 141,378 176,000 172,632 172,666 161,163 128,876 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 87,693 109,136 103,182 105,797 100,014 91,966 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 66,004 52,306 49,900 46,378 39,364 47,9462 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 937,872 249,060 232,822 219,995 211,905 218,232 Stuttgart 45,524 50,0001 43,000* 38,558 41,400 43,442 37,980 17,630 18,5882 Total con1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 1,305,243 658,462 644,032 621,790 570,695 544.243 sumption Reduction -5.18% -8.36% -10.22% -49.55% -2.19% -3.45% -8.22% -4,63% -13.11% -21.99% -60.65% -61.51% -62.84% -65.89% -67,47% 1 Estimate 2 Increase due to construction work We use environmentally friendly electricity at all our sites and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. With the implementation of our Energy Management System (DIN ISO EN 50001) we have a better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers in the offices. With this new knowledge we can replace wasters with new equipment with better energy figures. In recent years we have changed printers and other materials to reduce our energy consumption to the lowest rate ever. As the audit takes place every year, we can review and question our consumption figures annually. PAGE 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 RB Sustainability Initiative Becoming a sustainable company is a major part of Berger's sustainability. The survey drew a recordour B24 strategy. We are aware of the importance breaking number of respondents, thus testifying of sustainability in our societies, at our customers to the great importance our people attribute to and with our employees is high. the topic. Key stakeholders at Roland Berger, including all Managing Directors, CC Heads and In October 2020, an international team of internal Country Heads, were interviewed to capture their sustainability experts embarked on a project perception, opinion and ideas. aiming to increase sustainability at Roland Berger, with the strong involvement of the entire Roland At the core of our sustainability strategy is Berger organization by developing a holistic the so-called ESG framework. This widely strategy. The project team carried out an in-depth accepted framework, which we customized analysis of the sustainability status quo to identify for our specific requirements, is powered by a best practices and existing initiatives and to holistic understanding of sustainability along collect ideas from the employees. Gained insights the dimensions of Environment , Social and were used as a basis for developing a holistic Corporate Governance . sustainability strategy. By assessing the status quo in each of these As part of the analysis phase a sustainability dimensions, evaluating competitor benchmarks survey among RB employees was carried out and taking into account the feedback from the in November 2020. Survey participants were survey, six focus areas were identified that will asked about their sustainability awareness, serve as pillars of our sustainability profile. All perception of the status quo, expectations pillars build on and further develop initiatives that regarding Roland #PitchTeam Berger's future sustainability already exist at our firm. PLC EXCLUSIVE (bespoke design, non-transferrable, client/project use forbidden) 1 profile and ideas for measures to improve Roland Six key pillars of our sustainability strategy Addressing Driving Reducing the world's Fostering Being a Empowering responsible our carbon challenges – diversity partner our people business footprint with our and inclusion to society practices clients PAGE 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 RB Sustainability Initiative Our firm has committed to making Roland Berger our commitment and progress, we will submit net zero in 2028 and carbon negative beyond our reduction targets to the Science Based 2028. Reducing our overall footprint will rest Target initiative (SBTi) and report to the Carbon on two types of activities: actively reducing our Disclosure Project (CDP). Furthermore, we will carbon emissions along the entire value chain, on need to offset our emissions only through offset the one hand, and offsetting them by purchasing projects that remove CO2 from the atmosphere, carbon credits, on the other. We will do so with for instance by planting trees (sequestration). three scopes: Carbon negative means that we will remove more Scope 1: Reviewing our car policies with the goal CO2 than we emit by offsetting our historical of promoting alternative mobility concepts footprint. We will offset our emissions through a mix of measures accredited by either Gold Scope 2: Purchasing renewable energy in all RB Standard or Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). office locations In December 2020 we reached a first CO2 Scope 3: Reducing our travel activities by milestone by being awarded the Climate leveraging digital collaboration opportunities Neutrality label by South Pole! Attaining net zero status will require us to reduce Concrete additional measures to reach our goals our carbon emissions in line with the targets set will be defined at the beginning of 2021. by the Paris Agreement. To be transparent about PAGE 26 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. GOALS COMMENT From next year on we want to pursue a We have now installed waste separation stricter waste-separation policy everywhere. We separate paper, plastic and packaging waste and normal waste on all floors and general areas. We want to reduce our waste We have already equipped the first sites with (i.e. reduction of glass bottles by such systems and we are planning more to introducing water dispensers). follow. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: • We want to set targets for reducing our carbon emissions • We want to submit carbon emission reduction targets to the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) • We want to develop and kick-off the implementation of measures to reduce our scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions • We want to offset our carbon footprint • We want to help our clients fight climate change and drive circular economy through a global platform • We will continue to pay attention to and expand the use of energy-efficient IT equipment at our workstations • We will expand our environmental initiatives internationally, using the experience gained in Germany PAGE 27 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Anticorruption COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 28 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 OUR COMMITMENT As a leading consultancy, Roland Berger is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. We confirm our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within and outside our company. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. In a volatile and complex business environment, managing risks and compliance is of constantly growing importance. At the beginning of this year we introduced New Rules for Business Relations with Sanctioned Countries/Persons in order to safeguard Roland Berger Group and its shareholders. For a large number of high-risk and emerging countries we have also introduced a binding Know your Customer process, which is supported by an external provider to ensure that we do not enter into business relationships that conflict with international regulations. NEW COMPLIANCE TRAINING It is our aim to make our Compliance Management System live up to relevant legal changes by constantly enhancing its content and offering training and guidance for professional behavior. For this reason, we undertook significant efforts this year to prepare for a new compliance training course that will cover the content even more extensively. Topics will include anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, insider trading, sanctions, confidentiality, IT security, data protection (GDPR), respect in the workplace, equal treatment and preventing sexual harassment. The functional and technical requirements will be heightened compared to our previous training course, and include legal updates, knowledge checks, refreshers, integration of own documents and allow participants to provide content relevant to specific target groups such as superiors through a profiler. TRANSPARENT CONTRACTS To prevent abuse, all payments to freelancers or senior advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers and senior PAGE 29 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 advisors have been standardized and their payment is controlled using proApproval , a tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit, the contracts for senior advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid conflicts of interest amongst client teams, a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly monitored in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Like our employees, freelancers must also adhere to our Code of Conduct. All Partners sign a formal declaration every year that they have adhered to the Code of Conduct. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information with strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We obtained the ISO/IEC 27001 standard certification for the Roland Berger Holding in 2019. This entity operates all our IT infrastructure and guarantees that we meet high security standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure mobile devices that allow e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy, which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also the subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT equipment, using e-mail and the internet, mobile working and protecting against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo! or Google, for our business communication. Data exchange between companies of the Roland Berger group is governed by compliant contractual regulations. In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic we reminded employees of their obligations to ensure that our data security standards are observed in a home office environment. Trade secrets are key to Roland Berger's business and strategy. Against the background of the introduction of a new standard on the protection of know-how and trade secrets in the European Union, a new policy regarding the proper Treatment of Trade Secrets has been introduced. In particular, as a prerequisite to protecting trade secrets, adequate protective measures must be actively taken by everyone at Roland Berger. Relevant information has been classified to differentiate between secret/confidential and public information, for instance. The Policy has been communicated and rolled out to all Roland Berger employees in order to ensure protection of trade secrets. PAGE 30 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 ANTI-CORRUPTION/ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY We have implemented a new anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy as a separate supplement to our Code of Conduct, underlining the importance of this issue. The policy covers topics such as bribes and kickbacks, facilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and expenses, charitable donations, business relationships (freelancers, subcontractors, senior advisors, agents, joint venture partners) and accounts and controls. We regularly update our Compliance Portal and have improved its structure for better clarity and transparency. We communicate updates to our employees. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand mediumterm goals one year ago. GOAL COMMENT To promote compliance with our In 2020 we updated our Code of Conduct to underCode of Conduct and corporate line the importance of complying with anti-money policies (including the Anti-Bribery/ laundering, sanctions and anti-corruption laws and Anti-Corruption Policy) we will raise make employees aware of relevant changes. employee awareness of our existing The whistleblower hotline was promoted to whistleblower system by means of employees in several Compliance News e-mails. suitable communication measures. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: • We want to keep raising employee awareness of our existing whistleblower system by means of suitable communication measures, to promote compliance with our Code of Conduct and corporate policies (including the Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy) • In 2021 we will implement and promote our new compliance training seminar, with a specific training session on anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. With it we will provide employees with real-world examples of how to act compliantly and manifest this with a knowledge check on the topic PAGE 31 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact. Thus, our future objectives are as follows: Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area/issue Human Rights We want all employees to take the new Compliance e-learning Sep. 2021 p. 10 seminar in 2021 to refresh their knowledge and awareness of this topic. Human Rights We want to keep the global participation rate of the Employee Dec. 2021 p. 10 Engagement Survey at least at the same level as in 2020. Human Rights We want to establish a global compliance platform as an Sep. 2021 p. 10 approval body for clients, suppliers and sub-contractors. Human Rights Based on the comments documented in the Employee May 2021 p. 10 Engagement Survey we want to extend our seminar offering and launch new seminars on remote working and remote leadership to better help our employees master the challenges of new work . Human Rights We want to keep at least the same number of stress Dec. 2021 p. 10 management and health (physically/mentally) related activities. Human Rights We want to equalize and enhance our mentoring quality as an Dec. 2021 p. 10 important pillar for personal safety and wellbeing in uncertain times, e.g. via clearly defined mandatory standards. Human Rights We want to globally launch new RB Project Commitments and Jun. 2021 p. 10 Barometer to improve personal balance and development on our project teams and to be able to regularly measure the pulse of the teams. Human Rights We aim to increase the number of colleagues participating in our Dec. 2021 p. 10 work and life balancing programs by 10%. Labor Standards We want to launch a new training seminar on Unconscious Bias, Sep. 2021 p. 20 mandatory for all consultants. Labor Standards We want to launch team workshops on Unconscious Bias for all Sep. 2021 p. 20 Competence Centers in DACH to foster a truly diversity-friendly team and company culture. Labor Standards We want to relaunch our Interview Techniques, including Aug. 2021 p. 20 sessions on how to recruit a more diverse work force and on how to best avoid own biases. Labor Standards We want to increase the number of participants in the Nov. 2021 p. 20 International Staff Exchange, Fellowship and Job Rotation Programs. Labor Standards We want to extend the activities of women@RB by launching Nov. 2021 p. 20 new global training offerings and networking formats for all levels. PAGE 32 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area/issue Labor Standards We want to install training, coaching and mentoring offerings Nov. 2021 p. 20 to attract and assist especially female Senior Consultants and Project Managers in making their way up to Principal and Partner. Labor Standards We want to move forward towards our ambition for 2024 of Dec. 2024 p. 20 35% female applications, 30% female consultants, 25% female Project Managers and 10% female Partners/Principals. Labor Standards We want to at least maintain the same participation rates in Dec. 2021 p. 20 the leadership assessment as in 2020. Environment We want to set targets for reducing our carbon emissions. Sep. 2021 p. 27 Environment We want to submit carbon emission reduction targets to the Dec. 2022 p. 27 Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI). Environment We want to develop and kick-off the implementation of Dec. 2021 p. 27 measures to reduce our scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions. Environment We want to offset our carbon footprint. Dec. 2021 p. 27 Environment We want to help our clients fight climate change and drive Dec. 2021 p. 27 circular economy through a global platform. Environment We will continue to pay attention to and expand the use of Sep. 2021 p. 27 energy-efficient IT equipment at our workstations. Environment We will expand our environmental initiatives internationally, Sep. 2021 p. 27 using the experience gained in Germany. Anti-corruption We want to keep raising employee awareness of our existing Sep. 2021 p. 31 whistleblower system by means of suitable communication measures, to promote compliance with our Code of Conduct and corporate policies (including the Anti-Bribery/AntiCorruption Policy). Anti-corruption In 2021 we will implement and promote our new compliance Aug. 2021 p. 31 training seminar, with a specific training session on anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. With it we will provide employees with real-world examples of how to act compliantly and manifest this with a knowledge check on the topic. PAGE 33 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT December 2019 to December 2020 CONTACT: Kristina Dengler E-mail: kristina.dengler@rolandberger.com Phone: +49 89 9230-8513 © Roland Berger 2020 www.rolandberger.com This publication has been prepared for general guidance only. The reader should not act acording to any information provided in this publication without receiving specific professional advice. Roland Berger GmbH shall not be liable for any damages resulting from any use of the information contained in the publication. © 2020 Roland Berger GmbH. All rights reserved.
