CSR Report 2018 CSR Report 2018 Management Philosophy Table of Contents Create new value in Healthcare and contribute to the prosperity of people. Management Philosophy / CSR for Sustainable Growth Our Approach to CSR 01 Healthy and prosperous society Better healthcare through testing 21 Message from Our Top Management Product/service quality and safety 23 Develop innovative diagnostic solutions to enhance trust Shigekazu Takeuchi, Director, President and Group CEO Appropriate disclosure of product/service information Stable and responsive supply and enforced testing systems 25 24 Miraca Holdings Inc. 03 in Healthcare and drive its evolution. Shunichi Higashi, President and CEO Supply Chain Management 26 SRL, Inc. 05 Human resources Comfortable working environment 27 Yoshihiro Ashihara, President and CEO Fujirebio Holdings, Inc. 06 Human rights and diversity 27 Employees development 28 Customer Centricity Respond to medical care and healthcare needs, exceed customer expectations Highlight Environment Creation of New Value Strive for global value creation ﬁrst and foremost; take risks to challenge and innovate Value from Clinical Laboratory Testing 07 Product life cycle assessment 29 Think and execute with global perspective Value from In Vitro Diagnostics 09 Environmentally responsible operations 30 Lead with result-orientation, speed and efﬁciency Value Created through Philanthropy 11 Local communities Social health and well-being 32 Sincerity and Trust Be sincere and trustworthy, act with transparency Corporate Group Milestones 13 Partnership with diverse communities 34 Communicate openly and constructively, beyond the boundaries Miraca Group Value Creation Business foundations Gain and maintain trust from all stakeholders 15 Strong corporate governance 35 Mutual Respect Respect diverse values, experience, expertise and teamwork Miraca Group Value Chain 17 Compliance 37 Praise and celebrate challenges and successes Risk management 38 Materiality 19 Information security and privacy protection Grow and help others to grow 38 Messages from Representatives of Miraca Group Companies 39 Our Approach to CSR Third-Party Opinion, Response to Third-Party Opinion 41 42 CSR Philosophy Corporate Proﬁle Directors & Ofﬁcers 42 External Recognition of Our ESG Performance 42 Its management and employees fully recognize that corporate activities go hand in hand with a wide-range of stakeholders, within and outside of the organization, and we commit to honor our social responsibilities as corporate citizens. CSR Policy We will carry out such activities that help to enhance our corporate value. We will commit ourselves to continue activities within our capacity. We will encourage our employees to participate in those activities. Four Areas of Activities Editorial Policy Healthy and prosperous society Develop and distribute high quality and world-leading products and services The Miraca Group published the CSR Report 2018, the ﬁrst report of its kind. Human resources Help our employees develop problem-solving and value-creating capabilities April 1, 2017 – July 31, 2018 The aim of this report is to give a better Period Reference Guidelines Covered (includes some information outside Environment Provide environmentally-friendly products and services understanding of the Group to all our stakeholders the period given above) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and provide an opportunity for further dialogues by (GRI: Global Reporting Initiative) Local communities Live together in harmony with local communities through philanthropic actions sharing our vision, CSR activities and efforts Organizational Miraca Holdings Inc. Scope SRL, Inc. toward delivering more value to our stakeholders. Fujirebio Inc. * For details on the four areas of activities, see Materiality (p.19-20). 01 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 02 Message from Our Top Management ment changing signiﬁcantly. CSR approach changes employee With the intention of radically transforming the awareness and behavior Miraca Group business and the awareness of its employees from the bottom up, we designated the Ultimately, the key to transformation is people. We year 2017 as a year of renewal and named the are now concentrating our efforts on intangible mid-term plan Transform! 2020, which started that reforms to change the awareness and behavior of same year. We also formulated our Mission and our employees. Vision, and Value at the same time. This all came Instead of sticking to our old ways of doing about because of our sense of crisis from the business, working in silos within our companies shifting terrain. and resting on our successes, we need to take risks and initiate change, and to commend both taking on difﬁcult challenges and success. For Plans for a new laboratory, such corporate culture to take root, I believe that our fundamental approach to CSR ― to respond to a symbol of change medical care and healthcare needs and exceed One of our projects symbolizing the creation of new customer expectations, and to gain and maintain The Miraca Group Transforms value in healthcare written in our Mission is the trust from all stakeholders ― plays an important Miraca Research Institute, established in 2017. The role. That is why we have incorporated all these in institute’s goal is to produce the seeds for the our Value, which was established in 2017. Rather for Sustainable Growth next-generation businesses over the long term by focusing on basic research. than fear change, I want our people to enjoy it and take steps toward new directions. The Miraca In June 2018, we also announced the plans for a Group will once again work together to create new new central laboratory dedicated to innovation. value in healthcare. Shigekazu Takeuchi This facility is not intended to be just another Director, President and Group CEO laboratory with improvements. We want to Miraca Holdings Inc. fundamentally overturn the way testing have been conducted so far by aggressively introducing AI technology and automation to reduce turnaround The time for change is now Drastic reform is vital to time (TAT) and human error, as well as enhance the quality of testing. We also plan to set up an R&D meet various changing needs The Miraca Group’s mission is to serve public health annex to nurture R&D work that will generate the and medical care by identifying the various messages Our business environment and the expectations of our seeds of our future businesses. To prevent sent by the human body using clinical testing and stakeholders have been changing considerably. downtime in our clinical testing, we will take providing the outcome to healthcare providers. Our Medical advances in gene therapy, including cancer measures to ensure business continuity in the greatest goal, as well as the cornerstone of our genomics, and regenerative medicine are developing event of earthquakes by using a base-isolated corporate responsibility, is to make sure that our at a rapid pace. Our clinical testing will naturally have structure for the building itself. employees are constantly aware of this responsibility to keep up with these developments. In the world of to create a healthier and more prosperous society new medical ﬁelds, we ourselves must also evolve so through our business. To be able to keep fulﬁlling this that we can continue to offer value as a Group. And it mission, I believe that the Miraca Group must is not only medical care that has changed. Society’s drastically change itself. expectations, awareness and attitudes have been 03 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 04 Message from Our Top Management Developing Healthcare, Creating a Healthy and Providing Products and Services to Solve Prosperous Society Healthcare Issues Globally Cutting edge testing for Growing role in local Reagents for infectious diseases while we established a local subsidiary in India. Under medical breakthroughs healthcare infrastructure Fujirebio Holdings founded in 2017, we strive to serve The role of testing is to make the invisible world visible. healthcare by pinpointing the medical needs in various SRL’s mission is to help develop healthcare and Another critical change has been the growing Since its founding, Fujirebio has continued to serve countries. create a healthy and prosperous society through importance of community healthcare. We believe that global healthcare by offering high-precision testing Japan also has various healthcare issues, and clinical testing. As healthcare changes, our roles and providing highly specialized clinical testing quickly to equipment and highly sensitive reagents that measure improving the sustainability of local healthcare is responsibilities in fulfilling that mission have been general practitioners and clinics in primary care helps trace amounts more reliably. becoming more important. Together with SRL, which growing even more. Our company has grown by support the operations of local medical institutions The world’s first syphilis reagent launched by handles clinical laboratory testing, Fujirebio can make specializing in esoteric testing, such as those related and ultimately leads to improved services for patients. Fujirebio in 1966, Treponema Pallidum the best proposals as a Miraca Group company to to genes and chromosomes. However, the remarkable Having a wider range of diagnostic tests available at Hemagglutination (TPHA) kit, is still trusted as the medical institutions and healthcare professionals and medical progress in recent years now require more nearby medical institutions can also help in disease golden standard in countries across the world more support local healthcare infrastructures through testing. advanced skills and technologies in clinical testing, prevention and early detection by increasing medical than 50 years later. TPHA and other manual reagents such as those for cancer genomes. examination rates. Working to achieving this goal, we have played a major role in the fight against infectious Developing unique products The need for not just specialized but also opened two satellite laboratories: SRL Setagaya diseases, since they are easy to adopt in countries toward new value creation personalized medical treatment to address individual Laboratory and SRL Advanced Lab. Azabu, in 2018. where the use of automated testing instrument is patient symptoms will surely grow as well. Identifying Thus, we are able to reduce turnaround time (TAT) difficult due to the economic situation or lack of The products and services offered by Fujirebio and the the optimal treatment can help curb excessive from taking the test to returning the test results. And infrastructure. Continuing to provide such simple, Miraca Group exist to support a healthy and medication for the patient and ultimately help reduce by being in closer proximity to medical institutions, we low-cost and highly accurate products is in our roots prosperous society. To keep fulfilling our social the soaring healthcare costs for society. I believe that are also more responsive to their needs. Leveraging and is our social responsibility as well. responsibilities, we comply with the relevant laws and clinical testing plays a major role here, and our group synergy and strengthening our collaboration regulations and reduce our environmental impact, as company’s experience, skills and excellent testing with Fujirebio, we will continue to offer the best Pinpointing medical needs in we wholeheartedly conduct our daily tasks. We will system will then come into its own. services to medical institutions. a diversified world continue creating new value through the development and provision of unique products and collaboration Wholehearted performance Worldwide trends in healthcare show that dementia, within the Group. leading to CSV cancer and lifestyle-related diseases have grown amidst economic growth and aging populations, As we grow, we realize that our role in society also bringing about social issues beyond infectious grows. It is essential that we fulfill our social diseases. Fujirebio develops unique, new products and responsibilities by performing our work services such as the world’s first Alzheimer’s diagnostic wholeheartedly and reliably to deepen the trust of product launched in Europe, which can assay with a patients and medical institutions. By positively striving fully automated system. We promote disease toward this goal, I believe that we can work toward mechanism awareness that hepatitis B progresses to Creating Shared Value (CSV) and enhance our liver cirrhosis and then to liver cancer, and offer a corporate competitiveness. hepatocellular carcinoma marker reagent in China, Shunichi Higashi Yoshihiro Ashihara President and CEO President and CEO SRL, Inc. Fujirebio Holdings, Inc. 05 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 06 Highlight Value from Clinical Laboratory Testing Comments Strength in being community-based One feature of community-based satellite labs is that we can accompany sales personnel in visiting our client medical institutions. By obtaining valuable feedback directly from doctors, we can determine their immediate Value offered by the Miraca Group (1) Value offered by the Miraca Group (2) needs as well as promptly offer our professional expertise and accommodate requests, as we Untiring efforts to Active service to strive to serve local healthcare. Noriko Maruyama identify various patient local healthcare Senior Manager, Minato Testing Section, Tokyo Testing Department, Sales Division illnesses SRL, Inc. through new laboratories through esoteric testing Local clinics are anticipated to grow even more important as the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) promotes differentiation and collaboration in medical care functions. At SRL, we have opened new satellite laboratories with the aim Helping develop local of helping community healthcare to cope with such changes. Tests which used to be carried out in our laboratory in Hachioji healthcare by providing City, Tokyo can now be conducted nearby. Two facilities opened quick testing results in March and May 2018 respectively: SRL Setagaya Laboratory and SRL Advanced Lab. Azabu. Satellite laboratories achieve earlier diagnosis, being able to Helping treat patients report testing results in 30 minutes at the shortest for general suffering from various tests and two hours for standard tests. Providing testing results quickly leads to early treatment and early recovery, diseases and enables us to meet the testing demand from SRL offers testing services for lung cancer using the Next Generation Sequencer clinics that will assume the function of local primary (NGS) for the cancer genome genetic testing. The NGS can analyze tens to care physicians. hundreds of genes simultaneously, requiring only a small amount of Comments The Setagaya Laboratory also has the facilities to offer test staff training to help improve the specimen and to simultaneously detect genetic mutations with rates of An all-around, about one to two individuals in 100. This leads to more effective comprehensive testing company quality of clinical testing and raise professional medications and makes it possible to control medical costs on awareness in clinical testing by close The strength of SRL is not only in being able to companion diagnostics for cancer which tend to be expensive. accept various kinds of clinical testing without contact with doctors and patients. For rare diseases with few patients, research on diagnostics and bias, but also in its positive attitude toward working on new testing. As a treatments progresses more slowly than other diseases because of comprehensive testing company, we economic issues. As the origin of our corporate name ― Special will continue to capitalize on this Reference Laboratories ― indicates, our aim is to be the reference strength and support the development laboratory for special testing of clinical specimens. At SRL, we actively of healthcare as a whole. work to fill the unmet medical needs for diseases which there are still Hiroki Beppu no available effective treatments for, including rare diseases. General Manager, Genetic & We will continue to fulfill our responsibility as a leader in clinical testing Chromosome Analysis Department, Testing Division according to our philosophy of placing equal importance to testing all SRL, Inc. diseases, whether chronic or rare, even under many difficulties such as the need to develop our own tests because of the lack of research data. Aside from conducting evaluation tests in regenerative medicine, we Esoteric testing also provide statistical data of virus tests to the Ministry of Health, Clinical testing that are typically related to genes or chromosomes. Often requiring cutting edge technologies and facilities, these are SRL Advanced Lab. Azabu also has a Labour and Welfare (MHLW), as we work not just for the company but often outsourced to large-scale testing centers such as SRL even by showroom equipped with the services also for the greater good of medical care. large hospitals. offered by SRL to general practitioners. 07 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 08 Highlight Value from In Vitro Diagnostics Value offered by the Miraca Group (3) Comments Value offered by the Miraca Group (4) Shipping the gold standard to Innovative reagent SERODIA® over 80 countries SERODIA® is a globally successful test kit that has LUMIPULSE® been shipped to over 80 countries. In addition to its helps control infectious simplicity that requires no special equipment, it is also valued for its stable assay results and ease of handling disease globally HBsAg-HQ of the reagents. Listed in the testing guidelines of various countries, it is truly the gold standard of syphilis testing. The trend in clinical testing in Japan is toward automation using Hepatitis B virus reactivation in patients under chemotherapy dedicated machines, which continues to accelerate. However, Naoaki Tamura Senior Manager, or immunosuppressive cancer therapy has become an issue in global trends show that many countries and regions, particularly Global Sales Section, recent years. Previous testing had speed, cost and sensitivity developing countries, mainly conduct testing manually. Global Sales Department, problems, and a more suitable testing method was medically needed. The Treponema Pallidum Hemagglutination (TPHA) kit, which Fujirebio Inc. However, improving the performance of the conventional approach Fujirebio first commercialized successfully in 1966, was recogand techniques was limited. Thus, Fujirebio devised a new development nized as a groundbreaking product for its high reliability and approach. With trial and error, researchers succeeded in developing a simplicity. Since then, Fujirebio has globally launched various reagent over 10 times more sensitive than conventional products ― the reagents for infectious diseases. LUMIPULSE® HBsAg-HQ. Its enhanced sensitivity has been proven to TPHA kit’s successor, SERODIA®, is now widely used as a standard syphilis test kit worldwide. Forty years later, it is still The standard for simple, detect antigens that could not be detected by previous testing, greatly highly regarded globally for its simplicity, which does not require high-quality syphilis contributing to diagnostic accuracy. It can also quickly provide the results on the same day and at low cost. Its effectiveness has been expensive machines, electricity or other infrastructure, and for its accuracy, which prompted its adoption by WHO and the National test kits widely recognized, and is cited in the Japan Society of Hepatology guidelines. Institute of Infectious Diseases in Japan. We will continue applying our developmental and technological As a leading manufacturer of test kits for infectious prowess on testing to help solve societal issues. diseases, Fujirebio will keep creating even better products to reduce the number of people suffering from infectious diseases Testing reliability with Comments worldwide. over 10 times more Winning the Japan Society of Clinical Chemistry’s technology award sensitivity (FY 2017) The award recognized our technological expertise’s potential contributing to clinical chemistry. Marked by high sensitivity and lower mutation risk, this reagent brought together the Fujirebio Group’s strengths, with the prototype developed at the Advanced Life Science Institute and product development conducted at Fujirebio. Leveraging our experience in developing approaches that widely differ from established concepts, LUMIPULSE ® the Group will continue to serve healthcare ― from HBsAg-HQ research to development and production. Product Development Team Katsumi Aoyagi Director and Division Head, Research and Development Divison, Fujirebio Inc. 09 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 10 Highlight Value Created through Philanthropy Value created by the Miraca Group (2) Value created by the Miraca Group (1) Aiding disaster areas Perceiving all our with both donation and stakeholder’s volunteer work expectations invisible Comments The Miraca Disaster Volunteering early for western Japan through business Relief Donation Scheme torrential rains disaster When we received reports of the devastation caused by the With the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, local heavy downpours in western Japan in July 7, 2018, we volunteering and donating to help disaster-stricken areas wanted to go and offer our help as volunteers. But by the 9th, have become more common. To enable activities across the volunteer centers at various areas were still being set up and whole Group, the Miraca Disaster Relief Donation Scheme acceptance from outside the prefectures was limited. A call came out for disaster relief volunteers on July was formally set up in January 2018 by the Executive Board 15 and 16 at the Takahashi City volunteer center as a platform for aiding disaster areas. Six months later in in Okayama Prefecture. Quickly recruiting July 2018, this scheme was initiated for the devastating across our group companies in Japan, 18 volunteers in all were able to finish the work torrential rains in western Japan. The donation matching over the two days. scheme was conducted through cooperation between The Miraca Group logo for social action initiatives employees and the company. Employees declare donations Hideyuki Itsuji General Manager, via a dedicated website on the group portal and the company Strategic philanthropy contributes an amount greater than the total to NGOs and CSR Promotion Department Miraca Holdings Inc. in the four areas of activities public organizations. We donated about 610,000 yen (total as In this report, philanthropy is defined as the scope of activities that are of July 31, 2018) to Civic Force, an NGO providing swift and not directly connected to business but have high social value, such as charity work and proper assistance during disasters in Japan. The scheme will corporate patronage. continue for some time, with the next donation given to We were exhausted working at over The Miraca Group aims to become a corporate group with Comments victims through public organizations. Along with encouraging 37°C under the blazing sun, but were forward-looking and distinctive CSR activities in Japan by Aiming for 1,000 employees participating long-term employee donations, we also provided disaster happy to help locally and did our best for early assistance. 2020. We have united to promote philanthropic activities with more qualitative contributions relief support through volunteer work conducted together that were left up to the Group companies or divisions We believe philanthropic activities are essential for companies with the victims in disaster areas. before. This strategic program embodies the Miraca Group’s that are supposed to address social issues. four areas of CSR activities and leads to future business We plan to work intently on over 40 activities a year that help and corporate brand improvement by enabling us to address various issues in Japan and abroad. Grouping activities into contribution or development, we will perceive society’s expectations, which we cannot directly raise both the quality and quantity of activities to provide a wide experience from daily work. For a healthy and prosperous range of opportunities for employees to help solve social issues. society, we focus on support for patients with intractable We also aim to grow our core business of clinical children’s diseases, intractable/rare diseases and cancer. testing as our employees gain knowledge from For human resources, we conduct employee work style their experience with the latest trends in society. reform, promote diversity and human rights. For the environment, we implement forest village conservation Shigeto Ohtsuki near the Hachioji Office, and for local communities, a wide Executive Officer, Human Resources and CSR range of activities from community development and Miraca Holdings Inc. children’s healthy development to aid to developing Dedicated website of the Miraca Disaster Relief Donation Scheme in the countries and disaster-stricken areas. Philanthropy: Volunteer work by the private sector for public benefit, especially group portal. It shows employee donation application form, recommended corporate social contributions (including donations). recipients and other information. 11 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 12 Corporate Group Milestones We create new value as a healthcare group The Miraca Group has always been conscious of the life behind one specimen and one testing and working to enhance the quality of our testing to offer further better products and services for more than 50 years. with a focus on clinical laboratory testing. ■ Established Miraca Holdings Inc. ■ Started marketing ■ Newly established the Miraca Group LUMIPULSE® Series Corporate Governance Policy globally ■ Established Baylor Miraca Genetics ■ Opened third ■ Opened Gene Chromosome ■ Published ■ Listed on the first section of ■ Relocated Laboratories, LLC Hachioji Analysis Center pediatric the TSE ■ Acquired all shares headquarters of Laboratory reference of Innogenetics N.V. ■ Established Miraca Research three companies values (currently Fujirebio covered by this Institute G.K. Europe N.V.) report to ■ Established Fujirebio Shinjuku Mitsui Holdings, Inc. Building (Tokyo) 1993 1995 1996 1998 2001 2002 2005 2010 2011 2012 2015 2017 2018 ■ Accredited as a ■ Established ■ Acquired all shares of ■ Acquired all shares of CLIA-certified SRL Advanced Centocor Diagnostics, Inc. Chugai Diagnostics laboratory Lab. Azabu, a (PA, USA) (currently Science Co., Ltd. fully automated Fujirebio Diagnostics Inc.) (currently Rebio Gen, Inc.) laboratory for general testing ■ Listed on the ■ Changed company name ■ Launched LUMIPULSE ® ■ Established Wing A of Bridging People to Healthcare first section of to Fujirebio Inc. Series the Central Research the TSE ■ Listed on the second Institute with the Synergy of the Group ■ Relocated section of the Tokyo Ube research Stock Exchange (TSE) center Miraca Holdings Inc. was established in 2005 aiming to realize the health of people by integrating the various knowledge and technologies focusing on clinical laboratory testing and in vitro 1992 1990 1989 1988 1987 1983 diagnostics businesses. We will create new value through the synergy created as a healthcare group with a focus on ■ Started cooperation with ■ Opened Hino ■ Changed ■ Started ■ Received CAP ■ Opened second Japan Marrow Donor Laboratory company name research on accreditation Hachioji Laboratory clinical laboratory testing. Program (administration and to SRL, Inc. pediatric ■ Opened genetic test computer facility) ■ Contracted for reference laboratory Healthcare Related ■ Listed on the second section of the TSE the National Nutrition Survey values 28.1 billion yen Year ended March ■ Established Tokyo ■ First published SRL ■ Opened Hachioji ■ Established 31, 2018 Special Reference HOKAN Laboratory Charitable Trust Laboratories, Inc. journal Laboratory Medicine Consolidated net sales [Clinical Laboratory Testing] SRL, Inc. (currently SRL, Inc.) Research Foundation of Japan In Vitro Diagnostics 195.4 Clinical Laboratory Testing 122.0 billion yen and started research promotion project 45.3 billion yen billion yen 1950 1966 1970 1973 1975 1977 1979 1980 1981 Group performance ■ Founded ■ Launched ■ Opened ■ Opened ■ Launched ■ Launched ■ Established (billion yen) (billion yen) Fujizoki TPHA Medicopia Fujirebio Consolidated net sales (left axis) 250 40 Pharmaceutical Obihiro Ube SEROacademic journal Taiwan Inc. as a joint Consolidated Op. income (right axis) venture Co., Ltd. (currently research research DIA®-Anti203.4 204.7 211.7 204.2 207.0 (currently a consolidated 200 192.2 195.4 Fujirebio Inc.) center center HBs 30 subsidiary) 165.7 175.4 149.1 138.4 137.2 143.3 145.3 ■ Held first Medicopia 150 26.7 27.0 28.1 Educational Symposium 25.6 26.1 25.0 20 100 21.3 23.2 19.8 17.6 10 14.5 14.8 14.9 50 13.3 [In Vitro Diagnostics] Fujirebio Inc. 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 （FY） (calculated value) *The figures are rounded to the nearest 0.1 billion yen 13 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 14 Miraca Group Value Creation Vision We’re harnessing group synergies Develop innovative diagnostic solutions to tackle and solve social challenges to enhance trust in healthcare. Clinical Laboratory Testing in Healthcare and receives patient specimens from medical institutions and analyzes drive its evolution them to aid in assessing health and detecting disease. Support healthcare providers Global maternal through reliable supply and neonatal Value mortality rates SRL’s strengths AIDS, tuberculosis and Business backbone other infectious diseases built on esoteric testing Product/service quality and safety Premature mortality Customer Industry’s largest infrastructure Better healthcare from cancer centricity through testing and non-infectious Supporting cutting-edge Enhanced QOL through diseases healthcare Abuse of narcotic preventive care drugs and alcohol Creation Improvement in Social challenges of new Fujirebio’s strengths Integration of Social Value Key targets of Sustainable value CSR into business Pioneer in immunological testing Miraca Group’s Development Goal 3*1, 2 material issues Business model with See p.19-20 for details. stable revenue stream Access to reproductive Sincerity Provision of new medical healthcare services and trust international business network technologies and Access to quality Appropriate information essential disclosure of healthcare services product/service information Mutual Increased productivity Health ﬁnancing respect in care provision Stable and responsive supply and enforced In Vitro Diagnostics testing systems develops, manufactures, and Early warning of health risks sells internationally Supply chain reagents and devices for management diagnostic testing. Support for new and *1 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) *2 Goal 3 experienced researchers The SDGs are 17 global goals and 169 targets for the year 2030 Ensure healthy lives and adopted by the United Nations in September 2015. All stakeholders promote well-being for all — developed and developing countries, governments and private at all ages industry — are urged to take action to achieve the goals. 15 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 16 Miraca Group Value Chain Value chain All departments and employees work to build The Miraca Group’s business spans the entire value chain of clinical testing, from upstream (development, manufacture, and sales of reagents and devices) through downstream (testing services). These activities are made possible by a diversity of stakeholders, from medical institutions and patients, to employees, shareholders and investors, suppliers, research institutions, a unique clinical testing value chain. academic societies, and local communities. By creating the value that bridge people to healthcare, we contribute to the prosperity of people. Research Academic Academic institutions societies Suppliers societies Suppliers Production Specimen Results reporting Patients Reagent R&D and sales analysis and aggregation and Data Data their R&D Marketing Procurement Production Sales Collection Testing Reporting analysis use Medical institutions families Contribution Comprehensive Contribution to Supply of safe and Rapid and to healthcare support for medical advances reliable products accurate testing through data use medical institutions ● Development of ● Development of ● Enhanced collection ● Early response to ● Products and services high-quality, highly supply systems that system for transporting disease epidemics specimens quickly that make work easier accurate diagnostic are stable year-round and carefully ● Contribution to for healthcare providers reagents and devices ● Reduction of ● Capacity exceeding treatment of ● Expedited testing 200,000 cases of testing environmental rare diseases provided by satellite per day impacts through ● Esoteric testing and labs sustainable production cutting-edge healthcare capabilities Quality Accounting/ Business CSR/ Communities HR Compliance Assurance Finance Strategy PR IR Sustainability Regulatory Investors NPOs/ Employees agencies Media Financial Government institutions NGOs The Miraca Group’s CSR management structure Division head General Managers Senior Managers Section members CSR Divisional Representatives Department-CSR Group company action plans divisions Other General Managers CSR management Department-CSR action plans A CSR Divisional Representative in each group company division (typically a General Manager) serves a primary role in matching CSR activities to operations and developing and implementing department-CSR action plans with Division head and other CSR Promotion Department Executive Officers, HR & CSR Executive board: executive officers & division heads General Managers. Miraca Holdings CSR Divisional Representatives also communicate regularly (monthly in fiscal 2017, bi-monthly in fiscal 2018) with the Miraca Executive committee: executive officers Holdings CSR Promotion Department, which supports the group’s CSR activities and organization. 17 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 18 Materiality Miraca Group’s Material Issues Sustainable Growth Defining the issues Achieve Transform! 2020 targets The Miraca Group strives to deliver the value of safety and peace of mind to its diverse stakeholders. We do this by contributing to advances in healthcare through our core business of clinical testing (clinical diagnostic P products, laboratory testing, and related services) and through various social responsibility initiatives guided by A D our Mission, Vision and Value. To that end, we have defined the material issues that, in light of global challenges, the Miraca Group must C prioritize both to grow sustainably and to foster a sustainable society and environment. Going forward, we will execute specific action plans aimed at increasing the impact of these initiatives and Material issues building a strong Miraca brand. *No order of importance or priority is given. Healthy and prosperous society Environment Materiality assessment process Better healthcare through testing Product life cycle assessment Product/service quality and safety Environmentally responsible operations 1. Identify external 3. Discuss with CSR 4. Management STEP 2. Prioritize issues Appropriate disclosure of and internal concerns Divisional Representatives agreement product/service information Local communities Critical Stable and responsive supply and Social health and well-being Importance to society enforced testing systems International trends Assess Miraca Holdings Partnership with diverse communities SRL Executive Supply chain management ●ISO26000 importance ●GRI Standards Committee Human resources Business foundations to society ●SDGs ●Other issues Comfortable working environment Strong corporate governance Visual Miraca Draft list Issues Employee development Compliance Research representation of issues defined Holdings Human rights and diversity Risk management Input from staff Information security and privacy protection who also serve in Assess CSR Promotion Dept. importance to 16 themes Fujirebio ●IR/SR ●Administration the Miraca Group determined Important ●HR Important issues Material issues Output Matrix analysis Material issues drafted identified finalized Social issues are organized Extracted issues are plotted CSR Divisional Representatives from Once agreed in the Miraca based on international on a graph along two axes business and corporate departments Holdings Executive Important Critical guidelines and those issues ― importance to society and other General Managers are Committee, the material that should be addressed and importance to the interviewed and a draft list of material issues are finalized. given current CSR initiatives business ― to assess their issues is created. Importance to the Miraca Group are extracted. overall materiality. Four action areas, Healthy and prosperous society Human resources Environment Local communities Business foundations business foundations, Develop and distribute high quality Help our employees develop problem-solving Provide environmentally-friendly Live together in harmony with local Raise corporate value through and the SDGs and world-leading products and services and value-creating capabilities products and services communities through philanthropic actions broad stakeholder collaboration We commit ourselves to the developFor the betterment of our global We manufacture products, manage We implement community activities As a company with a committee-based ment and distribution of high-quality, society as well as the Miraca Group’s product life-cycles, and provide such as charitable donations, governance system, we ensure fair, highly reliable cutting-edge clinical growth, we help our employees, as services that lead to less environmental public-interest activities and educational timely, and transparent decision-making diagnostics products, laboratory members of global society with diverse burden, and encourage each and every activities, and encourage each that supports healthy and sustainable testing and other services, and, as a backgrounds, develop capabilities and one of our employees, as members of employee to join them to create business management and raises leading Japanese brand, make those willingness to solve problems and local communities, to contribute to a harmony with local communities. corporate value. products and services available to provide novel, value-added products better environment. people around the world. and services. 19 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 20 CSR for Sustainable Growth Healthy and prosperous society Better healthcare through testing Contributing to medical progress Improving healthcare To help solve healthcare challenges in developed and developing countries, we strive to develop and market clinical To provide a forum of exchange between the clinical and Column in emerging countries diagnostics products, laboratory testing, and related services that are invaluable for disease prevention, early preclinical medical ﬁelds, Fujirebio has held the Medicopia detection, and treatment decision-making. SRL offered guidance on clinical laboratory testing, Educational Symposium annually since 1981 and also lectures on theory and practice, and tours of published Medicopia, an academic journal. In ﬁscal 2017, laboratories in Japan to deepen understanding of Fujirebio held the LUMIPULSE® Forum at 10 locations the importance of testing and raise testing quality in R&D for higher-quality clinical testing Prevention of mother-to-child across Japan, offering physician talks on various themes countries such as India, China, Korea, and Thailand. and a presentation on how to use Fujirebio products. In In India, for example, the company emphasized Column HTLV-1 virus transmission ﬁscal 2018, the company organized an all-new Fujirebio the importance of laboratory medicine among local The Miraca Group pursues innovation that supports Forum, based on requests from medical institutions that advances in healthcare. In September 2014, SRL students and practitioners by providing advice on Fujirebio has developed and marketed a test kit that have introduced LUMIPULSE® and want to learn more introduced a DNA methylation analysis test that can be how to draw blood and process blood specimens. uses INNO-LIA®HTLV to prevent mother-to-child about other facilities’ systems and how to approach used to predict recurrence and prognostic risk for gastric SRL also works to build trust with communities in transmission of the HTLV-1 virus, a suspected quality control. This forum, held across Japan, was cancer and neuroblastoma. The results of this test are its routine sales activities by suggesting solutions cause of adult T-cell leukemia and other diseases. designed around the concept of going beyond mere useful for selecting a course of treatment and, if beyond laboratory testing based on experience, Compared to existing testing methods, the product promotion of Fujirebio’s immunology equipment and determined malignant or a case of multiple cancers, such as how to improve infrastructure and protect reduces “indeterminate” test results, enabling more providing lectures “by lab technicians for lab technicians” deciding a more rigorous treatment. In January 2017, patient information. mothers to breastfeed and more suitable nutritional to support their technical Fujirebio began sales of Lumipulse® G β-Amyloid 1-42, a By raising efﬁciency and quality with new testing guidance. Thanks to its superior accuracy, the test development. The Miraca Group reagent kit in Europe for use with the LUMIPULSE G methods and lab operations plans developed with kit has also received a recommendation from the also supports the MHLW’s 38th Medicopia System and expected to make testing easier and more local partners, and by actively proposing these academic society of the Japan Association of “Prevent Hepatitis: It’s Up to Educational efﬁcient for in-ofﬁce laboratories. solutions, SRL will continue to contribute to medical Obstetricians and Gynecologists and was included You” program. By offering Symposium advances worldwide. 1,400 By developing new testing that draws on our in diagnostic guidelines for HTLV-1 transmission for opportunities for practitioners long-developed unique technological strengths, we will use in obstetric examinations. and ordinary citizens to learn pursue continued quality improvements and medical more about medicine and progress. health, we’re promoting medical progress in Japan. attendees ● R&D expenses by segment (million yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 R&D expenses (consolidated) 5,702 4,748 5,365 In Vitro Diagnostics 5,254 4,450 4,740 38th Medicopia Educational Symposium Clinical Laboratory Testing 447 297 251 (January 2018, Tokyo Miraca Research Institute G.K. ー ー 373 International Forum) *Numbers are rounded down Collaborative research Tour of an SRL lab for government ofﬁcials, physicians, and medical technologists from India (October 2017, Hachioji Laboratory) Fujirebio Forum The Miraca Group actively collaborates with third-party develop testing methods and reagents that match their (July 2018, Tokyo) researchers to further improve testing technologies. needs. In particular, we hope to contribute to the Believing that closer coordination between testing and improvement of clinical trial tests for development of treatment brings us closer to solutions, we cooperate drugs that satisfy unmet medical needs. with pharmaceutical companies and other parties to Lecture on laboratory technology and cutting-edge testing In India, SRL gave a lecture explaining the importance of clinical Collaborating on early disease detection and prevention Comments laboratory testing based on examples of the company’s ideas Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has developed a marker that can screen for seven types of cancer with a and initiatives for improving testing quality. It also introduced the Comments single blood sample. Called AminoIndexTM Cancer Screening (AICSTM), the screening has company’s technologies and approach to cutting-edge testing. been administered to a steadily growing number of patients since its release in 2011, thanks Feedback was favorable, especially regarding in part to the support of SRL, with its extensive hospital and clinic efﬁciency improvements and the elimination of Eiji Maruo human error from SRL’s initiatives in automation. Its network. In November 2017, Ajinomoto released AminoIndexTM Manager Shuichi Uchiyama Speaking on the state of clinical Risk Screening (AIRSTM ), which adds assessment of four-year AminoIndex Group, technical prowess in genetic and chromosomal General Manager, laboratory testing in Japan at the Business Strategy & Planning Dept. Global Business Department, risk of developing diabetes. The screening will make further testing was also recognized, landing the company Business Strategy Division, “Technical Training for Materializing AminoScience Division International Diagnostic Business in Ajinomoto Co., Inc. requests for outsourcing such testing to Japan. SRL Inc. contributions to early disease detection and prevention. India” (June 2017, New Delhi, India) 21 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 22 CSR for Sustainable Growth Healthy and Healthy and prosperous society Product/service quality and safety prosperous society Appropriate disclosure of product/service information To ensure the level of quality and safety in products and services that earns high satisfaction from customers, the We’re developing centralized systems for managing information on product/service quality and safety. We also Miraca Group complies with international laws and standards while striving to continually improve its quality analyze customer feedback and questions, and strive to disclose and share it in a timely and appropriate manner with management systems and provide specialized education to its employees. management and staff. Building a quality management system (QMS) Error prevention Clear and accurate test results Fujirebio is certiﬁed to ISO 13485* under a group-wide Error prevention is a group-wide endeavor at the Miraca Conveying information clearly and accurately is a crucial quality policy. It also sets its own standards in addition to Group. Fujirebio, for example, prepares a manual of part of providing laboratory services to medical those required by laws and regulations of each country production procedures for each product to ensure strict institutions. SRL takes care to ensure that test results are and region, releasing to market only products that pass adherence to clear instructions. In 2017 it strengthened its easy for patients to understand, and easy for doctors to quality tests. In ﬁscal 2016, the company created a QMS system of checks and increased the number of system explain. For example, for cancer risk screenings that use management organization in which a QMS Supervisor and alert settings in production processes. SRL, meanwhile, the AminoIndex Technology, offered by SRL since 2011, Marketing Supervisor-General work to maintain and issued a new set of standards on complaints additional material is provided explaining how to improve quality under the president’s supervision. management and is building a system that captures all interpret the test results. SRL is certiﬁed to ISO 15189. Its QMS organization is complaints from across Japan and uses them to prevent By providing information in this way, SRL contributes not the same for all divisions but rather adapted to suit testing errors. Going forward, by taking seriously the to a healthy and prosperous society. the size of each business segment. The Quality Assurance feedback provided by our clients, medical institutions, we Committee works to address quality issues common to all will work to develop and enhance systems that prevent divisions. testing errors and error recurrences. ● Human error prevention courses (SRL) *An international standard on quality managements system speciﬁcally intended for the medical FY Participants Free-discussion topics device industry 2017 44 Heinrich’s Law and near-miss management • What would you do in this situation? (Crossword) 2016 32 • Poster design session: “Always turn off heated-air dryers” LUMIPULSE® control survey ●QMS organizational chart 2015 35 How to preserve evidence from accidents 2014 47 Respectful handling of specimens Fujirebio Inc. Every year, Fujirebio conducts a control survey and holds a quality control reporting Participation Quality *A rule of thumb for occupational accidents which states that for every conference to ensure high testing quality at all medical institutions in Japan that use the rate in control survey Operations Reliability Assurance Div. serious accident there are 29 minor accidents and 300 near misses. Supervisor LUMIPULSE® system. As of July 2018, the survey has been held 25 times and the and reporting Marketing conference 24 times. Of the 1,120 LUMIPULSE® systems installed across Japan, 895 conference SupervisorSales Div. facilities participated in total. In addition to quality improvements at laboratories, Fujirebio 85 Fast and effective customer support President (Supervisor) General Marketing Div. will also continue to proactively disclose and provide essential information for further Safety Control Operation Div. improving the performance of its reagents. % Manager Procurement Div. Fujirebio strives for comprehensive customer support Research & Development Div. that leaves the medical institutions that use its products Management Administrative Div. feeling assured and satisﬁed. Its call center Representative troubleshoots questions 24 hours a day, 365 days a  ● What is a control survey? Quality System Management Div. year. When in-person checks are required, ﬁeld service ‫ڦ‬36$ ඲ᶵ✀࣮ࣘࢹࣥࣉࣟࢵࢺࢢࣛࣇ Compared to “internal quality controls” conducted by Youden plot of all prostate                                engineers visit the site to provide fast and effective  speciﬁc antigen (PSA) models laboratories themselves, a control survey is a method of From Fujirebio Rules on Quality Management Organizational Framework ➨ ᅇ࣑ࣝࣃࣝࢫ solutions. ࢥࣥࢺ࣮ࣟࣝࢧ࣮࣋࢖ሗ࿌᭩ “external quality controls” which a lab’s test data are analyzed SRL, Inc. in comparison to a certain minimum of test data obtained from SRL Quality Pledge and Laboratory Services other labs. Manufacturers use this method to improve the Fujirebio customer support Testing and Operations Quality Subcommittee Sales Quality Management Subcommittee System Quality Management Subcommittee Clinical Trials Quality Management Subcommittee Quality Statement  ᖺ  ᭶ performance of tests at each facility where its devices are used. Esoteric testing lab Satellite lab QMSs Column in emergencies ［Background information］ QMS Quality Assurance Committee Each clinical laboratory makes routine efforts to produce During the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and ༠ຊ ・President (executive team) ・Sales Management Dept. tsunami, Fujirebio’s customer support teams ࣮࢜ࢯ࣭ࢡࣜࢽ࣭࢝ࣝࢲ࢖࢔ࢢࣀࢫࢸ࢕ࢵࢡࢫᰴᘧ఍♫ accurate test results for patients. However, the conditions in ・Test Management Dept. ・System Management Dept. ・Customer Service Dept. ・Facilities Management Group continued operations even when the Tohoku Red which each testing is carried out are not always uniform, ・Procurement Dept. Cross center closed down. creating potential variations in results. Hospital Staying as close to customers and communities as Project Testing Sagamihara Lab ［Beneﬁts］ QMS QMS possible, every representative takes care to collect information daily and respond to problems as This comparison of data can help improve testing conditions Other SRL Group companies QMS Cross-organizational issues independent agents. and the performance of reagents used.    23 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 24 CSR for Sustainable Growth Healthy and Healthy and prosperous society Stable and responsive supply and enforced testing systems prosperous society Supply chain management Fast and reliable delivery of high-quality products and services is crucial for providing healthcare services In procurement, we consider social and environmental factors in addition to business continuity plan (BCP) and responsibly. We’re working to make our value chain more resilient at every step from product design and materials quality, cost, and delivery (QCD). Our goal is a resilient, sustainable supply chain built on ethical and fair transactions procurement to production, testing, and distribution. for mutual trust and shared success with suppliers. Stronger supply and testing systems Optimizing logistics to Building sustainable partnerships International standards and conﬂict minerals expedite specimen arrivals The Miraca Group built business continuity plan (BCP) to Medical institutions prefer to receive their test results as The Miraca Group is partnering with suppliers in its Fujirebio sets policies to ensure that its procurement and prepare for various risk scenarios. For example, to early as possible. But for the laboratories that analyze efforts to foster a healthy and prosperous society. Each purchasing operations are legally compliant and socially reduce the risk of service delays caused by supply specimens, an overlap in specimen arrival times can year, the Procurement Division visits at least 10 suppliers sound. Policies on environmental performance set disruptions, we aim to create a system that makes it delay processing. SRL thus is working to expedite internationally to verify their quality maintenance efforts criteria for product selection, stipulating that “measures possible to distribute sourcing properly across multiple specimen arrivals. The company utilizes various and systems. Suppliers that can’t be visited are given to prevent environmental pollution are appropriate” from vendors. transportation modes and routes to keep arrivals from questionnaires on quality and environmental issues. By manufacture through delivery. When necessary, Fujirebio In terms of responsiveness, SRL uses satellite labs concentrating in the period from 7 pm to 6 am. prioritizing suppliers in the selection process that have works with suppliers to meet the EU’s Restriction of across Japan to perform testing and submit results as It also prioritizes ﬂexibility in case of unexpected active CSR programs, such as those working to obtain Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive and standards medical institutions require. Back when specimens were shipment delays, as when caused by a snowstorm or ISO certiﬁcation or develop rules on waste management, on conﬂict minerals. The company also has thoroughly consolidated at the Hachioji Laboratory, it took two to typhoon or by an aircraft mechanical failure. we hope to broaden our social impact. For that purpose, reviewed purchasing provisions in the Medical Device three days for results to arrive, whereas with the satellite we also plan to develop a Single Audit Program (MDSAP) regulations and works to labs, results now arrive sometimes by the same day. SRL procurement policy that comply with regulations in each country. Going forward, Region A (chartered) Region B (consolidated) Region B (consolidated) is also working to develop reagents that shorten test covers the entire Miraca Number Fujirebio plans to address labor conditions and human turnaround times. By balancing stable quality with Group. of suppliers rights as supply chain issues. speed, we hope to make further improvements. SRL Group: 253 Region B Hachioji Laboratory (consolidated) Fujirebio Group: 339 Region A (chartered) Transport center Total 592 Purchasing and procurement policies (Fujirebio) 1. Select and purchase, under fair competition, Region C (air) products that meet quality requirements Region A (chartered) 2. Aim for mutual success and stability Haneda Airport Key questionnaire questions built on a long-term relationship of trust Specimen transport ﬂow ● Have you established an environmental conservation 3. Strive to reduce purchasing costs and stabilize policy and made employees aware of it? procurement through purchasing from ● Do you have a planning process for achieving goals and targets? multiple sources ● Do you set goals and targets related to environmental conservation? 4. Establish and develop a purchasing organization ● Do you provide environmental education or training for employees? that adapts quickly to changing demands from IT-powered operations ● Do managers review targets and plans to make regulations, quality management, and continual improvements? environmental systems SRL Advanced Lab. Azabu Fujirebio streamlines production by developing and installing new IT systems, such as the supply management and production planning Communicating with suppliers during the 2018 Hokuriku blizzard systems recently launched and The winter storm on the Sea of Japan coast had made conditions virtually impossible. the manufacturing execution Comments Due to the closure of the Hokuriku Expressway and a massive stall on National Route 8, system scheduled for we arrived at the decision to sit still until road conditions improved. SRL, however, introduction this ﬁscal year by provided vital assistance by organizing the actions that could the Operation Division. These Koji Hori systems will be used to be taken by their sales ofﬁces and by Tonami. Our quick Executive Ofﬁcer, Logistics Headquarters manage supply more precisely decision to take an atypical approach helped move things Logistics Support Department Manager, Logistics Solution Div. Setagaya Laboratory and adapt quickly to changes in the right direction, but it was the support of everyone TONAMI TRANSPORTATION CO., LTD. in demand. involved that pulled us through. We are grateful for it. 25 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 26 CSR for Sustainable Growth Human resources Comfortable working environment Human resources Employees development Aiming for a corporate culture that makes every employee feel fulfilled and satisfied, we are trying to create a work With a clear image of talent we need to achieve our vision, we offer learning and training opportunities to encourage environment that promotes a good work-life balance and encourages different ways of working, taking into account employees to further develop skills and performance, and create a proper evaluation system and a workplace where employees’ physical and mental health and safety in the workplace. employees can demonstrate their abilities to the full. Productivity and efficiency improvement project Human resource development Monthly average The Miraca Group is working on productivity and efficiency improvement projects with the main overtime hours The Human Resources Division of Miraca Holdings has been implementing the Miraca Talent Review every year since fiscal 21.5 objectives of creating a better work environment and promoting efficiency. We must continuously 2015. This is an annual process to ensure the right people are in the right jobs, focusing on the aptitude of each employee in improve the quality and efficiency of our work to keep offering new value in the medical field, so that and outside Japan. By identifying and nurturing talent and reviewing our human resources situation, this helps with individual customers will continue to choose us. To do this, we need to review the way we work from scratch, career planning for each employee, ability assessments, and individual development. The Miraca Management Development to simplify, automate and streamline our current work, leading to further improved productivity. hours Program, training for managers, is held every year, giving a deep understanding of the Miraca Group’s Value to foster our Many divisions are implementing their own projects, based on these ideas. corporate culture. We are working to nurture personnel who support the Group’s corporate value by reinforcing evaluator FY2017 results training and personnel management. We are also trying to raise shared awareness in the Group by implementing joint Divisions Details of initiatives Results training at various levels, such as training for new managers and training for new recruits. Information Technology Div., ●Unify PCs and ICTsystems ● Unify information such as group intranet Each group company also carries out its own specialist training. SRL opened a Training Center in 2017 and has devices; introduce remote working ● Improved convenience Miraca Holdings ●Unify IT support by establishing Miraca IT Support Desk and efficiency established a system to provide training efficiently and effectively. Fujirebio has identified training of Diagnostics Medical Human Resources Div., Representatives (DMRs) as an important management issue. DMRs need a high degree of expertise, a broad perspective, ● Hold workshops for all 650 general/senior managers ● Reduction in overtime hours Miraca Holdings and a flexible approach. We have therefore created a system of training and practice tests to help employees pass the DMR Accounting & Finance Div., qualification exam, as well as staged training to improve their capabilities. We have also set up a system that give the ● Improve and reduce inefficient work practices ● Improved efficiency by RPA* Miraca Holdings opportunities for young employees in the sales department to experience work in other departments, such as marketing, Testing Div., SRL ● Multi-skill development, ● Review work processes; free up time for training etc. improvement of testing quality production and development, encouraging them to find out things that cannot be learnt through training. Production & Engineering Div., ● Introduce information systems to visualize data, ● Improved efficiency; Productivity and efficiency improvement Fujirebio from production planning to manufacture reduction in working hours project (June 2018) * Robotic Process Automation: a technology allowing automation of indirect divisions Fostering a CSR Mindset In July 2017, we appointed CSR managers in all 31 departments of Miraca Holdings, SRL and Fujirebio to lead CSR activities Human resources Human rights and diversity based on the work of each department. The CSR managers work with the CSR Promotion Department to facilitate CSR training and two-way communication, rolling out CSR activities in each department with “full participation” as a key word. Aiming to create a company where every employee can fulfill their full potential, we strive to uphold human rights and To enhance two-way communication, we issue a CSR Newsletter and run an awards scheme to support the CSR activities respect the diverse individuality and values of each member of the workplace, promoting diversity and inclusion so in each company. The CSR Newsletter contains information to deepen understanding of CSR and the company’s actions. that we can grow together. The awards scheme recognizes examples of good practice in each of the four areas of CSR activities. The Miraca Library Café is held every second month to present the knowledge and experience of the Group’s employees outside of their main work, providing an opportunity for other employees to hear about these. Promoting diversity of human resources Training name Attendees No. of Date Main purpose attendees We offer systems and create an environment that supports different ways of working to promote a good work-life balance CSR kickoff session All Division Heads of the main 3 companies 25 Jul. Sharing the Miraca Group’s new CSR model’s tructure and help working women. The Miraca Group is introducing a remote work system allowing employees to work anywhere at CSR manager session All CSR Divisional Representatives 30 Jul. Workshop to identify CSR work and potential activities any time, and equipping work PCs and smartphones with systems enabling videoconferencing and external access to the CSR employee briefing All employees of the main 3 companies 801 Aug.ｰSep. Sharing information about CSR/ the Miraca Group’s initiatives intranet. The main purpose is to improve efficiency for those who work outside of office, but this is also useful for employees CSR employee briefing GRI briefing All CSR Divisional Representatives 27 Dec. GRI Standards, ESG evaluation etc. (August 2017, Hachioji Office) who have family care responsibilities, supporting different ways of working for different stages of life. One of the Miraca Group’s Value is “Mutual Respect,” and we strive to respect diverse values. As well as recruiting international employees as our management becomes more global, our existing employees have a wide age profile ranging from 19 to 67 years of age, and female recruits make up over 60% of new graduates recruited in recent years. We are trying to ensure diverse human Working as a team to gain difficult qualifications resources regardless of nationality, gender or age. The clinical pathologist (grade 2) and cytotechnologist qualifications are Comments among the most difficult certifications to obtain, so we have created a Percentage of Percentage of follow-up system for the team as a whole. In particular, for the Average age Male / female ratio female employees in female new graduates cytotechnologist certification, we have made a multi-year plan and assigned 44 :56 managerial positions 42.9 employed 11.8 62.4 a coach to help employees prepare for the exams at each stage. Going forward, we plan to create a training system tailored to each exam Pathology & years ％ * Including assistant managers: 23.6% ％ and a procedure that employees can follow towards gaining qualifications, Cytology Department, Testing Division As of July 31, 2018 As of July 31, 2018 As of July 31, 2018 Joined in April 2018 leading to self-fulfillment. SRL, Inc. 27 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 28 CSR for Sustainable Growth Environment Product life cycle assessment Environment Environmentally responsible operations To help achieve a low-carbon, recycling-orientated society, we focus on the life cycle of our products and services. Based on international treaties, laws and regulations on environmental issues, we actively work on measures to The scope includes the research, development and design stages, as well as from marketing, purchasing, logistics, mitigate and adapt climate change, recycling of waste and water resources, and prevention of environmental production/inspection and sales to disposal. pollution in all our business operations. Product design with less waste Environmental design meeting global standards Approach through our business operations At Fujirebio, when producing reagents used in medical As the Miraca Group expands globally, we are required Together with Fujirebio and SRL, the Miraca Group is IS014001:2015 certiﬁed, and we carry out environmental actions. applications, we consider the environment from the to conform to environmental standards in each country. We are working on reducing the environmental impact of our business as a whole, through work practice improvement design stage. Containers used for clinical testing cannot In Europe, where environmental initiatives are particularly including improved vehicle fuel efﬁciency, waste reduction and energy reduction in the production process. be reused due to the risk of infection. However, advanced, the use of surfactants is banned under the comments from customer satisfaction surveys show that Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulations, so we are conducting there is increasing demand for environmentally research and testing to make improvements to meet this conscious products, so we have added bottle reagents standard. We also need to consider the material of the Promotion of eco-friendly driving to our product range as a way of reducing the amount of packaging and adhesives used during assembly, and we waste. are putting a system in place for the supply chain as a At SRL, we are working to improve vehicle fuel efﬁciency. The logistics and sales divisions have a common whole, including our suppliers. Column goal of improving fuel efﬁciency by 1% each year. To raise awareness of eco-friendly driving, we participate in the “Eco-Drive Activity Competition” organized by Vehicle fuel efﬁciency improvement at SRL the Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Product life cycle Transportation. In the 2017 awards, SRL received a prize for FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Fuel efﬁciency 15.7 16.0 16.4 excellence, and Fujirebio received a certiﬁcate for excellent Year-on-year 4.0% 1.9% 2.5% Fujirebio activities. Going forward, the Miraca Group will work as a whole improvement Achievement Yes Yes Yes on these actions to raise environmental awareness. For our main product, the LUMIPULSE® clinical testing instrument, we take recycling into consideration in the whole process from production to use, reuse and disposal (recycling or landﬁll). (4) Steel products Approach to business activities, supply chain and life cycle At the Miraca Group, we calculate our overall CO2 emissions as a key indicator of our environmental actions. As well as the CO2 (1) Collection (2) Melting (3) Iron processing generated by our business activities (Scope 1 and Scope 2), we include Scope 3 which refers to emissions generated in the When disposing of a LUMIPULSE machine, it is melted down in an electric furnace at a heat of several thousand degrees and recycled supply chain (product purchasing, transportation, business travel, commuting, product sales, services, reporting, disposal etc.) (5) Roadbed material into steel resources and roadbed materials. Scope 1/Scope 2 Calculation target Units Calculation data FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 SRL Scope 1 Company’s own direct emissions of greenhouse gases Amount used Usage statement 9,453 9,141 8,477 (Business activities) Scope 2 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases due to electricity supply Amount used Usage statement 23,464 22,217 21,275 Some of the infectious waste from our Hachioji Laboratory is put into return pails. We collect them and perform sterilization and crushing process as shown below. The resulting plastic waste is collected by a contractor and turned into solid fuel Scope 3 Emissions category Calculation target Units Calculation data FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (RPF) at an intermediate process facility. 1 Purchased goods Emissions from activities up to manufacturing of raw materials, Emissions unit value Purchase price 106,654 101,624 118,139 and services parts, purchased goods, sales-related materials, etc. per purchase price Transportation and Emissions from distribution of raw materials, parts, purchased goods, Emissions unit value 4 Purchase price 106,654 101,624 118,139 delivery (upstream) sales-related materials, etc., up to delivery to the reporting company per purchase price Upstream These containers Waste generated in Emissions from transportation and processing of waste Emissions unit value 5 Manifests etc. 3,255 3,519 3,435 operations generated by the reporting company per waste weight are reused many Emissions unit value Number times. 6 Business travel Emissions from business travel by employees per employee of employees 747 740 784 Employee commuting Emissions from transportation of employees when commuting to Transportation 7 Amount 1,120 1,063 1,340 Plastic materials used for testing Infectious waste is collected Sterilization Washing after sterilization (including commuting by car) and from the place of business cost Transportation and Emissions from transport, storage, cargo handling, and retail Truck transport 9 Ton-kilometer 45,368 42,755 44,490 delivery (downstream) sales of products emissions Down11 Use of sold products Emissions from use of products by users (consumers and companies) Rated power Units 2,929 2,810 2,598 The sterilized stream operating time plastic materials Leased assets Rated power 13 Emissions from operation of assets leased to other entities Units 5,565 4,317 5,306 are crushed and (downstream) operating time collected. Scope 3 emissions total 272,290 258,451 294,232 Recycled as RPF Collected as waste plastic After crushing Crushing Scope 1+2+3 total 305,207 289,809 323,984 * Refer to Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain (Ministry of the Environment / Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). Units: t-CO2 29 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 30 CSR for Sustainable Growth Main business operations and their effect on the environment Local communities Social health and well-being As a healthcare-related group we strive to develop the activities towards creating a healthy and prosperous society. By using resources effectively, improving productivity and conserving energy, we are reducing our environmental impacts and We support research by young researchers and collaboration projects between industry, government and academia, emissions throughout our business operations. We manage our targets for environmental impact in terms of both input and and offer platforms for discussion about health and medical care in society as a whole. output, from product manufacture to service, and strive for further improvement. By continuing to achieve these targets, we are aiming to create a recycling-based society. Energy Water Selection of strategic philanthropic activities Electricity 43,164,000 kWh Water and sewerage 217,000 m 3 City gas 1,689,000 m3 Other From around 100 NPO projects based on ideas from our employees, we have selected around 40 projects to embody our strategic philanthropic activities. Some of these projects are introduced below, for each of the four CSR areas. Volunteers from the Miraca LPG (Propane gas) 1,231 kg Chemical substances Group also helped in the aftermath of the torrential rain in western Japan in July 2018. We have set up a system for providing transportation expenses for voluntary activities, as we wanted to support individuals taking part in voluntary activities around Japan. Gasoline 1,784 kL Containers & packaging For activities far away, transportation costs are partially subsidized for the accompanying family as well as the employee. Such Kerosene 197 kL Ofﬁce supplies initiatives enable two-way communication between NPOs and Group employees, creating opportunities for them to join diverse activities. Fuel oil 14 kL Since it is difﬁcult to calculate detailed ﬁgures due to differences in industries, these are not disclosed. Examples of activities in the four action areas INPUT Support for patients with Healthy and Human prosperous society intractable children’s diseases resources Diversity Initiatives Main business processes of Fujirebio and their families We are working with the Ronald McDonald House Charity Working with the Hand Stamp Art Project, we provide Japan to support accommodation for the families of opportunities to learn about diversity, such as getting people with hospitalized children. We mainly provide cleaning service and without disabilities to create handprint art together. We also and donate supplies. hold their booth at summer festivals. Research & development Production Logistics Sales Main business processes of SRL An artwork from this project appears on the (RMH Setagaya, June 2018) (Hachioji Ofﬁce, July 2018) cover of this report Survey of Local Water Local Support programs for Environment communities Environments developing countries Specimen collection Specimen classiﬁcation Testing Test results reporting Since SRL acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, we have been We have introduced the TABLE FOR TWO program that tackles involved in the Survey of Local Water Environments in rivers obesity in developed nations and hunger in developing countries neighboring our Hachioji Laboratory for over ten years. In at the staff cafeteria at our Hachioji Ofﬁce. For each meal ﬁscal 2018, we took part for the 14th time, with participants purchased from the Healthy Menu, a donation of 20 yen goes OUTPUT from the whole Group. towards providing school meals for children in developing countries. Waste Atmosphere General waste 264 t CO2 emissions 29,752 t-CO 2 Industrial waste 1,492 t Special management industrial waste 781 t Water Drainage amount 208,000 m 3 (Tamagawa River Basin, July 2018) (Hachioji Ofﬁce, June 2018) * FY2017 results 31 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 32 CSR for Sustainable Growth Charitable trust fund for future Helping raise medical awareness in Local communities Partnership with diverse communities emerging nations To maintain valuable links with local communities and contribute to regional revitalization, as well as supporting For 30 years, SRL and Fujirebio have been running the festivals, sports and cultural exchange with local people in Japan and overseas, we actively support local voluntary Charitable Trust Laboratory Medicine Research 300,000 people a year are diagnosed with liver cancer in activities by employees. Foundation of Japan, which supports young researchers China. To contribute to early detection of liver cancer in and contributes to advances in medicine and medical China, Fujirebio gives seminars in hospitals and related technology. It aims to raise standards in the industry as a conferences, introducing products and Japan’s whole, with funding available to all hospitals and approach to diagnosis and screening for HBV and liver Working with local businesses The Miraca Group Summer Festival researchers. cancer. The Koichiro Fujita Award and Nozomu Kosakai Award recognize people with long careers in the clinical testing The aim is to introduce the standard liver diagnosis The Procurement Division of the Miraca Group considers The Miraca Group Summer Festival is an annual event that industry. widely used in clinical practices in Japan as a new and promotes doing business with local companies and is has been held since 1981 by the Miraca Group. These activities promote healthcare locally in Japan solution in China. We are also approaching this by building links with companies in Hachioji City as an Currently, around 2,000 to 3,000 people come to the and support global health. creating guidelines with the participating clinicians. As a initiative to make proﬁt in the local area and create event each year, and it is well known in the local area. new initiative from ﬁscal employment. This also leads to decentralization of From ﬁscal 2017, we have held a PR/CSR booth at the 2017, we are also taking a suppliers. In ﬁscal 2017 we started working with one local festival to deepen understanding of the Miraca Group CSR similar approach to lung Number of company. Going forward, we will strengthen our ties with activities. The booth introduces projects like the Know cancer. Going forward, seminars local businesses who will become our partners. About Hepatitis Project and the Hand Stamp Art Project as we will expand the held in China part of our CSR activities, creating an opportunity for 100 target area, and help people to ﬁnd out more about the Miraca Group. enhance local medical Over awareness by using the knowledge of the Miraca FY2017 results Comments Providing products Awards ceremony (LEVEL XXI, Tokyo Kaikan, February 2017) Group to the full. and services that meet expectations Number Amount Award category Year started of winners awarded (yen) With support from Hachioji City, we have been Research FY1981 299 219,800,000 Cooperation with marrow donor contracted to produce products for SRL, the ﬁrst subsidies Koichiro Fujita program and eye bank projects time a local company has been selected as part of Award FY2003 14 7,000,000 the supply chain. By providing a stable supply of Nozomu Kosakai FY1990 28 14,000,000 Award As part of our efforts toward a healthy and prosperous high-quality products and making efforts to solve The Miraca Group Summer Festival society, making full use of the techniques and knowledge various issues, we are committed to fulﬁlling our (Hachioji Ofﬁce, July 2018) we have built up, we at SRL are cooperating with the social responsibility as a partner in the clinical marrow donor program and eye bank projects. Our testing business LUMIPULSE®1200 included in the specialized teams handle 700 cases per month and 50 for a prosperous President of plastic History of Japanese Industrial Technology cases per month respectively. This involves supplying blood local community. molding manufacturer collection equipment and in Hachioji City The LUMIPULSE®1200 has been registered in the History returning data on HLA Marrow of Japanese Industrial Technology database, a research (human leukocyte donor program project by the National Museum of Nature and Science. antigen) testing and As well as being Japan’s ﬁrst fully automated infectious disease testing. More than 8,000 Picture Book Project chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay system, the LUMIPULSE®1200 was included because of its high speed and advanced technology. cases/year SRL’s Sales Division is taking the lead in promoting the Picture Book Project for children ﬁghting illness. This project, donating picture Set of materials supplied for books to local hospitals, ran from August 2016 marrow donor program to June 2017 and from November to December 2017. Items including 476 picture books collected by employees have been presented to around 30 medical institutions. In future, we intend to expand the scope of the project by donating a wider range of items. Eye bank LUMIPULSE®1200 testing kit Donation by the Picture Book Project (Tokyo Rinkai Hospital, July 2018) 33 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 34 CSR for Sustainable Growth Business foundations Strong corporate governance Efforts to strengthen corporate Compliance with Japan’ s governance Corporate Governance Code To enhance midto long-term corporate value and prevent reputational damage while helping create a sustainable society, the Miraca Group strengthens cooperation among various stakeholders and strives for proper decision-making, sound management and greater accountability. Making proper decisions promptly and with transparency is The Miraca Group agrees with the intent of the essential for sound business management. To achieve our Corporate Governance Code set by the Tokyo Stock mid-term plan, the Miraca Group must also have a sense of Exchange and complies with all its principles. We will urgency and unite. To realize these, we standardized approval submit a report based on the revised Corporate Basic approach rules within the Group to pursue stronger group management. Governance Code dated June 1, 2018 by the end of Actively promoting global expansion in In Vitro Diagnostics, December 2018. With a mission to create new value in healthcare and corporate governance practices that lead to greater we established Fujirebio Holdings to oversee the whole ● The Corporate Governance Code is published on the company website. contribute to the prosperity of people, the Miraca Group managerial transparency and prompt and proper business, accelerate global management and strengthen https://www.miraca.com/resources/ﬁle/pdf/ is working for more effective management based on our decision-making. governance. 20180627_governance.pdf (Japanese) Vision and Value. Fully aware that corporate activities are We also set the framework for sharing information with ● The Corporate Governance Policy is published on the company website. based on cooperation and harmony among many https://www.miraca.com/resources/ﬁle/pdf/en/ overseas subsidiaries by translating the Group’s management 20170623_CG_policy_E.pdf philosophy, brand message and corporate governance policy stakeholders, we are committed to establishing into English. Going forward, we will continue to build a much stronger governance system globally. Corporate governance Internal control system Management compensation The Group management knows the importance of a strong, thorough corporate governance, and is 2 Inside Directors 5 Outside Directors As maintaining good governance is important, we will With top priority on enhancing corporate value and the committed to creating a governance structure that encourages greater managerial transparency and prompt and proper decision-making. To achieve clear separation 7 Directors continue to develop our practices and establish the basic policy for an internal control system, strengthen the Audit common interests of shareholders, a performance-based compensation plan for executive ofﬁcers was adopted Committee’s auditing system, promote management while the retirement bonus, which is not closely linked to of oversight and executive functions, give executive rules to all group companies, and create a system to performance, was abolished, and a stock compensation ofﬁcers the authority to make decisions quickly and Nominating 2 Outside Directors + ensure proper business practices. plan was introduced to share the interests of provide better management of Group companies, the Committee 1 Inside Director shareholders, management and other employees. “company with three committees” structure was adopted in June 27, 2005 and group control was transferred to a pure holding company in July 1, 2005. Compensation 2 Outside Directors + The Board of Directors receives reports from each 1 Inside Director Reason for appointment and committee afﬁliation of directors Committee committee and from executive ofﬁcers on current Nominating Compensation Audit corporate operations and performance targets, so that Committee Committee Committee Reason for appointment Audit the board can provide timely corporate oversight. Of the 3 Outside Directors Shigekazu Involved in the management of entertainment companies over many years. His wealth Committee ◯ ◯ of experience and knowledge amassed from these stints are valuable to Miraca seven board directors,* ﬁve are outside directors Takeuchi Holdings. Suitable as director of the company appointed as leaders in their respective ﬁelds. Joined as Strategic Planning Department General Manager in 2011 and appointed Executive *According to Article 18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Miraca Holdings Inc., Outside directors are appointed to Naoki Ofﬁcer from 2013. Involved in ﬁnance, corporate planning and corporate strategy over the the Company shall have no more than ten directors. chair each committee Kitamura years, with extensive knowledge and experience from a global perspective. Suitable as director Involved in the management of Suntory Holdings Limited over many years. Provides General Shareholders’ Meeting Shigehiro Outside Appointment / Dismissal Aoyama Director ◯ valuable advice based on his wide-ranging experience and knowledge in corporate Appointment / Dismissal management. Suitable as outside director of the company Corporate governance The Board of Directors (meeting) Involved in audit and management of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC for many years Futomichi Outside Amano Director ◯ as a certiﬁed public accountant. Lends his abundant knowledge and expertise to the structure Cooperation management of the company. Suitable as outside director of the company Accounting auditor Audit Committee Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Partner in the law ﬁrm Nagashima Ohno & Tsunematsu. Provides expert counsel to Miyuki Outside Ishiguro Director ◯ ◯ company management as a highly experienced lawyer on corporate legal affairs. Executive division Suitable as outside director of the company Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Professor teaching media and governance at graduate school, management Ryoji Outside Itoh Director ◯ ◯ consultant and head of company. Lends his expert knowledge gained from his wealth Audit of experience to the management of the company. Suitable as outside director Internal audit division Executive Ofﬁcers Professor who taught history of the Western legal system. Imparts his extensive Audit Susumu Outside Yamauchi Director ◯ experience and insights as former President of Hitotsubashi University to company management. Suitable as outside director 35 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 36 CSR for Sustainable Growth Business foundations Compliance Business foundations Risk management Along with developing and enforcing a compliance system, all ofﬁcers and employees strive to comply with laws, We aim to build an extensive risk management system by identifying, assessing, reducing, avoiding and monitoring enhance awareness of global codes of conduct and ensure transparency in relationships with medical providers and management risks, including strategic risks, to prevent reputational damage to corporate value and take preventive institutions. measures with swift and appropriate response to incidents. Basic approach Whistleblower system Basic approach BCP efforts Being involved in healthcare, the Miraca Group The Miraca Group Hotline is provided for subsidiaries in The Miraca Group set up the Risk Management The Miraca Group conducts business with around 80% considers thorough compliance as vital to corporate Japan and receives information, anonymous or not, on Committee to perceive and manage the various risks of major hospitals in Japan. Service disruptions due to survival. In 2013, the Miraca Group Code of Conduct legal, company rule or code violations. Outside involved in business activities and promote risk large-scale disasters and such can wreak havoc on the was formulated to provide basic guidelines. It sets the counselors are available online or over the phone. management. Every year, Miraca Holdings and its entire healthcare system in Japan. Our mission is to standard for all decisions on business and other Serious matters are reported to management as operating companies assess the possible risks that may prevent operation downtime even in disasters and other corporate activities for all ofﬁcers and employees necessary. Hotline contact cards are distributed to affect management according to a common group emergencies. The current business continuity plan (BCP) working in the Group. English and Chinese language disseminate the whistleblower system to employees. standard, and then identify the critical risks to formulate a in operation was formulated by each operating company editions are also available for overseas subsidiaries. contingency plan and engage in risk reduction activities. in 2011. We are now restructuring the BCP as a Group to Further, Miraca Holdings set up Code of Conduct consider the recent frequency of natural disasters. To ●Group risks Committees at each group company to investigate Internal ensure service during emergencies, the new plan will facts when compliance-related issues arise and create consider outcomes of events and will include actual Strategic risks Operational risks the system to properly address the situation. Also, the training and exercises along with the rules. The new Legal and compliance risks Reporting risks Legal Affairs Division include members with required central laboratory under construction was also designed knowledge and experience, including qualiﬁed lawyers External for business continuity in the event of disasters with the and patent attorneys, to provide a system for dealing External environmental risks use of facilities and equipment that minimize their Market risks Procurement risks Regulatory risks Reputation with complex laws and intellectual property issues. impact. Credibility and ﬁnancial risks Disaster, terrorism, political risks risk The Miraca Group Hotline Business foundations Information security and privacy protection Compliance training Intellectual property activities We are committed to strengthening security against leaks by providing a better IT security system and group-wide employee education to safeguard the personal data of patients, customers, business partners and employees obtained and stored in the course of business. The Miraca Group issued the Compliance Handbook in The Miraca Group actively acquires intellectual property 2016, which contains easily understandable information rights worldwide, such as patents and trademarks, to on compliance in Q&A format. Reading sessions are held protect Group products and services. We are committed at each department to raise employee awareness. We to providing incentives to inventors through fair and Strengthening information security Creating a secure environment plan to update the handbook in ﬁscal 2018 to reﬂect the transparent incentive schemes. To avoid intellectual latest trends and social needs, as well as incorporate property rights infringement, we employ third-party Since the Miraca Group keeps huge amounts of The remote work program developed as part of work compliance topics in various trainings, including patent searches during the R&D process and conduct specimens and personal information mainly from medical style reforms, while convenient, increases the risk of harassment training, to build awareness across the entire intellectual property training for research department institutions, we consider security and creating a system leaks. To address this, the IT Division of Miraca Holdings Group. employees. to comply with the Personal Information Protection Act is developing a system to create a safer environment of Japan as a major management issue. SRL obtained through data encryption, remote account locking, among the PrivacyMark certiﬁcation*1 in February 2005, as well others. Group companies also conduct company-wide as the ISMS and ISO/IEC27001*2 for information system training every year to enhance employee IT literacy via Anti-corruption efforts security in some areas of the Hachioji Ofﬁce. Through e-learning. these certiﬁcations, we have built a management system As the Miraca Group encourages collaboration with against information leaks. medical and research institutions to improve healthcare E-learning contents (partial) and clinical testing techniques, we strive to build trust and transparency by acting with high ethical standards. ●Handling smartphones We actively work to ensure transparency by following the ●Managing passwords Promotion Code for promotional activities. ●Clean desk policy 76702 Compliance Handbook *1 Certiﬁcation for the entire company *2 Certiﬁcation for the SRL Hachioji Ofﬁce (part of Hino Administration Building and Information & Distribution Center) 37 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 38 Messages from Representatives of Miraca Group Companies Fujirebio Inc. Advanced Life Science Institute, Inc. (ALSI) Japan Clinical Laboratories, Inc. Hokushin Clinical Laboratory, Inc. Goki Ishikawa, President & CEO Katsumi Aoyagi, President & CEO Takashi Arai, President & CEO Yoshifumi Mitsui, President & CEO Since developing the syphilis HA antigen ALSI is a small company with fewer than 20 I experienced 2011 Great East Japan As a member of the Miraca Group, at the testing in 1966, Fujirebio has successfulemployees, but we have contributed to global Earthquake and tsunami in Tohoku, and the same time as ensuring compliance and ly produced reagents for infectious healthcare by creating new value including recent earthquake in Northern Osaka. Having reducing risk, we will fulﬁll our role as a diseases and many other ﬁelds. We the ProGRP diagnostic marker for small cell received support on these occasions, We will company, striving for management integrity contribute to society by creating new lung cancer, HCV core antigen, HBcrAg leverage CSR to fulﬁll our responsibility to and transparency. We will respond to measuring reagent, and the world’s most value, always aiming to develop reagents society, not just as a tool for PR exercise. We changes in society and our customers’ sensitive HBs-HQ. Creating new value is that are “Number One” and “Only One” will be a part of the Miraca Group’s CSR needs to maximize customer satisfaction and ALSI’s responsibility, and we will continue in the world. contributing to society by developing activities, focusing on working in unity and corporate value, aiming to work in harmony innovative reagents. contributing to society with speed. with the local community. Fujirebio Europe N. V. (FRE) SRL Kitakanto Laboratory Inc. Christiaan De Wilde, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Kiyoto Katsumada, President & CEO Being so fortuned to live our life in good health, We are always conscious of offering peace peace and prosperity, we must give back of mind to customers and gaining trust by towards communities. We must foster our providing high-quality test results, services, environment and natural resources. Through our and up-to-date information. As a testing IVD business and with “care for our employees” center located in the Northern Kanto area, as one of FRE’s values, we demonstrate to take we need to be more responsive to the needs our corporate social responsibility seriously. I from local community. With the pride of the am convinced heartwarming CSR initiatives of Miraca Group in mind, we will expand our our employees will further expand! excellent services. Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc. The Miraca Group operates globally Baylor Miraca Genetics Laboratories, LLC Monte Wiltse, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for people and healthcare. Kengo Takishima, President & CEO Fujirebio Diagnostics has played a signiﬁcant This is a joint venture between Miraca role in advancing cancer management for Holdings and Baylor College of Medicine in over 30 years. Based on our history in the US. Based at our laboratory in Houston, oncology, our CSR program is designed to Texas, we provide state-of-the-art genetic have a positive impact on patients with testing for rare diseases and cancer to the whole world. Based on our strengths in cancer. By having ﬁrst-hand knowledge of R&D, we will help improve treatments and the challenges of cancer patients, our Clinical Laboratory Testing In Vitro Diagnostics develop healthcare through creative employees will bring a deeper understanding problem-solving in challenging and Healthcare Related Research Division and a renewed commitment to their work. unknown areas. Fujirebio Taiwan, Inc. Fujirebio India Private Limited NIHON STERY CO., LTD. Takeshi Fujita, Chairperson, Nobuhiro Yamamoto, Managing Director Jun Takahashi, President & CEO Fujirebio Taiwan collaborates with hospital India has hospital laboratories and private Through the sterilization business, we have laboratories and private laboratories, mainly laboratories of various scales and levels, with continued to support healthcare as it in infectious disease and tumor markers. diverse customer needs. As well as becomes ever more advanced, placing Also we contribute to Taiwan’s blood infectious diseases, there are huge numbers importance on the feelings of patients and donation program by providing of patients with conditions including cancer their families and taking pride in being a SERODIA®-TPPA to blood donation centers. and heart disease. We will work to help member of the medical team. Going forward, Going forward, we will help improve improve healthcare in India by supplying we will respect the diversity of our employhealthcare in Taiwan by supplying Fujirebio Group’s wide-ranging and high-quality Fujirebio Group’s wide-ranging and ees and support external activities to products. high-quality products. contribute to society in a wider sense. Fujirebio Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. Miraca Research Institute G.K. Care’x, Inc. SRL Medisearch Inc. Masaaki Iseki, Managing Director Kazuya Omi, Executive Ofﬁcer Hidetoshi Mitsui, President & CEO Masahiro Ikeoka, President & CEO Singapore is very concerned to create a Miraca Research Institute was established in We want to provide top quality and safety to Our role is to provide speedy and sustainable future. The government has July 2017 as a base for the Miraca Group’s users in the care equipment rental business. high-quality test data for clinical trials and established a dedicated team to provide and fundamental research and open innovation. Our wish to help to improve quality of life for clinical research at the upstream end of support social enterprises. The country is Through challenging research in the ﬁelds of elderly people by supplying appropriate care healthcare. Through our work, we will currently facing an aging population. A key healthcare and health science, new business equipment is why we insist on high quality. continue to enhance corporate value by social issue is to extend healthy life development and human resource We will work with our stakeholders to solve support to pharmaceutical R&D with high expectancy. Through our business, Fujirebio development, we will work to maximize the any issues and work towards developing a treatment satisfaction and bringing new can contribute to the society in many ways Group’s corporate value, and solve complex high-quality care equipment rental business. treatments to patients quickly, helping to ― both directly and indirectly! social issues worldwide. solve social issues. 39 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 40 Third-Party Opinion With the explosive global population growth and widening wealth disparity, inequality has Corporate Proﬁle Directors & Ofﬁcers spread to healthcare as well. Various healthcare issues are cropping up worldwide ― many people do not receive even basic medical care and infectious diseases are spreading. For healthcare companies, the prospects for solving these challenges are vast. Corporate name Miraca Holdings Inc. Directors Shigekazu Takeuchi Clinical testing makes proper treatment possible and promotes preventive medicine, while also reining in the government’s soaring healthcare costs. The Miraca Group’s Headquarters Shinjuku Mitsui Building, 2-1-1 Naoki Kitamura business itself is not just socially important, but the expectations for the Group are high. Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-0408 Outside Directors Shigehiro Aoyama To raise corporate value through CSR activities, the Group must take the lead in TEL: +81-3-5909-3335 Futomichi Amano addressing the more challenging healthcare issues. I expect that the Group will not limit Director, President & Group CEO Shigekazu Takeuchi Miyuki Ishiguro itself to conducting its core businesses but also make good use of their knowledge and technologies on long-term initiatives from the macro perspective. I commend the Group’s Foundation December 18, 1950 Ryoji Itoh consistent efforts to raise corporate value through CSR activities ― to achieve their Vision (Corporate name change and transition to Susumu Yamauchi Kazutaka Okubo by conducting Value-based materiality assessment and incorporating the most important a holding company structure through a Director, President & Group CEO Shigekazu Takeuchi material issues into midto long-term corporate strategies. In particular, I look forward to corporate split transaction on July 1, 2005) Senior Executive Board Member Executive Ofﬁcers Yoshihiro Ashihara Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC their efforts to address cancer genomic testing, dementia screening and infectious Capital stock 9,066 million yen (as of March 31, 2018) diseases, and to identify pathologies of intractable diseases by esoteric testing. Shunichi Higashi Number of employees* SRL: 2,741 (3,173) Going forward, all employees must work together on these CSR activities as a way of Naoki Kitamura (as of March 31, 2018) Fujirebio: 1,059 (129) practicing the Group’s Value. Although most of the Group’s clients are medical institutions, Shigeto Ohtsuki Miraca Holdings: 324 (18) the ﬁnal users of its products and services are patients and local communities; thus, the Consolidated: 5,541 (6,600) Hiroaki Kimura CSR activities must consider these ﬁnal users as stakeholders as well. Aside from giving support as a Group, creating an environment where employees can take the initiative to Corporate structure Company with a committee-based governance system Kazuyuki Hanyu contribute to tackling difﬁcult issues for the government alone, such as support for patients Major subsidiaries SRL, Inc. / Fujirebio Inc. Tadashi Hasegawa with intractable children’s diseases, cancer and intractable/rare diseases, helps employees reafﬁrm the Group’s social importance and leads to more Group-wide efforts to develop (as of June 22, 2018) cutting-edge technologies, provide better patient services and address other social *Indicates numbers for regular and temporary employees, with numbers in parenthesis indicating average number of temporary employees in a year healthcare issues. To create more value with such activities, I hope to see more in-depth initiatives where the social issues are speciﬁed more clearly along with the Group’s potential contribution, and where the social impact of such initiatives are visualized and numerical targets are set. To link CSR activities to value creation and enhance corporate value further, the key is steady, consistent, Value-based efforts by all employees to address social issues as part of implementing the Group Vision based on its Mission. I look forward to the Miraca Group’s CSR activities that upend the usual approach from “What can Miraca give to society?” to “How can Miraca help to meet society’s needs?” Response to third-party opinion I sincerely thank Mr. Kazutaka Okubo for his support and for giving us his very insightful Headquarters lobby refurbished in 2018 opinion as a third party on this very ﬁrst issue of our CSR Report as a Group, in keeping with the CSR industry standards set by leading global corporations. Knowing that our consistent efforts to raise corporate value through CSR activities are in the right direction is a great encouragement for us to continue with our work in the healthcare industry. We understand that the feedback for going forward is full of helpful and meaningful External Recognition of Our ESG Performance suggestions in our aim to become a corporate group with forward-looking CSR activities in the near future. To address global issues such as those in the SDGs, and the issues of stakeholders, not only our medical institution clients but also patients, their families and The Miraca Group is included in the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes, consisting of local communities, we will set deﬁnite numerical targets and actively engage in CSR Shigeto Ohtsuki companies with high environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance, activities worthy of a leader in the clinical diagnostics industry. Executive Ofﬁcer, With this feedback, we at the Miraca Group resolve to re-commit to our CSR activities. Human Resources and CSR selected by Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI) in the United States. Miraca Holdings Inc. MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index rating: A 41 CSR REPORT 2018 Miraca Group 42 CSR Report 2018 Shinjuku Mitsui Building, 2-1-1 Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-0408 Contact : CSR Promotion Department e-mail: csr_toiawase@miraca.com URL: https://www.miraca.com/en/csr/ Provided by the Hand Stamp Art Project This project draws the largest picture in the world made with the hand and foot prints of children with illnesses and disabilities and the people who support them. Its aim is to hold up this culmination of their work as a symbol of the participants’ dreams at the 2020 Tokyo Paralympic Games.
