Annual Report 2020 Positioning for the recovery Dexus is one of Australia’s leading real estate groups, managing a high-quality Australian property portfolio valued at $32.0 billion Positioning for the recovery Over recent years, our ability to act quickly and decisively on both opportunities and challenges has been a contributing factor to our continued success. While the challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our financial result and the Dexus security price we continued to progress our strategic objectives and delivered solid operational achievements for the year. Our vision, purpose and values Our strategy Our vision is to be globally To deliver superior risk-adjusted recognised as Australia’s leading returns for investors from high quality real estate company real estate in Australia’s major cities Our purpose is to create spaces p.16 where people thrive Our values How we create value – Openness and trust The framework that outlines how we create value for all stakeholders – Empowerment – Integrity p.12 p.12 2020 Dexus Annual Reporting Suite Corporate Annual Report Financial Statements Sustainability Annual Results 2020 Governance 2020 Positioning for the recovery Report 2020 Presentation 2020 Statement 2020 Positioning for the recovery Positioning for the recovery Positioning for the recovery Positioning for the recovery The Financial Statements for Dexus Industrial Trust, Comprehensive sustainability A summary of Dexus’s Dexus Office Trust and Dexus reporting that supports the results operational and financial Operations Trust. outlined in the 2020 Annual Report. performance. Annual Financial Sustainability Annual Results Corporate Report 2020 Statements 2020 Report 2020 Presentation 2020 Governance Statement 2020 Cover images: (L) Rialto Towers, Melbourne, (R) Central Place Sydney (artist’s impression) 80 Collins Street, Melbourne Dexus 2020 Annual Report 01 Contents Overview FY20 highlights 02 About Dexus 04 Chair and CEO review 06 Approach How we create value 12 Megatrends 14 Strategy 16 Key resources 18 Key business activities 20 Key risks 22 Performance Financial 26 Properties 36 People and capabilities 42 Customers and communities 46 Environment 52 Governance Board of Directors 58 Directors’ report Remuneration report 62 Directors’ report 87 Financial report 92 Investor information 155 80 Collins Street, Melbourne About this report We are progressing the development of our reporting to clearly articulate how we deliver long-term value for Dexus Security holders, our third party capital partners and other key stakeholders. This report refers to the International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework to outline our strategy, key resources and business activities undertaken to create sustained value. 80 Collins Street, Melbourne 02 Overview – FY20 Highlights FY20 highlights In an unprecedented and challenging year, we delivered solid achievements across the key resources and relationships we rely on to create value now and into the future FY20 $ Financial Properties p.26 p.36 Maintaining strong financial Developing, managing performance by delivering on and transacting properties our strategy to create a high-quality portfolio across Australia’s key cities 50.3cents Distribution per security $ 32.0bn Value of group property portfolio FY19: 50.2 cents 50.3cents AFFO per security 96.5% Dexus office portfolio occupancy FY19: 50.3 cents 9.0 % $ 10.6bn Group development pipeline Return on contributed equity FY19: 10.1% Dexus 2020 Annual Report 03 People and Customers and Environment capabilities communities p.42 p.46 p.52 Attracting, retaining and Supporting the success Assessing the efficiency developing an engaged of our customers, the and resilience of our and capable workforce that wellbeing of building portfolio to minimise delivers on our strategy occupants, the strength our environmental of our local communities footprint and is and the capabilities of positioned to thrive in a our suppliers climate-affected future + 61 Employee Net Promoter Score + 50 Customer Net Promoter Score >1m sqm Rated minimum 5 star FY19: +40 FY19: +46 NABERS Energy across the group office portfolio, exceeding 1 million sqm target by end of FY20 36% > 1.1m$ FY20: 1,053,157sqm FY19: 950,351sqm Women in senior and executive management roles FY19: 37% Community investment value FY19: $1.2m >1m sqm Rated minimum 4 star NABERS Water across the group office portfolio, exceeding 1 million sqm target by end of FY20 FY20: 1,058,585sqm FY19: 757,423sqm 04 Overview – About Dexus About Dexus We are one of Australia’s leading real estate groups, managing a high-quality Australian property portfolio valued at $32.0 billion. $ 32.0bn 153 Total funds under Properties 4.5m Square metres management across the group Dexus is a Top 50 entity by market With over 35 years of expertise in capitalisation listed on the Australian property, investment, development and Securities Exchange (trading code:DXS) asset management, we have a proven and is supported by more than track record in managing capital and risk 29,000 investors from 21 countries. to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns We believe the strength and quality for our investors. of our relationships will always be We invest only in Australia, and directly central to our success and we are own $16.5 billion of office and industrial deeply committed to working with properties. We manage a further our customers to provide spaces that $15.5 billion of office, retail, industrial and engage and inspire. healthcare properties for our third party capital partners. The group’s $10.6 billion development pipeline provides the 100 Mount Street, opportunity to grow both portfolios and North Sydney enhance future returns. Dexus Dexus Wholesale Dexus Office Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund Partner Property Fund $32.0bn $16.5bn $10.3bn $2.7bn $0.4bn Funds under management Dexus Industrial Dexus Australian Australian Industrial Dexus Australian Partner Commercial Trust Partner Logistics Partner $0.2bn $0.6bn $0.4bn $0.9bn Dexus 2020 Annual Report 05 $ 10bn Market capitalisation Top 50 Entity on ASX 552 Employees as at 30 June 2020 We consider sustainability to be an integral part of our business with the objectives of Leading Cities, Future Enabled Customers, Strong Communities, Thriving People and an Enriched Townsville Environment supporting our overarching goal of Sustained Value. Brisbane Perth Adelaide Sydney Melbourne Group portfolio composition Office Industrial Retail Healthcare $23.3bn $4.9bn $3.3bn $0.5bn 06 Overview – Chair and CEO review Chair and Over recent years, our ability to act quickly and decisively on both opportunities and CEO review challenges has been a contributing factor to our continued success. The 2020 financial year saw a rapid Positioning for the recovery Our immediate priorities are summarised deterioration in global economic Our response to the challenging across five key areas: conditions brought about by the operating environment, together with – Assist in returning Australian COVID-19 pandemic that evolved in how we were placed going into the crisis, businesses safely to their workplaces: the last quarter of the year. positions us well for the recovery. As Australia’s largest owner and In Australia, there has been a In recent years we have actively manager of office buildings, we coordinated response by governments, undertaken initiatives to improve asset have taken a leadership role in the businesses, banks and communities. quality and portfolio diversification, operational aspects of returning to No business, including Dexus, has been while maintaining a strong balance work in a safe way, consistent with immune to the impacts of the crisis sheet. This included acquiring government guidelines. This has caused by the pandemic. MLC Centre in Sydney, 80 Collins Street involved working with the authorities Response to COVID-19 and 52 and 60 Collins Street in Melbourne, on lift capacities and regular customer and Waterfront Place in Brisbane, while communications on the operations When the pandemic took hold in late of our buildings and their plans for March 2020, our number one priority recycling assets in Adelaide, Canberra and other non-core locations. returning to the office was to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of the people in our Through transactions, developments and – Optimise our property portfolio buildings. With government restrictions favourable asset valuations we achieved composition: We have remained implemented across our key markets, we growth in funds under management, focused on preserving capital while kept our buildings operational to enable consistent with our focus on leadership selectively investing in assets with solid business continuity for the essential in office and being a wholesale fundamentals. In FY20, we established services of our customers. partner of choice. We increased the a new joint venture with GIC, to group’s exposure to the industrial and acquire a 50% interest in the iconic It has been a difficult time for many of our Rialto Towers complex in Melbourne, valued customers. We actively supported healthcare property sectors alongside our third party capital partners, further and sold circa $1.0 billion of non-core the viability of our small business or lower returning assets customers most affected by the crisis diversifying our position across these through the provision of rent relief. This is growing sectors. We have also enhanced – Accelerate opportunities to expand consistent with the Commercial Code of our product offering, working proactively our funds management platform: We Conduct and set of principles introduced with our customers to provide workspace continue to receive significant interest by the National Cabinet in April 2020 and solutions that enable additional from international capital partners applied to commercial tenancies for small flexibility and a seamless experience. seeking to invest in Australian property, and medium enterprises experiencing We have also invested in technology, and aim to accelerate opportunities to financial stress. both within our properties and at a expand our funds platform, including corporate level, across our organisational the launch of an unlisted opportunity These actions have impacted our fund series in FY21 financial result for the year which, until systems and processes, creating the last quarter was tracking ahead efficiencies and enhancing our customers’ – Continue to work with our customers of expectations. In response to the experience. With a heightened focus on on the future of workspace: The crisis uncertain environment, we implemented health and wellbeing we are enhancing has accelerated the flexible working cost reduction initiatives and secured our investment in touchless technology trend and some of the long-term additional debt facilities. We also that can be fully integrated into our structural trends, such as technology, withdrew our FY20 guidance until there buildings, as well as initiatives relating to that have underpinned our workspace was further certainty on cash flow, and the operation of our buildings and new strategy. We invest time in being at in early June 2020 announced revised development projects in a the forefront of those drivers and guidance for a distribution consistent post-COVID-19 environment. understanding our customers’ needs with FY19, which we have delivered on. to drive innovation, collaboration and While these challenges adversely workplace culture impacted our financial result and the Dexus security price we progressed our strategic objectives and delivered solid operational achievements for the year. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 07 – Progress our city-shaping development pipeline including: Central Place Sydney, a major office development underpinning the delivery of Tech Central, Sydney’s new innovation and technology precinct Waterfront Brisbane, a major redevelopment of the Eagle Street Pier site which will make way for two office towers and unlock the considerable potential of this Brisbane CBD gateway site 60 Collins Street, Melbourne consolidating two adjacent sites to develop a Prime grade office tower located at the ‘Paris’ end of Collins Street Pitt and Bridge Precinct, a significant office development on a large site located in the financial core of the Sydney CBD Delivering sustained value While our financial results were adversely impacted by the pandemic, we delivered a full year distribution of 50.3 cents per security which was consistent with FY19 and in line with the revised guidance provided on Rialto Towers, 1 June 2020. This achievement has Melbourne resulted in a 5.8% compound annual growth rate since FY12. Dexus’s net profit after tax was History of Dexus distribution per security1 $983.0 million, down 23.3% primarily (cents per security) due to revaluation gains which were $160.7 million lower than in FY19. 55 50.2 50.3 Underlying Funds from Operations per 47.8 50 45.47 security of 63.5 cents, which excludes 43.51 45 41.04 trading profits, grew by 1.0%, despite the 37.56 +5.8% impact of rent relief provided, highlighting 40 36.00 the contribution from the funds 35 32.10 management business and non-recurring cost reduction measures. 30 CAGR since FY12 25 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 1. Adjusted for the one-for-six security consolidation completed in FY15. Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is calculated over eight years. 08 Overview – Chair and CEO review Chair and CEO review Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) per Dexus managed the Australian Mandate Contributing to Leading Cities security growth and Return on Contributed for more than 30 years with the Equity (ROCE) through the cycle are key internally managed portfolio achieving As a real estate company, our quality measures that drive long‑term value outperformance for the mandate versus properties are central to how we create creation for Security holders. In FY20, we the MSCI benchmark over 5, 7 and value. Being concentrated in Australia’s did not achieve AFFO per security growth 10 years at 30 June 2020. major CBDs, we help shape our cities due to COVID-19, however we achieved a as leading destinations to live, work In trading, we secured $35.3 million of and play. Over the year, we maintained ROCE of 9.0%. trading profits net of tax following the high occupancy levels through leasing, Dexus delivered a negative total sale of a 25% interest in 201 Elizabeth with our office portfolio occupancy Security holder return for the year, Street in Sydney and the progress of the at 96.5% and industrial portfolio underperforming the S&P/ASX 200 North Shore Health Hub in St Leonards, occupancy at 95.6%. Property Accumulation (A-REIT) Index currently under construction and sold by 44 basis points. Dexus maintains its to Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund Over recent years, buying quality outperformance of the A-REIT index over (HWPF) on a fund-through basis. Post 30 properties on-market has become three, five and ten-year time horizons. June 2020, we entered into agreements increasingly competitive and we have to sell a portfolio of six trading assets to undertaken developments as an efficient In FY20, each of our earnings drivers allocation of our capital. The group’s contributed to the financial result. the Dexus Australian Logistics Trust (DALT) and exercised our put option to sell our $10.6 billion development pipeline Across our property portfolio, we achieved provides Dexus with the opportunity remaining 25% interest in 201 Elizabeth valuation increases of $612.4 million and to enhance future returns by growing Street. These sales result in trading profits Funds from Operations of $795.6 million, the core property portfolio and those being contracted for FY21 and FY22 with our office and industrial portfolios portfolios managed on behalf of our while satisfying the growing acquisition delivering +2.4% and -2.1% like-for-like thirdparty capital partners. mandate for the Trust. income growth respectively. In the current uncertain environment, We continued to maintain a strong and In our funds management business, we the ownership of our city-shaping conservative balance sheet with gearing continued to attract new capital during developments, in partnership with (look-through)1 at 24.3%, well below our the year, with acquisitions, developments our third party capital partners, target range of 30-40%. As a result of and revaluations contributing to the combined with the fact that they are our credentials going into the crisis, we $15.5 billion of third party funds under currently income producing assets, were able to arrange additional bank management, while delivering on third reduces our risk and allows us to debt facilities, further strengthening our party capital partners’ objectives. progress planning, enhancing the financial position. The loss of the management of the optionality for these developments. $2.0 billion Australian Mandate portfolio, Further details in relation to our managed on behalf of the NSW Treasury properties and developments can Corporation, from 30 June 2020, resulted be found on page 36. in cost cutting including some job closures across the group to minimise the impact of reduced fee revenue. 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. Proforma gearing includes proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. Total Security holder return (%) B  eing concentrated in Australia’s 9.8% 12.9% major CBDs, we help shape 3.7% our cities as leading destinations to live, work and play. -25.7% 1 Year 3 Years1 5 Years1 10 Years1 Dexus S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT Index S&P/ASX 200 Index 1. Annualised compound return. Source UBS Australia at 30 June 2020. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 09 Waterfront Brisbane, (artist’s impression) Developing Thriving People We are proud to have again been included amongst a select group We have a highly This year has brought to the fore our core values and organisational purpose. of Australian companies that were awarded an Employer of Choice for engaged workforce Our values of openness and trust, empowerment and integrity combined Gender Equality citation for 2019-20 by that is committed the Workplace Gender Equality Agency. with our purpose of “creating places where people thrive” have guided and During the COVID-19 pandemic our to delivering on our underpinned our behaviours and culture people have played an instrumental role strategy, reflected in during this time. in ensuring the safety of our customers, Our people are central to the success contractors and the community across our high employee Net of our strategy and their knowledge, the group property portfolio. Our ongoing focus on safety is measured Promoter Score. expertise and ability to innovate are key inputs into how we position for the by independent external safety audits recovery. We have a highly engaged across our corporate and management workforce that is committed to delivering workplaces, and this year we achieved on our strategy, reflected in our high an average score of 100%. employee Net Promoter Score. Further details in relation to our people We recognise that key to our continuing can be found on page 42. success is retaining and attracting high-performing people and having an inclusive and diverse workforce. 10 Overview – Chair and CEO review Chair and CEO review 1 Bligh Street, Sydney Building strong partnerships Enriching the environment +50 Developing strong partnerships with our customers, local communities and suppliers has a valuable impact on the The devastating impact of the Australian drought and bushfire crisis that dominated the summer of 2019-20 Customer Net people in and around our buildings. Our increased investor focus on the resilience customers are at the heart of what we do of our properties to climate change. Promoter Score and we invest time in understanding their The launch of our Towards Climate needs and delivering solutions to help Resilience report in June 2020 reinforces them thrive in their workspaces. our approach to addressing climate change and enhancing our resilience. Delivered on Our annual customer survey returned a high customer Net Promoter Score of +50 This year, we progressed our goal by 2020 (out of a possible range of -100 to +100), an increase from +46 in FY19, reflecting the strength of our relationships. improving energy and water efficiency, delivering our 2020 NABERS Energy and Water targets and expanding the NABERS Energy Dexus is a signatory to the UN Global adoption of renewable energy sources, including the rollout of solar projects and Water targets Compact, reinforcing our continued across properties in Queensland and commitment to corporate sustainability principles. We are committed to ensuring New South Wales. our operations provide quality jobs with Dexus gained global recognition for the right conditions and collaborate its commitment to its net zero goal, with our suppliers to understand how enhancing sustainability disclosure and we can contribute to upholding human ongoing focus on portfolio resilience, rights across our supply chain, including achieving industry leadership in the preventing modern slavery. Our efforts Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in this important area of focus are and a position on the CDP Climate detailed in our inaugural Modern Change A List. Slavery Statement. Further details in relation to how we Further details in relation to our support an enriched environment can customers, local communities and be found on page 52. suppliers can be found on page 46. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 11 As a result of the onset of the pandemic, We will also make decisions that set we temporarily paused our Board the group up to perform over the long renewal strategy due to the challenging term. We will selectively recycle assets, operating environment and will which may result in short-term earnings recommence this strategy over the dilution but will enable us to reinvest course of FY21. into opportunities that we believe will Further details relating to the Board and drive stronger investor returns over the our governance practices are included in next decade. the Governance and Board of Directors Our immediate priorities are summarised section, as well as the Corporate across five key areas: assisting Australian Governance Statement available at businesses in returning safely to their www.dexus.com workplaces, optimising our property portfolio composition, accelerating Summary and outlook opportunities to expand our funds Dexus is well positioned with a management platform, continuing to track record of delivering on strategy, a work with our customers on the future of stable and experienced management workspace, and progressing the team, a quality property portfolio with a city-shaping development pipeline. diversified customer base, and a strong On behalf of the Board and management, balance sheet. we extend our appreciation to our people Our substantial city-shaping for their dedication and significant development pipeline comprises projects contribution to this year’s result. We also that will deliver long-term value beyond thank our third party capital partners for the recovery period, providing the entrusting us with the management of their Strong governance focus opportunity to build the next generation investments, and our customers for their of office buildings focused on technology, commitment across our property portfolio. We instil robust governance practices safety and sustainability. Importantly, we thank you, our investors, and sound risk management at all levels of our business and continually work on As global pension and offshore for your continued investment in Dexus. maintaining a strong risk culture across capital sources seek long-term the group. Together, the Board and senior investment opportunities in real assets, management are responsible for creating our diversified funds management business continues to attract interest Richard Sheppard a culture where every employee has from new capital. Chair ownership and responsibility for acting lawfully and responsibly. Our team’s knowledge, expertise and Darren Steinberg Reinforcing the integration of ability to innovate, combined with Chief Executive Officer environmental, social and governance our investments in technology and (ESG) issues into our decision making, the workspace consulting, will help us Board ESG Committee was established, position for the recovery. overseeing the implementation of the Office property is a long-term asset class group’s ESG activities, including our and has shown its resilience to perform sustainability approach. through the cycle. However, with Australia Our Board now comprises eight in a recession, we are preparing for non‑executive directors and one subdued tenant demand and increased executive director, following the vacancy levels in our core office markets. appointment of Patrick Allaway as a In this environment we remain focused on new non-executive Director. Patrick has maintaining high portfolio occupancy. extensive senior executive, non-executive director, and corporate advisory experience over a 30-year career in the financial services, property, media and Future focus retail sectors. Deliver a distribution in line with free cash flow in FY21. However, taking into account continued uncertainty, Dexus is not providing distribution per security guidance for the 12 months ended 30 June 2021. 12 Approach – How we create value How we Our purpose create Who we are Why we come to work We create value for Our values value A passionate and agile team To create spaces where Our customers, investors, people, Openness, trust, empowerment, who want to make people thrive and communities and integrity a difference Megatrends Our strategy Key resources Key business activities p.14 p.16 p.18 p.20 Megatrends Vision – Urbanisation To be globally Financial recognised as Our earnings – Growth in ng drivers Australia’s leading lo pension gi Property portfolio ve capital real estate company na Property portfolio De funds flow Properties Strategy Ma pin – Social and Delivering superior g demographic risk adjusted returns Office Industrial change for investors from – Technological high quality real People and Funds management change estate in Australia’s capabilities – Climate major cities change Strategic objectives Office Industrial Retail Healthcare – Growth in – Leadership in Customers sustainable Office and communities Trading investment – Wholesale partner of choice Environment Tr a n s a c t i n g Key risks p.22 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 13 Our sustainability approach Value creation outcomes Our sustainability approach is the lens that we use to effectively manage emerging environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities, creating sustained value for our stakeholders 2020 Sustainability Report Sustained Value Value drivers Superior long-term – Financial performance for our investors performance Sustainability and third party capital – Capital Approach partners, underpinned by management integrating ESG issues into – Corporate our business model governance p.26 Leading Cities Value drivers A high-quality portfolio – Portfolio scale that contributes to and occupancy economic prosperity and – Economic supports sustainable contribution urban development across – Development Australia’s key cities pipeline p.36 Thriving People Value drivers An engaged, capable and – Employee high-performing workforce engagement that delivers on our strategy – Inclusion and and supports the creation of diversity sustained value – Health and safety p.42 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Value drivers A strong network of value – Customer chain partners (customers, experience communities and suppliers) – Community who support Dexus and are contribution positively impacted by Dexus – Supply chain focus p.46 Enriched Environment Value drivers An efficient and resilient – Resource portfolio that minimises efficiency our environmental footprint – Climate and is positioned to thrive resilience in a climate-affected future – Green buildings p.52 14 Approach – Megatrends Megatrends Megatrends shape our operating environment, generating both risks and opportunities that impact how we create value through our business model. Megatrend Description Connection to key resources Urbanisation in major cities both in Australia and around the world is increasing. This creates challenges for social equity, Financial the environment, transport systems and city planning. Properties Urbanisation Environment Funds under management within pension funds are expected to increase significantly as populations in developed nations Financial continue to age. Consequently, real estate is expected to receive a higher share of capital allocation. Properties Growth in pension capital fund flows Demographic trends such as the rise of millennials and Customers and the ageing population have implications for the design of communities workspaces and the functioning of cities more broadly. People and capabilities Social and demographic change Technology and connectivity is driving mobility and collaboration in workplaces. Artificial Intelligence, Customers and automation and robotics is replacing repetitive tasks, communities together with a new focus on the value of big data and analytics. People and capabilities Technological change It is now widely recognised that climate change is a risk to financial stability and is intensifying other environmental Financial challenges such as resource scarcity. Climate challenges include impacts from extreme weather and longer-term Climate change climate changes, as well as the potential transition to a Environment low carbon economy. Sustainable investing is growing at a rapid rate both Financial in Australia and around the world. To gain access to sustainable investment flows, businesses need to address the environmental, social and governance issues that are Growth in material to their ability to create value. sustainable investment Dexus 2020 Annual Report 15 T  here are various megatrends that could impact Dexus’s strategy and outlook, and we actively review them as the nature and potential of these trends can change over time. Implications for our business model and how we are responding An investment in Dexus is an investment in Australia’s cities. Our property portfolio is concentrated in the CBDs of Australia’s major cities and we believe these locations are where our customers want and need to be. We continue to invest in key CBD locations and are enhancing our existing development capabilities, so we are optimally positioned to maximise value from our existing portfolio. In addition, we are investing in precinct development capabilities so that our contribution towards the creation of vibrant ‘work, live, play’ communities is maximised. We work closely with our third party capital partners, public authorities, real estate consultants, technology providers and the wider community in undertaking these activities. Dexus does not believe COVID-19 will shift the ongoing megatrend of urbanisation. Dexus is a leading Australian real estate fund manager. Our funds management business provides wholesale investors with exposure to quality sector specific and diversified real estate investment products. These funds also have a strong track record of performance and benefit from leveraging the leasing, asset and property management capabilities provided by Dexus. We often invest alongside our third party capital partners on acquisition and development opportunities, enhancing alignment to our strategy to generate superior risk-adjusted returns. We expect that our funds management business will benefit from the megatrend of the growth in pension fund capital flows through selectively expanding existing funds and launching new investment products where we believe a competitive advantage can be obtained, as shown through the establishment of Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund (HWPF) and the Dexus Australian Logistics Trust (DALT). Workforce composition is increasingly diverse, and expectations for a seamless experience that enables collaboration and flexibility has never been greater. Workers are increasingly technology savvy and the ability to work from anywhere at any time is now a baseline expectation for workers of all generations. Our focus on delivering ‘simple and easy’ experiences is focused on reducing pain points for our customers, enabling collaboration and developing communities within our properties. Through our agile, customer-centric approach, we are able to provide solutions that suit the broad diversity of our customers’ workforces. Demand for healthcare services will continue to benefit from ageing demographics, longer life expectancy and population growth. In the current environment, COVID-19 has highlighted the role of high-quality healthcare infrastructure and the sector tends to be resilient to downturns. We monitor and support demographic diversity in our workforce, and our flexible working policy enables our employees to work anywhere, any time, supporting personal wellbeing and productivity. The recent COVID-19 government restrictions have meant a new experience of working remotely for many and this may create opportunities for Dexus to develop new flexible workspace products in partnership with our customers. Technological advancement brings opportunities to further support our customers in their growth and productivity goals, and we are implementing innovative technologies in new developments to deliver a better customer experience and optimise workforce productivity. Our smart buildings strategy enables connectivity and flexibility across workplace locations. We continue to invest in workplace systems and processes for our people that will create a foundation for operational excellence. Our commitment and investments in technology have been demonstrated through our partnership with the Taronga Ventures platform and fund. This will better position Dexus to secure first-mover advantage on next generation technology solutions for our business, customers and investors. For over a decade, we have enhanced the environmental performance and reduced the carbon footprint of our portfolio through targeted improvements to energy and water efficiency. We are on the journey to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, and have integrated risks and opportunities from climate change into our operations. We focus on supporting the physical resilience of our portfolio and work with stakeholders in our value chain to reduce their impacts through waste management and sustainable procurement. Dexus has welcomed the increasing interest from its investors and third party capital partners about how Dexus is managing ESG issues. Our sustainability approach is the lens that we use to effectively address emerging ESG risks and opportunities. We have integrated the reporting of our ESG performance into our Annual Report, to enhance communication with our stakeholders and support the further integration of ESG into our business model. We benchmark our ESG approach using investor surveys and have established globally leading positions according to the Principles for Responsible Investment, Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and CDP Climate Change. 16 Approach – Strategy Strategy Our strategy remains focused on our core strengths of owning and managing high quality real estate in Australia’s major cities to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns for investors. Delivering superior risk-adjusted Our objectives of leadership in office and Our sustainability approach is returns means outperforming the wholesale partner of choice complement used as a lens to integrate ESG relevant three and five-year benchmarks each other. Our success has enabled risks and opportunities into our in each market in which Dexus owns Dexus to attract investment partners strategy and property and funds or manages properties while providing in the office, industrial and healthcare management activities, creating Dexus investors with sustainable and property sectors, in turn providing sustained value for Dexus investors growing distributions. the opportunity to drive investment (including our third party capital We have two strategic objectives that performance while obtaining scale in our partners), employees, customers, underpin this strategy. core markets. suppliers and communities. – Leadership in office: being the leading We believe that scale supports the owner and manager of Australian generation of investment outperformance office property for both Dexus Security holders and our third party capital partners through – Wholesale partner of choice: being broader customer insights, provision of a the partner of choice for funds greater range of workspace solutions and management in Australian property increased capacity to invest in people, systems and technologies that enhance our customers’ experience. Our strategy Our sustainability approach To be globally recognised as Australia’s leading real estate company To deliver superior risk‑adjusted returns Sustained Value Vision for investors from high‑quality real estate in Australia’s major cities Leading Enriched Cities Leadership in office Our Environment Sustainability Purpose Being the leading owner Approach and manager of Australian Strategy Strategy office property Strategic objectives Wholesale partner of choice Future Enabled Thriving Being the partner of choice Customers and Strong People for funds management in Communities Australian property Dexus 2020 Annual Report 17 What sets Dexus apart? Quality real estate portfolio located across key Australian cities High performing funds management business with diverse sources of capital Globally recognised leader in sustainability City-shaping development pipeline Superior transaction and trading capabilities Talented engaged, inclusive and diverse workforce 18 Approach – Key resources Key resources We rely on our key resources or relationships to create value now and into the future. Key resources How our key resources are linked to value creation Our financial resources are the pool of funds available to us for deployment, which includes debt and equity capital, as well as profits retained from our property management, development and trading activities. This also includes the financial capital from our third party capital partners which we invest on their behalf. Financial Our prudent management of financial capital underpins the delivery of superior risk adjusted returns to Dexus investors with a through the cycle target for Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) per security growth of 3-5% and Return on Contributed Equity (ROCE) of 7-10%. Our policy is to pay distributions to Security holders in line with free cash flow for which AFFO is a proxy. As a real estate company, our properties are central to how we create value. We actively manage our property portfolio to enhance its potential, while unlocking further value through development to further enhance quality, or for higher and better uses. Our portfolio is concentrated in Australia’s major cities, which we contribute to shaping as Properties leading destinations to live, work and play. Our people’s knowledge and expertise are key inputs to how we create value. We are a passionate and agile team who want to make a difference. We focus on sustaining a high-performing workforce supported by an inclusive and diverse culture. Our intellectual capital enables us to instil strong corporate governance, sound risk People and management and maintain a focus on health and safety at all levels of our business. capabilities Our capacity to create value depends on strong relationships with our customers, local communities and suppliers. We work in partnership with our customers to provide engaging and productive spaces in our buildings that satisfy their evolving needs. Customers and We support the communities in which we operate in recognition of their contribution communities to the activity and vibrancy of our spaces. We partner with our suppliers to deliver our development projects and manage our properties more efficiently, while maintaining a proactive focus on health and safety. The efficient use of natural resources and sound management of environmental risks supports our creation of value through delivering cost efficiencies and operational resilience. We understand, monitor and manage our environmental impact, setting short-term Environment and long-term measurable environmental performance targets. We prepare for the physical impacts of climate change, while harnessing opportunities that support the transition to a low carbon economy. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 19 The value that is created How we measure value Sustained Value – Distribution per security Superior long-term performance for our – Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) per security investors and third party capital partners, – Return on Contributed Equity (ROCE) underpinned by integrating ESG issues into our business model. p.26 Leading Cities – Scale: value of property portfolio A high-quality portfolio that contributes – Customer demand and space use: portfolio to economic prosperity and supports occupancy rates sustainable urban development across – Economic contribution: Construction jobs supported Australia’s key cities. and Gross Value Added (GVA) to the economy from development projects – Future value: value of development and pipeline p.36 Thriving People – Employee engagement: employee Net Promoter Score An engaged, capable and high-performing – Gender diversity: female representation in senior and workforce that delivers on our strategy and executive management roles supports the creation of sustained value. – Health and safety: workplace safety audit scores p.42 Future Enabled Customers and Strong – Customer advocacy: customer Net Promoter Score Communities – Community contribution: total value contributed Satisfied and successful customers supported – Supply chain economic contribution: number of supplier by high performing workspaces and a partnerships comprehensive customer product and service offering. p.46 Well connected, prosperous and strong communities within and around our properties. A network of capable and effective supplier relationships that ensures ESG standards are maintained throughout our supply chain. Enriched Environment – Performance ratings: NABERS Energy and Water ratings An efficient and resilient portfolio that – Climate resilience: Greenhouse gas emissions reductions minimises our environmental footprint – Resource efficiency: energy and water reductions and and is positioned to thrive in a climatewaste management affected future. p.52 20 Approach – Key business activities Key business We create value for all our stakeholders through utilising our asset management, activities development and transaction capabilities. Value creation outcomes Sustained Value Superior long-term performance for our investors and third party capital partners, underpinned by integrating ESG issues into our business model Leading Cities A high-quality portfolio that contributes to economic prosperity and supports sustainable Our earnings urban development across ng drivers lo Australia’s key cities gi Property portfolio ve na Property portfolio De Ma pin g Office Industrial Thriving People Funds management An engaged, capable and high-performing workforce that delivers on our strategy and supports the creation of Office Industrial Retail Healthcare sustained value Trading Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Tr a n s a c t i n g A strong network of value chain partners (customers, communities and suppliers) who support Dexus and are positively impacted by Dexus Enriched Environment An efficient and resilient portfolio that minimises our environmental footprint and is positioned to thrive in a climate-affected future Dexus 2020 Annual Report 21 Value drivers – Financial performance – Capital management – Corporate governance Value drivers The Annex, 12 Creek Street Brisbane – Portfolio scale and occupancy – Economic contribution – Development pipeline Managing Dexus manages $32.0 billion of Australian real estate investments across the office, industrial, retail and healthcare asset classes. $16.5 billion of properties are managed on behalf of Dexus investors and $15.5 billion on Value drivers behalf of our third party capital partners. We utilise our asset and property management expertise to maximise – Employee cash flow for assets managed across the group. This active approach engagement seeks to add value through leasing to diversify the customer mix and – Inclusion and capitalise on the stage that we are at in the property cycle. Our in-house diversity project delivery group assists in effectively managing downtime and – Health and safety delivering capital works projects in a timely manner. Developing Dexus has a $10.6 billion group development pipeline. We utilise our Value drivers expertise to access and manage development opportunities, enhancing future returns and improving portfolio quality and diversification. – Customer Development also delivers on our third party capital partners’ strategies experience and provides organic growth in assets under management, and therefore – Community revenue potential to Dexus. contribution – Supply chain focus Transacting We utilise our multi-disciplinary expertise to identify, evaluate, and Value drivers execute acquisition and divestment opportunities across a range of sectors and asset types. – Resource We invest alongside our third party capital partners to access real estate efficiency with the objectives of improving portfolio quality and performance and – Climate achieving scale in our core markets. resilience We have demonstrated our ability to invest capital at the right time in – Green buildings the property cycle, acting quickly and evolving our approach to secure opportunities while adhering to our strict investment criteria. 22 Approach – Key risks Key risks Dexus understands that effective risk management requires an understanding of risks during all phases of the investment life cycle. We are committed to meeting high Key risk Potential impacts standards of risk management in the way we conduct business and Building and workplace – Death or injury to individuals at Dexus properties actively identify and manage risks health & safety – Reputational damage that may impact the realisation Ensuring the safety and – Loss of broader community confidence of our strategy. Effective risk wellbeing of employees, management is critical in enabling – Costs or sanctions associated with customers, contractors the delivery of high-quality products regulatory response and the public at and services to customers and Dexus properties. – Costs associated with criminal or civil proceedings maximising investor returns. – Costs associated with remediation and/or restoration Our key risks incorporate insights from our materiality assessment process, described on page 6 of the 2020 Sustainability Report. Board focus The Board Risk Committee is Performance – Reduced investor sentiment (equity and debt) responsible for reviewing the Risk Management Framework for the Ability to meet market – Loss of broader community confidence group. In FY20 the Board Risk guidance, deliver superior – Reduced credit ratings and availability of Committee was involved in: risk adjusted performance debt financing relative to industry – Considering and reviewing benchmarks and complete the top key risks, their controls developments in line with and mitigants expectations. – Reviewing cyber risk and ongoing resilience – Overseeing Dexus’s response to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on Dexus’s portfolio and corporate operations Capital markets – Constrained capacity to execute strategy – Overseeing the Dexus approach Positioning the capital – Increased cost of funding (equity and debt) to the management of Aluminium structure of the business – Reduced investor sentiment (equity and debt) Composite Panel cladding risk to withstand unexpected – Reduced credit ratings and reduced availability across the portfolio changes in equity and of debt financing – Overseeing the implementation debt markets. of Dexus’s organisational culture initiatives Dexus 2020 Annual Report 23 Link to key resources How Dexus is responding As a priority we focus on the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and Properties the people in our buildings. We adopt a series of measures to ensure building and workplace health and safety is maintained in and around our properties. This includes ongoing monitoring and testing at existing assets and regular Customers and training provided to both employees and service providers. communities We apply comprehensive work health and safety programs and enforce compliance requirements by site contractors and employees, in accordance with People and Dexus’s ISO 45001 certified Occupational Health and Safety Management System. capabilities We engage external consultants to identify and remediate health and safety issues relating to the fabric of properties across the portfolio, including facades. We maintain a business continuity management framework to mitigate safety threats, including the adoption of plans relating to crisis management, business continuity and emergency management. Responsiveness at each property is regularly tested through scenario exercises. Key performance indicators for reporting and resolution of security issues are embedded into contractor agreements at Dexus-managed assets. We have processes in place to monitor and manage performance and risks that Financial may impact on performance. Our strategy and risk appetite are approved annually by the Board and reviewed throughout the year by management. The Investment Committee is responsible for the consideration, approval or Properties endorsement, subject to delegated authority, of material investment decisions. Detailed due diligence is undertaken for all investment and divestment proposals, developments and major capital expenditure before approval or endorsement of Customers and each investment decision. communities We have a high-quality office portfolio with scale in key Australian CBDs and a diversified development pipeline across sectors and locations. Major capital projects are monitored by control groups to assess delivery and performance outcomes. Our prudent management of capital, including regular sensitivity analysis and Financial periodic independent reviews of the Treasury Policy, assists in positioning Dexus’s balance sheet in relation to unexpected changes in capital markets. We maintain a strong balance sheet with diversified sources of capital. Ongoing monitoring of capital management is undertaken to ensure metrics are within risk appetite thresholds benchmarks and/or limits outlined within the Treasury Policy. Further information relating to financial risk management is detailed in Note 12 of the Financial Statements. 24 Approach – Key risks Key risks We foster a culture Key risk Potential impacts that supports Third party capital partners – Change in strategy and/or capacity of existing third party capital partners Wholesale partner of choice employees to deliver for third party capital. – Inability to attract new third-party capital partners the group’s purpose – Loss of confidence in governance structure and service delivery of creating spaces – Loss of funds management income where people thrive. Cyber security and – Lack of resilience in our response to cyber data governance security threats Ability to access, manage – Impact to our customers and/or funds and maintain systems and management partners respond to major incidents – Loss of broader community confidence including data loss, cyber – Financial losses security threats or breaches to information systems. Climate change – Increased costs associated with physical risks (e.g. Commitment to climate asset damage from extreme weather) resilience and responding – Increased costs associated with transition to the impacts of risks (e.g. carbon regulation, requirements for climate change. building efficiency) Compliance and regulatory – Sanctions impacting on business operations Market leading governance – Reduced investor sentiment (equity and debt) and compliance. – Loss of broader community confidence – Increased compliance costs Corporate culture – Decreased business performance Ability to maintain a – Inappropriate conduct leading to reputational respectful, open and or financial loss inclusive culture which – Poor employer branding leading to inability reflects our values and to attract talent embraces diversity – Regrettable employee turnover and associated of thought. increased costs – Reduced investor sentiment (equity and debt) Talent and capability – Decreased business performance Ability to attract and retain – Negative impact to customer relationships the best talent to deliver – Decline in workforce productivity business results. – Increased workforce costs – Loss of corporate knowledge and experience Dexus 2020 Annual Report 25 Link to key resources How Dexus is responding Our funds management model includes strong governance principles and Financial processes designed to build and strengthen relationships with existing and new third party capital partners. Our active approach to engagement across the business enables employees to Properties understand the interests of third party capital partners and design strategies to maintain partner satisfaction. Customers and Our funds management team also undertakes a periodic client survey to communities understand perceptions and identify areas for improvement. We aim to have the most efficient systems and processes, including financial People and accounting and operational systems. Regular review of policies and procedures on capabilities information security are undertaken and align to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework. We have comprehensive Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans in place which are tested annually. Regular training, testing and disaster recovery activities are conducted, along with the employment of data security software, to assist in reducing the risk of threats or breaches to data. We use scenario analysis to understand the broad range of climate-related issues Environment that may impact our business and focus on enhancing the resilience of our properties while implementing energy efficiency initiatives and renewable energy projects. Dexus’s approach to climate change risk management is disclosed in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures across our Annual Reporting Suite (see page 54 in the 2020 Sustainability Report for an index). Our compliance monitoring program supports our comprehensive compliance People and policies and procedures that are regularly updated to ensure the business operates capabilities in accordance with regulatory expectations. Our employees and service providers receive training on their compliance obligations and are encouraged to raise concerns where appropriate. We maintain grievance, complaints and whistleblower mechanisms for employees and stakeholders to safely, confidently and anonymously raise concerns. Independent industry experts are appointed to undertake reviews where appropriate. We foster a culture and employee experience that aligns and continually reinforces People and the group’s purpose statement; including our aspirations, values and behaviours. capabilities Our employee listening strategy enables employees to provide real-time feedback on their experience, as well as anecdotal and anonymous feedback via regular pulse surveys throughout the year. Insights gained are used to understand organisational culture and identify potential challenges that may require additional focus. Psychological safety and inclusion are central to the design of employee experiences, policies and protocols. We invest in our employees’ development and reward their achievement of sustainable business outcomes that add value to our stakeholders. We aim to attract, develop and retain an engaged and capable workforce People and that can deliver our business results both today and in the future. Professional capabilities development is undertaken at all organisational levels to drive continuous learning and engagement of our employees. Talent reviews are conducted at regular intervals to monitor and respond to emerging talent risks and opportunities and to inform succession plans for key and critical roles. External talent mapping is undertaken for critical roles. 26 Performance – Financial Financial Our conservative management of financial capital underpins the delivery of superior risk-adjusted returns to investors. Board focus Strategy Group performance Financial performance is a Our strategy contributes to the The challenges presented by COVID-19 key focus area for the Board generation of long-term and sustainable reinforced our focus on maintaining and Board Audit Committee. returns. The balance sheet investment a strong balance sheet and liquidity In FY20, the Board and Board strategy remains focused on: levels, progressing funds management Audit Committee were involved in: – Activating and investing in the initiatives and development projects, – Considering and approving development pipeline while securing cash flows to maintain a Dexus’s financial reports, audit – Supporting growth initiatives in our distribution per security amount that was reports, market guidance, funds management business consistent with FY19. distribution details, funding – Selective core asset acquisitions The FY20 result was resilient, with high requirements and liquidity, which provide potential to unlock portfolio occupancy maintained, and as well as property portfolio additional value in the future, and minimal impact on asset valuations, valuation movements – Selective divestments of non-core while the strength of our financial – Approving the group’s and lower returning assets to optimise position was maintained. Financial KPIs and scorecard, in the property portfolio composition We have actively supported the addition to annual and half year In addition, we maintain diverse viability of our customers most affected results materials sources of capital, adequate liquidity by the crisis through the provision of – Approving the group’s capital and headroom and conservative rent relief, and these actions impacted management activities gearing, providing resilience during our financial result for the year which, periods of uncertainty. until the last quarter, was tracking ahead of expectations. Earnings drivers In early February 2020, we upgraded Our earnings drivers comprise our guidance to circa 5.5% growth in three key areas: distribution per security. However, given the uncertain environment caused by – Property portfolio: the largest driver of the crisis, this guidance and associated financial value, comprising the Dexus assumptions were withdrawn in late owned office and industrial portfolio March 2020. – Funds management: providing At the beginning of June 2020, when access to wholesale sources of there was clarity on cash flows, revised financial capital and a steady FY20 guidance was provided for a annuity-style income stream distribution that was consistent with – Trading: packaging and sale of FY19 and in line with AFFO, and we have properties to generate trading profits delivered on that guidance. How we measure financial performance When measuring financial performance, we focus on growth in Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) and distributions per security, as well as Return on Contributed Equity to measure the returns Learn more achieved for our Security holders. To learn more about our progress against our FY20 Sustained Value approach and commitments, refer to the 2020 Sustainability Report available at www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 27 Case study Sustained Value Active approach strengthens financial position Dexus’s prudent and active approach to capital management further Throughout FY20, Dexus remained focused on preserving capital while 50.3cents Distribution per security strengthened its financial position leading selectively investing in assets with solid into the COVID-19 crisis. fundamentals and divesting non-core or FY19: 50.2 cents lower returning assets, including Garema 50.3cents Dexus enhanced its financial position, increasing debt duration to 6.9 years Court in Canberra and 45 Clarence Street and further diversifying funding sources in Sydney at its December 2019 book AFFO per security through the following activities: value (subject to FIRB approval). FY19: 50.3 cents – Issuing $700 million of Medium-Term As a result of these activities, Dexus 9.0% Notes with 10 and 12-year tenors continued to maintain a strong and conservative balance sheet with – Arranging additional bank debt gearing (look-through)1 at 24.3%, well Return on facilities totalling $1.15 billion with a below Dexus’s target range of 30-40%, contributed equity weighted average tenor of 5.2 years and $1.6 billion of cash and undrawn FY19: 10.1% (including $650 million since the debt facilities. beginning of March 2020) In an uncertain environment, Dexus remains focused on maintaining the strength of its balance sheet. Future focus – Deliver a distribution in line with free cash flow in FY21 – Maintain a strong balance sheet while 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. Proforma gearing includes further diversifying debt proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. 28 Performance – Financial Financial Group performance (cont’d) Operationally, Adjusted Funds From Rent collections for the Dexus portfolio Operations (AFFO) was $33.3 million or were strong at 98% in FY20, with 92% The reduction in distribution per security 6.4% higher than the prior year. AFFO and collected in the fourth quarter of FY20. growth from February to June 2020 was distribution per security of 50.3 cents The external independent valuations driven by: was consistent with the prior year due have resulted in a total estimated – COVID-19 impacts of -6.6%, including to the impact of COVID-19, with the $612.4 million or circa 3.9% increase on rent waivers provided to small and distribution payout ratio remaining in line prior book values for the 12 months medium enterprise customers (SMEs) with free cash flow in accordance with to 30 June 2020, with strong uplift of per the Code of Conduct and Dexus’s distribution policy. FFO, excluding $724.4 million in the December 2019 half provision for expected credit losses of maintenance capex and incentives, was and minimal devaluations of $112.0 million -4.7% or $26 million $48.7 million higher than the prior year in the June 2020 half. The lower for – Other items of -0.8% and underlying FFO, excluding trading longer interest rate environment and profits, was $48.1 million higher than the investment demand for quality office and partly offset by: prior year. industrial properties continues to support – A number of non-recurring cost Key AFFO movements include: the values of our properties. The sale reduction measures implemented of 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject – Property FFO of $795.6 million driven in response to COVID-19 including to FIRB approval) in June 2020, at the by fixed rental increases, development annual leave initiatives, a freeze asset’s 31 December 2019 book value completions and the acquisition of on recruitment and non-essential (pre the onset of COVID-19), supports 80 Collins Street and MLC Centre consultancy spend and temporary the strong investment demand for prime Sydney in FY19, partly offset by the reductions in remuneration of +2.1% quality office assets in the Sydney CBD. divestment of property interests Net profit after tax was $983.0 million, associated with the DALT portfolio and The full year valuation uplift was driven down 23.3% on the prior year. This COVID-19 impacts by the Sydney office portfolio. movement was primarily driven by net – Management operations FFO of Primarily as a result of these valuations revaluation gains of investment properties $71.5 million increased predominantly our net tangible asset backing (NTA) of $612.4 million, which were as a result of new funds, acquisitions, per security increased 62 cents from $160.7 million lower than FY19. These development completions and 30 June 2019 to 31 December 2019 revaluation gains primarily drove the non-recurring cost reduction measures and then decreased 24 cents to 38 cent or 3.6% increase in net tangible 30 June 2020. – Net finance costs of $127.4 million asset (NTA) backing per security to increased primarily due to the $10.86 at 30 June 2020. cessation of capitalising interest at key Underlying Funds from Operations per development projects security of 63.5 cents, which excludes – Trading profits of $35.3 million (net of trading profits, grew by 1.0%, despite the tax) materially in line with the prior year impact of rent relief provided, highlighting the contribution from the funds We achieved a ROCE for FY20 of 9.0% management business and non-recurring driven largely by AFFO and revaluation cost reduction measures. gains from completed developments at 240 St Georges Terrace in Perth and the city retail component of 175 Pitt Street, Sydney. Valuation movements Total FY20 30 Jun 2020 31 Dec 2019 Office portfolio $490.6m $131.7m $622.3m Industrial portfolio $111.4m $22.6m $88.8m Total portfolio1 $612.4m $112.0m $724.4m Weighted average capitalisation rate 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 Change Office portfolio 4.97% 5.15% 18 bps Industrial portfolio 5.66% 5.92% 26 bps Total portfolio 5.05% 5.26% 21 bps 1. Including healthcare and leased asset revaluation gain of $10.4 million for FY20. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 29 100 Mount Street, North Sydney We continued to maintain a strong financial position with low gearing and enhanced liquidity. Key financials FY20 FY19 Change Funds From Operations (FFO) ($m) 730.2 681.5 7.1% Net profit after tax ($m) 983.0 1,281.0 (23.3)% AFFO per security (cents) 50.3 50.3 – Distribution per security (cents) 50.3 50.2 0.2% ROCE (%) 9.0 10.1 (1.1) ppt Net tangible asset backing 10.86 10.48 3.6% per security ($) Gearing (look-through)1 (%) 24.32 24.0 0.3 ppt FY20 FY19 Change FFO composition $m $m % Office property FFO 671.4 610.5 10.0 Industrial property FFO 124.2 137.3 (9.5) Total property FFO 795.6 747.8 6.4 88% of FFO from Management operations 3 71.5 54.6 31.0 property portfolio1 Group corporate (33.0) (30.2) 9.3 Net finance costs (127.4) (117.1) 8.8 Other (including tax) (11.8) (8.3) 42.2 Underlying FFO 694.9 646.8 7.4 Trading profits (net of tax) 35.3 34.7 1.7 Total property FFO 88% FFO 730.2 681.5 7.1 Office property FFO 74% 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. Industrial property FFO 14% 2. Proforma gearing includes proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Management operations 8% Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), Trading profits (net of tax) 4% the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All 1. FFO is calculated before finance other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. costs, group corporate costs and 3. Management operations income includes development management fees and in FY19 includes other (including tax). bidding costs for a development opportunity. 30 Performance – Financial Financial FY20 FY19 Group outlook Statutory profit reconciliation $m $m Overall Australia is fairing better than Statutory AIFRS Net profit after tax 983.0 1,281.0 most developed nations in flattening the COVID-19 infection curve. (Gains)/losses from sales of investment property (0.1) (1.8) While underemployment and weak Fair value gain on investment property (612.4) (773.1) wages growth will be a drag on economic growth, positives for the economy are Fair value loss on the mark-to-market of derivatives 2.5 (109.4) high levels of federal and state stimulus Incentives amortisation and rent straight-line 1 127.5 116.8 (more than 13.3% of GDP), ongoing levels of infrastructure investment and low Non-FFO tax expense 3.3 15.7 interest rates. Consumer and business Other unrealised or one-off items 226.4 152.3 confidence have improved off the lows of April 2020. Funds From Operations (FFO) 2 730.2 681.5 We are preparing for a U-shaped Maintenance capital expenditure (59.1) (63.2) recovery where economic growth remains soft through FY21 before improving. Cash incentives and leasing costs paid (41.9) (37.6) However, the depth and duration of the Rent free incentives (78.7) (63.5) slowdown is uncertain. Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) 3 550.5 517.2 Distribution 550.3 529.0 AFFO Payout ratio (%) 100.0 98.74 1. Including cash, rent free and fit out incentives amortisation. 2. Including Dexus share of equity accounted investments. 3. AFFO is in line with the Property Council of Australia definition. 4. FY19 distribution payout ratio has been adjusted to exclude the $18.3 million of distributions paid on new securities issued through the Institutional Placement and Security Purchase Plan announced on 2 May 2019, which were fully entitled to the distribution for the six months ending 30 June 2019. The distribution payout ratio was 102.3% including this amount. Grosvenor Place, Sydney Dexus 2020 Annual Report 31 Property portfolio performance In times of uncertainty, high-quality and well-leased assets can be expected to We remained focused on maximising the hold their value better than performance of the property portfolio lower-quality assets due to their appeal through maintaining high occupancy, with to both occupants and purchasers as well the property portfolio contributing to 88% as their relative scarcity. At 30 June 2020, of FFO in FY20. Prime grade1 buildings comprised 94% of Office portfolio performance our office portfolio. During the year, we leased Office portfolio occupancy of 96.5% 88,467 square metres of office space was lower than the 30 June 2019 across 207 transactions, as well as occupancy of 98.0% due to leases 26,403 square metres of space across expiring at MLC Centre, 60 Castlereagh office developments, locking in future Street and Grosvenor Place in Sydney. income streams. Average incentive levels increased mainly The office portfolio was performing due to a greater proportion of leasing well leading in to the crisis with high undertaken in the Brisbane and Perth occupancy and significant leasing markets, with face deals also representing success, including our leasing focus at a higher proportion of leasing. 80 Collins Street which achieved record Office portfolio like-for-like income rents and set new benchmarks for the growth was +2.4% (FY19:+3.4%), impacted Melbourne CBD. by rent relief measures and a provision In the current environment, office leasing for expected credit losses. Excluding this, enquiry levels have fallen and inspection like-for-like income growth was +4.7%. rates have slowed, however occupancy The Dexus office portfolio outperformed has remained high at 96.5%. Lead its benchmark over the one, three and indicators point to a period of uncertainty five-year time periods to 31 March 2020. in the Australian office market, with demand across the major CBD markets 1. Stabilised assets only. Excludes likely to be patchy in the short term. development-affected assets and land. Office portfolio vs PCA/MSCI office index Office portfolio key metrics at 31 March 2020 1 (% p.a.) 13.8 13.6 14.0 14.1 13.3 96.5% 4.2yrs 88,467sqm 12.6 12.8 12.7 Occupancy WALE Space leased1 FY19: 98.0% FY19: 4.4 years 11.2 1 year 3 years 5 years +2.4% 17.1% Dexus office portfolio Effective LFL Average Dexus group office portfolio income2 incentives1 PCA/MSCI Office Index FY19 +3.4% FY19: 13.4% 1. Excluding development leasing. 1. Period to 31 March 2020 which reflects the latest available 2. Excluding rent relief measures and a provision for expected PCA/MSCI Australia Annual Property Index. credit losses effective LFL growth is +4.7%. 32 Performance – Financial Financial 380 Dohertys Road, Truganina Long term office demand will continue Industrial portfolio performance Property market outlook to benefit from employment growth. Dexus manages a growing, Australia’s office markets face headwinds While Deloitte Access Economics high-quality $5.0 billion1 group in the short term. The demand outlook forecast a 1.3% contraction in industrial portfolio, $2.2 billion of which is clouded by a lull in decision making employment in FY21, they project sits in the Dexus portfolio. by companies which currently have 1.9% per annum growth in the years from During the year, we leased the majority of their workforce working FY22 to the end of the decade. 181,472 square metres of industrial remotely and are still trying to gauge the Demand in the industrial sector has space across 95 transactions, with the COVID-19 pandemic’s effects on their been driven by defensive occupiers portfolio continuing to benefit from an business before making decisions about including food and beverage retailers, uptick in logistics and e-commerce head count and office requirements. e-commerce groups, transport and demand with non-discretionary and Leading indicators such as job logistics providers, data centres, cold online retail sectors experiencing advertisements and business confidence storage and pharmaceuticals. Other growth through the crisis. have declined. businesses have tended to place their Portfolio occupancy remains high at In the absence of a turnaround in leasing decisions on hold due to the 95.6% however was lower than FY19 demand, the office sector is likely to ongoing uncertainty. Retail businesses of 97.0%, primarily due to vacancy experience further rises in vacancy in FY21 with pre-existing e-commerce at Axxess Corporate Park. Industrial due to the levels of new office stock due channels have enjoyed accelerated portfolio like-for-like income growth for completion. Net effective rents eased levels of growth over the past few was -2.1% (FY19: +2.5%), impacted by nationally in the June quarter on the years, resulting in companies looking expiries at Axxess Corporate Park back of rising incentives. to expand their footprint or seek more in addition to rent relief measures Office markets are cyclical due to the efficient premises. and a provision for expected credit sensitivity of demand to the economic Industrial construction remains relatively losses. Excluding this, like-for-like cycle, so periods of negative net strong on the back of a continuing income growth was +0.1%. The Dexus absorption are not unusual. Lease level of pre-commitment, much of it industrial portfolio outperformed structures help protect income through negotiated pre-COVID-19. There is its benchmark over the one, three these periods. Looking forward, the a significant amount of speculative and five year time periods to effects of the pandemic on employment development still to be leased, however 31 March 2020. and the speed of recovery of the the overall market vacancy rate is economy will be critical for the outlook. expected to remain relatively low. 1. Including acquisitions post 30 June 2020 (on completion value). Dexus industrial portfolio vs PCA/MSCI Industrial Index Industrial portfolio key metrics at 31 March 2020 1 (% p.a.) 13.2 14.0 13.6 13.8 13.7 13.7 95.6% 4.1yrs 181,472sqm Occupancy WALE Space leased 12.1 11.8 FY19: 97.0% FY19 4.7 years 11.3 -2.1% 13.4% 1 year 3 years 5 years Dexus industrial portfolio Dexus group industrial portfolio Effective LFL Average PCA/MSCI Industrial Index income1 incentives FY19: +2.5% FY19: 11.7% 1. Period to 31 March 2020 which reflects the latest available PCA/MSCI 1. Excluding one off income in addition to rent relief measures and a Australia Annual Property Index. provision for expected credit losses. Excluding this, like-for-like income growth was +0.1%. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 33 Funds management The funds platform raised circa Office and industrial property performance $955 million of equity for new and existing performance is expected to be funds, including DWPF which raised circa influenced by the key leading indicators Our strategic objective of being the $240 million from existing investors to fund described on page 32. wholesale partner of choice in Australian its future development pipeline. DWPF Australian retail spending was up property and track record of driving continues to outperform its benchmark over 8.5% for the 12 months to June 2020 investment performance enables us to 1, 3, 5, 7 and 10 years and HWPF continued compared to the previous year. This attract third party capital partners to to deliver strong performance achieving a follows a significant pick up in spending invest alongside through the cycle. one-year return of 10.9%. All partnerships in May 2020 and the impact of stores Dexus manages $15.5 billion of funds have performed well, exceeding their return re-opening as restrictions continued on behalf of 77 third party clients, objectives for the year. to ease throughout June. Turnover with acquisitions, developments The loss of the management of the growth in convenience based centres and revaluations contributing to $2.0 billion Australian Mandate portfolio has benefitted from people’s preference management operations FFO in FY20. managed on behalf of the NSW Treasury to shop locally. Supermarkets and Dexus remains an attractive Australian Corporation from 30 June 2020 resulted Discount Department Stores continue real estate partner of choice across the in cost cutting including some job to perform well. Conversely, turnover office, industrial, retail and healthcare closures across the group to minimise the growth in larger shopping centres has sectors and we continued to attract new impact of reduced fee revenue. Dexus been constrained by greater reliance capital during the year. managed the Australian Mandate for on discretionary categories like fashion, more than 30 years and it achieved restaurants and entertainment. City During the year GIC exercised its option outperformance versus benchmark over retail remains weak, held back by the to acquire an additional 24% interest in 5, 7 and 10 years to 30 June 2020. absence of office workers, tourists and DALT, bringing its total share to 49% and Post 30 June 2020, DALT entered into university students. The outlook for entered into a new commercial Joint agreements to acquire six trading assets FY21 is for further volatility in retail sales Venture (JV) with Dexus that acquired for $269.4 million and two industrial numbers and continued outperformance 50% of Rialto Towers in Melbourne. GIC properties at Mickleham in Victoria and by non-discretionary categories and holds a 90% share in the JV and Dexus Greenacre in New South Wales for a online retailing. holds the remaining 10%. Dexus is the investment manager of the JV and has combined price of $173.5 million. In addition, Demand for healthcare services been appointed as the manager of the HWPF exchanged contracts to acquire a will continue to benefit from ageing entire Rialto Towers complex. modern healthcare facility in Brisbane for demographics, longer life expectancy $36.5 million. and population growth. In the current HWPF welcomed two new investors, environment, COVID-19 has highlighted completed the development of the Funds management outlook the role of high-quality healthcare new Calvary Adelaide Hospital, and Our funds management business’s infrastructure and the sector tends to acquired the North Shore Health Hub, current exposure is 59% to office be resilient to downturns. Stage 1 currently under development at properties, 17% to industrial properties, 12 Frederick Street, St Leonards. 21% to retail properties and 3% to healthcare properties. Management operations FFO Funds management growth Funds management portfolio $15.5bn DWPF on behalf of $10.3bn $71.5m 77 clients from 10 countries Australian Industrial Partner $0.4bn 177% Dexus Australian $15.5bn growth Commercial Trust in FUM since FY12 $0.6bn Dexus Office Partner $54.6m $2.7bn Total funds under Dexus management Industrial Partner $5.6bn $0.2bn Dexus Australian Logistics Partner $0.9bn FY19 FY20 FY12 FY20 HWPF $0.4bn DWPF $10.3bn 34 Performance – Financial Financial Trading performance Financial position Trading is a capability that involves Financial position the identification of opportunities, – Total look-through assets increased by repositioning to enhance value, and $1,192 million primarily due to $822 million realising value through divestment. of acquisitions, development capital Trading properties are either acquired expenditures and $612 million of property with the direct purpose of repositioning valuation increases, partially offset by or development, or they are identified $612 million of divestments in Dexus’s existing portfolio as having – Total look-through borrowings value-add potential and subsequently increased by $836 million due to transferred into the trading trust to be funding required for acquisitions as well repositioned, and then sold. as development capital expenditure We realised $35.3 million of trading profits partly offset by divestments (net of tax) in FY20, driven by the sale of – Total number of securities on issue the initial 25% of 201 Elizabeth Street in decreased slightly following the Sydney and progress at the North Shore on-market buy-back Health Hub in St Leonards, currently under construction and sold to HWPF on a Financial Position fund-through basis. 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 The fund-through sale of North Shore $m $m Health Hub is expected to contribute further trading profits in FY21 with the Office investment properties 14,171 13,193 amount dependent on the progress of the Industrial investment properties 2,233 2,337 development and leasing. Post 30 June 2020, we entered into agreements to sell Healthcare investment properties 140 86 a portfolio of six trading assets to DALT Other1 1,124 860 across two tranches and exercised the option to sell the remaining 25% interest Total tangible assets 17,668 16,476 in 201 Elizabeth Street. These transactions Borrowings (5,067) (4,231) (including the North Shore Health Hub) are expected to contribute circa $85 million Other liabilities (750) (751) to pre-tax trading profits across FY21 and Net tangible assets 11,851 11,494 FY22 (in the event the options over the second tranche are exercised). Total number of securities on issue 1,091,202,163 1,096,857,665 NTA ($) 10.86 10.48 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. Excludes the $73.2 million deferred tax liability on management rights. Capital management metrics Key metrics 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 Gearing (look-through)1 (%) 24.32 24.0 Cost of debt (%) 3 3.4 4.0 Duration of debt (years) 6.9 6.7 Hedged debt (incl caps) (%) 4 78 74 S&P/Moody’s credit rating A-/A3 A-/A3 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. 2. Proforma gearing includes proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. 3. Weighted average for the year, inclusive of fees and margins on a drawn basis. 4. Average for the year. Hedged debt (excluding caps) was 55% for the 12 months to 30 June 2019 and 62% for the 12 months to 30 June 2020. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 35 Rialto Towers, Melbourne Capital management We remain within all of our debt covenant Our strong balance sheet provides limits and continue to retain our strong resilience during this period of We continued to maintain a strong and credit rating of A-/A3 from S&P and uncertainty, as well as the capacity to conservative balance sheet with Moody’s respectively. fund projects in our current and future gearing (look-through)1 of 24.3%, well development pipeline. We divested Garema Court, Canberra below our target range of 30-40%, and and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject We announced an on-market securities were able to source additional liquidity to FIRB approval) during the year and buy-back program on 23 October 2019 over the year, strengthening our position. made a number of smaller acquisitions for up to 5% of securities. Throughout the Over the year, we enhanced our liquidity and will continue to allocate capital into year, we acquired 5,655,502 securities for by raising $1.85 billion of debt, increased opportunities where we see value. Post $62 million at an average price of $10.96 debt duration to 6.9 years and further 30 June 2020, the divestment of Finlay under the on-market buy-back program. diversified our funding sources. We Crisp Centre in Canberra settled. have circa $300 million of debt expiries in late FY21 and limited development commitments of circa $180 million remaining to spend until the end of FY22. 1. Proforma gearing includes proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. Diversified sources of debt Bank Facilities 38% Commercial Paper 2% MTN 21% Exchangeable Notes 7% USPP 27% 38% 144A 5% Bank debt 62% Debt capital markets 36 Performance – Properties Properties As a real estate group, our properties are central to our value creation framework. Board focus Dexus owns and manages a portfolio Our leasing efforts drive portfolio of high-quality, sustainable properties occupancy which is a key contributor From a property perspective, located in the key CBDs around Australia. to cash flow optimisation. In FY20, the the Board approves acquisitions, Underpinned by our customer-centric Sydney and Melbourne office markets divestments and developments. approach, we utilise our asset and drove strong leasing activity and we In FY20, the Board approved: property management expertise maintained high occupancy of the Dexus – Acquiring a 50% interest in Rialto to optimise building efficiency and office portfolio at 96.5% (FY19: 98.0%) and Towers as part of an office JV with maintain high occupancy levels. the Dexus industrial portfolio at 95.6% GIC (Dexus holds a 10% interest in Further value is unlocked by activating (FY19: 97.0%). the JV) development opportunities which, in There is a mutual relationship between – Acquiring 171 Edwards Street, turn, enhances portfolio quality and the growth drivers of cities and our role Brisbane our capacity to meet the growing in shaping our cities for the future as demands of customers. desirable places to live, work and play. – Acquiring Homemaker Centre, Our experience in developing high quality Prospect Contributing to Leading Cities office and industrial properties across – Divesting Garema Court, Canberra An investment in Dexus is an investment Australian cities has demonstrated the – Divesting 45 Clarence Street, Sydney in Australia’s cities. Our property value of securing development sites with – Divesting six trading assets post portfolio is concentrated in the CBDs of a long-term focus on creating value. 30 June including five industrial Australia’s major cities and we believe The group’s $10.6 billion development properties at Truganina and Lakes these locations are where our customers pipeline includes a number of Business Park South, Botany to DALT want and need to be. city-shaping projects. This pipeline – Acquiring the Ford Facility at We are Australia’s largest owner and provides us with the opportunity to Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham manager of prime office property with enhance future returns by growing and 37-39 Wentworth Street, 1.8 million square metres of office space the core property portfolio and those Greenacre for DALT spanning 51 office properties, covering portfolios managed on behalf of our third – Activating five industrial the central business districts of Sydney, party capital partners, while contributing development projects at South Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. One to job creation and economic growth. Granville, Truganina, Ravenhall, of the key megatrends influencing our Richlands and Botany business model is urbanisation. This is consistent with our strategy which is centred on delivering superior returns from high quality real estate located in Australia’s major cities. Our approach towards Cities around the world are just one third Leading Cities involves: of their way through a 100-year cycle of – Developing world-class office urbanisation. In Australia, this is supported properties that deliver customer by the expectation for strong long-term focused, sustainable workspaces population growth and record levels and which enhance the amenity of infrastructure investment to support and vibrancy of CBDs our cities’ accessibility, liveability and sustainability as they grow. – Developing high quality industrial facilities to meet Australia’s major cities contribute the growing demands of around 80% to national GDP. The CBDs e-commerce business are the engine room for most of this and other growth industries Learn more economic activity, supporting hundreds of thousands of businesses and millions – Contributing to the of jobs. Our focus on investing in long-term viability of cities To learn more about our progress cities means that our value creation by integrating sustainable against our FY20 Leading Cities potential is closely linked to the success outcomes into developments commitments, refer to the 2020 of Australia’s major cities which are – Building mutual city partnerships Sustainability Report available at recognised for their amenity, ease of through collaboration with www.dexus.com access, and place to do business. industry associations Dexus 2020 Annual Report 37 Leading Cities $32.0bn value of group property portfolio 96.5% Dexus office Case study 80 Collins Street, Melbourne portfolio occupancy $1.5bn Expanding our Melbourne footprint Gross Value Added (GVA)1 to the Australian economy Dexus expanded its footprint in the core of 60 Collins Street the Melbourne CBD through establishing a new joint venture with a third party capital – 60 Collins Street comprises 52 and 60 9,227 Collins Street which were acquired by Construction jobs supported2 partner to acquire an iconic office building, Dexus in October 2018, providing the progressing developments and attracting new customers, enhancing and embedding future value for investors. unique opportunity to consolidate the two adjacent sites to create modern office $10.6bn space and quality amenity to a prominent Group development pipeline In FY20, Dexus established a new Joint section of Collins Street Venture with GIC that acquired a 50% – Dexus received Development Approval interest in Rialto Towers at 525 Collins Street in from the Victorian Government to Melbourne. Rialto Towers is a prime-grade, 1. Total Gross Value Added (GVA) includes unlock this unique opportunity to deliver estimated direct GVA and indirect 55 storey building and is one of the largest approximately 27,100 square metres of GVA generated to the economy by office buildings in Melbourne’s CBD. The Premium grade office space over 25 levels developments completed in FY20 and property is expected to benefit from the currently underway. Source: Urbis, Dexus. – As part of the development, the heritage positive supply-demand dynamics of 2. Total construction jobs include direct listed terrace at 52 Collins Street will and indirect employment supported by Melbourne’s office market over the longterm. be retained, and a new through lobby developments completed in FY20 and The ‘Paris end’ of the Melbourne CBD is a connection will establish a link between currently underway. Source Urbis, Dexus. prominent precinct of the city, with Dexus Collins and Little Collins Street progressing key city projects at 80 Collins Street, 60 Collins Street, and 180 Flinders 180 Flinders Street Street, due for completion in late August. – 180 Flinders Street is an existing Future focus property that was identified as a site – Maintain office portfolio occupancy 80 Collins Street that could be repositioned through above the Property Council of – 80 Collins is a large-scale project development and leasing comprising two office towers, a luxury Australia market average – The development spans circa retail precinct and a boutique hotel – Progress city-shaping precinct 20,300 square metres of prime office – The site was acquired in May 2019 on projects in Sydney, Brisbane, space and vibrant laneway retail amenity, a development fund-through basis Melbourne and Perth that improve comprising a new 10-storey A-Grade and will deliver a completed project the amenity and vibrancy of office tower, extensive refurbishment with the leasing of vacant space being Australia’s CBDs of the existing buildings at 189 and 180 undertaken by Dexus Flinders Street and restoration of the – Grow industrial precincts to meet the – The 38-level premium office tower (South heritage façade demand for high quality, well-located Tower) achieved Interim Completion logistics facilities across the east coast – Dexus secured John Holland as the July 2020 and is 95% committed, of Australia anchor tenant in March 2018, and the attracting quality tenants including property is now 72% committed ahead – Contribute to economic growth Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF), Macquarie of its completion in late August 2020 through the generation of Bank, McKinsey & Company and DLA Piper employment and contribution to GVA – The existing North Tower is currently from development projects 100% occupied 38 Performance – Properties Properties In Melbourne, a new 38-level premium office tower which is part of our landmark – 60 Collins Street, Melbourne received development approval from the 80 Collins Street development achieved Victorian Government, providing a Interim Completion in July 2020, together unique opportunity to consolidate with the new luxury retail and dining the two sites to deliver modern office destination, which opened progressively space and quality amenity to a from June 2020. 180 Flinders Street also prominent location of Collins Street in progressed and is nearing completion, the next supply cycle Positioning for the recovery delivering a vibrant new office tower, – Central Place Sydney is a refurbishment of the existing heritage commercial development Office development projects completed offices and the building façade fully during the year in Perth, Melbourne and underpinning the delivery of Tech restored to its former glory. Central, Sydney’s new innovation Sydney have enhanced our portfolio In Sydney, we progressed the retail and technology precinct. The project quality and future returns. redevelopment of the MLC Centre, a has moved to Stage 3 under the In Perth, our Premium office project that will transform the retail NSW Government’s Unsolicited redevelopment at 240 St Georges Terrace offering over four levels, enhancing the Proposal process and an architect was completed. Located in the heart street appeal and community offering has been appointed following a of the Perth CBD, the redevelopment in the Sydney CBD. First stage works of design excellence competition included a new end-of-trip amenity, the new lobby entrance are complete refurbished office floors, the introduction – Also in Sydney is the Pitt and Bridge and the reopening of the Theatre Royal Precinct where planning proposal has of a Dexus Place offering, along with is a step closer following the tenant’s a renewed street entry, improved retail been drafted for a significant office (NSW Government) selection of a development located in the financial amenities and a new childcare centre. theatre operator. core of the Sydney CBD for a future In Brisbane, we completed construction We have four uncommitted, longer-dated supply cycle of The Annex at 12 Creek Street. city-shaping projects in our development Located in Brisbane’s ‘Golden Triangle’, – The transformation of the Eagle Street pipeline that position us for the recovery. Pier and Waterfront Place precinct The Annex is a vertical village offering All these projects are on sites where there boutique office space and featuring a into Brisbane’s premium business and are currently income producing assets leisure destination progressed after rooftop terrace and cascading gardens in various stages of planning, and the designed to support customer wellbeing. development plans were lodged with majority are owned in joint venture with Brisbane City Council. This followed our third party capital partners. the signing of a facilitation agreement between Dexus and the Queensland Government on the Waterfront Brisbane concept masterplan Our office properties are located where our customers want and need to be. Sydney Melbourne 861,001 501,673 square metres square metres Perth Brisbane 121,879 278,812 square metres square metres Dexus 2020 Annual Report 39 Our development pipeline Our $10.6 billion group development pipeline includes properties that Dexus is developing to hold directly or on behalf of our third party capital partners (Core) and properties that will be packaged and sold to generate trading profits (Trading). VIC 1 60 Collins Street, 1 60 Collins Street Melbourne (Core) A shovel-ready development incorporating the consolidation of two adjacent sites, 60 and 52 Collins Street to create Premium grade office space located at the ‘Paris end’ of Collins Street. Project status: Uncommitted Expected project cost: Circa $600 million Ownership: 100% Dexus QLD 2 Waterfront Brisbane, Brisbane (Core) A major redevelopment of the Eagle Street Pier site which will make way 2 Waterfront Brisbane for two office towers and unlock the considerable potential of this Brisbane CBD gateway. Waterfront Brisbane will be a great outcome for Brisbane with the renewal of the city’s premium business district, a vibrant retail and public space, activation of the river and improvements to the Riverwalk. Project status: Uncommitted Expected project cost: Circa $2.2 billion Ownership: 50% Dexus, 50% DWPF WA 3 Carillon City, Perth (Core) Carillon City Perth is a shovel-ready development project that has the potential to revitalise the Perth CBD. The development comprises a masterplanned transformation of the Carillion City precinct into a vibrant mixed-use lifestyle destination offering retail, dining, entertainment and commercial spaces in the heart of the Perth CBD. Project status: Uncommitted Expected project cost: Circa $400 million Ownership: 100% DWPF 3 Carillon City 40 Performance – Properties Properties 4 MLC Centre 5 Central Place Sydney 8 North Shore Health Hub 12 Frederick Street (Stage 1) 6 7 9 Pitt and 12 Frederick Street 140 George Street Bridge Precinct (Stage 2) NSW 4 MLC Centre, Sydney (Core) 6 Pitt and Bridge Precinct, Sydney (Core) 8 North Shore Health Hub 12 Frederick Street, A potential office development for Dexus St Leonards (Stage 1) (Trading) A vibrant mixed-use redevelopment and the Dexus Office Partner on a large The North Shore Health Hub is a across four levels of retail, dining and 3,300 square metre site located in the state-of-the-art healthcare facility for cultural spaces in the heart of the financial core of the Sydney CBD. auxiliary medical services supporting Sydney CBD, including the renewal and Project status: Uncommitted existing infrastructure in a growing refurbishment of the Theatre Royal. healthcare precinct. Project status: Committed Expected project cost: Circa $2.8 billion Project status: Committed Project cost: $189 million Ownership: 50% Dexus, 50% Dexus Office Partner Project cost: $224 million Ownership: 50% Dexus, 50% DWPF Ownership: 100% HWPF Expected completion: Late 2021 (fund-through development) 7 140 George Street, Parramatta (Core) Expected completion: Early 2021 5 Central Place Sydney, Sydney (Core) A shovel-ready Prime grade office development located in the heart of the Dexus is progressing its exclusive position 12 Frederick Street, to integrate the NSW Government’s plans to revitalise Sydney’s Central Station Parramatta CBD, providing an innovative workplace environment and superior 9 St Leonards (Stage 2) (Trading) wellness amenity, complemented by an A world class health and education through the redevelopment of its Lee enhanced public domain. Street properties and Henry Deane Plaza precinct adjoining major health in partnership with Frasers Property Project status: Uncommitted infrastructure, the St Leonards Health Australia into a large scale, mixed-use Expected project cost: Circa $400 million Precinct combines clinical care, research development integrating a transport and facilities, a medi-hotel and key worker Ownership: 50% Dexus, 50% Dexus pedestrian solution. housing that will expand the existing Office Partner medical precinct. Project status: Uncommitted Project status: Uncommitted Expected project cost: Circa $1.1 billion1 Ownership: 100% Dexus Ownership: 25% Dexus, 25% Dexus Office Partner Learn more To learn more about our Leading Cities approach visit 1. Excluding external party share of project cost of land already owned, downtime and income earned through development. www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 41 Case study Progressing Dexus industrial developments Strong demand for high quality Horizon 3023, Ravenhall, VIC Loop, South Granville, NSW logistics facilities to support the growing (Dexus 25.5%, Dexus Australian Logistics (Dexus 51%, Dexus Australian Logistics needs of e-commerce and other Partner 24.5%, DWPF 50%) Partner 49%) growth businesses has underpinned – Progressed on civil and infrastructure – Commenced construction across circa the activation of Dexus’s industrial works, delivering 37 hectares of 57,100 square metres over four buildings, developments across the east coast immediately developable land targeting completion in early 2021 of Australia. – Secured Scalzo for a purpose-built – Secured a large pre-commitment lease In FY20, Dexus progressed the following facility across circa 35,300 square with Winit prior to the commencement industrial developments: metres, with construction underway of construction of a facility across circa Foundation at Truganina, Truganina, VIC and due for completion in early 2021 20,000 square metres (Dexus 100%)1 – Commenced construction of a – Secured further leasing across circa Progressed the build out of Stage 3 of the built to lease facility across circa 6,000 square metres, resulting in a estate, with circa 70,100 square metres of 36,700 square metres 45% commitment across the estate development including: – Committed a high-quality customer Lakes Business Park South, Botany, NSW – A long-term built to lease facility for for a purpose-built facility across (Dexus 100%)1 AS Colour across circa 18,800 square circa 25,500 square metres, due for – Completed construction of a new metres, due for completion in completion in mid-2021 facility across circa 5,000 square October 2020 Freeman Central, Richlands, QLD metres in December 2019 – A circa 26,600 square metre facility (Dexus 51%, Dexus Australian Logistics – Commenced refurbishment of existing for eStore Logistics Partner 49%) facilities, with completion due late 2020 – A circa 7,300 square metre facility for – Commenced construction of the first – Leased circa 10,900 square Coles, completed in July 2020 stage of a built to lease industrial metres of space resulting in a 75% – A circa 8,200 square metre facility commitment across the estate estate spanning circa 54,800 square for Opal (SPG) (formerly Orora), metres across five units Cumberland Green, Rydalmere, NSW completed in June 2020 – The first stage delivers three facilities (DWPF 100%) – A circa 9,200 square metre facility for Dunlop Flooring completed in across circa 32,000 square metres, – Completed the final stage of September 2019 with a target completion date in construction of the estate across circa late 2020, committing a customer for 11,800 square metres in June 2020 circa, 12,200 square meters – Leased circa 10,000 square metres of space resulting in an 86% commitment across the estate This activity builds on Dexus’s track record which has seen it develop and lease 47 industrial development projects across 784,000 square metres in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane since 2010. 1. Dexus 100% owned at 30 June 2020. Dexus entered into agreements to sell to the Dexus Australian Logistics Trust on 30 July 2020. 42 Performance – People and capabilities People and Our people are central to how we deliver our strategy. They are inspired and motivated to create capabilities spaces where people thrive and are supported by a culture that drives sustained value for our investors and other stakeholders. Sustained employee engagement Many of these challenges were Board focus and commitment addressed by the proactive measures we put in place to support employee Our people are passionate, agile and The Board People & Remuneration wellbeing, including: engaged in the purpose and direction Committee oversees all aspects of Dexus. – The launch of our Safe & Well program of human resource management We maintain awareness of our people’s – Seminars on the effective use of as well as Director and Executive remuneration. For further details views and needs through our Employee remote working technology such as on the key focus areas during Listening Strategy which is an integrated Microsoft Teams FY20, refer to the Remuneration approach to understanding their – Employee virtual Town Hall meetings Report on page 62 or the Corporate experience. This approach includes on a weekly to fortnightly basis, where Governance Statement available at employee pulse surveys, providing real all employees could ask questions and www.dexus.com time feedback throughout the year so receive real time responses from the we are quickly able to ensure teams have CEO, executive team members, and what they need to thrive at Dexus. the Dexus Chair In FY20, our pulse surveys returned – Regular email updates to the business a weighted average employee Net on the pandemic and Dexus’s Promoter Score of +61, an increase response, with a dedicated intranet from +40 in FY19 and indicating strong hub providing a range of resources engagement from our workforce. Our and reference materials people told us they experienced an – Activities to maintain workplace inclusive culture, they have felt supported connections and team cohesion, such during the COVID-19 pandemic and as virtual yoga and fitness classes that they are aligned to the Dexus Sustainability Approach. Following a significant increase in Supporting our people through the COVID-19 cases across Melbourne COVID-19 pandemic has been an and regional Victoria since June unexpected focus during the year. Most 2020, we have continued to support employees were asked to work remotely our Victorian workforce working from from March until the end of June 2020, home, and have focused on the health presenting many with challenges. This and safety of our people who are included difficulty juggling workload with performing essential services such as the management of properties with medical 552 home schooling responsibilities, internet connectivity, increased isolation and centres and supermarkets. maintaining mental health. The confidence that our people have Total Dexus in our management of the impacts is employees testament to our cultural focus on health A key focus has and safety in our workspaces and across our portfolio. Supporting this focus, this been to safely and year we upgraded our health and safety management system to the ISO 45001 empathically support standard. Led by our Workplace Health, our people through the Safety and Environment Committee, we achieved an average safety audit COVID-19 pandemic score of 100% across our corporate and management workplaces in FY20. Learn more To learn more about our progress against our FY20 People and Capabilities commitments, refer to the 2020 Sustainability Report available at www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 43 Case study Thriving People +61 Supporting a thriving workforce Employee Net through the launch of the Safe & Well program Promoter Score Dexus is committed to ensuring the health, wellbeing and safety of its people. Safe & Well supports: – Mental wellbeing through access to 36% Females in senior During the year, Dexus established its services and information from mental and executive Safe & Well program to support the health groups, mindfulness tools, and management roles aspects of wellbeing that matter most educational modules on managing to our people. stress and personal resilience Safe & Well provides a breadth of resources freely accessible to Dexus employees in – Physical wellbeing through medical offerings such as flu vaccinations, 100% one easy to access location, designed private health insurance discounts, Safety audit score across to help them develop and maintain their and resources on nutrition and fitness Dexus workspaces wellbeing and work-life balance. These – Financial wellbeing through the resources are offered alongside Dexus’s Employee Share Ownership Plan and employee assistance program through a access to benefits provided by Dexus’s partnership with Benestar, a confidential preferred superannuation provider counselling and coaching service available – Work wellbeing through promoting to all employees and their families. job clarity, employee connection, and team collaboration This program has been welcomed by our people and has taken on Future focus Work increased importance with the onset wellbeing of the pandemic. – Maintain an employee Net Mental Promoter Score at or above +40 wellbeing – Place internal candidates in more Safe & than 20% of available roles Well Physical – Achieve 40:40:20 gender wellbeing representation in senior and executive management roles Financial by FY21 (40% female, 40% male, wellbeing 20% any gender) – Maintain recognition as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 44 Performance – People and capabilities People and capabilities Fostering an inclusive and Membership has grown to 65 employees Investing in our people diverse workforce across Australia, who have come We actively support internal career together to drive LGBTI+ inclusion at planning, development and new Our approach to inclusion and events such as Wear It Purple Day and opportunities for our people. During the diversity allows us to harness different the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras. year, we placed internal candidates in perspectives for better decision‑making, TRIBE continues to expand its influence 31% of available roles. as well as providing access to the widest at Dexus and has also aligned with pool of available talent. Our people We also support a range of professional InterBUILD, the building, construction identify with a variety of different cultural development opportunities, to ensure and property network focused on and ethnic backgrounds, and we aim to that our people are equipped with the LGBTI+ inclusion. We participated in the build a diverse workforce that reflects our skills necessary to do their job well, and Australian Workplace Equality Index for customers and communities. to enable our people to grow and further the first time in 2020 and will use the Over the past year, we continued our benchmark to enhance our diversity develop their talents. focus on gender equality, earning and inclusion strategy into the future. In May 2020, we rolled out inclusive an Employer of Choice for Gender leadership training to all people Equality citation by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency for the third Our approach managers. Tackling Unconscious Bias defined the characteristics of an inclusive consecutive year. We remain committed to our gender diversity target of 40% to inclusion and work culture, identified the benefits of workplace inclusion and diversity, and female representation in senior and diversity allows us provided guidance on how to become executive management roles by 2021, with 36% female representation at 30 to harness different more inclusive leaders. We also delivered a broader program to all employees, June 2020. We are mindful that this percentage has decreased since FY19 perspectives for better Understanding Diversity and Inclusion, providing further education on workplace and remain committed to achieving our decision‑making diversity and inclusion. target of 40% female representation for Other management and leadership these roles by FY21. programs continued, including the Dexus We continue to regularly monitor and Leadership Academy. In April 2020, we adjust our processes, practices, policies launched the People Managers’ Forum, and programs to ensure workplace an interactive webinar series to keep gender equality is maintained at all managers informed, prepared and levels of the business. capable of supporting their teams with In August 2019, we established the Dexus the latest workplace protocols, people TRIBE network (TRIBE) to promote LGBTI+1 management processes, policies and inclusion at Dexus, enable psychological support tools. safety in the workplace, and serve as a Our commitment to building a diverse, forum for advising Dexus on responses capable and engaged workforce to LGBTI+ issues that impact our continues to support our strategy and people. TRIBE is open to all employees deliver sustained results. across the group, including those who identify as LGBTI+ and allies who want to show support. 1. LGBTI+ stands for lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender, and intersex, with the plus intended to include the total diversity of sexual orientations and gender identities. Learn more To learn more about our Thriving People approach visit www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 45 Case study Dexus certifies new Business Excellence Champions We launched a Business Excellence The program was completed in February Champions program in FY19 to equip 2020, with 22 Business Excellence a select group of employees with Champions graduating in a ceremony at the skills necessary to lead change Dexus’s head office in Sydney. Feedback across the business. The program on the program was overwhelmingly borrows from Lean Six Sigma principles positive, with participants enjoying and involved project teams tackling learning new tools and techniques, real-world challenges that the business working with others across the business, is facing. Some of the challenges and helping to fix real business problems. considered by the program include The newly accredited Business optimising information access, improving Excellence Champions are now forecasting processes, and enhancing embedded throughout the business, internal data validation procedures. leading the change required for Dexus to stay ahead of the curve in today’s quickly evolving environment. 46 Performance – Customers and communities Customers Our ability to create value relies on strong and enduring relationships and with our customers, suppliers and the communities we operate in. communities Future Enabled Customers Our top priority in dealing with both the Board focus We understand the importance of COVID-19 and bushfire crises was to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of high‑performing workspaces for Our customers and communities are customers and visitors to our properties. employee productivity and business a focus area for the Board and Board We took proactive steps to deliver clean success, and our comprehensive ESG Committee. In FY20 the Board air within our properties and to implement product and service offering supports was involved in: measures to prevent the spread of our customers’ success today and – Reviewing and discussing the COVID-19. into the future. annual customer survey results and We know that our customers are more Recognising this is a challenging time for associated actions likely to be satisfied when we listen to many of our customers, we committed to – Discussing management’s approach their concerns and address their needs. prioritising rent relief consistent with the to rent relief for small and medium Our customer-centric approach is government’s Code of Conduct to support sized enterprise customers impacted underpinned by our Customer Promise to: the viability of our small business customers by the COVID-19 crisis who are bearing the brunt of the crisis. – Listen, understand and respond to – Discussing management’s approach customer needs Realising the potential of our to customer complaints – Make things ‘simple and easy’ customers’ workspace – Discussing Dexus’s customer centric – Innovate to enrich customer experience Across our customer community, we aspirations and alignment with provide products and services to group strategy This year, our annual customer survey satisfy their desire to improve workforce – Endorsing the Human Rights Policy across our office and industrial portfolios engagement and productivity. Launched returned a customer Net Promoter – Overseeing management’s in August 2019, Six Ideas by Dexus is Score of +50, an increase on last year’s approach in relation to Modern our strategic workplace and change result of +46. Average satisfaction with Slavery Act 2018, including management consulting service. This property management was 8.6/10, reviewing or approving the service complements our in-house consistent with FY19. group’s inaugural Modern Project Delivery Group, completing our Slavery Statement Our customers told us they enjoyed the end-to-end offering that will help our Dexus experience and key activations customers to leverage their premises for that helped our customers thrive through business success. FY20 which included: Six Ideas by Dexus has had a busy – Activities that supported important first year of operation, working with causes such as the Australian bushfire Dexus customers and across Dexus appeals and Foodbank donation drive developments to create workplace – End-of-year celebrations and other environments that support organisational networking events to strengthen the and culture innovation. The team has communities within our properties leveraged the disruption caused by the – Several offers and giveaways provided COVID-19 pandemic to launch a research by Dexus retailers study into the impact of remote working and its implications for the future of work. Learn more To learn more about our progress against our FY20 Customer and Communities commitments, refer to the 2020 Sustainability Report available at www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 47 Case study Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Supporting our customers’ needs through the COVID-19 crisis +50 Our top priority in dealing with the To further support the wellbeing of Customer Net COVID-19 pandemic was to ensure occupants, popular building community Promoter Score the health, safety and wellbeing of activities, such as yoga and fitness our customers, employees and people classes, were offered virtually. visiting our buildings. Dexus took proactive steps at its Regular communications ensured customers were kept up to date on the >$1.1m properties to deliver COVID-safe government regulations and operational Value of community environments in line with government changes. Customer surveys helped contribution guidelines, implementing measures Dexus to understand future building to prevent the spread of the pandemic including: physical occupancy levels and customers’ expectations, and informed strategies for >2,000 – Increased cleaning in high touch a smooth transition into and out of the Supplier points, including food courts lockdown period. partnerships and bathrooms During the easing of restrictions, in – Touchless sanitiser stations in Sydney, Brisbane and Perth, Dexus closely office lobbies engaged with the Property Council of Australia and Safe Work Australia on – Prominent signage advising physical developing the guidelines for office distancing requirements buildings and workspaces, including Future focus – Regulating lift occupancy and issues such as lifting capacities and end people traffic management in lobbies of trip facilities. – Maintain office and industrial – Additional cleaning packages for An independent health expert was customer Net Promoter Score at individual tenancies engaged to review the processes for or above +40 end-of-trip facilities, bike storage – Support our customers’ future Despite occupancy numbers being lower rooms, lifts and lobbies, food courts and workspace needs by delivering than normal during the lockdown period, bathrooms to enable them to re-open. additional flexible space solutions Dexus continued to deliver high levels of service, with buildings kept operational The measures undertaken to ensure – Establish a cross-functional internal and essential services continuing. This the safety of building occupants gave Social Impact Working Group ensured customers had the flexibility to our customers increased confidence to focused on driving social initiatives access their offices, and buildings were return to their workplaces safely. Our facilities management team continues – Develop a supplier risk rating tool quick to reactivate when customers to provide onsite support for all of our for use by procurement teams to began their return to the office. customers, ensuring compliance with enhance understanding of ESG risk the new restrictions in Melbourne and regional Victoria. 48 Performance – Customers and communities Customer and communities The future of workspace Our customers have told us there is a However, there are elements of working lot about the office that they took for remotely which are appealing in certain The COVID-19 pandemic provided granted. So much of the efficiency of any circumstances, for instance workers also the opportunity for our customers to organisation comes from the incidental told us that their work-life balance was consider the purpose of office and the interactions that take place between better working from home. While process impact working remotely has had on employees at the water-cooler, in the tasks and concentrated work are just their businesses. kitchen or over a coffee. It is difficult to as or more effective when performed Feedback from our customer surveys schedule inspiration to coincide with a remotely, others – such as management indicated our customers value the virtual interaction. or operations – are more effective when workplace and were keen to return after Mentoring and on-the-job training performed in the office. an extended period of working remotely. is most effectively delivered in The majority of our customers believe a The workplace is a key strategic lever an office environment. Incidental face-to-face approach, whether solely for business success. There is abundant learning takes place in a workplace in person or in combination with online, is evidence of the economic and social whether it be by observing someone the most effective way to do business. benefits of people working together in in action, or overhearing how they We believe that flexibility is here to stay. office environments and the contribution conduct themselves on a phone call or There is a need for a central office – for these make to collaboration, innovation, in a meeting. building a culture, collaboration and learning and workplace culture. Business development and sales is innovation – but there is also room for another area that relies on interpersonal flexibility. interactions and relationship building. It The challenge for organisations will be is difficult to grow a business or maintain in how they facilitate the right balance sales if you do not nurture existing that works for both the individual and relationships or develop new ones. the organisation. Workspace insights from customer surveys 77 % 66 % 79 % Prefer meeting existing Found sharing of ideas and Expect the majority of or prospective clients brainstorming more difficult their workforce will be in face-to-face 2 to do remotely 1 the office most days of the week post COVID-19 2 80 % 72 % 89 % 73 % Missed working Believe building Missed their Said managing from the office 1 company culture colleagues 1 team performance is more effectively was easier to do in done in an office an office 2 environment 2 Source 1. Dexus tenant employee survey (April 2020). 2. Dexus tenant C-Suite survey (June 2020). Dexus 2020 Annual Report 49 Staying at the forefront of property technology The rate of change and value that technology is bringing to our business is a key focus for Dexus. In FY20 we announced two partnerships that are aimed at accelerating Dexus’s digital transformation: – SparkBeyond – a leading artificial intelligence (AI) technology firm with proven technology to provide deep insights, solve problems and drive high value data driven decisions for businesses – Taronga Ventures – a real estate innovation and venture capital firm, and its RealTechX Growth program, an innovation program set to propel emerging real estate technology businesses in Australia and Asia The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the demand and need for technology and innovation to deliver enhancements to buildings for the health and wellbeing of occupants in their workplaces. Leveraging our new partnerships’ technologies, we aim to change the way decisions are made across our business while helping create healthy buildings for our customers, enabling Dexus to secure first-mover advantage on next generation technology solutions. Our smart building blueprint Other smart building blueprint initiatives At Dexus, we leverage technological rolled out include the installation of change for the long-term benefit of our premium mobile phone technology at workspaces, securing the relevant game the MLC Centre in Sydney and biometric changers that enhance the customer access technology at 100 Mount Street experience. Our smart building blueprint and Gateway Sydney. relies on six interconnected pillars that Gateway Sydney is the first office building we know are important to our customers: in Australia to offer a fully integrated safety, sustainability, productivity, touchless experience. Using 3D fingerprint experience, wellbeing and connectivity. technology, occupants’ handprints are How we interact with buildings is also scanned to create a unique algorithm, changing due to concerns arising from eliminating the need for office passes the COVID-19 pandemic. Innovation swiping across surfaces and touching led by public demand for remote and of lift buttons. From car park boom touchless operations continues to drive gates, lift security, access to offices and the development of new products and end–of–trip facilities (including bike solutions for buildings. storage rooms, bathrooms and lockers), this biometric touchless technology We launched the smart building blueprint creates a frictionless experience for at 100 Mount Street in North Sydney last our customers. year, combining the latest technology in smart sensors and connectivity including We determine the best use of technology a dedicated Internet of Things platform. not just for its suitability for one building, The experience at 100 Mount Street but its scalability across our portfolio and demonstrated that one of the most we are assessing the feasibility of this beneficial outcomes of the new property integrated touchless technology at other technology is connectivity. Several buildings in our portfolio and in future customers opted to choose Dexus as developments. By applying our scale, we their connectivity provider, demonstrating can improve commercial outcomes and the opportunities to leverage technology ultimately offer a smooth and consistent to meet customer needs beyond simply experience for our customers. providing workspace. 50 Performance – Customers and communities Customer and communities >$1.1m Partnering with our suppliers Every year, we engage hundreds of suppliers to assist in undertaking our business activities of transacting, managing and developing. Building a Contributed to communities network of supplier relationships helps us to create value through our development across Australia activities and managing our properties more efficiently. This can be through the engagement of suppliers to provide cleaning, maintenance or security Strong Communities services at our properties, or through Our capacity to create value is partnerships with suppliers to deliver influenced by the strength of our elements of our customer offer, such as relationships with local communities in wellbeing service providers as part of our and around our properties. Wellplace offering. Many of our retail centres act as We welcome the increased interest community hubs, providing essential Case study from investors, suppliers and customers spaces for people to gather, shop, and about our management of modern play. We work with local authorities and slavery risks in our supply chain, since community groups on issues ranging from the commencement of the Modern economic development to community Modern slavery risk and the Slavery Act 2018. Over the past year, safety, both enhancing our relationships we have enhanced how we address and creating positive impacts. COVID-19 pandemic modern slavery risks across our supply We also leverage our scale to amplify chain through: the important work of community Modern slavery risks are never static, – Requesting over 100 key suppliers to organisations. We welcome the use of and the abrupt shift in economic activity disclose information on their labour lobby space in our office properties by caused by the pandemic has created management practices using the the community, supporting a range of unprecedented challenges for businesses property industry’s supplier due causes that deliver social impact while across the globe. For a property owner diligence tool developed as part of engaging our people and our customers. and manager like Dexus, the pandemic an industry collaboration with the Over the year, we contributed over has increased the need for essential Property Council of Australia $1.1 million financially and in-kind to services like cleaning and security in – Clarifying our expectations for communities across Australia through some areas, while decreasing this need suppliers through updating initiatives such as our retail portfolio’s in other areas. If not managed well, contractual documentation and national community campaign, and abrupt increases in demand can amplify ensuring the consideration of modern our partnership with Foodbank that the risk of forced labour, while decreases slavery risk factors during the supplier enabled the provision of thousands in demand can lead to employees being selection process of meals to those in need over the stood down without pay and access to Christmas period. The contribution also public benefits. – Completing modern slavery and includes funds donated to the Australian Dexus has been focused on ensuring its human rights awareness training bushfire appeals, where Dexus matched suppliers, most notably its cleaning and across our entire Dexus workforce employee donations dollar-for-dollar. security providers, have been managing – Delivering an awareness campaign to their workforces appropriately during the educate suppliers and their workforces pandemic. Dexus has kept its portfolio about modern slavery and advice on operational throughout the crisis, thus how to report concerns minimising the risk of job losses across – Ensuring suppliers were focused on our cleaning and security contractor workforce health and safety during workforces. Where cleaning requirements the COVID-19 pandemic have been reduced at the request of customers, Dexus has engaged with cleaning contractors who may be Our 2020 Modern Slavery impacted to protect jobs where possible. Statement is available at Dexus has also affirmed its expectations www.dexus.com of suppliers that they uphold the highest standards of occupational health and Learn more safety with their workforces. To learn more about our Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities approach visit www.dexus.com Dexus 2020 Annual Report 51 Case study Supporting local communities Our retail centres act as community hubs During August 2019, Deepwater Plaza Foodbank – Fighting to and have a unique capacity to benefit shoppers donated food, toiletries reduce hunger local communities by supporting causes and laundry items at the Donation Dexus joined the fight to reduce hunger that matter to them. Hub opposite the Coles supermarket. in Australia, partnering with Foodbank, We form partnerships with local Additionally, shoppers could purchase a Australia’s largest food relief organisation, not-for-profit organisations, and invite $2 or $5 plate and place their plate on to provide support to those in need shoppers and retailers to support the donation wall to show their support. during the Christmas period and those initiatives that deliver positive social The local community and the shopping communities that were impacted by the impact within each community. centre’s retailers rallied together to Australian bushfires. On the NSW Central Coast, Deepwater provide Mary Mac’s Place Woy Woy Dexus collaborated with office Plaza, owned 100% by DWPF, partnered with a cash donation of $5,740 plus an management teams around Australia with the well-known local community estimated $10,000 worth of groceries to set up food donation stations in the organisation Mary Mac’s Place Woy and toiletries. lobbies of Dexus office buildings. The Woy, for a month-long campaign and Catherine Pantehis, Coordinator initiative was communicated across donation drive to support those in the Homeless Services, Catholic Care said: the customer portals, encouraging local community experiencing food “Mary Mac’s is open to anyone needing a customers to donate non-perishable insecurity and homelessness. helping hand. We rely solely on donations food times to support those in need in Mary Mac’s Place serve over 500 meals and thank the local community for Dexus’s communities. a week from Monday to Friday to those supporting so generously during this The Foodbank drive ran from late most in need in the community, relying wonderful initiative. The community’s November 2019 through to mid-January 100% on donations to provide this kindness will ensure we can keep 2020, collecting 185 boxes of food that vital service. providing meals and other important supplied an estimated 2,951 meals to services to those that need it the most on communities impacted by poverty, the peninsula”. drought and the bushfires. Altogether, the donated food weighed 1,639 kilograms – approximately the weight of a Holden Commodore! 52 Performance – Environment Environment Our capacity to create value is built on an efficient and resilient portfolio that minimises our environmental footprint and is positioned to thrive in a climate-affected future. The efficient use of natural resources Our customers, suppliers, and facility Board focus creates value for Dexus and supports our management partners have all customers to achieve their own corporate contributed to this achievement. Sustainability and the environment sustainability goals. We integrate The improvements to portfolio efficiency are a focus area for the Board and energy, water and waste efficiency into are streamlining operating costs and Board ESG Committee. In FY20, the the design and daily operation of our improving the indoor environment of Board and Board ESG Committee properties and regularly benchmark our properties. They have been achieved were involved in: property performance using independent through comprehensive strategic building certifications such as NABERS improvement planning, targeted – Reviewing the group’s and Green Star. capital expenditure and collaboration progress in relation to 2020 Our commitment to achieve net zero to enhance monitoring systems and environmental targets emissions by 2030 supports the transition operating procedures. – Discussing and reviewing Dexus’s to a low carbon economy, creates We continue to prioritise waste position in relation to onsite and financial benefits and aligns with the management through rating property offsite renewables ambitions of our investors and third party performance using NABERS Waste, – Reviewing the group’s activities to capital partners. We are also focused on including waste management provisions enhance climate resilience understanding the impacts of climate in our cleaning contracts, and engaging – Reviewing and approving the change on our properties and invest in with our customers to improve their waste Towards Climate Resilience report initiatives to enhance portfolio resilience. management practices. Enhancing reuse – Overseeing the 2020 materiality and recycling across tenancy fit-out Achieving our resource projects has been a priority for several assessment efficiency targets years, and this year we completed an – Discussing the results of indoor air In 2015, we set a target to achieve assessment that identified how retaining quality results during the Australian 1,000,000 square metres of office space or reusing fit-out delivers superior carbon bushfire crisis and the opportunities across the group office portfolio rated and cost savings for Dexus and our for improvement to a minimum 5 star NABERS Energy customers. These insights will inform how – Discussing the setting of 2025 targets rating and a minimum 4 star NABERS we continue to evolve our service offering consistent with the pathway to net Water rating by 2020. We achieved these to assist our customers in achieving their zero emissions by 2030 targets across the group’s office portfolio, sustainability goals. which involved increasing energy and water efficiency across circa 500,000 square metres of office space. 5 star NABERS Energy by 2020 4 star NABERS Water by 2020 (sqm) (sqm) 1200000 1200000 1,053,157 1,058,585 950,351 1000000 892,323 1000000 707,430 753,639 757,423 800000 800000 695,331 Learn more 634,594 615,884 615,074 568,172 600000 600000 400000 400000 To learn more about our progress 200000 200000 against our FY20 Enriched Environment commitments, refer to the 2020 0 0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Sustainability Report available at www.dexus.com 5 stars 4 stars 5.5 stars 4.5 stars or higher Dexus 2020 Annual Report 53 Enriched Environment >1m sqm Office space rated minimum 5 star NABERS Energy FY20: 1,053,157 sqm >1m sqm Office space rated minimum 4 star NABERS Water FY20: 1,058,585 sqm Case study 50.1% Reduction in group office emissions intensity since FY08 Capturing sun and providing shade at Willows Shopping Centre >$164m Saved through enhanced portfolio energy efficiency In May 2020, Dexus completed one since FY08 of Australia’s largest car park solar The benefits of the project extend projects at Willows Shopping Centre beyond the provision of renewable in Townsville (owned by DWPF and energy and include the installation of managed by Dexus). shade sails that will further enhance The project includes 4,800 solar the amenity for centre visitors. Future focus photovoltaic (PV) panels that will The project has added shading with generate approximately 2,500 megawatt under-canopy lighting to an additional – Source at least 70% of electricity hours per annum, equivalent to the usage 500 car park bays, improving the from onsite and offsite renewable of 370 Queensland households. shopper experience and increasing the sources across the group’s At retail centres like Willows, onsite solar number of shaded or undercover car managed portfolio by FY25 PV works well at retail centres because parks to over 1,700 bays. consistent with our RE100 centre visitation tends to be higher commitment to 100% renewable The new solar array reduces the centre’s energy by 2030 during the daytime, which is also the use of grid-purchased electricity and time when solar PV systems generate associated carbon emissions, supporting – Deliver an average 5 star NABERS the most power (a quality referred to as Dexus’s pathway to net zero emissions Indoor Environment rating across ‘load matching’). across its managed portfolio by 2030. the group office portfolio by FY25, delivering initiatives to enhance occupant health and wellbeing 54 Performance – Environment Environment On the pathway to net zero emissions Healthy indoor environments Our commitment to achieve net zero We have always prioritised indoor emissions by 2030 involves enhancing the environmental quality, acknowledging energy efficiency of our properties and its potential to impact occupant health increasing the use of renewable energy. and wellbeing, and ultimately customer Our goal is to operate high performing productivity and satisfaction. The past buildings powered by clean energy. year presented a unique set of indoor This year, we signed up to the RE100 environmental quality challenges related initiative, joining like‑minded businesses to Australia’s bushfire season and the committed to sourcing 100% renewable COVID-19 pandemic. energy by 2030. When the bushfires blanketed the During the year, we increased our use of capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne and renewable energy through: Brisbane in smoke haze, We undertook – Commencing a renewable Energy sample testing across the portfolio to Supply Agreement with Red Energy understand whether existing air filtration Since 1 January 2020, this agreement systems and management procedures has been supplying renewable energy were able to sustain healthy air quality sourced from a combination of offsite inside our properties. solar and wind projects, to the base The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic building services of 40 properties shortly after the bushfires brought a new across the group’s New South Wales set of challenges to ensure healthy indoor office portfolio environments in our buildings. Some – Prioritising the delivery of onsite solar of the measures we have put in place photovoltaics (PV) at our retail centres in response to the bushfire experience We completed the installation of one and to promote a safe return to the of Australia’s largest car park solar workplace include: arrays at DWPF’s Willows Shopping – Reviewing procedures to ensure Centre in Townsville, as well as a adequate fresh air ventilation, rooftop solar PV system at Beenleigh filtration of return air and acceptable Marketplace in Brisbane thermal comfort – Implementing an Onsite Solar – Experimenting with emerging building Renewables program across our technology that can assist with industrial portfolio enhancing air quality in smaller areas We are unlocking the value of such as lifts and meeting rooms Learn more industrial properties by working with – Updating the air quality specifications our customers to share the financial in our Environmental Management and environmental benefits of Manual, which will help set Refer to Towards Climate Resilience renewable energy. We launched a pilot expectations for future procedures and and our 2020 Sustainability Report for program at Quarrywest at Greystanes, investment related to indoor air quality additional detail on our approach to NSW, where customers have indicated climate-related issues, available at their interest to partner with Dexus to www.dexus.com install solar PV at their facilities Dexus 2020 Annual Report 55 We report on our approach to climate‑related issues in accordance with the Task Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Our approach is summarised here, with reference to additional information available in Towards Climate Resilience and the 2020 Sustainability Report. Climate resilience The Sustainability team, led by the Risk management Executive General Manager, Investor Climate-related risks are managed The Australian bushfire season of Relations, Communications and 2019-20, combined with record-setting in accordance with the Dexus Risk Sustainability, and the Senior Manager, Management Framework, which is aligned drought conditions in the years prior, Group Sustainability and Energy oversee confirmed that climate change is directly to the principles of ISO 31000:2018. the group’s management response and Climate change is listed on the Dexus affecting our social wellbeing and reporting, presenting on a quarterly basis causing significant economic impacts. key risk register, which has resulted in to the Board ESG Committee on progress the development of control measures For over a decade, Dexus has reduced against targets and to the Board as key its impact through lowering emissions, and detailed discussion of climate risk at topics emerge. leadership and Board levels. adapted to climate hazards by enhancing portfolio resilience, and influenced its Strategy Management of physical risks at the value chain to collaboratively tackle the Climate-related risks and opportunities asset level has been integrated into climate challenge. are of growing importance when the Dexus Environmental Management Over the past year, we expanded the it comes to meeting our strategic System (EMS), which is certified to ISO use of scenario analysis to test how the objectives of Leadership in office 14001:2015. Climate change is listed as an business could enhance its resilience to and Funds management partner of ‘aspect’ within the EMS, which provides climate impacts that extend beyond choice. Leadership in office has meant a structured framework for considering its individual properties. The outcomes acquiring, developing and maintaining factors such as higher temperatures, of the scenario analysis are detailed in a high-quality property portfolio that altered rainfall patterns, and more our report Towards Climate Resilience, mitigates climate change and provides frequent and intense extreme weather published in June 2020. Towards Climate tenants (customers) with energy efficient events into the day-to-day activities of Resilience is aligned with the TCFD workspaces through achieving net zero transactions, developments, and asset recommendations, and signals ways that emissions by 2030. To be the Funds and facilities management teams across Dexus can evolve its approach to climate management partner of choice, Dexus the group. resilience into the future. has acknowledged the challenge of Metrics and targets climate change and collaborated with Governance the investment community to understand We have set an ambitious pathway for Dexus’s corporate governance framework climate-related risks and opportunities. emissions reduction through our goal of supports a culture that understands net zero emissions by 2030 across the Dexus uses scenario analysis to group’s managed portfolio. This goal the importance of sustainability and identify the range of climate-related ensures that climate-related issues are has been certified by the Science Based issues that may impact its capacity to Targets initiative as aligned with the addressed appropriately at board and meet its strategic objectives. Towards management levels. The Dexus Board objectives of the UN Paris Agreement. Climate Resilience explains Dexus’s We monitor and report on absolute, oversees all strategic risks including use of scenario analysis, identifies the climate change, with the Board ESG like‑for‑like greenhouse gas emissions climate‑related risks and opportunities and emissions intensity for all properties Committee overseeing the group’s that we have identified, and explores approach to addressing climate-related under our operational control. Progress ways that we can evolve our strategy to against targets and other issues. The Board Risk Committee enhance our resilience. oversees the group enterprise risk climate-related metrics are disclosed in management practices and key risk the 2020 Sustainability Report. register, which includes climate change. 56 Governance – Governance Governance Good corporate governance is the foundation for the long-term success of the group, and the achievement of our strategy is underpinned by a strong governance platform. Our Board and Group Management Our Board and its Board Committees For the 2020 financial year, the group’s Committee are committed to have overall responsibility for corporate governance practices complied with the excellence in corporate governance governance and are collectively focused ASX Corporate Governance Council’s and aspire to the highest standards on the long-term success of the group. Corporate Governance Principles and of conduct and disclosure. To support Areas of specific responsibility include Recommendations (third edition). We are this aspiration, we have embedded a financial performance, setting strategy improving our policies and procedures framework that enhances corporate and overseeing its implementation, to ensure compliance against the performance and protects the interests providing leadership and direction recently published fourth edition which of all key stakeholders. on workforce culture and values, and takes effect for the first full financial year We continue to focus on organisational agreeing and overseeing the risk commencing on or after 1 January 2020 culture by encouraging an environment framework and risk appetite. (for Dexus, the FY21 financial year where our people and stakeholders feel Our Board regularly reviews its concluding 30 June 2021). comfortable in raising issues and ensuring corporate governance policies and Further details are set out in the our Board and management are kept processes to ensure they are appropriate Corporate Governance Statement, which informed of incidents that may impact and meet governance standards and outlines key aspects of our corporate the business. regulatory requirements. governance framework and practices, which is available at www.dexus.com/corporategovernance. The Dexus Board and Board Committee membership at 30 June 2020 Environmental, People & Social and Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Governance Director Board Committee1 Committee2 Committee Committee Committee Richard Sheppard Darren Steinberg Penny Bingham-Hall John Conde AO Tonianne Dwyer Mark Ford The Hon. Nicola Roxon Peter St George Patrick Allaway Chair and member Member 1. Effective 1 July 2020, Mark Ford replaced Peter St George as Chair of the Board Audit Committee and effective 3 September 2020, Patrick Allaway replaces John Conde as a member of the Board Audit Committee. 2. Effective 1 July 2020, Patrick Allaway replaced Mark Ford as a member of the Board Risk Committee. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 57 Board of Directors We also acknowledge that an effective Board skills and experience Board relies on board members with Our Board has determined the skills, Our Board comprises a majority of different tenures. As a result of the onset Independent Directors with all directors expertise and experience required as a of the pandemic, we temporarily paused collective to ensure diversity of thought other than the CEO being Independent our Board renewal strategy due to the Non-Executive Directors. The Board and vigorous debate on key decisions. challenging operating environment and This is regularly reviewed when recruiting currently consists of eight Independent will recommence this strategy over the Non-Executive Directors and one Executive new Directors and assessed by the Board course of FY21. Our current focus is on on an ongoing basis. The collective Director. The Board renewal process over Board renewal centred around the skills the past several years has produced experience of the current Directors has and experience needed to complement been outlined against the areas of skill an experienced Board of Directors other Directors. The members of the with a broad and diverse skill set. Our and expertise in the table below. The Board of Directors and the relevant Board believes that its composition meets Board has determined that, along with business and management experience individual Director performance, diversity or exceeds the minimum requirements in the Directors bring to the Board is each category. is integral to a well-functioning board. detailed on pages 58-61 and available at www.dexus.com. Areas of skill and expertise Experience Leadership – Directorship experience (past and present) – Senior management experience Capital and – Experience in the dynamics of raising capital and investment banking Funds Management – Experience in the management of third party funds Finance and Accounting – Experience in analysing and challenging accounting material and financial statements and assessing financial viability – Experience in understanding financial drivers/funding and business models Governance – Experience with corporate governance and standards of complex organisations – Ability to assess and commitment to ensure the effectiveness of governance structures People Management and Remuneration – Experience in relation to remuneration and the legislation/framework governing remuneration – Experience in managing people and influencing organisational culture Property Experience – Experience and industry knowledge in the management of properties including (including Developments) property development – Understanding of stakeholder needs and industry trends Risk Management – Experience in managing areas of major risk to the organisation – Experience in workplace health & safety, environmental and technology matters affecting organisations Strategy – Experience in merger and acquisition activities – Ability to guide and review strategy through constructive questioning and suggestions – Experience in developing and successfully implementing strategy Sustainability – Experience in implementing sustainability policies and practices, adopting a long-term approach to decision making – Understanding of environmental and social topics relevant to the property sector 58 Governance – Board of Directors Board of Directors Board focus during the year Richard Sheppard The key areas of focus for the Board and Board Chair and Independent Director Committees during FY20 are aligned to each BEc Hons, FAICD of our key resources Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2012, Richard Sheppard is both Chair and Independent Director of Dexus Funds Management Limited, Chair of the Board Nomination Committee Financial Customers and and a member of the Board People & Remuneration Committee. communities Richard is a Director of Snowy Hydro Limited and Star Entertainment The Board and Board Audit The Board and Board ESG Group, and Honorary Treasurer of the Committee are involved in focusing Committee are involved in reviewing Bradman Foundation. on financial performance. aspects relating to customers and Richard brings to the Dexus Board community related activities. extensive experience in banking and finance and as a director and Chairman p.26 p.46 of listed and unlisted property trusts. He was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Macquarie Bank Limited and Deputy Managing Director Properties Environment of Macquarie Group Limited from 2007 until late 2011. Following seven years at the Reserve Bank of Australia, Richard joined Macquarie Group’s predecessor, The Board is involved in approving The Board and Board ESG Hill Samuel Australia in 1975, initially transactions and developments Committee are involved in reviewing working in Corporate Finance. Richard across the portfolio. aspects relating to climate change became Head of the Corporate Banking and the environment. Group in 1988 and headed a number of the Bank’s major operating Groups, p.36 p.52 including the Financial Services Group and the Corporate Affairs Group. He was a member of the Group Executive Committee since 1986 and Deputy People and Risk Managing Director since 1996. Richard capabilities was also Chairman of the Australian Government’s Financial Sector Advisory Council, Macquarie Group Foundation, The Board and Board People & The Board Risk Committee Eraring Energy and Green State Power Remuneration Committee are involved is involved in reviewing and Pty Limited. in aspects relating to employees. monitoring our key risks. p.42 p.22 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 59 Patrick Allaway Penny Bingham-Hall John Conde AO Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director BA/LLB BA (Industrial Design), FAICD, SF (Fin) BSc, BE (Hons), MBA, FAICD Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 10 June 2014, Appointed to the Board on 29 April 2009, 1 February 2020, Patrick Allaway is an Penny Bingham-Hall is an Independent John Conde is an Independent Director of Independent Director of Dexus Funds Director of Dexus Funds Management Dexus Funds Management Limited and Management Limited and a member Limited, Chair of the Board People & Dexus Wholesale Property Limited and a of the Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee and a member member of the Board Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee effective of the Board Nomination Committee and and Board Nomination Committee. 1 July 2020. Patrick will be joining the Board ESG Committee. John is the Chairman of Cooper Energy Board Audit Committee effective Penny is a Non-Executive Director of Limited and the McGrath Foundation. 3 September 2020. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd, BlueScope He is President of the Commonwealth Patrick is Chairman of the Bank of Steel Limited, Supply Nation and Taronga Remuneration Tribunal (as President, John Queensland and a Non-Executive Conservation Society Australia. She is automatically serves as a Member of the Director of Nine Entertainment Co. and also an independent director of Crescent Independent Parliamentary Expenses Allianz Australia. Foundation and Macquarie Specialised Authority) and Deputy Chairman of Patrick brings over 30 years’ experience in Asset Management Limited. Whitehaven Coal Limited. financial services across financial markets, Penny has broad industry experience John brings to the Board extensive capital markets, and corporate advisory. having spent more than 20 years experience across diverse sectors Patrick’s executive career was in financial in a variety of senior management including commerce, industry and services with Citibank and Swiss Bank roles with Leighton Holdings Limited government. He was previously Chairman Corporation (now UBS) working in Sydney, including Executive General Manager of Bupa Australia Holdings Pty Limited, New York, Zurich and London. Patrick was Strategy, responsible for the Group’s Ausgrid (formerly EnergyAustralia), also Managing Director of SBC Capital overall business strategy and Executive Destination NSW, Sydney Symphony Markets & Treasury. General Manager Corporate, responsible Orchestra and the Australian Olympic Patrick has over 15 years Non-Executive for business planning, corporate Committee (NSW) Fundraising Committee. Director experience across financial affairs including investor relations and John was Director of BHP Billiton and services, property, media, and retail. governance systems. She is a former Excel Coal Limited, Managing Director Patrick was formerly a Non-Executive director of the Port Authority of NSW, of Broadcast Investment Holdings Pty Director of Macquarie Goodman Australian Postal Corporation, SCEGGS Limited, Director of Lumley Corporation Industrial Trust, Metcash Limited, Fairfax Darlinghurst Limited and the Global and President of the National Heart Media, Woolworths South Africa, David Foundation. Penny also served as the Foundation of Australia. Jones, Country Road Group, and Domain inaugural Chair of Advocacy Services Limited. He was also Chair of the Audit Australia Limited (a not-for-profit & Risk Committees for Metcash, David organisation promoting the interests Jones, and Country Road Group. of the Australian tourism, transport, infrastructure and related industries) from 2008 to 2011. 60 Governance – Board of Directors Board of Directors Tonianne Dwyer Mark Ford The Hon. Nicola Roxon Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director BJuris (Hons), LLB (Hons) Dip. Tech (Commerce), CA, FAICD BA/LLB (Hons), GAICD Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 24 August 2011, Tonianne Dwyer is an 1 November 2016, Mark Ford is an 1 September 2017, Nicola Roxon is an Independent Director of Dexus Funds Independent Director of Dexus Funds Independent Director of Dexus Funds Management Limited and Dexus Management Limited, Chair of the Board Management Limited, Chair of the Board Wholesale Property Limited, Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of ESG Committee and a member of the Board Risk Committee and a member of the Board ESG Committee and Board Board People & Remuneration Committee the Board Audit Committee and Board Nomination Committee. and Board Nomination Committee. Nomination Committee. Mark is Chair of Kiwi Property Group and Nicola is the Independent Chair of HESTA Tonianne is a Director of OZ Minerals Non-Executive Director of the manager and Non-Executive director of Lifestyle Limited, ALS Limited and Metcash Limited. for China Commercial Trust. He is a Communities Limited, the Utilities Trust She is also Deputy Chancellor and a Director of Prime Property Fund Asia. of Australia and Health Justice Australia. member of the Senate of the University Mark has extensive property industry She also chairs the Lifestyle Communities’ of Queensland. experience and has been involved in Remuneration Committee. Nicola is a Tonianne brings to the Board significant Real Estate Funds Management for over Patron for the BreastWest Foundation. experience as a company director and 25 years. He was previously Managing Nicola was previously Chair of Cancer executive working in listed property, Director, Head of DB Real Estate Council Australia, Bupa Australia funds management and corporate Australia, where he managed more Holdings Pty Limited and the Accounting strategy across a variety of international than $10 billion in property funds and Professional and Ethical Standards Board. markets. She was a Director from 2006 sat on the Global Executive Committee Nicola brings more than 20 years’ until 2010 of Quintain Estates and for Deutsche Bank Real Estate and experience in government and law which Development – a listed United Kingdom RREEF. Mark was also a Director in the have given her significant insights into property company comprising funds Property Investment Banking division of the public and professional services management, investment and urban Macquarie and was involved in listing sectors. Nicola’s past roles as the regeneration – and was Head of Funds the previous Macquarie Office Fund. His Commonwealth’s first female Management from 2003. Prior to joining previous directorships include Comrealty Attorney-General, Health Minister and Quintain, Tonianne was a Director of Limited, Property Council of Australia, Chair of Cancer Council Australia means Investment Banking at Hambros Bank, Deutsche Asset Management Australia she brings deep industry knowledge SG Cowen and Societe Generale based and he was also Founding Chair of Cbus in health, highly regulated consumer in London. She also held directorships Property Pty Limited and South East Asia industries and the not-for-profit sector. on Queensland Treasury Corporation Property Company. Mark previously held Prior to entering Parliament as the and Cardno Limited, the Bristol & Bath senior roles with Price Waterhouse and Member for Gellibrand, Nicola worked Science Park Stakeholder Board, and Macquarie Bank. as an industrial lawyer and advocate on a number of boards associated with at Maurice Blackburn and the National Quintain’s funds management business Union of Workers. She was an Associate including the Quercus, Quantum and iQ to Justice Mary Gaudron at the High Property Partnerships. Court of Australia. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 61 Board composition 22% 22% Board tenure Peter St George Darren Steinberg 22% Independent Director Chief Executive Officer CA(SA), MBA and Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 29 April 2009, BEc, FAICD, FRICS, FAPI 34% Peter St George is an Independent Appointed to the Board on Director of Dexus Funds Management 1 March 2012, Darren Steinberg 0-3 years 6-9 years Limited and a member of the Board Audit is the CEO of Dexus and an 3-6 years 9+ years Committee, Board Risk Committee and Executive Director of Dexus Funds Board Nomination Committee. Management Limited. Peter is a Director of First Quantum Darren has over 30 years’ experience in Minerals Limited (listed on the Toronto the property and funds management 37.5 % Stock Exchange). industry with an extensive background Peter has more than 20 years’ experience in office, industrial and retail property in senior corporate advisory and investment and development. He has finance roles within NatWest Markets a Bachelor of Economics from the and Hill Samuel & Co in London. He University of Western Australia. Board gender acted as Chief Executive/Co-Chief Darren is a Fellow of the Australian diversity1 Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Institute of Company Directors, the Barney Australia/NatWest Markets Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Australia from 1995 to 2001. Peter was and the Australian Property Institute. previously a Director of Boart Longyear, He is a former National President of 62.5 % Spark Infrastructure Group, its related the Property Council of Australia and companies and SFE Corporation Limited. a founding member of Property Male Champions of Change. He is also a Men Women Director of VGI Partners Limited and the Sydney Swans. 1. Non-Executive Directors only. 8% 8% 23 % Board professional qualifications 23% 15% 23% Science MBA Law Economics Commerce/ Other Accounting 62 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Board focus The main objective of the Board People and We are pleased to present the While we were not able to deliver on Remuneration Committee (PRC) is to assist the Remuneration Report which focuses the upgraded guidance, we were Board in fulfilling its responsibilities of developing on our remuneration strategy and able to maintain a distribution and the remuneration strategy, framework and policies for Board approval for the following groups: outcomes, in addition to our people and Adjusted Funds From Operations — Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) culture highlights, for the financial year (AFFO) per security of 50.3 cents, which — Executive Key Management Personnel ending 30 June 2020. was consistent with last year. (Executive KMP), including the Chief A year of progress despite This result meant the FY20 AFFO per Executive Officer (CEO) security financial performance goal — Group Management Committee (GMC) COVID-19 impact was not achieved. However, Dexus The unprecedented and challenging In FY20, the PRC also undertook a range of progressed its strategic objectives activities relating to broader people and environment caused by the COVID-19 and was able to deliver the following remuneration issues including: pandemic affected the last quarter of financial and non-financial results: — Reviewing the talent management the year and had an adverse impact on strategy to ensure it supports performance our overall financial result and the Dexus – Return on Contributed Equity (ROCE) and cultural goals Security price. was 9.0%, compared to the FY19 — Overseeing management’s approach to result of 10.1% In response to this environment, we the risk culture framework, metrics and – Maintained a strong balance sheet assessment approach (together with the implemented cost reduction measures aligned with our long-term focus with 24.3% gearing (look-through)1 Board Risk Committee) on delivering sustainable results. compared to 24.0% at 30 June 2019 — Monitoring employee engagement, wellbeing and corporate culture metrics These measures impacted the entire – Dexus’s office portfolio remained well — Assessing performance on the inclusion and business and included a freeze positioned against external office diversity strategy and progress towards on recruitment and non-essential benchmarks, outperforming the MSCI gender diversity targets consultancy spend. Office benchmark over 1, 3 and 5 years — Reviewing and recommending performance objectives and Key Performance Indicators In addition, for the last quarter of the – Six out of seven funds within Dexus’s (KPIs) for the Executive KMP and GMC to year, Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) and funds management business the Board for approval Executives agreed to modest reductions outperformed their respective — Reviewing Executive KMP and GMC in remuneration. NED base fees and CEO external benchmark measures remuneration, including assessing fixed remuneration were reduced by 15%, – Achieved a high customer Net external benchmarks, market trends and other Executives’ fixed remuneration and the ongoing appropriateness of the Promoter Score of +50, increasing was reduced by 10%. from +46 in FY19 remuneration framework and remuneration outcomes while considering the experience Our financial performance prior to the – Demonstrated our strong culture and of key stakeholders last quarter of the year was tracking engaged workforce by achieving a — Reviewing and approving Executive ahead of expectations and we provided weighted average employee Net succession planning and talent upgraded guidance in early February management strategies Promoter Score of +61, increasing from 2020. Our financial performance was +40 in FY19 — Monitoring programs to increase Security transformed by the pandemic as we ownership for KMP and all employees – Received an A+ rating for all modules worked with many of our valued small — Reviewing performance against business in our Principles for Responsible objectives and strategic goals and and medium enterprise customers Investment 2020 (PRI) Assessment recommending remuneration outcomes to on various forms of rental relief to the Board for approval support their viability, consistent with – Achieved a 100% safety audit score at — Enhancing disclosures to address investor the Government mandated Code of Dexus workspaces feedback and recommending the annual Conduct. These actions were a key Remuneration Report to the Board – Exceeded our FY20 environmental contributor to the adverse impact on our targets, achieving more than 1 million financial result. square metres certified at a minimum 5-star NABERS Energy and 4-star NABERS Water rating 1. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. Proforma gearing includes proceeds and payments for transactions post 30 June 2020 that are expected to settle before 30 September 2020 including the divestment of Finlay Crisp Centre, Canberra, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney and 45 Clarence Street, Sydney (subject to FIRB approval), the acquisition of Edward Street, Brisbane (Hermes), payment of Dexus’s share of deferred settlement amounts for 80 Collins Street, Melbourne, the industrial property acquisitions of 37-39 Wentworth Street, Greenacre and the Ford Facility at Merrifield Business Park, Mickleham. All other transactions post 30 June 2020 are excluded. Look-through gearing at 30 June 2020 was 26.3%. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 63 MLC Centre (artist's impression) Sydney FY20 remuneration outcomes Approach to FY21 remuneration We continue to strive to enhance the disclosure in our remuneration report and When reviewing FY20 remuneration We recognise that the key to our I hope you find this report informative. outcomes for Executive Key Management ongoing success lies in retaining and We look forward to receiving your Personnel (KMP) against company attracting high performing people. A key support at the 2020 AGM. performance, the Board took into focus for FY21 is to ensure that we retain account the impact of the COVID-19 talented people while maintaining a fair pandemic, as well as reviewing the approach to remuneration. guidelines released by the Australian Penny Bingham-Hall There will be no Executive KMP fixed Chair – People Securities and Investments Commission remuneration increases except for our (ASIC) on Executive variable pay for FY20. and Remuneration EGM Funds Management, reflecting her Committee The Board determined not to exercise expanding role and remit. NED fees will upward or downward discretion on remain unchanged. incentive outcomes. Dexus will maintain the Group’s Executive KMP Short-Term Incentive ‘through-the-cycle’ approach to The report has been prepared and audited (STI) outcomes range from 54% to 57% remuneration in FY21 but with some minor in accordance with section 308(3C) of the of maximum, reflecting the challenging changes to reflect the highly uncertain Corporations Act 2001. business conditions Dexus faced in the economic environment in which we are last quarter of the year. STI payments currently operating. were approximately 40% lower The Board will set STI targets in line with than last year displaying alignment current business forecasts but plans to between Executive KMP incentive review these targets in February 2021. This outcomes, Security holder impact and approach will allow for the adjustment of customer experience. targets if required to avoid unwarranted Long-Term Incentive (LTI) for Executive windfall gains or unachievable targets KMP for both Tranche 1 of the 2017 plan if the operating environment changes and Tranche 2 of the 2016 plan vested at significantly over the next six months. 100% as AFFO and ROCE outperformance We believe this approach will provide hurdles were exceeded. Outcomes for these tranches were STI targets at the appropriate level throughout FY21. FY21 focus areas only marginally impacted by COVID-19, As of the release of this report, the — Monitoring the impact of COVID-19 as approximately three months Board has not confirmed the LTI ranges on the wellbeing of Dexus people were affected out of the three-and for the FY21 grant. Given the unique and — Addressing the financial impacts of four-year performance periods. We unprecedented circumstances created COVID-19 on Dexus’s remuneration expect lower vesting outcomes for by the COVID-19 crisis, the Board is strategy future LTI tranches where the economic — Monitoring succession planning reviewing the LTI performance hurdle impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will and talent programs ranges with the principle of rewarding encompass a greater proportion of — Reviewing and approving the the creation of long-term investor value. Group balanced scorecard the performance period. Further details are outlined in Section 5 of — Monitoring and assessing Group, Given that Dexus securities are bought the Remuneration Report and an update Executive KMP and GMC’s on market and held in a trust in order will be provided at our Annual General performance, including monitoring to satisfy LTI awards, the vesting of LTI performance against the Group Meeting (AGM). awards has minimal cash impact. balanced scorecard and the Our people are at the centre of what Short-Term Incentive (STI) plan we do. We will continue to invest in — Strengthening our inclusion their development and reward their and diversity approach through achievement of sustainable business targeted programs outcomes that create value for all — Overseeing Executive and employee remuneration strategies our stakeholders. and frameworks to align rewards to performance results and the experience of our investors and customers — Monitoring risk and organisational culture 64 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 1. Introduction Contents 1.1 Key Management Personnel 1. Introduction  64 In this report, KMP are those individuals having the authority 2. Remuneration strategy and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the and governance 65 activities of the Group, either directly or indirectly. 3. FY20 remuneration structure 69 4. FY20 performance and They comprise: remuneration outcomes 74 – NEDs 5. Approach to FY21 remuneration 80 – Executive Directors (i.e. the CEO) 6. Terms of Executive KMP service agreements 81 – Other Executives considered KMP 7. Non-Executive Directors’ (NED) The CEO and other Executives considered KMP are referred remuneration 82 to collectively as “Executive KMP” in this report. Outlined 8. Additional disclosures 84 below are the KMP of the Group during FY19 and FY20. Independent KMP KMP Non-Executive Directors FY19 FY20 W Richard Sheppard Non-Executive Chair This Remuneration Report forms part of Patrick Allaway From the Directors’ Report and outlines the Non-Executive Director 1 February 2020 remuneration framework and outcomes Penny Bingham-Hall for KMP for FY20. Non-Executive Director John C Conde AO Non-Executive Director Our remuneration approach Tonianne Dwyer Non-Executive Director Our remuneration framework supports our “through the cycle” business strategy Mark H Ford where market performance and Security Non-Executive Director holder returns are paramount. The Board Nicola Roxon sets performance targets for the Non-Executive Director Short-Term Incentive (STI) and Long-Term Incentive (LTI) to manage Executives’ Peter B St George alignment to our strategy. Non-Executive Director Our mix of financial and non-financial Executive KMP measures encourage responsible decisions that benefit both the short Darren J Steinberg and long term. Measuring AFFO per Executive Director & security growth and ROCE removes the Chief Executive Officer potential favourable or unfavourable Other Executive KMP impact of security price volatility, as well as macro-economic variables impacting Deborah C Coakley asset valuations, resulting in remuneration Executive General Manager, results that reflect controllable Funds Management performance through the cycle. Ross G Du Vernet Chief Investment Officer Kevin L George Executive General Manager, Office Alison C Harrop Chief Financial Officer Dexus 2020 Annual Report 65 2. Remuneration strategy and governance 2.1 Our remuneration strategy Our Vision Our Strategy Our Remuneration Strategy To be globally recognised as Australia’s To deliver superior risk-adjusted returns To attract, retain and motivate the leading real estate company for investors from high quality real estate best people to create a great culture in Australia’s major cities that delivers our business strategy and contributes to sustainable long-term returns Remuneration principles Culture Alignment to Market Sustainable Simple and performance competitive Transparent We align reward to We reward for We position reward We appropriately We keep it simple our strong risk, high performance aligned to opportunity to reward for both and set clear performance, diverse our business strategy attract and retain the financial and expectations and inclusive culture with an emphasis on best talent non-financial equity ownership outcomes 2.2 Executive remuneration components Fixed Remuneration Short-Term Incentive Long-Term Incentive (FR) (STI) (LTI) Purpose Attract and retain Executives with Reward for performance against Align performance focus with the capability and experience to annual strategic objectives. the long-term business strategy deliver our strategy. to drive sustained earnings and Security holder returns. Link to Appropriately compensate Strategic annual objectives are Performance hurdles are set by the performance Executives for driving a great embedded in each Executive’s Board over three and four-year culture and delivering on the personalised scorecard of periods to deliver sustained business strategy. performance measures. Security holder value. Performance Significant position A balanced scorecard of Group Adjusted Funds from Operations measures accountabilities that support the financials, customer, culture, (AFFO) per security growth execution of the business strategy. environmental sustainability and Average Return on Contributed safety measures. Equity (ROCE) A personalised scorecard of role-based performance measures used to determine an Individual Contribution Factor. Alignment Attract and retain the best Reward year-on-year Encourage sustainable, long-term people based upon the performance achieved in a value creation through equity competitive landscape among balanced and sustainable manner. ownership. relevant peers. Delivery Competitive, market-based fixed Annual cash (75%) Performance Rights with remuneration. Deferred Security Rights with allocation calculated at (Base salary, statutory allocation calculated at Face Face Value superannuation and other Value (25%) 50% 50% benefits) 12.5% 12.5% 3 years 4 years 1 year 2 years 66 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 2.3 Remuneration delivery and mix The Executive KMP remuneration mix is structured so that a substantial portion of remuneration is delivered as Dexus securities through either deferred STI or LTI. The total remuneration opportunity provides for higher remuneration outcomes if outperformance is delivered. The following diagram (which is not to scale) sets out the remuneration structure and delivery timing for Executive KMP. Remuneration delivery STI LTI delivered as Performance Rights Fixed Remuneration (Target is 100% of fixed remuneration and Outperformance is 125% of fixed (150% of fixed remuneration for CEO or 75% remuneration) of fixed remuneration for other Executive KMP) 100% 75% paid in Cash 25% paid as 50% subject to a 3-year 50% subject to a 4-year Security Rights performance period performance period Behavioural gateway applied Unvested Rights subject to forfeitures Base Salary, Superannuation Cash STI 12.5% 12.5% 25% subject 25% subject 25% subject 25% subject and Other Benefits1 deferred deferred to AFFO per to average to AFFO to average Year 1 for 1 year for 2 years security ROCE per security ROCE delivered delivered growth performance growth performance as Security as Security Rights Rights Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 1. Other Benefits comprise wellbeing and insurance arrangements provided to all employees. These benefits do not flow into the STI and LTI calculations. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 67 Remuneration mix The remuneration components for each Executive KMP are expressed as a percentage of total remuneration, with the STI value varied to reflect target performance (100% of target amount) and outperformance (125% of target amount). The following diagram sets out the remuneration mix for Executive KMP. CEO Target 29% 21 % 7% 43% Outperformance 27 % 25% 8% 40% Other Executive KMP Target 36% 27 % 9% 28% Outperformance 33% 31% 10% 26% Fixed Remuneration (Cash) STI (Cash) STI Deferred (Security Rights) Maximum LTI (Performance Rights) 2.4 Dexus Securities Trading Policy The Securities Trading Policy provides guidance to Directors, Employees (including Key Management Personnel), Contractors and Associates for ongoing compliance with legal obligations relating to trading or investing in financial products managed by Dexus. The Policy prohibits employees from trading in financial products while they are in possession of Inside Information (non-public price sensitive information) and hedging their exposure to unvested Dexus Securities. Trading in Dexus Securities or related products is only permitted with the permission of the Chair (for Directors and CEO) or the CEO (for Executive KMP and all other staff). The Group also has Conflict of Interest and Insider Trading policies in place which extend to family members and associates of employees. 2.5 Minimum Security holdings guidelines A minimum Security holding guideline was introduced on 1 July 2018, with all Executive KMP and GMC members targeting to attain the minimum Security holding within five years of this date, or their appointment to GMC. The value is calculated by reference to the 12-month average fixed remuneration for the relevant financial year. For existing Executive KMP and GMC members as at 1 July 2018, the guide is based on fixed remuneration as at 1 July 2018. By 1 July 2023, the CEO is expected to hold equity to the value of 150% of fixed remuneration and other Executive KMP are expected to hold equity to the value of 75% of their fixed remuneration. Minimum Security holdings guidelines are also in place for Non-Executive Directors where they are expected to hold the equivalent of 100% of their base fees in DXS Securities, to be acquired over five years from appointment date (as referenced in Section 7.2 of this report). 2.6 Employee Security Ownership Plan (ESOP) All employees may be eligible to receive up to $1,000 worth of Securities each year for no cash payment under the ESOP. The number of Securities a participant receives is calculated by dividing $1,000 by the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of Dexus Securities ten trading days either side of the grant date. The Securities carry all the same rights as a fully owned Security. The Securities granted under the Plan cannot be sold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of or dealt with for a period of three years after the Grant Date (Restriction Period). Following the expiry of the Restriction Period, participants will be free to sell their Securities (subject to the terms of the Dexus Securities Trading Policy). If a participant ceases to be an employee of Dexus, the restriction will no longer apply, and the Securities may be sold or transferred at the participant’s discretion. 68 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 2.7 Remuneration governance Board Approves and has oversight of Dexus’s Remuneration Policy, NED and Executive KMP remuneration and culture indicators. Risk Committee Advises the PRC of material risk issues, Audit Committee behaviours and/or compliance breaches. Review the calculation of Two joint meetings are held each financial performance measures year with the PRC to review Risk within incentive plans. Culture frameworks, metrics and audit information. People & Remuneration Committee Independent external advisors Members The Board’s independent remuneration Penny Bingham-Hall The Hon. Nicola Roxon advisor, EY, provides market practice Richard Sheppard insights and trends in relation to Executive remuneration approaches. EY did not make Management any remuneration recommendations in FY20. Propose Executive appointments, succession plans, policies, remuneration Any advice provided by EY, or any other structures and remuneration outcomes remuneration consultant, is used as an input to the PRC for review and approval or in making remuneration decisions, and is recommendation to the Board. not a substitute for consideration of relevant issues by each member of the PRC. People & Remuneration Committee (PRC) Meetings The PRC is responsible for developing the remuneration strategy, The PRC is required to meet at least three times per year. framework and policies for NEDs, Executive KMP and the GMC for In FY20 the PRC met fives times to discuss and review Board approval. remuneration, and people and culture related matters. The responsibilities of the PRC are outlined in the PRC’s Terms of Accurate and complete committee papers are provided to all Reference available at www.dexus.com/boardcommittees which PRC members prior to meetings to enable timely, considered is reviewed and approved annually by the Board. The primary and effective decision making. The PRC may request additional accountabilities of the PRC are: information from management or external advisors where required. – Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval Dexus’s Remuneration practices, which covers Executive KMP, Remuneration decision making GMC members and all other Dexus employees When discussing the remuneration strategy, framework and – Reviewing and approving the Group Scorecard, annual outcomes, the PRC seeks input from: performance objectives and KPIs of the CEO and GMC members – Audit Committee – Recommending to the Board for approval CEO and – Risk Committee GMC members’ remuneration and incentive payments – People and Culture team – Reviewing and approving aggregate fixed remuneration changes – Independent external advisors (when required) and annual incentive payments for all Dexus employees For remuneration concerning the Executive KMP, not including – Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the CEO, the CEO’s input was sought to help guide discussions the Code of Conduct and other key policies and provide input on Executive KMP performance throughout – Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the the year. The CEO’s remuneration was considered separately to Diversity Principles, including identification of measurable manage conflicts of interest. objectives for achieving gender diversity and progress towards The PRC uses a range of inputs when assessing Executive KMP those objectives performance and determining remuneration outcomes: – Reviewing and approving processes and information on talent – Financial performance – measured using audited assessments, leadership development and succession planning financial measures – Reviewing processes and metrics for measuring culture and – Management providing detailed examples of how behaviours, including risk culture areas non-financial outcomes have been achieved – Oversee general people and culture practices including the risk of – Demonstrated leadership of the Dexus values and behaviours. gender or other bias in remuneration of Directors, GMC members – External remuneration benchmarking provided by independent and other employees external advisors Members Under certain circumstances, the PRC and Board may adjust The PRC members have experience in remuneration, people, proposed remuneration outcomes for Executive KMP and the GMC, leadership, human resources, risk management and compliance or require a forfeit of unvested Security Rights or Performance Rights which enables effective oversight and governance of Dexus’s (Rights) issued under the Dexus LTI or STI Plans. remuneration framework. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 69 3. FY20 remuneration structure 3.1 Fixed remuneration The Group’s fixed remuneration strategy is to offer market competitive rates to attract and retain top talent. Remuneration levels are set based on role size, complexity, scope and leadership accountability. Dexus is committed to continue adhering to the principle of pay equity, which has progressed gender pay equity across Dexus in like-for-like roles. To determine fixed remuneration levels, Dexus benchmarks externally against A-REIT ASX100 companies, and compare similar roles in organisations with similar market capitalisation. As announced on 5 May 2020, Non-Executive Directors' base fees and the CEO’s base salary were reduced by 15%. Executive KMP, GMC members’ and other executives’ base salaries were reduced by 10% for the period 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020. This measure was taken to assist in absorbing the financial impact of COVID-19 and reverted to prior levels on 1 July 2020. The resulting annual fixed remuneration for Executive KMP in FY20 were as follows: Contract Annual fixed annual fixed remuneration remuneration with reduction1 Executive KMP ($) ($) Darren J Steinberg 1,600,000 1,540,788 Ross G Du Vernet 750,000 731,775 Kevin L George 750,000 731,775 Alison C Harrop 750,000 731,775 Deborah C Coakley 675,000 658,650 1. A 15% reduction over the period 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020 represents a 3.7% reduction in annual fixed remuneration. A 10% reduction over the period 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020 represents a 2.4% reduction in annual fixed remuneration. 3.2 Short-Term Incentive (STI) The STI plan is aligned to Security holder interests by: – Encouraging Executives to achieve year-on-year performance in a balanced and sustainable manner – Mandatory deferral of 25% of each STI award into Security Rights deferred over one and two years, acting as a retention mechanism and providing further alignment with Security holders’ interests 75% Financial 25% Non-Financial Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) Office and funds management financial outcomes (relative measures) $ Customer, culture, environmental sustainability and safety measures Short-Term Incentive (at risk) Cash Equity Annual cash payment (75%) Deferred Security Rights (25%) Subject to behavioural gateway 12.5% 12.5% forfeiture provisions and 1 year 2 years continued employment during the vesting period. Group Result on Financial and Individual Fixed Individual STI Outcome STI Target Nonfinancial Contribution (Capped at 125% of Target) Remuneration performance Factor measures Each Executive KMP is awarded an individual STI outcome between zero and 125% of their target. Individual STI outcomes are based on Group performance and an Individual Contribution Factor, which includes a behavioural gateway. The maximum STI opportunity for Executive KMP is 125% of Fixed Remuneration (outperformance). 70 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report STI plan structure Financial performance measures (75% of Group results) Are distributions paid on unvested Security Rights The financial performance measures have been selected so awarded under the STI plan? the overall focus of Executive KMP is on achieving the financial For the portion of STI deferred as Security Rights, participants hurdles outlined by the annual business plans. AFFO per security are entitled to the benefit of distributions paid on the underlying growth reflects the Group’s overall financial performance and Dexus securities prior to vesting through the issue of additional cash flow. Office and Funds Management financial outcomes Security Rights at the time of vesting. incentivise each business area to achieve market competitive results relative to industry benchmarks. Board discretion to determine outcomes The Board has the discretion to adjust STI outcomes upward or Non-financial performance measures downward, including to zero, where: (25% of Group results) – The STI scorecard outcome does not reflect the actual The non-financial performance measures provide the Board with participant’s performance or conduct, the performance of the a mechanism to enhance the sustainability of annual results and Executive KMP’s business unit or functional unit, or the overall make sure Dexus’s strategic, people and customers goals are Group performance reflected in Executive KMP’s remuneration outcomes. – There have been unintended consequences or outcomes Behavioural gateway (across entire award) as a result of the Executive KMP’s actions, including where In FY20, Dexus introduced a behavioural gateway for Executive the original performance outcomes have not been realised KMP to further align performance with Dexus’s values and following initial assessment expectations of Executive KMP and GMC. The gateway requires – The STI outcomes are materially misaligned with the there is no material financial misstatement, workplace fatality or shareholder experience of Security holders. actions that are not in keeping with the commercial or ethical standards expected by the Board and our stakeholders. If a The Board would typically exercise its discretion in situations participant of the STI plan does not meet this gateway, then the where the combination of performance measures, behavioural individual’s award will automatically be forfeited, regardless of modifier and ICF have not resulted in remuneration outcomes company performance. that reflect actual Group performance or the experience of security holders. The Board can apply its discretion on Group Individual Contribution Factor (ICF) (award multiplier) outcomes or at the individual level. The ICF is a multiplier that applies to the Group results and When are STI awards forfeited? can range between 0% and 125%. At the end of the year, the CEO assesses Executive KMP performance to determine their Forfeiture will occur should the participant’s employment ICF outcome (in the case of the CEO, the Board Chair assesses terminate within six months of the grant date for any reason, or if his performance). the participant voluntarily resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date. STI outcomes are capped at 125% of target STI, even where both Group performance and an individual’s contribution result Security Rights may be reduced or cancelled at the Board’s in exceptional results (i.e., a Group scorecard result of 125% and discretion including in the following circumstances: ICF result of 125% will still result in a final STI outcome of 125%). – Committing an act of fraud The ICF outcome is determined by assessing the performance – Wilful misconduct of the individual in relation to the unique challenges they – Serious or wilful negligence or incompetence faced that year, as well individual performance objectives – Behaving in a way that does not meet the Code of Conduct set at the start of the performance year. These objectives and results in reputational damage to Dexus can include a combination of strategic, people, safety and risk, leadership, governance and financial measures that are – Being convicted of a criminal offence specific to that Executive. – If there has been a material misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts as a consequence of a deliberate How much of the STI award is deferred? misrepresentation or fraud 25% of any award under the STI plan is deferred into rights Notwithstanding the above, if a participant’s employment of Dexus securities. is terminated and they are deemed a “Good Leaver” (i.e., The Security Rights vest in two equal tranches, 1 and 2 in circumstances of retirement, redundancy, death, illness, years after being granted. Security Rights deferred under serious disability or permanent incapacity, or other unforeseen the STI plan are subject to forfeiture and vest based on circumstances), the PRC may recommend the Board exercise continued employment. its discretion to vest some or all of the Security Rights at the The number of Security Rights awarded is based on 25% of the time of termination. awarded STI value divided by the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of Dexus securities 10 trading days either side of the first trading day of the new financial year. The remaining 75% of any award is paid in cash in August following the announcement of the Group’s annual results. Dexus securities are purchased on market to satisfy the deferred Security Rights for the STI plan. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 71 3.3 Long-Term Incentive (LTI) The LTI plan is aligned to Security holders’ interests in the following ways: – Encourages Executives to make sustainable business decisions within the Board-approved strategy of the Group – Aligns the financial interests of Executives participating in the LTI Plan with Security holders’ through exposure to Dexus Securities The two performance conditions under the LTI plan are growth in AFFO per security (implied CAGR)1 and average ROCE2 over both three and four-year periods. These performance conditions are weighted equally, measured distinctly in each tranche, and align the plan outcomes with the commercial long-term performance that is within the Executives’ ability to influence. The Board’s view is that Security holders will be rewarded over time by superior market performance of the Group when Executives meet or exceed the hurdles in place. The outcomes from these performance measures demonstrate decisions made by management to generate revenue and improve earnings and capital management. 50% Adjusted Funds from Operations 50% Average Return on (AFFO) per security growth Contributed Equity (ROCE) Long-Term Incentive (at risk) Equity Performance Rights 50% 50% Subject to behavioural gateway, with allocation calculated 3-year 4-year hurdles, forfeiture, and at Face Value Performance Period Performance Period continued employment during the vesting period 50% AFFO per security Individual LTI Outcome growth performance Fixed LTI Allocation (Capped at 100% of Remuneration allocation) 50% Average ROCE Each Executive KMP is allocated an LTI opportunity subject to performance hurdles. The award may vest between 50% to 100% of the allocation amount based on performance. LTI awards do not vest if performance targets are not met. The maximum LTI opportunity for the CEO is 150% of Fixed Remuneration, and for other Executive KMP is 75% of Fixed Remuneration. 1. The implied compound annual growth rate refers to the nominal growth per annum that is required to achieve the AFFO per security hurdle over the vesting period. 2. The ROCE calculation excludes the impact of stabilised asset revaluations and includes the revaluations of major completed developments. 72 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report LTI performance measures AFFO per security growth is a key measure of growth and is calculated in line with the Property Council of Australia’s (PCA) definition. AFFO comprises net profit/loss after tax attributable to stapled Security holders, calculated in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and adjusted for: property revaluations, impairments, derivative and foreign exchange mark-to-market impacts, fair value movements of interest bearing liabilities, amortisation of tenant incentives, gain/loss on sale of certain assets, straight line rent adjustments, deferred tax expense/benefit, certain transaction costs, one-off significant items, amortisation of intangible assets, movements in right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, rental guarantees and coupon income, less maintenance capital expenditure and lease incentives. This hurdle enables the Board to reward the performance of management having regard to revenue generation (adjusted for maintenance capital expenditure and incentives) using an implied CAGR of the Group’s aggregate AFFO earnings per security. In FY20, Dexus did not achieve AFFO per security growth for the year. Average ROCE represents the annualised average return on contributed equity, calculated as a percentage, comprising AFFO together with the net tangible asset impact from completed developments, divided by the weighted average contributed equity during the period. ROCE is measured as the per annum average at the respective conclusion of the three and four-year vesting periods. This hurdle enables the Board to reward the performance of management having regard to the level of returns generated on Security holder equity through a combination of improving earnings and capital management. NTA impact from completed developments is calculated as the book value on the first statutory reporting period after practical completion, less the book value at commencement less development costs. – Completed developments comprise major developments defined in accordance with Dexus guidelines for capital expenditure which have regard to the quantum of development expenditure, increase in net lettable area, leasing and/or rezoning or change of use. Completed developments exclude trading assets that generate trading profits which are captured in AFFO – During FY20 the following completed developments have been included in the calculation of ROCE: 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, VIC 175 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW (city retail) The Annex, 12 Creek Street, Brisbane, QLD 240 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA ROCE is calculated as follows each year: ROCE = (AFFO + NTA impact from completed developments) / Contributed Equity. The ROCE calculation excludes the impact of stabilised asset revaluations and includes the revaluations of major completed developments. Contributed equity is based on the book value of equity (ie reflected in the balance sheet) and is a weighted average calculation. For FY20, ROCE = ($550.5m + $106.9m) / $7,333.7m = 9.0% Compared to the use of relative measures, the two absolute measures provide greater focus on the fundamentals of Dexus’s business and on the performance of the Executive team in meeting the hurdles set by the Board. AFFO per security growth and ROCE remove the potential favourable or unfavourable impact of Security price volatility, as well as the composition vagaries of listed and unlisted peer groups. AFFO is included in both the STI and LTI plans as it contributes significantly to Security holder returns in both the short-term and long-term. Each year, the Board reviews existing performance measures and their associated vesting schedule to align with Security holder expectations and Dexus’s current Strategy. In FY20, the Board reviewed the measures and resolved to retain the LTI in its current form, as AFFO per security growth and ROCE are critical business metrics which will drive market performance and Security holder returns. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 73 LTI hurdle ranges The Board sets the hurdle range and vesting schedule for LTI performance measures over three and four-year periods. The Board does not reset or change the hurdle range or vesting schedules during the performance period. The Board aligns the hurdle range with the Group’s key operational metrics of maintaining a ‘through the cycle’ AFFO per security growth range of 3% to 5% and ROCE of 7% to 10%. Actual AFFO per security growth and average ROCE performance achieved relative to the hurdles are disclosed retrospectively at the end of the performance period. Dexus does not publish details of the hurdles prior to the testing of the first tranche at the end of the first performance period (year 3) as this would result in the disclosure of commercially sensitive information in connection with the Group’s forecasts. Vesting under both the AFFO per security growth and average ROCE measures are on a sliding scale against performance conditions set by the Board AFFO and ROCE Performance Vesting outcome Hurdle range Below Target Performance Nil vesting Below hurdle range set by Board Hurdle range set between the ‘through the cycle’ ranges of: Target performance 50% vesting – AFFO per security growth 3% to 5% – ROCE 7% to 10% Between Target and Outperformance Straight line vesting Within or above the Outperformance 100% vesting through the cycle hurdle range The Group aims to continually deliver AFFO per security growth and ROCE performance year on year, but fluctuations are to be expected. Factors that may cause fluctuation in AFFO are built into business forecasting and include the development pipeline, leasing assumptions, economic forecasts, management’s actions in applying rent-free periods, incentives and maintenance capital expenditure. LTI plan structure How is the number of Performance Rights determined? The Board would typically exercise its discretion in situations The number of Performance Rights granted is equal to the where performance assessment has not resulted in remuneration participant’s LTI grant value (based on a percentage of fixed outcomes that reflect actual Group performance or the remuneration) divided by the VWAP of Dexus Securities ten experience of Security holders. The Board can apply its trading days either side of the first trading day of the new discretion on Group outcomes or at the individual level. financial year. The methodology calculates grants based on When are LTI awards forfeited? ‘face value’ rather than ‘fair value’. If the performance hurdles are not met, Performance Rights The maximum LTI opportunity at grant is set at 150% of fixed relating to that tranche will be forfeited. There is no retesting of remuneration for the CEO and 75% for other Executive KMP. forfeited Performance Rights. The Board maintains the discretion Do participants receive distributions on unvested to forfeit unvested Performance Rights in the case of significant LTI awards? misconduct or material misstatement of performance. Participants are not entitled to distributions paid on underlying Additionally, forfeiture will occur should the participant’s Dexus Securities during the performance period prior to employment terminate within 12 months of the grant date for any Performance Rights being tested for vesting. reason, or if the participant voluntarily resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date. Board discretion to determine outcomes Notwithstanding the above, if a participant’s employment is The Board has the discretion to adjust LTI outcomes upward or terminated and they are deemed a “Good Leaver” downward, including to zero, where: (i.e. in circumstances of retirement, redundancy, death, illness, serious disability or permanent incapacity, or other unforeseen – The LTI outcome does not reflect the participant’s circumstances), the PRC may recommend the Board exercise its performance or conduct, the performance of the discretion to vest some or all of the Performance Rights at the Executive KMP’s business unit or functional unit, or the time of termination. overall Group performance – There have been unintended consequences or outcomes How is the LTI Plan administered as a result of the Executive KMP’s actions, including where The administration of the LTI plan is supported by the LTI plan rules. the original performance outcomes have not been realised Dexus Securities are purchased on market (for all participants following initial assessment including the CEO) to satisfy the Performance Rights for the LTI – The LTI outcome is materially misaligned with the experience plan. The Board retains the right to amend, suspend or cancel of Security holders the LTI plan at any time. 74 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 4. FY20 performance and remuneration outcomes The following sections outlines Dexus’s performance outcomes and subsequent remuneration outcomes for Executive KMP. 4.1 Group scorecard performance outcomes For the FY20 STI, the Board considered a range of Financial and Non-Financial performance measures and hurdles that, if achieved, would be key indicators of company performance and drivers of Security holder value. The Board set Threshold, Target and Outperformance hurdles at the beginning of the financial year. Financial performance (75%) Category Measurements FY20 result Comments Group performance (50%) – AFFO per security growth – AFFO per security of 50.3 cents, consistent with Threshold: 4.5% 4.9% FY19, and resulting in growth not being achieved Target: 5.0% – 5.4% for the year Outperformance: >5.4% 0% Leadership in office (12.5%) – Dexus’s office portfolio performance – Dexus’s office portfolio outperformed the PCA/MSCI versus external benchmarks over 3 and office benchmark over 3 and 5 years, consistent 5 years 12.5% with target Funds performance (12.5%) – DWPF versus benchmarks over 3 and 5 – Achieved strong performance across all funds with year returns DWPF outperforming its benchmark over 1, 3, 5, 7 and – All other funds outperforming financial 10 years objectives and hurdles – Outperformed 5 of the 6 financial objectives and 15.6% hurdles for other funds Non-financial performance (25%) Category Measurements FY20 result Comments Customer (10%) – Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) – Customer NPS increased to +50 in FY20 (+46 in FY19) 12.5% People & capabilities (10%) – Safety audit score and – Zero fatalities and a safety audit score of 100% across zero fatalities from incidents Dexus’s corporate and management workplaces – Employee NPS – Employee NPS +61 (+40 in FY19) – Implementation of Program One – Program One delivered with only minimal time delays (multi-year technology systems upgrade and additional costs and consolidation project) 10.8% Environment (5%) – Delivery of environmental commitments – Dexus achieved its 2020 NABERS Energy and NABERS Water targets set in 2015 – Dexus accelerated its investment in solar including installations at select retail properties (Willows, Deepwater, Beenleigh) and commenced discussions with industrial tenants for solar installations across Dexus Industrial 5.9% Partnership portfolio Actual Group scorecard outcome 57.3% Key Category Culture Alignment Market competitive Sustainable Simple and to performance transparent Target Partial Threshold FY20 Result Outperformance (full achievement (between Threshold and (minimum achievement Not achieved (above target) against targets) Target achievement) against targets) Dexus 2020 Annual Report 75 4.2 Actions taken in response to COVID-19 The Board recognises the actions taken by Executive KMP throughout FY20 to mitigate the financial impacts of COVID-19 and work towards Dexus’s overall business strategy to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns and contribute towards sustainable, long-term returns. Some of the actions taken by Executive KMP include: – Freezing recruitment and non-essential consultancy spend – Not accessing JobKeeper subsidies – Providing rent relief to support valued small and medium enterprise customers – Developing detailed COVIDsafe plans for all our property assets and assisting customers to safely return to work – Maintaining a strong operational and sustainability position during crisis management – Temporary reductions in Executive KMP, GMC members' and other executives' base salaries 4.3 FY20 STI remuneration outcomes The PRC reviewed FY20 STI outcomes against company performance, including the unprecedented circumstances created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The actual Group scorecard outcome was 57.3% of target. The PRC deemed these results consistent with the objectives of the STI and recommended to the Board that the final Group scorecard outcome be 57%, which was subsequently approved. There was no discretion applied to the result either upward or downward. Additionally, the Executive KMPs’ Individual Contribution Factors ranged from 120% to 125% and were determined with reference to each Executive KMP’s personalised scorecard of performance measures and leadership contribution during FY20. This resulted in the Board awarding the CEO 57% of the maximum STI in FY20. For other Executive KMP, the STI awards ranged from 54% to 57% of maximum STI. These outcomes reflect the challenging business conditions Dexus faced in the last quarter of the year and are approximately 40% lower than STI awards received in FY19. The STI awards made to each Executive KMP with respect to their performance during the year ended 30 June 2020 are provided below. The 75% cash component will be paid in August 2020 following the approval of the statutory accounts and announcement of the Group’s annual results. This payment will form a part of the FY21 cash earnings for Executive KMP. STI target STI max % of % of % of % of % of fixed % of fixed STI award target maximum STI maximum STI STI award Executive KMP remuneration remuneration ($) STI awarded awarded forfeited deferred Darren J Steinberg 100% 125% $1,140,000 71.3% 57.0% 43.0% 25% Ross G Du Vernet 100% 125% $534,375 71.3% 57.0% 43.0% 25% Kevin L George 100% 125% $513,000 68.4% 54.7% 45.3% 25% Alison C Harrop 100% 125% $513,000 68.4% 54.7% 45.3% 25% Deborah C Coakley 100% 125% $480,938 71.3% 57.0% 43.0% 25% Deferred STI The number of Security Rights granted to Executive KMP is determined by dividing the Deferred STI value by the VWAP of Dexus Securities ten trading days either side of the first trading day of the new new financial year, which was $9.6478. The below details the number of Security Rights granted to Executive KMP on 1 July 2020 under the Deferred STI plan. Dexus Securities relating to Deferred STI are purchased on-market in accordance with ASX Listing Rule 10.15B and are held by the Dexus Performance Rights Plan Trust until required. Number of Value of Security deferred STI Rights 1st vesting 2nd vesting Executive KMP $ granted date 50% date 50% Darren J Steinberg $285,000 29,540 Ross G Du Vernet $133,593 13,847 Kevin L George $128,250 13,293 1 July 2021 1 July 2022 Alison C Harrop $128,250 13,293 Deborah C Coakley $120,234 12,462 76 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 4.4 LTI awards which vested during FY20 AFFO per security growth and ROCE were established as the performance measures in 2016, simplifying the LTI plan and providing greater alignment with the business strategy and the metrics that drive long-term company performance. Prior grants had four performance measures including two relative measures (TSR and ROE). The Group compared itself to companies within the following indices: – Relative TSR – S&P/ASX200 A-REIT Index – Relative ROE – Mercer IPD Core Wholesale Property Fund Index The second tranche of the 2015 LTI plan and the first tranche of the 2016 LTI plan vested for participating Executive KMP on 1 July 2019. The vesting outcomes of 100% and 100% respectively was determined by the Board, referencing the previously approved hurdle ranges. Results of each performance measure for the second tranche of the 2015 LTI Plan: Performance measure Weighting Hurdle range Group result Vesting outcome FFO growth 1 25% 3.0% to 5.0% 5.7% 100% Average ROE 2 25% 9.0% to 10.0% 17.1% 100% Relative TSR3 25% Median to 75th percentile 3rd out of 16 100% Relative ROE4 25% Median to 75th percentile 2nd out of 16 100% Overall result due to weighting 100% Results of each performance measures for the first tranche of the 2016 LTI Plan: Performance measure Weighting Hurdle range Group result Vesting outcome AFFO per security growth 5 50% 3.5% to 4.5% 5.6% 100% Average ROCE6 50% 7.5% to 8.0% 8.5% 100% Overall result due to weighting 100% 1. FFO growth was measured on a linear scale for testing, with a 3.0% CAGR set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and 5.0% set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s FFO growth result over the four-year performance period was 5.7%, resulting in full vesting from this performance measure. 2. Average ROE was measured on a linear scale for testing, with a 9.0% simple ROE average set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and 10.0% set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s average ROE result was 17.1% over the four-year performance period, resulting in full vesting from this performance measure. 3. Relative TSR was measured with reference to the TSR percentile rank of Dexus against a comparator group of the S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT Index. A median rank was set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and a 75th percentile or better rank was set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s relative TSR rank of 3 out of 16 listed A-REIT peers over the four-year performance period resulted in full vesting from this performance measure. 4. Relative ROE was measured with reference to the average ROE result achieved by Dexus against a comparator group comprising the members of the Mercer IPD Core Wholesale Property Fund Index. A median rank was set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and a 75th percentile or better rank was set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s relative ROE ranked of 2 out of 16 unlisted property peers over the four-year performance period, resulting in full vesting from this performance measure. 5. AFFO growth was measured on a linear scale for testing, with a 3.5% CAGR set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and 4.5% set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s AFFO growth result over the four-year period was 5.6%, resulting in full vesting from this performance measure. 6. Average ROCE was measured on a linear scale for testing, with a 7.5% ROCE average set as the target hurdle (where 50% would vest) and 8.0% set as the outperformance hurdle (where 100% would vest). Dexus’s ROCE growth result over the four-year period was 8.5%, resulting in full vesting from this performance measure. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 77 4.5 LTI awards which will vest in FY21 On 1 July 2020, the second tranche of the 2016 LTI plan and the first tranche of the 2017 LTI plan was eligible for vesting for participating Executive KMP. The vesting outcome was determined by the Board, referencing the previously approved hurdle ranges set and communicated to participants upon the original grant dates of 1 July 2016 and 1 July 2017 respectively. Vesting outcomes for these tranches were only minimally impacted by COVID-19 (i.e., as approximately three months were affected out of a three and four-year performance period). We expect to see lower vesting results for future LTI tranches where the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic encompasses a greater proportion of the performance period. Results of each performance measure within tranche 2 of the 2016 LTI plan: Performance measure Weighting Hurdle range Group result Vesting outcome AFFO per security growth 50% 3.5% – 4.5% 5.1% 100% Average ROCE 50% 7.5% – 8.0% 8.6% 100% Overall result due to weighting 100% Results of each performance measure within tranche 1 of the 2017 LTI plan: Performance measure Weighting Hurdle range Group result Vesting outcome AFFO per security growth 50% 3.0% – 4.0% 4.3% 100% Average ROCE 50% 7.5% – 8.0% 8.9% 100% Overall result due to weighting 100% Further details of these vesting tranches will be provided in the FY21 Remuneration Report. 4.6 Actual remuneration based on performance and service through FY20 The actual remuneration awarded during the year comprises the following elements: – Cash salary including any salary sacrifice arrangements. As noted earlier in the report, the CEO base salary was reduced by 15% and Executive KMP, GMC members’ and other executives’ base salaries were reduced by 10% for the period 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020 – Superannuation benefits – Other short-term benefits comprised of the wellbeing allowance and insurance arrangements provided to all employees – STI cash payment to be made in August 2020 in recognition of performance during FY20 (noting that 25% of the award is deferred and will be reported in future years) – The value of the deferred STI from prior years that vested on 1 July 2020 (being the number of Security Rights that vested multiplied by the VWAP for the five days prior to the vesting date) – The value of Performance Rights that vested in relation to the LTI on 1 July 2020 (being the number of Performance Rights that vested multiplied by the VWAP for the five days prior to the vesting date) These values differ from the Executive statutory remuneration table which has been prepared in accordance with statutory requirements and accounting standards. SuperOther Deferred annuation short-term STI cash STI LTI Cash salary benefits benefits payment vested vested Total Executive ($) ($) ($) ($) ($) ($) ($) Darren J Steinberg 1,519,785 21,003 6,132 855,000 439,249 1,901,473 4,742,642 Ross G Du Vernet 710,772 21,003 2,512 400,781 193,323 398,118 1,726,509 Kevin L George 710,772 21,003 5,342 384,750 177,938 410,799 1,710,604 Alison C Harrop 710,772 21,003 5,807 384,750 171,748 359,991 1,654,701 Deborah C Coakley 637,647 21,003 2,503 360,703 153,003 337,209 1,512,068 78 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 4.7 Statutory remuneration The total remuneration paid to Executive KMP for FY20 and FY19 is calculated in accordance with AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures. Amounts shown under Long-term benefits reflect the accounting expense recorded during the year with respect to prior year deferred remuneration and awards that have or are yet to vest. Security-based Short term benefits Long term benefits benefits Long Annual Other Superservice Deferred Executive Cash STI cash leave short-term annuation Termination leave STI plan LTI plan KMP Year salary award entitlement benefits benefits benefits movement accrual accrual Total Darren J FY20 1,519,785 855,000 6,367 6,132 21,003 40,480 420,478 1,402,755 4,272,000 Steinberg FY19 1,579,468 1,500,000 -18,265 5,075 20,532 35,113 552,092 2,472,707 6,146,722 Ross G FY20 710,772 400,781 -14,034 2,512 21,003 18,444 193,005 318,192 1,650,675 Du Vernet FY19 729,468 703,125 10,417 2,181 20,532 19,035 241,128 538,160 2,264,046 Kevin L FY20 710,772 384,750 19,688 5,342 21,003 16,483 178,021 320,130 1,656,189 George FY19 729,468 618,750 11,055 4,440 20,532 16,344 224,948 553,614 2,179,151 Alison C FY20 710,772 384,750 -51 5,807 21,003 33,305 174,259 304,773 1,634,618 Harrop FY19 704,468 598,125 12,326 5,411 20,532 214,195 491,636 2,046,693 Deborah C FY20 637,647 360,703 -7,826 2,503 21,003 17,743 160,902 275,082 1,467,757 Coakley FY19 579,468 562,500 17,770 2,301 20,532 11,722 190,497 438,630 1,823,420 Total FY20 4,289,750 2,385,984 4,144 22,296 105,015 126,455 1,126,665 2,620,932 10,681,241 FY19 4,322,340 3,982,500 33,303 19,408 102,660 82,214 1,422,860 4,494,747 14,460,032 1. The accounting value of leave movements may be negative; for example, where an Executive’s annual leave balance decreases as a result of taking more than the 20 days’ annual leave they accrue during the current year. Long service leave accrues from five years of service and the accrual may seem high in the first year. 4.8 Historical performance outcomes The following tables and graph outlines Dexus’s historical financial performance. These results flow into the Group scorecard outcomes for the STI, as well as LTI vesting results. Five-year financial performance FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 Funds From Operations (FFO) ($m) 730.2 681.5 653.3 617.7 610.8 Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) ($m) 550.5 517.2 485.5 439.7 413.9 Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) ($m) 983.0 1,281.0 1,728.9 1,264.2 1,259.8 AFFO per security (cents) 50.3 50.3 47.7 45.4 42.7 AFFO per security growth (%) 5.5 5.1 6.3 5.7 Distribution per Security (DPS) (cents) 50.3 50.2 47.8 45.47 43.51 Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 8.4 13.9 19.8 18.2 19.3 Return on Contributed Equity (ROCE) (%) 9.0 10.1 7.6 7.6 n/a Closing Dexus Security price ($) 9.20 12.98 9.71 9.48 9.02 NTA per Security ($) 10.86 10.48 9.64 8.45 7.53 Total Security holder return (TSR) 1 Year 3 Years* 5 Years* 10 Years* Dexus -25.7% p.a. 3.7% p.a. 9.8% p.a. 12.9% p.a. S&P/ASX 200 Property Accumulation Index -21.3% p.a. 2.0% p.a. 4.4% p.a. 9.2% p.a. Source: UBS Australia at 30 June 2020. *Annual compound returns. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 79 Relative TSR since listing in 2004 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 04 05 ar 6 06 07 08 ar 9 09 10 11 ar 12 13 14 ar 15 16 17 ar 18 19 20 0 Se 0 Se Ju 12 ec Se Ju 15 ec Se Ju 18 ec Se Se p Jun ec p Jun ec p n M p n 31 p n M p 30 31 31 31 31 30 31 M 31 31 -J 30 30 M D 30 30 M D 30 30 D 30 30 D 30 30 29 D 30 un Dexus S&P/ASX 200 S&P/ASX 200 Total Property Accumulation Return Accumulation Index Index 4.9 Future LTI grants with respect to FY20 (2020 LTI grant) The number of Performance Rights to be granted to Executive KMP is determined by dividing the LTI grant value by the VWAP of Dexus Securities 10 trading days either side of the first trading day of the new financial year, which was $9.6478. The minimum value of the LTI grant is nil if the performance measures are not met. The maximum value is based on the estimated fair value calculated at the time of the LTI grant and amortised in accordance with the accounting standard requirements. The below details the number of Performance Rights to be granted to Executive KMP on 1 July 2020 under the LTI plan, noting the CEO grant is subject to Security holder vote at the 2020 AGM. Dexus Securities relating to LTI grants are purchased on-market in accordance with ASX Listing Rule 10.15B and are held by the Dexus Performance Rights Plan Trust until required. The performance hurdles for the 2020 LTI grant will be set by the Board as referred in section 5.1 of this report. Grant value Number of VWAP Fair Value as a % Performance Value per per Maximum of fixed Performance Rights Performance Performance total value 1st vesting 2nd vesting Executive KMP remuneration measure granted right right $1 of grant $2 date 50% date 50% Darren J Steinberg 150% AFFO 124,381 $9.65 $7.88 979,500 ROCE 124,381 $9.65 $7.88 979,500 Ross G Du Vernet 75% AFFO 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 ROCE 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 Kevin L George 75% AFFO 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 1 July 2023 1 July 2024 ROCE 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 Alison C Harrop 75% AFFO 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 ROCE 29,151 $9.65 $7.88 229,564 Deborah C Coakley 75% AFFO 28,180 $9.65 $7.88 221,918 ROCE 28,180 $9.65 $7.88 221,918 1. Fair value for the LTI reflects the valuation of Tranche 1 ($8.07) and Tranche 2 ($7.68). Valuations were provided by EY under the Black-Scholes Analytic model. 2. The maximum total value of the grant reflects the numbers of Performance Rights granted multiplied by the fair value per Right. 80 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 5. Approach to FY21 remuneration In FY20, the PRC reviewed the appropriateness of the CEO and GMC remuneration structure given the forecasted economic environment in FY21 and in years following. The review included assessing: – Fixed remuneration levels – STI and LTI opportunity levels – STI and LTI structures, including mix of cash and equity, use of deferral – KPI hurdle setting, including stretch goals The PRC reviewed each remuneration element, particularly the incentive plans, with the goal to: – Align Executive performance: Allow Executives to receive timely signals on performance and conduct that is in the long-term interests of the company. The PRC also wants remuneration outcomes to reflect Dexus’s year-on-year performance. – Avoid unintended consequences: Avoid a situation where Executives could receive windfall gains or, conversely, have an unachievable performance hurdle in place The review concluded that despite the disruption to the business cycle heading into FY21, Dexus will be maintaining the Group’s ‘through-the-cycle’ approach to remuneration, with minimal changes in FY21. These changes were approved by the Board and are outlined below. 5.1. Executive KMP remuneration Following temporary reductions in FY20, fixed remuneration reverted to prior levels on 1 July 2020. Fixed There will be no changes to fixed remuneration for FY21, apart from the EGM, Funds Management who will Remuneration receive a 7.4% ($50,000) increase to her fixed remuneration to account for the expanded remit of her role. The purpose of the STI is to reward for performance against annual objectives and KPIs. For FY21 only, the STI performance hurdles are reflective of forecast market conditions as of the start of the performance year and then will be reviewed by the Board mid-year. The intent of this approach is to: – Avoid a situation where Executive KMP receive windfall gains as a result of performance hurdles which were appropriate at the start of FY21, but the market recovers sooner than expected STI – Avoid a situation where an unachievable target (within the context of further macro-economic challenges and government intervention) is in place – Support the creation of long-term value for Security holders The approach will provide Executive KMP with the right signals on performance and conduct expectations and will help protect the long-term interests of Dexus’s employees, Security holders and stakeholders. Group scorecard weightings will not change in FY21 (75% financial and 25% non-financial). Specific performance measures and their hurdles will be disclosed in the FY21 Remuneration Report. The purpose of the LTI is to align Executive KMP performance expectations with the long-term business strategy to drive sustained earnings and Security holder returns. As of the release of this report, the Board has not confirmed the LTI ranges for the 2020 grant. Given the unique and unprecedented circumstances created by the COVID-19 crisis, the Board is reviewing the LTI performance hurdle ranges with the principle of aiming for the creation of long-term investor value. LTI ‘AFFO per security growth’ and ‘Average ROCE’ will continue to be the hurdles for the 2020 LTI grant, consistent with prior years. These hurdles provide alignment between the creation of shareholder value and rewarding financial performance by Dexus’s Executive KMP. It is expected that the Board will endorse a strategy to broaden the LTI performance ranges to account for significantly impacted economic conditions. However, this approach will include the reduction of vesting outcomes in circumstances where targets have been lowered outside the ‘through the cycle’ ranges of 3%–5% for AFFO growth and 7%–10% for average ROCE. 5.2. NED fees NED fees have not increased and the NED remuneration pool will remain unchanged in FY21. Following a temporary 15% remuneration reduction in NED base fees for the period 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020, NED base fees reverted to prior levels on 1 July 2020. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 81 6. Terms of Executive KMP service agreements Executive KMP service agreements detail the individual terms and conditions of employment applying to Executive KMP. The quantum and structure of remuneration arrangements are detailed elsewhere in this report, with the termination scenarios and other key employment terms detailed below. CEO Other Executive KMP An ongoing Executive Service Agreement. An ongoing Executive Service Employment agreement Agreement or individual contract. Resignation by the Executive Resignation by Mr Steinberg requires Resignation by other Executive KMP a six-month notice period. The Group requires a three-month notice period. may choose to place Mr Steinberg on The Group may choose to place the leave or make a payment in lieu of Executive on leave or make a payment in notice at the Board’s discretion. lieu of notice at the Board’s discretion. All unvested STI and LTI awards All unvested STI and LTI awards are forfeited. are forfeited. In the case of resignation, through mutual agreement (e.g. retirement), the Board has the ability to treat the Executive KMP as a ‘Good Leaver’, which may result in the Executive KMP retaining same or all of the unvested deferred STI or LTI Rights. Termination by the Group If the Group terminates an Executive KMP without cause, they are entitled without cause to a combined maximum notice and severance payment of 12 months’ fixed remuneration. The Board may (in its absolute discretion) also approve a pro-rata STI payment. Depending on the circumstances, the Board has the ability to treat the Executive as a ‘Good Leaver’, which may result in the Executive retaining some or all of the unvested deferred STI or LTI Rights. Termination by the Group with cause No notice or severance is payable. Other contractual provisions All Executive KMP service agreements include standard clauses covering intellectual and restrictions property, confidentiality, moral rights and disclosure obligations. 82 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 7. Non-Executive Directors’ (NED) remuneration NED fees are reviewed annually by the Committee using information from a variety of sources, including: – Publicly available remuneration data from ASX listed companies with similar market capitalisation and complexity – Publicly available remuneration data from ASX 100 A-REITs – Information supplied by external remuneration advisors, including EY Other than the Chair, who receives a single base fee, NEDs receive a base fee plus additional fees for membership of Board Committees. NEDs do not participate in incentive plans or receive any retirement benefits other than statutory superannuation contributions. 7.1 Fee structure The Board fee structure (inclusive of statutory superannuation contributions) for FY19 and FY20 is provided below. Chair Member Committee Year ($) ($) NED base fees (DXFM)1 FY20 – policy 450,000 175,000 FY202 – actual 4 33,9 13 167,007 FY19 400,000 170,000 Board Risk Committee FY20 35,000 17,500 FY19 30,000 15,000 Board Audit Committee FY20 35,000 17,500 FY19 30,000 15,000 Board Nomination Committee3 FY20 N/A N/A FY19 15,000 7,500 Board People & Remuneration Committee FY20 35,000 17,500 FY19 30,000 15,000 Board Environmental, Social & Governance FY20 35,000 17,500 FY19 N/A N/A DWPL Board FY20 N/A 35,000 FY19 N/A 30,000 1. The Board Chair receives a single fee for service, including service on Board Committees. 2. These base fees include a temporary 15% reduction in fees from 1 April 2020 to 30 June 2020 (representing a 3.75% reduction in total annual base fees excluding superannuation). 3. No fees applied to the Board Nomination Committee in FY20. Total fees paid to NEDs for the year ended 30 June 2020 remained within the aggregate fee pool of $2,500,000 per annum, which was approved by Security holders at the AGM in October 2017. 7.2 Security holding requirement From FY20 onwards, NEDs are expected to hold the equivalent of 100% of their base fees in DXS Securities, to be acquired over five years from appointment date. To further facilitate NEDs’ ability to acquire Dexus equity, a fee sacrifice program was introduced in FY20. The plan allows NEDs to sacrifice a percentage of their pre-tax base fees in return for a grant of Rights to the equivalent value. The minimum percentage a NED can sacrifice is 20% of base fees up to a maximum of 100%. The number of Rights allocated is calculated based on the VWAP of Securities over the first five trading days of the Trading Window immediately following the release of full-year results. Rights vest in two equal tranches over the subsequent six-month and 12-month period. Securities held by NEDs are subject to the Group’s Security and insider trading policies. No additional remuneration is provided to NEDs to purchase these Securities. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 83 7.3 Security movements Number of Number of Securities held at Securities held at Meets minimum NED KMP 1 July 2019 Movement 30 June 2020 requirement W Richard Sheppard 71,329 16,690 88,019 Yes Patrick Allaway 20,000 20,000 Yes Penny Bingham-Hall 17,773 15,000 32,773 Yes John C Conde AO 17,906 Nil 17,906 Yes Tonianne Dwyer 1 16,667 Nil 16,667 No Mark H Ford2 1,667 8,333 10,000 N/A Nicola Roxon3 – 6,369 6,369 N/A Peter St George 18,573 Nil 18,573 Yes 1. Tonianne Dwyer had met the Security holding requirement during FY20, however, with the decrease in the DXS Security price, is currently under the requirement. 2. Mark H Ford was appointed in FY17 and has additional time to reach the requirement. 3. Nicola Roxon was appointed in FY18 and has additional time to reach the requirement. 7.4 Actual remuneration This summary of the actual cash and benefits received by each NED for the year ended 30 June 2020 is prepared in accordance with AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures. Post-employment Short term benefits Other benefits1 (superannuation) long-term Total NED KMP Year ($) ($) benefits ($) W Richard Sheppard FY20 412,910 21,003 – 433,913 FY19 379,468 20,532 – 400,000 Patrick Allaway2 FY20 60,597 6,326 – 66,923 FY19 – – – – Penny Bingham-Hall3 FY20 214,115 9,977 – 224,092 FY19 204,531 19,304 – 223,835 John C Conde AO FY20 202,911 19,846 – 222,757 FY19 203,196 19,304 – 222,500 Tonianne Dwyer FY20 237,219 21,003 – 258,222 FY19 226,182 20,532 – 246,714 Mark H Ford FY20 200,744 19,484 – 220,228 FY19 184,287 17,352 – 201,639 Nicola Roxon 4 FY20 206,297 13,158 – 219,455 FY19 183,513 17,352 – 200,865 Peter St George FY20 201,769 19,737 – 221,506 FY19 196,347 18,653 – 215,000 Total FY20 1,736,562 130,534 – 1,867,096 FY19 1,577,524 133,029 – 1,710,553 1. Includes Director fees and insurance contributions. 2. Patrick Allaway joined the Board on 1 February 2020. 3. Penny Bingham-Hall received a superannuation guarantee exemption in FY20. 4. Nicola Roxon’s FY20 short term benefits include a salary sacrifice amount under the NED fee sacrifice program. 84 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report 8. Additional disclosures 8.1 Deferred STI and LTI awards which vested during FY20 The summary below outlines the number of Rights which vested under the Deferred STI and LTI plans during FY20. The vesting date for all Rights was 1 July 2019. No Rights lapsed during FY20. Number of Rights Market value at Executive KMP Plan name Grant date Tranche which vested vesting1 ($) 1/07/2017 2 24,273 324,878 Deferred STI 1/07/2018 1 24,193 323,807 Darren Steinberg 1/07/2015 2 101,690 1,361,051 LTI 1/07/2016 1 98,466 1,317,900 1/07/2017 2 10,136 135,663 Deferred STI 1/07/2018 1 10,124 135,503 Ross Du Vernet 1/07/2015 2 18,643 249,524 LTI 1/07/2016 1 19,693 263,577 1/07/2017 2 10,136 135,663 Deferred STI 1/07/2018 1 9,664 129,346 Kevin L George 1/07/2015 2 21,693 290,346 LTI 1/07/2016 1 21,006 281,151 1/07/2017 2 9,052 121,155 Deferred STI 1/07/2018 1 9,319 124,728 Alison C Harrop 1/07/2015 2 11,186 149,717 LTI 1/07/2016 1 18,052 241,614 1/07/2017 2 7,930 106,138 Deferred STI 1/07/2018 1 7,938 106,245 Deborah C Coakley 1/07/2015 2 9,661 129,306 LTI 1/07/2016 1 17,232 230,639 1. Market value at vesting is the VWAP of DXS Securities for the five-day period before the vesting date. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 85 8.2 Executive KMP unvested Rights outstanding The table below shows the number of unvested Rights held by Executive KMP as at 30 June 2020 under the Deferred STI and LTI plans. The STI and LTI awards in respect of which the elements below are deferred elements were disclosed in prior year Remuneration Reports. Number of unvested Executive KMP Plan name Grant date Vesting date Tranche Rights outstanding 1/07/2018 1/07/2020 2 23,285 Deferred STI 1/07/2019 1/07/2020 1 18,552 1/07/2019 1/07/2021 2 18,551 1/07/2016 1/07/2020 2 98,466 1/07/2017 1/07/2020 1 98,426 Darren Steinberg 1/07/2017 1/07/2021 2 98,426 LTI 1/07/2018 1/07/2021 1 121,487 1/07/2018 1/07/2022 2 121,487 1/07/2019 1/07/2022 1 89,047 1/07/2019 1/07/2023 2 89,047 1/07/2018 1/07/2020 2 9,744 Deferred STI 1/07/2019 1/07/2020 1 8,696 1/07/2019 1/07/2021 2 8,696 1/07/2016 1/07/2020 2 19,693 1/07/2017 1/07/2020 1 21,531 Ross Du Vernet 1/07/2017 1/07/2021 2 21,530 LTI 1/07/2018 1/07/2021 1 28,474 1/07/2018 1/07/2022 2 28,473 1/07/2019 1/07/2022 1 20,870 1/07/2019 1/07/2023 2 20,870 1/07/2018 1/07/2020 2 9,301 Deferred STI 1/07/2019 1/07/2020 1 7,653 1/07/2019 1/07/2021 2 7,652 1/07/2016 1/07/2020 2 21,006 1/07/2017 1/07/2020 1 21,531 Kevin L George 1/07/2017 1/07/2021 2 21,530 LTI 1/07/2018 1/07/2021 1 28,474 1/07/2018 1/07/2022 2 28,473 1/07/2019 1/07/2022 1 20,870 1/07/2019 1/07/2023 2 20,870 1/07/2018 1/07/2020 2 8,969 Deferred STI 1/07/2019 1/07/2020 1 7,397 1/07/2019 1/07/2021 2 7,397 1/07/2016 1/07/2020 2 18,052 1/07/2017 1/07/2020 1 19,224 Alison C Harrop 1/07/2017 1/07/2021 2 19,224 LTI 1/07/2018 1/07/2021 1 27,524 1/07/2018 1/07/2022 2 27,524 1/07/2019 1/07/2022 1 20,870 1/07/2019 1/07/2023 2 20,870 86 Directors’ Report – Remuneration Report Number of unvested Executive KMP Plan name Grant date Vesting date Tranche Rights outstanding Deborah C Coakley 1/07/2018 1/07/2020 2 7,640 Deferred STI 1/07/2019 1/07/2020 1 6,957 1/07/2019 1/07/2021 2 6,956 1/07/2016 1/07/2020 2 17,231 1/07/2017 1/07/2020 1 17,686 1/07/2017 1/07/2021 2 17,686 LTI 1/07/2018 1/07/2021 1 22,779 1/07/2018 1/07/2022 2 22,778 1/07/2019 1/07/2022 1 18,783 1/07/2019 1/07/2023 2 18,783 8.3 Equity Investments Held at 1 July 2019 Net change Held at 30 June 2020 Market value as at Minimum 30 June Security Deferred Total Deferred Total Deferred Total 20202 holding3 Securities STI Balance1 Securities STI Balance1 Securities STI Balance1 $ $ Darren J 500,000 69,126 569,126 248,622 -8,738 239,884 748,622 60,388 809,010 7,812,967 2,400,000 Steinberg Ross G 102,505 28,908 131,413 -18,904 -1,772 -20,676 83,601 27,136 110,737 1,069,436 562,500 Du Vernet Kevin L 63,113 28,022 91,135 62,499 -3,416 59,083 125,612 24,606 150,218 1,450,722 562,500 George Alison C 5,836 26,348 32,184 47,609 -2,585 45,024 53,445 23,763 77,208 745,632 543,750 Harrop Deborah C 23,627 22,649 46,276 27,761 -1,096 26,665 51,388 21,553 72,941 704,423 450,000 Coakley 1. The following Securities are included in the balance for the purpose of the guideline (1) Any DXS Securities that the Executive or their related person or entity hold (e.g. Family Trust), (2) Securities that the Executive acquires on vesting of awards granted under Dexus’s equity incentive plans; and (3) Unvested equity granted that the Executive holds under Dexus’s equity incentive plans which are not subject to performance hurdles (e.g., deferred short-term incentives). 2. Market value as at 30 June 2020 is the VWAP of DXS Securities for the five-day period up to and including 30 June 2020 ($9.6574). 3. A minimum Security holding guideline was introduced on 1 July 2018, with all Executive KMP expected to attain the minimum Security holding by 1 July 2023. The Security holding value is calculated by reference to the 12-month average fixed remuneration for the relevant financial year. For existing Executive KMP as at 1 July 2018, the guide is based on fixed remuneration as at 1 July 2018. 8.4 Other Transactions There were no transactions involving an equity instrument (other than share based payment compensation) to KMP or related parties. 8.5 Loans No loans were provided to KMP or related parties. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 87 Directors’ Report The Directors of Dexus Funds Management Limited (DXFM) as Responsible Entity of Dexus Diversified Trust (DDF or the Trust) present their Directors’ Report together with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2020. The Consolidated Financial Statements represents DDF and its consolidated entities, Dexus (DXS or the Group). The Trust together with Dexus Industrial Trust (DIT), Dexus Office Trust (DOT) and Dexus Operations Trust (DXO) form the Dexus stapled security. Directors and Secretaries Directors The following persons were Directors of DXFM at all times during the year and to the date of this Directors’ Report, unless otherwise stated: Directors Appointed W Richard Sheppard, BEc (Hons), FAICD 1 January 2012 Patrick N J Allaway, BA/LLB 1 February 2020 Penny Bingham-Hall, BA (Industrial Design), FAICD, SF (Fin) 10 June 2014 John C Conde, AO, BSc, BE (Hons), MBA, FAICD 29 April 2009 Tonianne Dwyer, BJuris (Hons), LLB (Hons) 24 August 2011 Mark H Ford, Dip. Tech (Commerce), CA, FAICD 1 November 2016 The Hon. Nicola L Roxon, BA/LLB (Hons), GAICD 1 September 2017 Darren J Steinberg, BEc, FRICS, FAPI, FAICD 1 March 2012 Peter B St George, CA (SA), MBA 29 April 2009 Company Secretaries The names and details of the Company Secretaries of DXFM as at 30 June 2020 are as follows: Brett D Cameron LLB/BA (Science and Technology), GAICD, FGIA Appointed: 31 October 2014 Brett is the General Counsel and a Company Secretary of Dexus companies and is responsible for the legal function, company secretarial services and compliance, risk and governance systems and practices across the Group. Prior to joining Dexus, Brett was Head of Legal for Macquarie Real Estate (Asia) and has held senior legal positions at Macquarie Capital Funds in Hong Kong and Minter Ellison in Sydney and Hong Kong. Brett has 23 years’ experience as in-house counsel and in private practice in Australia and in Asia, where he worked on real estate structuring and operations, funds management, mergers and acquisitions, private equity and corporate finance across a number of industries. Brett graduated from The University of New South Wales and holds a Bachelor of Laws and a Bachelor of Arts (Science and Technology) and is a member of the Law Societies of New South Wales and Hong Kong. Brett is also a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and a Fellow of the Governance Institute of Australia. Scott Mahony BBus(Acc), Grad Dip (Business Administration), MBA (eCommerce), Grad Dip (Applied Corporate Governance) FGIA, FCIS Appointed: 5 February 2019 Scott is the Head of Governance of Dexus and is responsible for the development, implementation and oversight of Dexus’s governance policies and practices. Prior to being appointed the Head of Governance in 2018, Scott had oversight of Dexus’s risk and compliance programs. Scott joined Dexus in October 2005 after two years with Commonwealth Bank of Australia as a Senior Compliance Manager. Prior to this, Scott worked for over 11 years for Assure Services & Technology (part of AXA Asia Pacific) where he held various management roles. 88 Directors’ Report Attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and Board Committee Meetings The number of Directors’ meetings held during the year and each Director’s attendance at those meetings is set out in the table below. The Directors met 12 times during the year. Nine board meetings were main meetings and three meetings were held to consider specific business. Main meetings Main meetings Specific meetings Specific meetings held attended held attended W Richard Sheppard 9 9 3 3 Patrick N J Allaway 1 5 5 2 2 Penny Bingham-Hall 9 9 3 3 John C Conde, AO 9 9 3 3 Tonianne Dwyer 9 9 3 3 Mark H Ford 9 9 3 2 The Hon. Nicola L Roxon 9 9 3 3 Darren J Steinberg 9 9 3 3 Peter B St George 9 9 3 3 1. Patrick Allaway commenced his directorship on 1 February 2020. Special meetings are held at a time to enable the maximum number of Directors to attend and are generally held to consider specific items that cannot be held over to the next scheduled main meeting. The table below shows Non-Executive Directors’ attendances at Board Committee meetings of which they were a member during the year ended 30 June 2020. Board Environmental, Board Board People and Social and Joint Board Audit Board Risk Nomination Remuneration Governance “Organisational Committee Committee Committee 3 Committee Committee 4 Risk” Session Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W Richard Sheppard – – – – 3 3 7 7 – – 2 2 Patrick N J Allaway 1 – – – – 1 1 – – – – 1 1 Penny Bingham-Hall 2 – – 1 1 3 3 7 7 3 3 2 2 John C Conde, AO 4 4 – – 3 3 – – – – 2 2 Tonianne Dwyer 4 4 4 4 3 3 – – – – 2 2 Mark H Ford 4 4 4 4 3 3 – – 3 3 2 2 The Hon. Nicola L Roxon 2 – – 1 1 3 3 7 7 3 3 2 2 Peter B St George 4 4 4 4 3 3 – – – – 2 2 1. Patrick Allaway commenced his directorship on 1 February 2020 and effective immediately became a member of the Board Nomination Committee. 2. Penny Bingham-Hall and Nicola L Roxon ceased membership in the Board Risk Committee effective 1 September 2019. 3. All Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) became members of the Board Nomination Committee effective 1 September 2019. 4. Board Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Committee was established, effective 1 September 2019. John Conde and Tonianne Dwyer were also Directors of Dexus Wholesale Property Limited (DWPL) and attended DWPL Board meetings during the year ended 30 June 2020. Directors’ relevant interests The relevant interests of each Director in DXS stapled securities as at the date of this Directors’ Report are shown below: Directors No. of securities W Richard Sheppard 88,019 Patrick N J Allaway 20,000 Penny Bingham-Hall 32,773 John C Conde, AO 17,906 Tonianne Dwyer 16,667 Mark H Ford 10,000 The Hon. Nicola L Roxon 1 9,737 Darren J Steinberg 2 1,525,395 Peter B St George 18,573 1. Includes interests held directly and through Non-Executive Director (NED) Plan rights. 2. Includes interests held directly and through performance rights (refer note 22). Dexus 2020 Annual Report 89 Operating and financial review Information on the operations and financial position of the Group and its business strategies and prospects is set out on pages 26 to 35 of the Annual Report and forms part of this Directors’ Report. Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 62 to 86 of the Annual Report and forms part of this Directors’ Report. Directors’ directorships in other listed entities The following table sets out directorships of other ASX listed entities (unless otherwise stated), not including DXFM, held by the Directors at any time in the three years immediately prior to the end of the year, and the period for which each directorship was held. Director Company Date Appointed W Richard Sheppard Star Entertainment Group 21 November 2012 Patrick N J Allaway Bank of Queensland 1 May 2019 Nine Entertainment Co. Holdings Limited 7 December 2018 Penny Bingham-Hall BlueScope Steel Limited 29 March 2011 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd 16 November 2016 John C Conde, AO Whitehaven Coal Limited 3 May 2007 Cooper Energy Limited 25 February 2013 Tonianne Dwyer Metcash Limited 24 June 2014 ALS Limited 1 July 2016 Oz Minerals Limited 21 March 2017 The Hon. Nicola L Roxon Lifestyle Communities Limited 1 September 2017 Peter B St George First Quantum Minerals Limited 1 20 October 2003 Mark H Ford Kiwi Property Group Limited 2 16 May 2011 Darren J Steinberg VGI Partners Limited 12 May 2019 1. Listed for trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada. 2. Listed for trading on the New Zealand Stock Exchange. Principal activities Significant changes in the state of affairs During the year the principal activity of the Group was to The Directors are not aware of any matter or circumstance own, manage and develop high quality real estate assets and not otherwise dealt with in this Directors’ Report or the manage real estate funds on behalf of third party investors. Consolidated Financial Statements that has significantly or There were no significant changes in the nature of the Group’s may significantly affect the operations of the Group, the results activities during the year. of those operations, or the state of the Group’s affairs in future financial years. Total value of Trust assets The total value of the assets of the Group as at 30 June 2020 Matters subsequent to the end of the was $17,622.1 million (2019: $16,521.3 million). Details of the basis financial year of this valuation are outlined in the Notes to the Consolidated Since the end of the financial year the Directors are not aware Financial Statements and form part of this Directors’ Report. of any matter or circumstance not otherwise dealt with in this Directors’ Report or the Consolidated Financial Statements that Likely developments and expected has significantly or may significantly affect the operations of the results of operations Group, the results of those operations, or the state of the Group’s In the opinion of the Directors, disclosure of any further affairs in future financial years. information regarding business strategies and future developments or results of the Group, other than the information Distributions already outlined in this Directors’ Report or the Consolidated Distributions paid or payable by the Group for the year ended Financial Statements accompanying this Directors’ Report 30 June 2020 were 50.3 cents per security (2019: 50.2 cents per would be unreasonably prejudicial to the Group. security) as outlined in note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 90 Directors’ Report DXFM fees Non-audit services Details of fees paid or payable by the Group to DXFM are The Group may decide to employ the Auditor on assignments, eliminated on consolidation for the year ended 30 June 2020. in addition to its statutory audit duties, where the Auditor’s Details are outlined in note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated expertise and experience with the Group are important. Financial Statements and form part of this Directors’ Report. Details of the amounts paid or payable to the Auditor for audit and non-audit services provided during the year are set out in Interests in DXS securities note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The movement in securities on issue in the Group during the year The Board Audit Committee is satisfied that the provision of and the number of securities on issue as at 30 June 2020 are non-audit services provided during the year by the Auditor detailed in note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial (or by another person or firm on the Auditor’s behalf) is Statements and form part of this Directors’ Report. compatible with the standard of independence for auditors Details of the number of interests in the Group held by DXFM or imposed by the Corporations Act 2001. its associates as at the end of the financial year are outlined in The reasons for the Directors being satisfied are: note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – all non-audit services have been reviewed by the Board and form part of this Directors’ Report. Audit Committee to ensure that they do not impact the The DXFM Board has approved a grant of performance rights impartiality and objectivity of the auditor; and of DXS stapled securities to eligible participants. Details of – none of the services undermine the general principles the performance rights awarded during the financial year are relating to auditor independence as set out in detailed in note 22 of the Notes the Consolidated Financial APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. Statements. The Group did not have any options on issue as at 30 June 2020 (2019: nil). The above Directors’ statements are in accordance with the advice received from the Board Audit Committee. Environmental regulation The Board Risk Committee oversees the policies, procedures Auditor’s Independence Declaration and systems that have been implemented to ensure the A copy of the Auditor’s Independence Declaration as required adequacy of its environmental risk management practices. It under section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 is set out on is the opinion of this Committee that adequate systems are in page 91 and forms part of this Directors’ Report. place for the management of its environmental responsibilities and compliance with its various license requirements and Corporate governance regulations. Further, the Committee is not aware of any material DXFM’s Corporate Governance Statement is available at: breaches of these requirements. www.dexus.com/corporategovernance Indemnification and insurance Rounding of amounts and currency The insurance premium for a policy of insurance indemnifying As the Group is an entity of the kind referred to in ASIC Directors, officers and others (as defined in the relevant policy of Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) insurance) is paid by Dexus Holdings Pty Limited (DXH). Instrument 2016/191, the Directors have chosen to round amounts in this Directors’ Report and the accompanying Financial PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC or the Auditor), is indemnified Report to the nearest tenth of a million dollars, unless otherwise out of the assets of the Group pursuant to the Dexus Specific indicated. The Group is an entity to which the Instrument applies. Terms of Business agreed for all engagements with PwC, to the All figures in this Directors’ Report and the Consolidated Financial extent that the Group inappropriately uses or discloses a report Statements, except where otherwise stated, are expressed in prepared by PwC. The Auditor, PwC, is not indemnified for the Australian dollars. provision of services where such an indemnification is prohibited by the Corporations Act 2001. Directors’ authorisation Audit The Directors’ Report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. The Consolidated Financial Statements were Auditor authorised for issue by the Directors on 18 August 2020. PricewaterhouseCoopers continues in office in accordance with section 327 of the Corporations Act 2001. W Richard Sheppard Darren J Steinberg Chair Chief Executive Officer 18 August 2020 18 August 2020 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 91 Auditor’s Independence Declaration 92 Financial Report Financial Report Contents Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 93 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 94 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 95 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 96 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 97 Group performance 99 Note 1 Operating segments 99 Note 2 Property revenue and expenses 105 Note 3 Management operations, corporate and administration expenses 106 Note 4 Finance costs 106 Note 5 Taxation 107 Note 6 Earnings per unit 109 Note 7 Distributions paid and payable 109 Property portfolio assets 110 Note 8 Investment properties 110 Note 9 Investments accounted for using the equity method 115 Note 10 Inventories 120 Note 11 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 121 Capital and financial risk management and working capital 122 Note 12 Capital and financial risk management 122 Note 13 Lease liabilities 131 Note 14 Interest bearing liabilities 131 Note 15 Commitments and contingencies 133 Note 16 Contributed equity 133 Note 17 Reserves 134 Note 18 Working capital 135 Other disclosures 138 Note 19 Intangible assets 138 Note 20 Audit, taxation and transaction service fees 139 Note 21 Cash flow information 140 Note 22 Security-based payments 141 Note 23 Related parties 142 Note 24 Parent entity disclosures 143 Note 25 Changes in accounting policies 144 Note 26 Subsequent events 145 Director’s Declaration 146 Independent Auditor’s Report 147 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 93 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $m $m Revenue from ordinary activities Property revenue 2 533.5 547.4 Development revenue 10 275.8 96.9 Interest revenue 0.5 1.0 Management fees and other revenue 182.1 149.8 Total revenue from ordinary activities 991.9 795.1 Net fair value gain of investment properties 386.5 455.4 Share of net profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 9 494.7 535.6 Net gain on sale of investment properties – 0.4 Net fair value gain of derivatives 12(c) 26.7 146.1 Net foreign exchange gain 0.1 – Other income 2.0 0.1 Total income 1,901.9 1,932.7 Expenses Property expenses 2 (163.3) (157.6) Development costs 10 (225.3) (47.4) Finance costs 4 (163.4) (151.9) Impairment of investments accounted for using the equity method 9 (12.2) – Impairment of intangibles 19 (5.6) – Loss on other assets at fair value (2.7) – Net loss on sale of investment properties (0.4) – Net fair value loss of foreign currency interest bearing liabilities (168.3) (127.8) Transaction costs (1.1) (3.1) Management operations, corporate and administration expenses 3 (135.7) (121.1) Total expenses (878.0) (608.9) Profit/(loss) before tax 1,023.9 1,323.8 Income tax expense 5(a) (40.9) (42.8) Profit/(loss) for the year 983.0 1,281.0 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges 17 6.2 0.4 Changes in the foreign currency basis spread reserve 17 (4.2) (4.6) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 985.0 1,276.8 Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to: Unitholders of the parent entity 284.6 315.7 Unitholders of other stapled entities (non-controlling interests) 698.4 965.3 Profit/(loss) for the year 983.0 1,281.0 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to: Unitholders of the parent entity 286.6 311.5 Unitholders of other stapled entities (non-controlling interests) 698.4 965.3 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 985.0 1,276.8 Cents Cents Earnings per unit on profit/(loss) attributable to unitholders of the Trust (parent entity) Basic earnings per unit 6 25.99 30.69 Diluted earnings per unit 6 25.33 30.45 Earnings per stapled security on profit/(loss) attributable to stapled security holders Basic earnings per security 6 89.76 124.54 Diluted earnings per security 6 88.63 122.36 The above Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 94 Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Financial Position As at 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $m $m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 18(a) 31.8 29.8 Receivables 18(b) 132.2 144.0 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 11 530.0 – Inventories 10 179.5 170.4 Derivative financial instruments 12(c) 91.9 15.5 Current tax receivable 2.6 – Other 18(c) 28.3 20.6 Total current assets 996.3 380.3 Non-current assets Investment properties 8 8,215.9 8,170.0 Plant and equipment 13.4 15.0 Right-of-use assets 25 13.4 – Inventories 10 156.3 287.3 Investments accounted for using the equity method 9 7,287.4 6,823.7 Derivative financial instruments 12(c) 604.3 517.1 Intangible assets 19 332.8 322.1 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.4 3.9 Other 1.9 1.9 Total non-current assets 16,625.8 16,141.0 Total assets 17,622.1 16,521.3 Current liabilities Payables 18(d) 179.8 188.8 Interest bearing liabilities 14 364.3 70.0 Lease liabilities 13 4.8 – Derivative financial instruments 12(c) 13.4 17.9 Current tax liabilities – 21.5 Provisions 18(e) 279.8 284.2 Other 3.0 – Total current liabilities 845.1 582.4 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 14 4,473.7 3,996.6 Lease liabilities 13 19.5 – Derivative financial instruments 12(c) 54.8 105.6 Deferred tax liabilities 5(d) 105.0 89.4 Provisions 18(e) 2.5 1.9 Other 11.2 2.1 Total non-current liabilities 4,666.7 4,195.6 Total liabilities 5,511.8 4,778.0 Net assets 12,110.3 11,743.3 Equity Equity attributable to unitholders of the Trust (parent entity) Contributed equity 16 2,381.4 2,399.0 Reserves 17 15.2 13.2 Retained profits 1,051.9 923.4 Parent entity unitholders' interest 3,448.5 3,335.6 Equity attributable to unitholders of other stapled entities Contributed equity 16 4,909.5 4,954.5 Reserves 17 35.4 40.5 Retained profits 3,716.9 3,412.7 Other stapled unitholders' interest 8,661.8 8,407.7 Total equity 12,110.3 11,743.3 The above Consolidated Statement of Financial Position should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 95 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2020 Attributable to unitholders of the Trust Attributable to unitholders of (parent entity) other stapled entities ContriContributed Retained buted Retained Total equity Reserves profits Total equity Reserves profits Total equity Note $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Opening balance as at 1 July 2018 2,127.3 (12.5) 788.5 2,903.3 4,277.0 39.7 2,827.4 7,144.1 10,047.4 Change in accounting policy – 29.9 (31.4) (1.5) – – (0.4) (0.4) (1.9) Restated opening balance as at 1 July 2018 2,127.3 17.4 757.1 2,901.8 4,277.0 39.7 2,827.0 7,143.7 10,045.5 Net profit/(loss) for the year – – 315.7 315.7 – – 965.3 965.3 1,281.0 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year – (4.2) – (4.2) – – – – (4.2) Total comprehensive income for the year – (4.2) 315.7 311.5 – – 965.3 965.3 1,276.8 Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners Issue of additional equity, net of transaction costs 16 271.7 – – 271.7 677.5 – – 677.5 949.2 Purchase of securities, net of transaction costs – – – – – (7.6) – (7.6) (7.6) Security-based payments expense – – – – – 8.4 – 8.4 8.4 Distributions paid or provided for 7 – – (149.4) (149.4) – – (379.6) (379.6) (529.0) Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners 271.7 – (149.4) 122.3 677.5 0.8 (379.6) 298.7 421.0 Closing balance as per 30 June 2019 2,399.0 13.2 923.4 3,335.6 4,954.5 40.5 3,412.7 8,407.7 11,743.3 Opening balance as at 1 July 2019 2,399.0 13.2 923.4 3,335.6 4,954.5 40.5 3,412.7 8,407.7 11,743.3 Net profit/(loss) for the year – – 284.6 284.6 – – 698.4 698.4 983.0 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year – 2.0 – 2.0 – – – – 2.0 Total comprehensive income for the year – 2.0 284.6 286.6 – – 698.4 698.4 985.0 Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners Buy-back of contributed equity, net of transaction costs 16 (17.6) – – (17.6) (45.0) – – (45.0) (62.6) Purchase of securities, net of transaction costs – – – – – (10.9) – (10.9) (10.9) Security-based payments expense – – – – – 5.8 – 5.8 5.8 Distributions paid or provided for 7 – – (156.1) (156.1) – – (394.2) (394.2) (550.3) Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners (17.6) – (156.1) (173.7) (45.0) (5.1) (394.2) (444.3) (618.0) Closing balance as at 30 June 2020 2,381.4 15.2 1,051.9 3,448.5 4,909.5 35.4 3,716.9 8,661.8 12,110.3 The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 96 Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $m $m Cash flows from operating activities Receipts in the course of operations (inclusive of GST) 725.2 713.5 Payments in the course of operations (inclusive of GST) (261.3) (290.2) Interest received 0.5 1.0 Finance costs paid (145.9) (149.1) Distributions received from investments accounted for using the equity method 312.2 214.8 Income and withholding taxes paid (49.1) (30.8) Proceeds from sale of property classified as inventory and development services 235.4 88.3 Payments for property classified as inventory and development services (87.1) (54.4) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 21 729.9 493.1 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of investment properties 224.4 625.8 Proceeds from sale of investments accounted for using the equity method 215.5 – Payments for capital expenditure on investment properties (240.7) (261.2) (Payments for)/proceeds from termination and restructure of derivatives (124.3) 27.4 Payments for investments accounted for using the equity method (496.8) (1,447.4) Payments for acquisition of investment properties (176.2) (359.1) Payments for plant and equipment (2.5) (0.8) Payments for intangibles (19.2) (6.0) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (619.8) (1,421.3) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 5,244.8 4,914.0 Repayment of borrowings (4,686.1) (4,407.3) Payment for termination and restructure of derivatives (42.5) – Payment of lease liabilities (2.5) – Payments for buy-back of contributed equity, net of transaction costs (62.6) – Proceeds from issue of additional equity, net of transaction costs – 949.2 Purchase of securities for security-based payments plans (10.9) (9.2) Distributions paid to security holders (548.3) (522.0) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (108.1) 924.7 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2.0 (3.5) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 29.8 33.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 31.8 29.8 The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In this section This section sets out the basis upon which the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared. Specific accounting policies are described in their respective notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This section also shows information on new or amended accounting standards and their impact on the financial position and performance of the Group. Basis of preparation Critical accounting estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements are general purpose The economic impacts resulting from the Government imposed financial reports which have been prepared in accordance restrictions in a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, have with the requirements of the Constitutions of the entities within the potential to impact various financial statement line items the Group, the Corporations Act 2001, AASB’s issued by the including: Investment properties, Property revenue and expenses, Australian Accounting Standards Board and International and Receivables (included within Working capital). Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the International Dexus was performing well leading into the crisis with Accounting Standard Board. high occupancy and significant leasing success in office, Unless otherwise stated the Consolidated Financial Statements however uncertainty exists as a result of a range of different have been prepared using consistent accounting policies in factors, including: line with those of the previous financial year and corresponding – The outlook for the Australian economy and overall economic interim reporting period. activity which could lead to modifications of leases and The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in impact rental income; Australian dollars, with all values rounded to the nearest tenth – Temporary closures and insolvencies of businesses that could of a million dollars in accordance with ASIC Corporations impact the recoverability of debts; (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191, – Sentiment for the property industry and underlying demand unless otherwise stated. for investment in property. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using historical cost conventions, Industries have been impacted by varying degrees as a result except for investment properties, investment properties of the pandemic. The impact on office tenants varies, with within the equity accounted investments, derivative financial generally a lesser impact on tenants in industries such as instruments, and other financial assets or liabilities which are professional services, healthcare, telecommunications and stated at their fair value. technology, compared with those in entertainment, leisure, travel, tourism, education and training. Dexus stapled securities are quoted on the Australian Securities Exchange under the “DXS” code and comprise one unit in In the current environment, office leasing enquiry levels have each of DDF, DIT, DOT and DXO. In accordance with Australian fallen, and inspection rates have slowed however occupancy Accounting Standards, the entities within the Group must has remained high. Lead indicators point to a period of be consolidated for financial reporting purposes. DDF is the uncertainty in the Australian office market, with demand across parent entity and deemed acquirer of DIT, DOT and DXO. These the major CBD markets likely to be patchy in the short term. In Consolidated Financial Statements therefore represent the times of uncertainty, high quality and well leased assets can be consolidated results of DDF and include DDF and its controlled expected to hold their value better than lower quality assets entities, DIT and its controlled entities, DOT and its controlled due to their appeal to both occupants and purchasers as well entities, and DXO and its controlled entities. All entities within the as their relative scarcity. At 30 June 2020, Prime grade1 buildings Group are for profit entities. comprise 94% of Dexus’ office portfolio. Equity attributable to other trusts stapled to DDF is a form of Industrial tenants are showing to be more resilient, especially non-controlling interest and represents the equity of DIT, DOT in the case of essential services such as medical equipment, and DXO. The amount of non-controlling interest attributable pharmaceutical supplies and online retailers who in some cases to stapled security holders is disclosed in the Consolidated have experienced growth. Statement of Financial Position. DDF is a for-profit entity for the Retail tenants, with the exception of essential services, have purpose of preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. been significantly impacted by decreased foot traffic, reduced operating hours or in some cases complete closure of stores. Each entity forming part of the Group continues as a separate The Group has limited exposure to retail tenants. legal entity in its own right under the Corporations Act 2001 and is therefore required to comply with the reporting and disclosure requirements under the Corporations Act 2001 and Australian Accounting Standards. Dexus Funds Management Limited (DXFM) as Responsible Entity for DDF, DIT, DOT and DXO may only unstaple the Group if approval is obtained by a special resolution of the stapled security holders. 1. Stabilised assets only. Excludes development-affected assets and land. 98 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Basis of preparation continued (c) Employee share trust The Group has formed a trust to administer the Group’s In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, security-based employee benefits. The employee share trust management has made a number of judgements and applied is consolidated as the substance of the relationship is that the estimates in relation to COVID-19 related uncertainties. The trust is controlled by the Group. judgements and estimates which are material to the financial report are discussed in the following notes. Foreign currency Note 2 Property revenue and expenses Page 105 The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Australian dollars. Note 8 Investment properties Page 110 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the Note 10 Inventories Page 120 Australian dollars functional currency using the exchange Note 12 Capital and financial risk management Page 122 rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign Note 18 Working capital Page 135 exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such Note 19 Intangible assets Page 138 transactions and from the translation at period end exchange Note 22 Security-based payments Page 141 rates of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Principles of consolidation As at 30 June 2020, the Group had no investments in These Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, foreign operations. liabilities and results of all subsidiaries as at 30 June 2020. (a) Controlled entities Goods and services tax Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Revenues, expenses and capital assets are recognised net of Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has any amount of Australian Goods and Services Tax (GST), except rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and where the amount of GST incurred is not recoverable. In these has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct circumstances the GST is recognised as part of the cost of the activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Cash flows from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. a gross basis. The GST component of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities that is recoverable from or (b) Joint arrangements payable to the Australian Taxation Office is classified as cash Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint flows from operating activities. operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has, rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations Where assets are held directly as tenants in common, the Group’s proportionate share of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are included in their respective items of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, the Group’s share of the joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and distributions received from joint ventures are recognised as a reduction of the carrying amount of the investment. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 99 The notes include information which is required to understand the Consolidated Financial Statements and is material and relevant to the operations, financial position and performance of the Group. The notes are organised into the following sections: Capital and financial risk management and Group performance Property portfolio assets working capital Other disclosures 1. Operating segments 8. Investment properties 12. Capital and financial 19. Intangible assets risk management 2. Property revenue and 9. Investments accounted 20. Audit, taxation and expenses for using the equity 13. Lease liabilities transaction service fees method 3. Management 14. Interest bearing liabilities 21. Cash flow information operations, corporate 10. Inventories 15. Commitments and 22. Security-based payments and administration 11. Non-current assets contingencies expenses 23. Related parties classified as held for sale 16. Contributed equity 4. Finance costs 24. Parent entity disclosures 17. Reserves 5. Taxation 25. Changes in accounting policies 18. Working capital 6. Earnings per unit 26. Subsequent events 7. Distributions paid and payable Group performance In this section This section explains the results and performance of the Group. It provides additional information about those individual line items in the Consolidated Financial Statements that the Directors consider most relevant in the context of the operations of the Group, including: results by operating segment, property revenue and expenses, management operations, corporate and administration expenses, finance costs, taxation, earnings per unit and distributions paid and payable. Note 1 Operating segments Description of segments The Group’s operating segments have been identified based on the sectors analysed within the management reports reviewed in order to monitor performance across the Group and to appropriately allocate resources. Refer to the table below for a brief description of the Group’s operating segments. Segment Description Office Domestic office space with any associated retail space; as well as car parks and office developments. Industrial Domestic industrial properties, industrial estates and industrial developments. Property management Property management services for third party clients and owned assets. Funds management Funds management of third party client assets. Development and trading Revenue earned and costs incurred by the Group on development services for third party clients and inventory. All other segments Corporate expenses associated with maintaining and operating the Group. This segment also includes the centralised treasury function and direct property portfolio value of the Group’s Healthcare investments. 100 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Group performance continued Note 1 Operating segments continued Office Industrial 30 June 2020 $m $m Segment performance measures Property revenue 787.5 154.4 Property management fees – – Development revenue – – Management fee revenue – – Total operating segment revenue 787.5 154.4 Property expenses & property management salaries (242.1) (41.0) Management operations expenses – – Corporate and administration expenses (13.2) (3.3) Development costs – – Interest revenue – – Finance costs – – Incentive amortisation and rent straight-line 113.4 14.1 FFO tax expense – – Rental guarantees, coupon income and other 25.8 – Funds From Operations (FFO) 671.4 124.2 Net fair value gain/(loss) of investment properties 490.6 111.4 Net fair value gain/(loss) of derivatives – – Transaction costs and one-off significant items – – Net gain/(loss) on sale of investment properties 0.1 – Net fair value gain/(loss) of interest bearing liabilities – – Incentive amortisation and rent straight-line (113.4) (14.1) Amortisation of intangible assets and impairments – – Non FFO tax expense – – Rental guarantees, coupon income and other (25.8) – Net profit/(loss) attributable to stapled security holders 1,022.9 221.5 Investment properties 6,978.6 1,228.1 Non-current assets held for sale 561.0 15.4 Inventories – – Equity accounted investment properties 6,510.6 774.9 Direct property portfolio 14,050.2 2,018.4 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 101 Property Funds Development All other management management and trading segments Eliminations Total $m $m $m $m $m $m – – – – (5.0) 936.9 42.3 – – – – 42.3 – – 275.8 – – 275.8 36.2 73.6 15.7 – – 125.5 78.5 73.6 291.5 – (5.0) 1,380.5 (26.6) – – – – (309.7) (30.8) (26.6) (12.3) – – (69.7) – – – (33.0) 5.0 (44.5) – – (225.3) – – (225.3) – – – 1.5 – 1.5 – – – (128.9) – (128.9) – – – – – 127.5 – – (15.2) (22.4) – (37.6) – – – 10.6 – 36.4 21.1 47.0 38.7 (172.2) – 730.2 – – – 10.4 – 612.4 – – – (2.5) – (2.5) – – – (9.2) – (9.2) – – – – – 0.1 – – – (168.3) – (168.3) – – – – – (127.5) – – – (28.2) – (28.2) – – – (3.3) – (3.3) – – – 5.1 – (20.7) 21.1 47.0 38.7 (368.2) – 983.0 – – – 9.2 – 8,215.9 – – – – – 576.4 – – 335.8 – – 335.8 – – – 147.9 – 7,433.4 – – 335.8 157.1 – 16,561.5 102 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Group performance continued Note 1 Operating segments continued Office Industrial 30 June 2019 $m $m Segment performance measures Property revenue 724.8 164.0 Property management fees – – Development revenue – – Management fee revenue – – Total operating segment revenue 724.8 164.0 Property expenses & property management salaries (218.6) (33.7) Management operations expenses – – Corporate and administration expenses (13.3) (3.3) Development costs – – Interest revenue – – Finance costs – – Incentive amortisation and rent straight-line 106.5 10.3 FFO tax expense – – Rental guarantees, coupon income and other 11.1 – Funds From Operations (FFO) 610.5 137.3 Net fair value gain/(loss) of investment properties 594.6 170.3 Net fair value gain/(loss) of derivatives – – Transaction costs and one-off significant items – – Net gain/(loss) on sale of investment properties – 1.8 Net fair value gain/(loss) of interest bearing liabilities – – Incentive amortisation and rent straight-line (106.5) (10.3) Amortisation of intangible assets – – Non FFO tax expense – – Rental guarantees, coupon income and other (11.1) – Net profit/(loss) attributable to stapled security holders 1,087.5 299.1 Investment properties 6,984.4 1,185.6 Inventories – – Equity accounted investment properties 5,966.4 935.6 Direct property portfolio 12,950.8 2,121.2 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 103 Property Funds Development All other management management and trading segments Eliminations Total $m $m $m $m $m $m – – – – (3.0) 885.8 28.5 – – – – 28.5 – – 96.9 – – 96.9 40.1 64.1 9.1 – – 113.3 68.6 64.1 106.0 – (3.0) 1,124.5 (19.6) – – – – (271.9) (31.6) (24.3) (11.7) – – (67.6) – – – (30.2) 3.0 (43.8) – – (47.4) – – (47.4) – – – 2.3 – 2.3 – – – (119.4) – (119.4) – – – – – 116.8 – – (14.8) (12.3) – (27.1) – – – 4.0 – 15.1 17.4 39.8 32.1 (155.6) – 681.5 – – – 8.2 – 773.1 – – – 109.4 – 109.4 – – – (3.1) – (3.1) – – – – – 1.8 – – – (127.8) – (127.8) – – – – – (116.8) – – – (6.1) – (6.1) – – – (15.7) – (15.7) – – – (4.2) – (15.3) 17.4 39.8 32.1 (194.9) – 1,281.0 – – – – – 8,170.0 – – 457.7 – – 457.7 – – – 85.8 – 6,987.8 – – 457.7 85.8 – 15,615.5 104 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Group performance continued Note 1 Operating segments continued Other segment information Funds From Operations (FFO) The Directors consider the Property Council of Australia’s (PCA) definition of FFO to be a measure that reflects the underlying performance of the Group. FFO comprises net profit/loss after tax attributable to stapled security holders, calculated in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and adjusted for: property revaluations, impairments, derivative and foreign exchange mark‑to-market impacts, fair value movements of interest bearing liabilities, amortisation of tenant incentives, gain/loss on sale of certain assets, straight line rent adjustments, deferred tax expense/benefit, certain transaction costs, one-off significant items, amortisation of intangible assets, movements in right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, rental guarantees and coupon income. Reconciliation of segment revenue to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2020 2019 $m $m Property lease revenue 801.9 771.5 Property services revenue 135.0 114.3 Property revenue 936.9 885.8 Property management fees 42.3 28.5 Development revenue 275.8 96.9 Management fee revenue 125.5 113.3 Total operating segment revenue 1,380.5 1,124.5 Share of property lease revenue from joint ventures (347.7) (292.9) Share of property services revenue from joint ventures (55.7) (45.5) Share of management fees charged to joint ventures 14.3 8.0 Interest revenue 0.5 1.0 Total revenue from ordinary activities 991.9 795.1 Reconciliation of segment assets to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 2020 2019 $m $m Direct property portfolio1 16,561.5 15,615.5 Cash and cash equivalents 31.8 29.8 Receivables 132.2 144.0 Intangible assets 332.8 322.1 Derivative financial instruments 696.2 532.6 Plant and equipment 13.4 15.0 Right-of-use assets 13.4 – Prepayments and other assets2 (159.2) (137.7) Total assets 17,622.1 16,521.3 1. Includes the Group’s portion of investment properties accounted for using the equity method. 2. Other assets include the Group’s share of total net assets of its investments accounted for using the equity method less the Group’s share of the investment property value which is included in the direct property portfolio. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 105 Note 2 Property revenue and expenses The Group’s main revenue stream is property rental revenue and is derived from holding properties as investment properties and earning rental yields over time. Rental revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term for leases with fixed rent review clauses. Prospective tenants may be offered incentives as an inducement to enter into operating leases. The costs of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental revenue on a straight-line basis from the lease commencement date to the end of the lease term. The carrying amount of the lease incentives is reflected in the fair value of investment properties. Within its lease arrangements, the Group provides certain services to tenants (such as utilities, cleaning, maintenance and certain parking arrangements) which are accounted for within AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. A portion of the consideration within the lease arrangements is therefore allocated to revenue for the provision of services. 2020 2019 $m $m Rent and recoverable outgoings 471.3 471.7 Services revenue 79.3 68.8 Incentive amortisation (78.4) (66.8) Other revenue 61.3 73.7 Total property revenue 533.5 547.4 COVID-19 rent relief In April 2020, the Australian Government introduced a National Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct) and set of principles which applies to commercial tenancies (including retail, office and industrial) for small and medium enterprise customers (SMEs) with turnover of less than $50 million experiencing financial stress or hardship as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as defined by their eligibility for the Commonwealth Government’s JobKeeper Program. The Code of Conduct has been implemented on a State by State basis through specific legislation. The objective of the Code of Conduct and the State based legislation is to ensure the landlord and tenant share, in a proportionate, measured manner the financial risk and cash flow impact during the COVID-19 period. The legislation applies for the prescribed period as defined under the regulations for each State (which is approximately 6 months to September 2020 in all States other than Tasmania and ACT). The JobKeeper Program has been extended to 28 March 2021 however the extension of the JobKeeper payment does not automatically extend legislation associated with the Code of Conduct. Changes to legislation in each State will be monitored to understand if any extensions are enacted and whether the Code of Conduct will apply to this extended period. Dexus is working with impacted tenants who meet the criteria to implement the requirements under the legislation and provide relief packages. While there is no one size fits all approach, Dexus’ immediate priority is to support SMEs who have been significantly impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and is progressing discussions with these customers on various forms of rent relief. For tenants eligible under the Code of Conduct and State based legislation, rent relief comprises a proportionate reduction in rent payable in the form of waivers and deferrals of up to 100% of the amount ordinarily payable, on a case-by-case basis, based on the reduction in the tenant’s turnover during the COVID-19 pandemic period. Rental waivers must generally constitute at least 50% of the rent relief offered. The repayment period for rent deferrals differs across States. In New South Wales, there is no mandatory minimum repayment period for deferred rent. In Victoria and Western Australia, the deferral is repayable over the balance of the lease term and 24 months, whichever is the greater (unless otherwise agreed). In Queensland, the deferral is repayable over a period of 2-3 years. Rent relief may take a different form for those tenants that are ineligible under the Code of Conduct and the State based legislation. Dexus continues to work with its tenants to understand whether they are eligible for rental relief under the Code of Conduct and the State based legislation. The various rent relief measures are accounted for as follows in line with ASIC guidance ‘20-157MR Focuses for financial reporting under COVID-19 conditions’ published on 7 July 2020. When a rent waiver agreement is made between the landlord and tenant: – Rent waived that relates to future occupancy is spread over the remaining lease term and recognised on a straight-line basis – Rent waived that relates to past occupancy is expensed immediately, except to the extent there exists a pre-existing provision for expected credit losses relating to unpaid rent Property revenue has been recognised for occupancy up to the date of a waiver agreement. Where there was no agreement at 30 June 2020, a provision for expected credit losses per AASB 9 Financial Instruments has been recognised against any receivable for unpaid rent for past occupancy. The provision for expected credit losses is recognised with a corresponding expense in Property expenses. The provision covers the difference between contractual cash flows that are due and cash flows expected to be received. Accordingly, the provision includes both that part of the rent receivable that is likely to be waived and any additional amount relating to credit risk associated with the financial condition of the tenant. Refer to note 18 Working capital for the amount of the provision for expected credit losses recognised at the reporting date. In the circumstance where the tenant has fully paid rent for the period of occupancy up to balance date, there is no rent receivable against which to make a provision. Where it is expected that some of the rent already paid by the tenant will be waived, there is no basis to recognise a liability at balance date. Based on management’s best estimate at the reporting date, $7.3 million of rent income recognised in the year ended 30 June 2020 is expected to be waived in the year ended 30 June 2021 once formal rent relief agreements have been signed. 106 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Group performance continued Note 2 Property revenue and expenses continued Rent deferrals, where in substance the deferral is a delayed timing of payments have no impact on property revenue recognition. A separate assessment of the recoverability of rent receivable is performed in accordance with the policy outlined in note 18 Working capital. Property expenses Property expenses of $163.3 million (2019: $157.6 million) includes rates, taxes and other property outgoings incurred in relation to investment properties. If these items are recovered from a tenant by the Group, they are recorded within Services revenue or recoverable outgoings within Property revenue. Note 3 Management operations, corporate and administration expenses 2020 2019 $m $m Audit, taxation, legal and other professional fees 9.3 6.0 Depreciation and amortisation 13.2 10.3 Employee benefits expense 92.4 87.9 Administration and other expenses 20.8 16.9 Total management operations, corporate and administration expenses 135.7 121.1 Note 4 Finance costs Finance costs include interest, amortisation or other costs incurred in connection with arrangement of borrowings, finance costs on lease liabilities and net fair value movements of interest rate swaps. Finance costs are expensed as incurred unless they relate to qualifying assets. A qualifying asset is an asset under development which takes a substantial period of time, where the works being carried out to bring it to its intended use or sale are expected to exceed 12 months in duration. Finance costs incurred for the acquisition and construction of a qualifying asset are capitalised to the cost of the asset for the period of time that is required to complete the asset. To the extent that funds are borrowed generally to fund development, the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised to qualifying assets must be determined by using an appropriate capitalisation rate. 2020 2019 $m $m Interest paid/payable 120.2 124.5 Amount capitalised (9.5) (24.4) Net fair value (gain)/loss of interest rate derivatives and exchangeable note 40.6 39.5 Finance costs – leases 1 and debt modification 2.6 2.0 Other finance costs 9.5 10.3 Total finance costs 163.4 151.9 1. The Group adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. Interest on the lease liability is a component of finance costs. Refer to note 25 Changes in accounting policies for further information. The average capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs eligible for capitalisation is 4.00% (2019: 5.25%). Dexus 2020 Annual Report 107 Note 5 Taxation Under current Australian income tax legislation, DDF, DIT and DOT are not liable for income tax provided they satisfy certain legislative requirements, which were met in the current and previous financial years. DXO is liable for income tax and has formed a tax consolidated group with its wholly owned and controlled Australian entities. As a consequence, these entities are taxed as a single entity. Income tax expense is comprised of current and deferred tax expense. Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Current tax expense represents the expense relating to the expected taxable income at the applicable rate of the financial year. Deferred tax expense represents the tax expense in respect of the future tax consequences of recovering or settling the carrying amount of an asset or liability. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise them. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilise them. Attribution managed investment trust regime Dexus made an election for DDF, DOT and DIT to be attribution managed investment trusts (AMITs) for the year ended 30 June 2017 and future years. The AMIT regime is intended to reduce complexity, increase certainty and minimise compliance costs for AMITs and their investors. a) Income tax (expense)/benefit 2020 2019 $m $m Current income tax expense (25.3) (47.1) Deferred income tax (expense)/benefit (15.6) 4.3 Total income tax expense (40.9) (42.8) Deferred income tax expense included in income tax (expense)/benefit comprises: (Decrease)/increase in deferred tax assets (1.1) 2.3 (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax liabilities (14.5) 2.0 Total deferred tax benefit/(expense) (15.6) 4.3 b) Reconciliation of income tax (expense)/benefit to net profit 2020 2019 $m $m Profit before income tax 1,023.9 1,323.8 Less: profit attributed to entities not subject to tax (891.7) (1,172.8) Profit subject to income tax 132.2 151.0 Prima facie tax expense at the Australian tax rate of 30% (2019: 30%) (39.7) (45.3) Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(assessable) in calculating taxable income: (Non-assessable)/non-deductible items (1.2) 2.5 Income tax expense (40.9) (42.8) 108 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Group performance continued Note 5 Taxation continued c) Deferred tax assets 2020 2019 $m $m The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Employee provisions 13.9 15.9 Other 2.8 1.9 Total non-current assets – deferred tax assets 16.7 17.8 Movements: Opening balance at the beginning of the year 17.8 15.5 Movement in deferred tax asset arising from temporary differences (1.1) 2.3 (Charged)/credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (1.1) 2.3 Closing balance at the end of the year 16.7 17.8 d) Deferred tax liabilities 2020 2019 $m $m The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Intangible assets 72.4 74.8 Investment properties 42.3 31.5 Other 7.0 0.9 Total non-current liabilities – deferred tax liabilities 121.7 107.2 Movements Opening balance at the beginning of the year 107.2 109.2 Movement in deferred tax liability arising from temporary differences 14.5 (2.0) Charged/(credited) to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 14.5 (2.0) Closing balance at the end of the year 121.7 107.2 Net deferred tax liabilities 2020 2019 $m $m Deferred tax assets 16.7 17.8 Deferred tax liabilities 121.7 107.2 Net deferred tax liabilities 105.0 89.4 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 109 Note 6 Earnings per unit Earnings per unit are determined by dividing the net profit attributable to unitholders by the weighted average number of ordinary units outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per unit are adjusted from the basic earnings per unit by taking into account the impact of dilutive potential units. a) Net profit used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per security 2020 2019 $m $m Profit attributable to unitholders of the Trust (parent entity) for basic and diluted earnings per security 284.6 315.7 Profit attributable to stapled security holders for basic earnings per security 983.0 1,281.0 Effect on exchange of Exchangeable Notes 12.7 (12.6) Profit attributable to stapled security holders for diluted earnings per security 995.7 1,268.4 b) Weighted average number of securities used as a denominator 2020 2019 No. of No. of securities securities Weighted average number of units outstanding used in calculation of basic earnings per unit 1,095,096,969 1,028,577,220 Effect on exchange of Exchangeable Notes 28,333,333 8,046,239 Weighted average number of units outstanding used in calculation of diluted earnings per unit 1,123,430,302 1,036,623,459 Note 7 Distributions paid and payable Distributions are recognised when declared. a) Distribution to security holders 2020 2019 $m $m 31 December (paid 28 February 2020) 296.0 276.7 30 June (payable 28 August 2020) 254.3 252.3 Total distribution to security holders 550.3 529.0 b) Distribution rate 2020 2019 Cents per Cents per security security 31 December (paid 28 February 2020) 27.0 27.2 30 June (payable 28 August 2020) 23.3 23.0 Total distributions 50.3 50.2 c) Franked dividends 2020 2019 $m $m Opening balance at the beginning of the year 66.2 56.8 Income tax paid during the year 49.1 30.8 Franking credits utilised for payment of distribution (21.4) (21.4) Closing balance at the end of the year 93.9 66.2 As at 30 June 2020, the Group has a current tax asset of $2.6 million, which will be added to the franking account balance once payment is made. 110 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets In this section The following table summarises the property portfolio assets detailed in this section. Leased Asset Office Industrial Healthcare Total 30 June 2020 Note $m $m $m $m $m Investment properties 8 9.2 6,978.6 1,228.1 – 8,215.9 Equity accounted investments 9 8.2 6,510.6 774.9 139.7 7,433.4 Inventories 10 – 120.8 215.0 – 335.8 Assets held for sale 11 – 561.0 15.4 – 576.4 Total 17.4 14,171.0 2,233.4 139.7 16,561.5 Property portfolio assets are used to generate the Group’s performance and are considered to be the most relevant to the understanding of the operating performance of the Group. The assets are detailed in the following notes: – Investment properties: relates to investment properties, both stabilised and under development. – Investments accounted for using the equity method: provides summarised financial information on the joint ventures and investments with significant influence. The Group’s interests in its joint venture property portfolio assets are held through investments in trusts. – Inventories: relates to the Group’s ownership of industrial and office assets or land held for repositioning, development and sale. – Non-current assets classified as held for sale: relates to investment properties which are expected to be sold within 12 months of the reporting date and are currently being marketed for sale. Note 8 Investment properties The Group’s investment properties consist of properties held for long-term rental yields and/or capital appreciation and property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property. Investment properties are initially recognised at cost including transaction costs. Investment properties are subsequently recognised at fair value. The basis of valuations of investment properties is fair value, being the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Changes in fair values are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The gain or loss on disposal of an investment property is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset at the date of disposal and the net proceeds from disposal and is included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of disposal. Subsequent redevelopment and refurbishment costs (other than repairs and maintenance) are capitalised to the investment property where they result in an enhancement in the future economic benefits of the property. Leasing fees incurred and incentives provided are capitalised and amortised over the lease periods to which they relate. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 111 a) Reconciliation Office Industrial 2020 2019 Note $m $m $m $m Opening balance at the beginning of the year 6,984.4 1,185.6 8,170.0 8,242.6 Additions 200.5 40.2 240.7 284.0 Acquisitions 100.6 71.1 171.7 359.2 Lease incentives 53.0 7.4 60.4 57.6 Amortisation of lease incentives (75.3) (9.4) (84.7) (71.9) Rent straight lining 13.3 1.5 14.8 9.9 Disposals (71.5) (151.8) (223.3) (628.3) Transfer to non-current assets classified as held for sale 11 (530.0) – (530.0) – Transfers from investment property to investments accounted for using the equity method 9 – – – (642.7) Transfer from inventories 10 – – – 104.2 Net fair value gain/(loss) of investment properties 303.0 83.5 386.5 455.4 Ground leases of investment properties 1 9.8 – 9.8 – Closing balance at the end of the year 6,987.8 1,228.1 8,215.9 8,170.0 1. The Group has applied AASB 16 Leases from 1 July 2019. The leased asset includes ground leases at Parkade 34-60 Little Collins Street, Melbourne VIC and Waterfront Place, 1 Eagle Street Brisbane QLD. Under AASB 16 Leases, lease liabilities need to be separately disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The investment property carrying values are grossed up to ensure that the amount net of the corresponding lease liabilities relating to the ground lease portion equals the fair value of the investment properties. Leased assets The Group holds leasehold interests in a number of properties. Leasehold land that meets the definition of investment property under AASB 140 Investment Property is measured at fair value and presented within Investment property. The leased asset is measured initially at an amount equal to the corresponding lease liability. Subsequent to initial recognition, the leased asset is recognised at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Refer to note 13 for details of the Lease liabilities and note 25 for Changes to accounting policies. Acquisitions On 30 July 2019, settlement occurred for the acquisition of 52 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC for $70.0 million excluding acquisition costs. On 30 September 2019, settlement occurred for the acquisition of Homemaker Centre, 19 Stoddard Road, Prospect, NSW for $64.3 million excluding acquisition costs. During the year, settlement occurred for the acquisition of various other investment properties totalling $28.1 million excluding transaction costs. Disposals On 28 February 2020, settlement occurred for the disposal of Garema Court, 14-180 City Walk, Canberra, ACT for $71.5 million excluding transaction costs. On 1 April 2020, settlement occurred for the disposal of a further 24% interest in the Dexus Australia Logistics Trust (DALT) core portfolio assets in connection with the exercise of second tranche rights by GIC on 23 December 2019 for $151.8 million excluding transaction costs. 112 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets continued Note 8 Investment properties continued b) Valuations process It is the policy of the Group to perform independent valuations for each individual property at least once every three years by a member of the Australian Property Institute of Valuers. It has been the Group’s practice to have such valuations performed every six months. Each valuation firm and its signatory valuer are appointed on the basis that they are engaged for no more than three years except for properties under development and co-owned properties. Independent valuations may be undertaken earlier where the Responsible Entity believes there is potential for a change in the fair value of the property being the greater of 5% of the asset value, or $5.0 million. At 30 June 2020, 107 out of 118 of investment properties were independently externally valued. The Group’s policy requires investment properties to be internally valued at least every six months at each reporting period (interim and full-year) unless they have been independently externally valued. Internal valuations are compared to the carrying value of investment properties at the reporting date. Where the Directors determine that the internal valuations present a more reliable estimate of fair value the internal valuation is adopted as book value. Internal valuations are performed by the Group’s internal valuers who hold recognised relevant professional qualifications and have previous experience as property valuers from major real estate valuation firms. An appropriate valuation methodology is utilised according to asset class. In relation to office and industrial assets this includes the capitalisation approach (market approach) and the discounted cash flow approach (income approach). The valuation is also compared to, and supported by, direct comparison to recent market transactions. The adopted capitalisation rates and discount rates are determined based on industry expertise and knowledge and, where possible, a direct comparison to third party rates for similar assets in a comparable location. Rental revenue from current leases and assumptions about future leases, as well as any expected operational cash outflows in relation to the property, are also built into each asset assessment of fair value. In relation to development properties under construction for future use as investment property, where reliably measurable, fair value is determined based on the market value of the property on the assumption it had already been completed at the valuation date (using the methodology as outlined above) less costs still required to complete the project, including an appropriate adjustment for industry benchmarked profit and development risk. c) Fair value measurement, valuation techniques and inputs The following table represents the level of the fair value hierarchy and the associated unobservable inputs utilised in the fair value measurement for each class of investment property including investment property held within investments accounted for using the equity method. Range of unobservable inputs Fair value Class of property hierarchy Inputs used to measure fair value 2020 2019 Office 1 Level 3 Adopted capitalisation rate 4.00% – 6.25% 4.50% – 7.00% Adopted discount rate 5.75% – 7.50% 6.50% – 7.50% Adopted terminal yield 4.25% – 6.63% 4.75% – 7.50% Current net market rental (per sqm) $228 – $1,452 $383 – $1,398 Industrial Level 3 Adopted capitalisation rate 4.75% – 10.50% 5.00% – 10.75% Adopted discount rate 6.00% – 10.50% 6.50% – 10.75% Adopted terminal yield 4.75% – 10.50% 5.25% – 10.75% Current net market rental (per sqm) $40 – $610 $38 – 558 Leased asset Level 3 Adopted discount rate 3.50% – 8.15% – Current net market rental (per sqm) $100 – $478 – 1. Includes office developments and excludes car parks, retail and other. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 113 Key estimates: inputs used to measure fair value of investment properties Judgement is required in determining the following key assumptions: – Adopted capitalisation rate: The rate at which net market rental revenue is capitalised to determine the value of a property. The rate is determined with regard to market evidence and the prior external valuation. – Adopted discount rate: The rate of return used to convert cash flows, payable or receivable in the future, into present value. It reflects the opportunity cost of capital, that is, the rate of return the cash can earn if put to other uses having similar risk. The rate is determined with regard to market evidence and the prior external valuation. – Adopted terminal yield: The capitalisation rate used to convert the future net market rental revenue into an indication of the anticipated value of the property at the end of the holding period when carrying out a discounted cash flow calculation. The rate is determined with regard to market evidence and the prior external valuation. – Net market rental (per sqm): The net market rent is the estimated amount for which a property should lease between a lessor and a lessee on appropriate lease terms in an arm’s length transaction. d) Impact of COVID-19 on fair value of investment properties There is a significant level of uncertainty to the ultimate impact of COVID-19 as to the Group’s investment property valuations. As a result, the independent valuations incorporate a range of assumptions used in determining appropriate fair values for investment properties as at 30 June 2020. The assumptions that have had the greatest impact on the valuations are listed below: – Valuers have adjusted market rental growth, downtime and incentive assumptions within their discounted cashflow (DCF) method of valuing and have generally had more regard to this valuation methodology when determining the adopted value; – Some valuers have incorporated an allowance for the uncertainty in relation to the payment of rent with regards to the Government’s ‘code of conduct’ where the tenant pool comprises small to medium enterprises (SMEs); and, – Capitalisation and discount rates have generally firmed over the 12 months to June with the firming largely being seen in the first six months prior to the impact of COVID-19. Office and industrial transactional evidence post COVID-19, while limited, suggests capitalisation and discount rates have not yet been impacted. The independent valuations obtained by the Group also include significant valuation uncertainty clauses due to the unknown impacts to the property industry. Noting the uncertainty, the Group considers that the assumptions used in the valuations are appropriate for the purposes of determining fair value of investment properties at 30 June 2020. 114 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets continued Note 8 Investment properties continued e) Sensitivity information Significant movement in any one of the inputs listed in the table above may result in a change in the fair value of the Group’s investment properties, including investment properties within investments accounted for using the equity method, as shown below. The estimated impact of a change in the certain significant unobservable inputs would result in a change in the fair value as follows: Industrial Office 2020 2019 2020 2019 $m $m $m $m A decrease of 25 basis points in the adopted capitalisation rate 93.6 93.5 736.3 660.3 An increase of 25 basis points in the adopted capitalisation rate (85.6) (86.0) (663.8) (599.2) A decrease of 25 basis points in the adopted discount rate 78.4 78.6 568.7 512.6 An increase of 25 basis points in the adopted discount rate (72.7) (73.2) (524.5) (475.0) A decrease of 5% in the net market rental (per sqm) (100.2) (106.1) (674.5) (647.5) An increase of 5% in the net market rental (per sqm) 100.2 106.1 674.5 647.5 Generally, a change in the assumption made for the adopted capitalisation rate is often accompanied by a directionally similar change in the adopted terminal yield. The adopted capitalisation rate forms part of the capitalisation approach whilst the adopted terminal yield forms part of the discounted cash flow approach. Under the capitalisation approach, the net market rental has a strong interrelationship with the adopted capitalisation rate as the fair value of the investment property is derived by capitalising, in perpetuity, the total net market rent receivable. An increase (softening) in the adopted capitalisation rate may offset the impact to fair value of an increase in the total net market rent. A decrease (tightening) in the adopted capitalisation rate may also offset the impact to fair value of a decrease in the total net market rent. A directionally opposite change in the total net market rent and the adopted capitalisation rate may increase the impact to fair value. The discounted cash flow is primarily made up of the discounted cash flow of net income over the cash flow period and the discounted terminal value (which is largely based upon market rents grown at forecast market rental growth rates capitalised at an adopted terminal yield). An increase (softening) in the adopted discount rate may offset the impact to fair value of a decrease (tightening) in the adopted terminal yield. A decrease (tightening) in the discount rate may offset the impact to fair value of an increase (softening) in the adopted terminal yield. A directionally similar change in the adopted discount rate and the adopted terminal yield may increase the impact to fair value. A decrease (softening) in the forecast rental growth rate may result in a negative impact on the discounted cash flow approach value while a strengthening may have a positive impact on the value under the same approach. f) Investment properties pledged as security Refer to note 14 for information on investment properties pledged as security. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 115 Note 9 Investments accounted for using the equity method a) Interest in joint ventures Investments are accounted for in the Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting (refer to the ‘Principles of Consolidation’ section). The proportion of ownership interest and the carrying amount of Dexus’s interest in these entities is set out below. The below entities were formed in Australia and their principal activity is property investment in Australia. Ownership interest 2020 2019 2020 2019 Name of entity % % $m $m Bent Street Trust 33.3 33.3 358.8 349.5 Dexus Creek Street Trust 50.0 50.0 199.5 176.6 Dexus Martin Place Trust 50.0 50.0 926.5 826.9 Grosvenor Place Holding Trust1,2 50.0 50.0 483.2 469.7 Site 6 Homebush Bay Trust1 50.0 50.0 46.3 42.9 Site 7 Homebush Bay Trust1 50.0 50.0 62.1 54.2 Dexus 480 Q Holding Trust 50.0 50.0 390.1 386.5 Dexus Kings Square Trust 50.0 50.0 234.5 220.7 Dexus Office Trust Australia (DOTA) 50.0 50.0 2,696.4 2,410.9 Dexus Industrial Trust Australia (DITA) 50.0 50.0 218.4 202.4 Dexus Eagle Street Pier Trust 50.0 50.0 33.0 31.2 Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund (HWPF)3 27.8 23.8 126.2 56.1 Dexus Australian Logistics Trust (DALT)4 51.0 75.0 465.1 657.5 Dexus Australian Logistics Trust No.2 (DALT2) 51.0 51.0 130.1 65.2 Dexus 80C Trust 75.0 75.0 830.1 873.4 Dexus Walker Street Trust5 50.0 50.0 9.6 – Dexus Australia Commercial Trust6 10.0 – 68.6 – RealTech Ventures 62.1 – 8.9 – Total assets – investments accounted for using the equity method7 7,287.4 6,823.7 1. These entities are 50% owned by DOTA. The Group’s economic interest is therefore 75% when combined with the interest held by DOTA. 2. Grosvenor Place Holding Trust owns 50% of Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street, Sydney, NSW. The Group’s economic interest in this property is therefore 37.5%. 3. The Group increased its interest in HWPF through the acquisition of units held by Commercial & General. The increase in the Group’s interest in HWPF was subsequently diluted as a result of HWPF issuing units to other existing and new unitholders. 4. On 1 April 2020, the Group disposed of a 24% interest in DALT to GIC for $214.3 million in connection with the exercise of their second tranche rights on 23 December 2019. 5. Dexus Walker Street Trust was formed in Australia on 14 June 2019 and its principal activity is property investment in Australia. During the year to June 2020, settlements occurred on a partial interest in 121 Walker Street, North Sydney for $22.5 million excluding acquisition costs (100% share). 6. Dexus Australia Commercial Trust was formed on 3 April 2020 and its principal activity is property investment in Australia. On 1 June 2020, settlement occurred on the acquisition of a 50% interest in Rialto Towers, 525 Collins Street, Melbourne for $644 million excluding acquisition costs. 7. The Group’s share of investment properties in the investments accounted for using the equity method was $7,433.4 million (2019: $6,987.8 million). These investments are accounted for using the equity method as a result of contractual arrangements requiring unanimous decisions on all relevant matters. b) Impact of COVID-19 on Investments accounted for using the equity method The carrying values of the above investments accounted for using the equity method have been tested for impairment under AASB 136 Impairment of Assets to take into consideration the impact of COVID-19. The main risk to the value of the investments accounted for using the equity method is the fair value of the underlying investment properties. Note 8 gives further explanation of the approach taken to measure the fair value of investment properties in light of COVID-19. Any fair value movements are recorded within share of net profit of investments accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. During the year, there were impairment losses of $12.2 million. c) Summarised financial information for individually material joint ventures The following table provides summarised financial information for the joint ventures which, in the opinion of the directors, are material to the Group. The information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the Financial Statements of the relevant joint ventures and not Dexus’ share of those amounts. 116 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets continued Note 9 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued d) Summarised financial information for individually material joint ventures Bent Street Dexus Creek Trust Street Trust 2020 2019 2020 2019 Summarised Statement of Financial Position $m $m $m $m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 3.7 2.1 2.2 1.0 Other current assets 2.0 1.9 1.2 1.1 Total current assets 5.7 4.0 3.4 2.1 Non-current assets Investment properties 1,100.0 1,070.0 400.0 362.0 Investments accounted for using the equity method – – – – Loans with related parties – – – – Other non-current assets – – 0.2 0.2 Total non-current assets 1,100.0 1,070.0 400.2 362.2 Current liabilities Provision for distribution 20.2 16.4 0.6 – Borrowings – – – – Other current liabilities 9.2 8.0 4.0 10.6 Total current liabilities 29.4 24.4 4.6 10.6 Non-current liabilities Borrowings – – – – Other non current liabilties – – – – Total non-current liabilities – – – – Net assets 1,076.3 1,049.6 399.0 353.7 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Opening balance at the beginning of the year 1,049.6 1,034.1 353.7 323.6 Additions – – 30.7 22.1 Profit for the year 83.5 73.1 29.6 22.9 Distributions received/receivable (56.8) (57.6) (15.0) (14.9) Closing balance at the end of the year 1,076.3 1,049.6 399.0 353.7 Group's share in $m 358.8 349.5 199.5 176.6 Elimination of downstream transactions – – – – Notional goodwill – – – – Group's carrying amount 358.8 349.5 199.5 176.6 Summarised Statement of Comprehensive Income Property revenue 54.8 52.5 21.9 21.5 Property revaluations 41.9 33.6 17.2 10.1 Gain on sale of investment properties – – – – Interest income – 0.1 – – Share of net profit of investments accounted for using the equity method – – – – Other income 0.1 – – 0.1 Property expenses (13.3) (13.1) (7.3) (6.9) Finance costs – – – – Other expenses – – (2.2) (1.9) Net profit/(loss) for the year 83.5 73.1 29.6 22.9 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 83.5 73.1 29.6 22.9 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 117 Dexus Martin Grosvenor Place Dexus 480Q Dexus Kings Dexus Office Place Trust Holding Trust Holding Trust Square Trust Trust Australia 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m 10.6 8.3 0.8 2.2 4.0 1.0 4.3 0.9 55.0 14.6 10.7 24.0 3.2 3.0 1.3 7.9 0.1 14.0 82.3 110.6 21.3 32.3 4.0 5.2 5.3 8.9 4.4 14.9 137.3 125.2 1,861.8 1,644.0 975.0 937.5 780.0 781.0 477.0 449.0 4,729.6 4,346.3 – – – – – – – – 591.6 566.8 – – – – – – – – – – 0.5 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2 – – 48.6 44.5 1,862.3 1,644.2 975.0 937.5 780.2 781.2 477.0 449.0 5,369.8 4,957.6 2.4 – 5.9 – 0.8 – 4.7 15.7 30.2 22.2 – – – – – – – – 0.1 149.3 28.2 22.8 6.7 3.3 4.6 17.1 7.7 6.8 61.5 51.9 30.6 22.8 12.6 3.3 5.4 17.1 12.4 22.5 91.8 223.4 – – – – – – – – 22.5 22.6 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 22.5 22.6 1,853.0 1,653.7 966.4 939.4 780.1 773.0 469.0 441.4 5,392.8 4,836.8 1,653.7 753.7 939.4 904.6 773.0 761.0 441.4 432.6 4,836.8 4,344.3 80.4 870.6 – 5.1 5.1 2.9 0.8 6.8 387.6 199.9 173.4 66.0 72.5 76.8 42.2 38.3 51.7 50.9 389.0 508.5 (54.5) (36.6) (45.5) (47.1) (40.2) (29.2) (24.9) (48.9) (220.6) (215.9) 1,853.0 1,653.7 966.4 939.4 780.1 773.0 469.0 441.4 5,392.8 4,836.8 926.5 826.9 483.2 469.7 390.1 386.5 234.5 220.7 2,696.4 2,418.4 – – – – – – – – – (7.5) – – – – – – – – – – 926.5 826.9 483.2 469.7 390.1 386.5 234.5 220.7 2,696.4 2,410.9 91.5 56.0 51.5 52.8 52.5 65.7 36.0 42.4 297.7 279.3 115.2 27.6 34.5 36.4 9.0 14.3 29.4 21.1 155.6 276.1 1.0 – – – – – – – – 2.7 0.1 0.2 – 0.1 – 0.8 – 0.2 0.3 0.7 – – – – – – – – 46.2 56.1 – – – – 0.1 (0.1) – – 0.4 0.1 (24.6) (12.6) (13.4) (12.5) (15.1) (38.0) (11.1) (10.3) (90.0) (82.5) – – – – – – – – (5.2) (9.9) (9.8) (5.2) (0.1) – (4.3) (4.4) (2.6) (2.5) (16.0) (14.1) 173.4 66.0 72.5 76.8 42.2 38.3 51.7 50.9 389.0 508.5 173.4 66.0 72.5 76.8 42.2 38.3 51.7 50.9 389.0 508.5 118 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets continued Note 9 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued d) Summarised financial information for individually material joint ventures continued Summarised Statement of Financial Position Current assets Cash and cash equivalents Other current assets Total current assets Non-current assets Investment properties Investments accounted for using the equity method Loans with related parties Other non-current assets Total non-current assets Current liabilities Provision for distribution Borrowings Other current liabilities Total current liabilities Non-current liabilities Borrowings Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities Net assets Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Opening balance at the beginning of the year Additions Profit for the year Distributions received/receivable Closing balance at the end of the year Group's share in $m Elimination of downstream transactions Notional goodwill Group's carrying amount Summarised Statement of Comprehensive Income Property revenue Property revaluations Gain on sale of investment properties Interest income Share of net profit of investments accounted for using the equity method Other income Property expenses Finance costs Other expenses Net profit/(loss) for the year Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 1. The Group also has interests in a number of individually immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 119 Dexus Industrial Dexus Australian Dexus 80C Trust Australia Logistics Trust Trust Other 1 Total 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m 7.2 3.2 9.3 26.4 9.0 2.9 194.0 16.2 300.1 78.8 31.9 32.0 3.8 3.1 18.5 35.0 6.3 3.8 161.3 236.4 39.1 35.2 13.1 29.5 27.5 37.9 200.3 20.0 461.4 315.2 403.6 375.9 912.0 876.5 1,352.5 1,211.6 1,725.6 762.8 14,717.1 12,816.6 – – – – – – 0.1 – 591.7 566.8 – – – – – – 0.3 – 0.3 – – (0.1) 0.6 0.4 – – 5.0 37.4 55.1 82.8 403.6 375.8 912.6 876.9 1,352.5 1,211.6 1,731.0 800.2 15,364.2 13,466.2 4.2 3.2 7.6 22.4 4.0 7.6 6.6 1.2 87.2 88.7 – – – 234.0 – 0.6 – 234.7 149.3 1.7 2.9 6.1 7.3 35.2 27.8 41.2 39.9 206.1 198.4 5.9 6.1 13.7 29.7 273.2 35.4 48.4 41.1 528.0 436.4 – – – – – – 151.8 172.4 174.3 195.0 – – – – – 49.5 25.6 38.6 25.6 88.1 – – – – – 49.5 177.4 211.0 199.9 283.1 436.8 404.9 912.0 876.7 1,106.8 1,164.6 1,705.5 568.1 15,097.7 13,061.9 404.9 344.6 876.7 – 1,164.6 – 568.1 381.8 13,061.9 9,280.3 7.0 16.7 – 812.8 – 1,169.2 1,113.7 136.0 1,625.3 3,242.1 40.7 83.0 74.4 86.2 (6.3) 3.0 48.5 64.0 999.2 1,072.7 (15.8) (39.4) (39.1) (22.3) (51.5) (7.6) (24.8) (13.7) (588.7) (533.2) 436.8 404.9 912.0 876.7 1,106.8 1,164.6 1,705.5 568.1 15,097.7 13,061.9 218.4 202.4 465.1 657.5 830.1 873.4 481.6 237.6 7,284.2 6,819.2 – – – – – – – 12.0 – 4.5 – – – – – – 3.2 – 3.2 – 218.4 202.4 465.1 657.5 830.1 873.4 484.8 249.6 7,287.4 6,823.7 23.6 19.8 60.8 35.9 28.1 3.5 42.8 18.9 761.2 648.3 22.7 67.7 33.7 60.8 (19.5) 1.2 26.6 57.6 466.3 606.5 (0.1) – – – – – – – 0.9 2.7 – 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.4 – 0.7 0.1 1.7 2.5 – – – – – – – – 46.2 56.1 0.1 – – – – – 2.2 – 2.9 0.1 (4.3) (3.4) (16.5) (8.5) (7.9) (1.1) (13.3) (9.8) (216.8) (198.7) – – – – – – (5.4) 0.3 (10.6) (9.6) (1.3) (1.3) (3.8) (2.1) (7.4) (0.6) (5.1) (3.1) (52.6) (35.2) 40.7 83.0 74.4 86.2 (6.3) 3.0 48.5 64.0 999.2 1,072.7 40.7 83.0 74.4 86.2 (6.3) 3.0 48.5 64.0 999.2 1,072.7 120 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Property portfolio assets continued Note 10 Inventories Development properties held for repositioning, construction and sale are recorded at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is assigned by specific identification and includes the cost of acquisition, and development and holding costs such as borrowing costs, rates and taxes. Holding costs incurred after completion of development are expensed. Development revenue includes proceeds on the sale of inventory and revenue earned through the provision of development services on assets sold as inventory. Revenue earned on the provision of development services is recognised using the percentage complete method. The stage of completion is measured by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated total costs for each contract. Where the project result can be reliably estimated, development services revenue and associated expenses are recognised in profit or loss. Where the project result cannot be reliably estimated, profits are deferred and the difference between consideration received and expenses incurred is carried forward as either a receivable or payable. Development services revenue and expenses are recognised immediately when the project result can be reliably estimated. An assessment of whether the project result is impacted as a result of COVID-19 has been performed. There has been minimal impact on development services revenue and expenses as a result of project delays, changes in assessments related to future sales prices or changes in costs expected to be incurred to complete any projects. Transfers from investment properties to inventories occur when there is a change in intention regarding the use of the property from an intention to hold for rental income or capital appreciation purposes to an intention to develop and sell. The transfer price is recorded as the fair value of the property as at the date of transfer. Development activities will commence immediately after they transfer. Key estimate: Net Realisable Value (NRV) of inventories NRV is determined using the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs to bring inventories to their finished condition, including marketing and selling expenses. NRV is based on the most reliable evidence available at the time and the amount the inventories are expected to be realised. These key assumptions are reviewed annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Key estimates have been reviewed and updated in light of COVID-19. No impairment provisions have been recognised. a) Development properties held for sale 2020 2019 $m $m Current assets Development properties held for sale 179.5 170.4 Total current assets – inventories 179.5 170.4 Non-current assets Development properties held for sale 156.3 287.3 Total non-current assets – inventories 156.3 287.3 Total assets – inventories 335.8 457.7 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 121 b) Reconciliation 2020 2019 Note $m $m Opening balance at the beginning of the year 457.7 544.7 Transfer to investment properties 8 – (104.2) Disposals (173.6) (40.3) Additions 51.7 57.5 Closing balance at the end of the year 335.8 457.7 Disposals On 16 September 2019, settlement occurred for the disposal of North Shore Health Hub stage 1 for gross proceeds of $52.7 million excluding transaction costs. On 12 November 2019, settlement occurred for the disposal of a 25% interest (of which the Group originally held a 50% interest) in 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney NSW for gross proceeds of $157.5 million excluding transaction costs. Note 11 Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and a sale is considered highly probable. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are presented separately from the other assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Non-current assets classified as held for sale relate to investment properties measured at fair value. At 30 June 2020 the balance relates to 45 Clarence Street, Sydney NSW. At 30 June 2019, there were no assets classified as held for sale. 122 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital In this section The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on reducing volatility from impacts of movements in financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group. Note 12 Capital and financial risk management outlines how the Group manages its exposure to a variety of financial risks (interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk) and details the various derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group. The Board determines the appropriate capital structure of the Group, how much is borrowed from financial institutions and capital markets (debt), and how much is raised from security holders (equity) in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in the future. This capital structure is detailed in the following notes: – Debt: Lease liabilities in note 13, Interest bearing liabilities in note 14, and Commitments and contingencies in note 15; – Equity: Contributed equity in note 16 and Reserves in note 17. Note 18 provides a breakdown of the working capital balances held in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Note 12 Capital and financial risk management Capital and financial risk management is carried out through a centralised treasury function which is governed by a Board approved Treasury Policy. The Group has an established governance structure which consists of the Group Management Committee and Capital Markets Committee. The Board has appointed a Group Management Committee responsible for achieving Dexus’ goals and objectives, including the prudent financial and risk management of the Group. A Capital Markets Committee has been established to advise the Group Management Committee. The Capital Markets Committee is a management committee that is accountable to the Board. It convenes at least quarterly and conducts a review of financial risk management exposures including liquidity, funding strategies and hedging. It is also responsible for the development of financial risk management policies and funding strategies for recommendation to the Board, and the approval of treasury transactions within delegated limits and powers. a) Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to owners through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to security holders. The Group continuously monitors its capital structure and it is managed in consideration of the following factors: – the cost of capital and the financial risks associated with each class of capital; – gearing levels and other debt covenants; – potential impacts on net tangible assets and security holders’ equity; – potential impacts on the Group’s credit rating; and – other market factors. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 123 The Group has a stated target gearing level of 30% to 40%. The table below details the calculation of the gearing ratio in accordance with its primary financial covenant requirements. 2020 2019 $m $m Total interest bearing liabilities 1 4,210.8 3,648.7 Total tangible assets 2 16,593.1 15,666.6 Gearing ratio 25.4% 23.3% Gearing ratio (look-through) 3 26.3% 24.0% 1. Total interest bearing liabilities excludes deferred borrowing costs and includes the impact of foreign currency fluctuations of cross currency swaps. 2. Total tangible assets comprise total assets less intangible assets, derivatives and deferred tax balances. 3. The look-through gearing ratio is adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments and is not a financial covenant. The Group is rated Aby Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and A3 by Moody’s. The Group is required to comply with certain financial covenants in respect of its interest bearing liabilities. During the 2020 and 2019 reporting periods, the Group was in compliance with all of its financial covenants. DXFM is the Responsible Entity for the managed investment schemes (DDF, DOT, DIT and DXO) that are stapled to form the Group. DXFM has been issued with an Australian Financial Services Licence (AFSL). The licence is subject to certain capital requirements including the requirement to maintain liquidity above specified limits. DXFM must also prepare rolling cash projections over at least the next 12 months and demonstrate it will have access to sufficient financial resources to meet its liabilities that are expected to be payable over that period. Cash projections and assumptions are approved, at least quarterly, by the Board of the Responsible Entity. DWPL, a wholly owned entity, has been issued with an AFSL as it is the Responsible Entity for Dexus Wholesale Property Fund (DWPF). Dexus Wholesale Management Limited (DWML), a wholly owned entity, has been issued with an AFSL as it is the trustee of third party managed funds. These entities are subject to the capital requirements described above. Dexus Wholesale Funds Limited (DWFL), a wholly owned entity, has been issued with an AFSL as it is the Responsible Entity for Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund (HWPF). Dexus Investment Management Limited (DIML), a wholly owned entity, has been issued with an AFSL as the Responsible Entity for Dexus Industrial Fund (DIF), a wholly owned entity. These entities are subject to the capital requirements described above. b) Financial risk management The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group. The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash, bank loans and capital markets issuance. The main purpose of financial instruments is to manage liquidity and hedge the Group’s exposure to financial risks namely: – interest rate risk; – foreign currency risk; – liquidity risk; and – credit risk. The Group uses derivatives to reduce the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These derivatives create an obligation or a right that effectively transfers one or more of the risks associated with an underlying financial instrument, asset or obligation. Derivative financial instruments that the Group may use to hedge its risks include: – interest rate swaps and interest rate options (together interest rate derivatives); – cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts; and – other derivative contracts The Group does not trade in interest rate or foreign exchange related derivative instruments for speculative purposes. The Group uses different methods to measure the different types of risks to which it is exposed, including monitoring the current and forecast levels of exposure and conducting sensitivity analysis. 124 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 12 Capital and financial risk management continued b) Financial risk management continued i) Market risk Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from interest bearing financial assets and liabilities that the Group utilises. Non-derivative interest bearing financial instruments are predominantly short term liquid assets and long term debt issued at fixed rates which expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk as the Group may pay higher interest costs than if it were at variable rates. The Group’s borrowings which have a variable interest rate give rise to cash flow interest rate risk due to movements in variable interest rates. The Group’s risk management policy for interest rate risk seeks to minimise the effects of interest rate movements on its asset and liability portfolio through active management of the exposures. The policy prescribes minimum and maximum hedging amounts for the Group, which is managed on a portfolio basis. The Group maintains a mix of offshore and local currency fixed rate and variable rate debt, as well as a mix of long term and short term debt. The Group primarily enters into interest rate derivatives and cross currency interest rate swap agreements to manage the associated interest rate risk. The Group hedges the interest rate and currency risk on its foreign currency borrowings by entering into cross currency swaps, which have the economic effect of converting foreign currency borrowings to local currency borrowings at contracted rates. The derivative contracts are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, using standard valuation techniques with market inputs. As at 30 June 2020, 81% (2019: 83%) of the interest bearing liabilities of the Group were hedged. The average hedged percentage for the financial year was 79% (2019: 73%). Interest rate derivatives require settlement of net interest receivable or payable generally each 90 or 180 days. The settlement dates coincide with the dates on which the interest is payable on the underlying debt. The receivable and payable legs on interest rate derivative contracts are settled on a net basis. The net notional amount of average fixed rate debt and interest rate derivatives in place in each year and the weighted average effective hedge rate is set out below: June 2021 June 2022 June 2023 June 2024 June 2025 $m $m $m $m $m A$ fixed rate debt 2,105.0 2,042.5 1,848.3 1,653.3 1,370.0 A$ interest rate derivatives 1 1,656.7 1,291.7 1,108.3 958.3 675.0 Combined fixed rate debt and derivatives (A$ equivalent) 3,761.7 3,334.2 2,956.6 2,611.6 2,045.0 Hedge rate (%) 1.79% 1.61% 1.63% 1.75% 1.84% 1. Amounts do not include fixed rate debt that has been swapped to floating rate debt through cross currency swaps. Sensitivity analysis on interest expense The table below shows the impact on the Group’s net interest expense of a 50 basis point movement in market interest rates. The sensitivity on cash flow arises due to the impact that a change in interest rates will have on the Group’s floating rate debt and derivative cash flows on average during the financial year. Net interest expense is only sensitive to movements in market rates to the extent that floating rate debt is not hedged. 2020 2019 (+/-) $m (+/-) $m +/0.50% (50 basis points) 8.0 8.4 Total A$ equivalent 8.0 8.4 The movement in interest expense is proportional to the movement in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis on fair value of interest rate derivatives The sensitivity analysis on interest rate derivatives below shows the effect on net profit or loss of changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives for a 50 basis point movement in short-term and long-term market interest rates. The sensitivity on fair value arises from the impact that changes in market rates will have on the valuation of the interest rate derivatives. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 125 The fair value of interest rate derivatives is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows on the instruments. Although interest rate derivatives are transacted for the purpose of providing the Group with an economic hedge, the Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments. Accordingly, gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value are reflected in the profit or loss. 2020 2019 (+/-) $m (+/-) $m +/0.50% (50 basis points) 22.8 25.1 Total A$ equivalent 22.8 25.1 Sensitivity analysis on fair value of cross currency swaps The sensitivity analysis on cross currency interest rate swaps below shows the effect on net profit or loss for changes in the fair value for a 50 basis point increase and decrease in market rates. The sensitivity on fair value arises from the impact that changes in short-term and long-term market rates will have on the valuation of the cross currency swaps. The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of hedge accounted cross currency swaps. 2020 2019 (+/-) $m (+/-) $m +/0.50% (50 basis points) US$ (A$ equivalent) 2.5 2.7 Total A$ equivalent 2.5 2.7 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that the value or the cash flows arising from a financial commitment, or recognised asset or liability will fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency rates. The Group’s foreign currency risk arises primarily from: – highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency; and – borrowings denominated in foreign currency. The objective of the Group’s foreign exchange risk management policy is to ensure that movements in exchange rates have minimal adverse impact on the Group’s foreign currency assets and liabilities. Refer to note 14 for the USD foreign currency exposures and management thereof via cross currency interest rate swaps. Foreign currency assets and liabilities Where foreign currency borrowings are used to fund Australian investments, the Group transacts cross currency swaps to reduce the risk that movements in foreign exchange rates will have an impact on security holder equity and net tangible assets. ii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is associated with ensuring that there are sufficient funds available to meet the Group’s financial commitments as and when they fall due and planning for any unforeseen events which may curtail cash flows. The Group identifies and manages liquidity risk across the following categories: – short-term liquidity management covering the month ahead on a rolling basis with continuous monitoring of forecast and actual cash flows; – medium-term liquidity management of liquid assets, working capital and standby facilities to cover Group cash requirements over the next 1-24 month period. The Group maintains a level of committed borrowing facilities above the forecast committed debt requirements (liquidity headroom buffer). Committed debt includes future expenditure that has been approved by the Board or Investment Committee (as required within delegated limits); and – long-term liquidity management through ensuring an adequate spread of maturities of borrowing facilities so that refinancing risk is not concentrated in certain time periods and ensuring an adequate diversification of funding sources where possible, subject to market conditions. 126 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 12 Capital and financial risk management continued b) Financial risk management continued ii) Liquidity risk continued Refinancing risk Refinancing risk is the risk that the Group: – Will be unable to refinance its debt facilities as they mature, and/or – Will only be able to refinance its debt facilities at unfavourable interest rates and credit market conditions (margin price risk) The Group’s key risk management strategy for margin price risk on refinancing is to spread the maturities of debt facilities over different time periods to reduce the volume of facilities to be refinanced and the exposure to market conditions in any one period. An analysis of the contractual maturities of the Group’s interest bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments is shown in the table below. The amounts in the table represent undiscounted cash flows. 2020 2019 Between Between Between Between Within one and two and After Within one and two and After one year two years five years five years one year two years five years five years $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Payables (179.8) – – – (188.8) – – – Lease liabilities (4.8) (4.2) (9.8) (9.2) – – – – Total payables and lease liabilities (184.6) (4.2) (9.8) (9.2) (188.8) – – – Interest bearing liabilities & interest Fixed interest rate liabilities (522.5) (191.6) (633.4) (4,104.5) (140.9) (488.6) (640.6) (3,128.5) Floating interest rate liabilities (20.9) (112.9) (436.9) (120.3) (98.5) (170.5) (371.1) (160.0) Total interest bearing liabilities & interest 1 (543.4) (304.5) (1,070.3) (4,224.8) (239.4) (659.1) (1,011.7) (3,288.5) Derivative financial liabilities Cash receipts 470.8 86.3 930.0 1,188.3 84.1 433.5 254.1 1,760.3 Cash payments (374.0) (54.7) (699.4) (962.7) (54.7) (355.2) (203.6) (1,594.2) Total net derivative financial instruments 2 96.8 31.6 230.6 225.6 29.4 78.3 50.5 166.1 1. Refer to note 14. Excludes deferred borrowing costs but includes estimated fees and interest. 2. The notional maturities on derivatives are shown for cross currency interest rate swaps (refer to interest rate risk) as they are the only instruments where a principal amount is exchanged. For interest rate derivatives, only the net interest cash flows (not the notional principal) are included. Refer to note 12(c) for fair value of derivatives. Refer to note 15(b) for financial guarantees. iii) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will not fulfil its obligations under the terms of a financial instrument and will cause financial loss to the Group. The Group has exposure to credit risk on all financial assets included in the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Group manages this risk by: – Adopting a process for determining an approved counterparty, with consideration of qualitative factors as well as the counterparty’s credit rating – Regularly monitoring counterparty exposure within approved credit limits that are based on the lower of an S&P and Moody’s credit rating. The exposure includes the current market value of in-the-money contracts and the potential exposure, which is measured with reference to credit conversion factors as per APRA guidelines – Entering into International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreements once a financial institution counterparty is approved – For some trade receivables, obtaining collateral where necessary in the form of bank guarantees and tenant bonds, and – Regularly monitoring loans and receivables on an ongoing basis A minimum S&P rating of A– (or Moody’s equivalent) is required to become or remain an approved counterparty unless otherwise approved by the Dexus Board. The Group is exposed to credit risk on cash balances and on derivative financial instruments with financial institutions. The Group has a policy that sets limits as to the amount of credit exposure to each financial institution. New derivatives and cash transactions are limited to financial institutions that meet minimum credit rating criteria in accordance with the Group’s policy requirements. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 127 Financial instrument transactions are spread among a number of approved financial institutions within specified credit limits to minimise the Group’s exposure to any one counterparty. As a result, there is no significant concentration of credit risk for financial instruments. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 30 June 2020 is the carrying amounts of financial assets recognised on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Group is exposed to credit risk on trade receivable balances. The Group has a policy to continuously assess and monitor the credit quality of trade debtors on an ongoing basis. Given the historical profile and exposure of the trade receivables, it has been determined that no significant concentrations of credit risk exists for receivables balances. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 30 June 2020 is the carrying amounts of the trade receivables recognised on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. iv) Fair value The Group uses the following methods in the determination and disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1: The fair value is calculated using quoted prices in active markets. Level 2: The fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Level 3: The fair value is estimated using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable data. All derivative financial instruments and investments in equity instruments (where the group neither controls nor has significant influence) were measured at Level 2 for the periods presented in this report. During the year, there were no transfers between Level 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurements. Since cash, receivables and payables are short-term in nature, their fair values are not materially different from their carrying amounts. For the majority of the borrowings, the fair values are not materially different to their carrying amounts, since the interest payable on those borrowings is either close to current market rates or the borrowings are of a short-term nature. Material differences are identified only for the following borrowings: 2020 2020 2019 2019 Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Type Maturity ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) USD borrowing 2021 364.3 373.7 356.2 373.9 USD borrowing 2024 65.6 70.9 64.2 66.5 USD borrowing 2025 160.3 178.6 156.9 165.5 USD borrowing 2026 233.1 253.9 228.2 232.3 USD borrowing 2027 451.7 520.5 442.0 471.2 USD borrowing 2029 182.1 208.8 178.2 185.1 USD borrowing 2030 306.0 354.9 299.4 309.9 USD borrowing 2033 255.0 304.4 249.5 257.8 MTN 2023 162.2 169.2 163.1 171.0 MTN 2026 187.1 207.1 187.4 207.6 MTN 2027 128.9 144.4 128.8 142.5 MTN 2030 198.0 192.8 – – MTN 2032 500.0 496.4 – – MTN 2039 30.0 35.0 30.0 34.9 AUD USPP 2028 100.0 113.4 100.0 118.6 AUD USPP 2030 50.0 56.6 50.0 63.7 AUD USPP 2033 100.0 117.4 100.0 135.3 AUD USPP 2039 75.0 89.7 75.0 88.1 Fixed bank debt 2022 150.0 155.2 200.0 207.2 Exchangeable note 2026 399.1 425.0 395.2 425.0 Key assumptions: fair value of derivatives and interest bearing liabilities The fair value of derivatives and interest bearing liabilities has been determined based on observable market inputs (interest rates, exchange rates and currency basis) and applying a credit or debit value adjustment based on the current credit worthiness of counterparties and the Group. 128 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 12 Capital and financial risk management continued b) Financial risk management continued v) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position where there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. No financial assets and liabilities are currently held under netting arrangements. Master Netting arrangements – not currently enforceable Agreements with derivative counterparties are based on an ISDA Master Agreement. Under the terms of these arrangements, where certain credit events occur (such as default), the net position owing/receivable to a single counterparty in the same currency will be taken as owing and all the relevant arrangements terminated. As the Group does not presently have a legally enforceable right of set-off, these amounts have not been offset in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. c) Derivative financial instruments A derivative is a type of financial instrument typically used to manage risk. A derivative’s value changes over time in response to an underlying benchmark, such as interest rates, exchange rates, or asset values, and is entered into for a fixed period. A hedge is where a derivative is used to manage an underlying exposure. Written policies and limits are approved by the Board of Directors of the Responsible Entity, in relation to the use of financial instruments to manage financial risks. The Responsible Entity regularly reviews the Group’s exposures and updates its treasury policies and procedures. The Group does not trade in interest rate or foreign exchange related derivative instruments for speculative purposes. The Group uses derivative contracts as part of its financial and business strategy. Derivative contracts may cover interest rate, foreign currency and equity market movements but also include option contracts embedded in the Group’s exchangeable note borrowings (see note 14(f)). 1. Interest rate derivative contracts – the Group uses interest rate derivative contracts to manage the risk of movements in variable interest rates on the Group’s Australian dollar denominated borrowing 2. Cross currency swap contracts – the Group uses cross currency swap contracts to manage the risk of movements in interest rates and fair values of foreign currencies associated with its foreign denominated borrowings; and 3. Other derivative contracts – other derivative contracts include embedded option contracts within the Group’s exchangeable note borrowings (see note 14(f) ) as well as equity linked derivatives that are used from time to time and expose the Group to movements in the fair value of listed equities included within the Australian REIT index as part of its strategy of investing in Australian property assets. Derivatives are measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognised either in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, or directly in equity where hedge accounted. At inception the Group can elect to formally designate and document the relationship between certain hedge derivative instruments and the associated hedged items, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The only derivatives designated by the Group in hedge relationships are cross currency interest rate swap contracts used to hedge foreign denominated borrowings. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instrument is effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. The hedging relationship is deemed effective when all of the following requirements are met: – there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument; – the effect of credit risk does not dominate the changes in value that result from that economic relationship; and – the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. The Group uses cross currency interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk associated with foreign denominated borrowings issued by the Group. The Group designates the cross currency interest rate swap contracts as: – Fair value hedges against changing interest rates on foreign denominated borrowings – Cash flow hedges or fair value hedges against foreign currency exposure on foreign denominated borrowings The foreign currency basis spread of a cross currency interest rate swap is excluded from the designation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument. Changes in the fair value of the foreign currency basis spread of a financial instrument are accumulated in the foreign currency basis spread reserve, and are amortised to profit or loss on a rational basis over the term of the hedging relationship. As the critical terms of the cross currency interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items match, the Group performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness. The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedge relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swap contracts, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in interest rates. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. The Group has applied the hedge ratio of 1:1 to all hedge relationships. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 129 Fair value hedge – cross currency swap contracts A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Changes in the fair value of cross-currency swap contracts that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss, together with any changes in the fair value of the interest rates on foreign denominated borrowings, and fair value of the foreign denominated borrowings themselves. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity using a recalculated effective interest rate. Cash flow hedge A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk to a highly probable forecast transaction pertaining to an asset or liability. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cross-currency swap contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income in equity via the cash flow hedge reserve. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the payments associated with the underlying foreign denominated borrowings affect profit or loss. Any gain or loss related to ineffectiveness is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Hedge accounting is discontinued when each cross-currency swap contract expires, is terminated, is no longer in an effective hedge relationship, is de-designated, or the forecast underlying payments are no longer expected to occur. The fair value gain or loss of derivatives recorded in equity is recognised in profit or loss over the period that the forecast payments are recorded in profit or loss. If the forecast payments are no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss immediately. 2020 2019 $m $m Current assets Cross currency swap contracts 91.9 15.5 Total current assets – derivative financial instruments 91.9 15.5 Non-current assets Interest rate derivative contracts – 0.9 Cross currency swap contracts 604.3 516.2 Total non-current assets – derivative financial instruments 604.3 517.1 Current liabilities Interest rate derivative contracts 13.4 17.8 Other derivative contracts – 0.1 Total current liabilities – derivative financial instruments 13.4 17.9 Non-current liabilities Interest rate derivative contracts 34.3 47.8 Cross currency swap contracts 7.0 43.4 Other derivative contracts 13.5 14.4 Total non-current liabilities – derivative financial instruments 54.8 105.6 Net derivative financial instruments 628.0 409.1 The table below details a breakdown of the net fair value gain on derivatives in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 2020 2019 $m $m Net fair value gain/(loss) of derivatives Cross currency swap contracts 153.0 125.4 Other derivative contracts (126.3) 20.7 Total net fair value gain/(loss) of derivatives 26.7 146.1 130 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 12 Capital and financial risk management continued c) Derivative financial instruments continued Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance – Quantitative information The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of the hedging instrument (cross currency interest rate swap) at the end of the financial year: Notional Amount of the Hedging Instrument ($m) Under 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Over 5 years Foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk – Cross currency interest rate swap (hedging foreign currency debt) 1 Average contracted FX rate (AUD/USD) 0.8699 0.8699 0.8683 0.7898 Average contracted fixed USD rate 2.4922 2.4922 2.4874 2.3766 Average notional amount 1,304.7 1,304.7 1,261.2 423.6 Interest rate risk – Cross currency interest rate swap (hedging foreign currency debt) 1 Average contracted fixed USD rate 1.3906 1.3906 1.3868 1.4042 Average notional amount 1,304.7 1,304.7 1,261.2 423.6 1. Cross currency interest rate swaps totalling $1,135.0 million (notional) have been split into cash flow hedge and fair value hedge relationships. The following tables detail information regarding the cross currency interest rate swaps designated in cash flow hedge or fair value hedge relationships at the end of the reporting period and their related hedged items. Cash flow Fair value hedges hedges Cross currency Cross currency interest interest rate rate swaps swaps $m $m Current notional principal value of the hedging instrument 1,304.7 1,304.7 Carrying amount of the hedging instrument assets/(liabilities) 1 24.0 574.5 Cumulative change in fair value of the hedging instrument used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness 24.0 565.6 Current fair value notional amount of the hedged item (24.0) (1,892.1) Cumulative change in value of the hedged item used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness (35.8) (587.4) Balance in cash flow hedge reserve (24.0) n/a Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2 – 1.5 1. The carrying amount is Included in the “Derivative financial instruments” line items in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 2. Included in the “Net fair value loss of derivatives” line item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges. The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss only when the hedged transaction impacts the profit or loss. Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedge reserve and foreign currency basis spread $m Balance at 1 July 2019 (before tax) 13.1 Movement Gain/(loss) arising on changes in fair value of hedging instruments during the period 10.8 Changes in fair value of foreign currency basis spread during the period (9.1) Transfer out (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss – hedged item has affected profit or loss (4.6) (Gain)/loss arising on changes in fair value of foreign currency basis spread during the period 4.8 Balance at 30 June 2020 (before tax) 15.0 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 131 Note 13 Lease liabilities The Group has applied AASB 16 Leases from 1 July 2019. Refer to note 25 Changes in accounting policies for further information. The following table details information relating to leases where the Group is a lessee. 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 Note $m $m Current Lease liabilities – ground leases (a) 0.9 – Lease liabilities – other property leases (b) 3.9 – Total current liabilities – lease liabilities 4.8 – Non-current Lease liabilities – ground leases (a) 8.3 – Lease liabilities – other property leases (b) 11.2 – Total non-current liabilities – lease liabilities 19.5 – Total liabilities – lease liabilities 24.3 – a) Lease liabilities – ground leases The lease liabilities include ground leases at Parkade, 34-60 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC and Waterfront Place, 1 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD. Refer to note 8 Investment properties where the corresponding leased asset is included in the total value of investment properties. b) Lease liabilities – other property leases The lease liabilities relating to property leases predominantly relate to Dexus offices and Dexus Place property leases. Refer to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for disclosure of the corresponding right-of-use asset. Note 14 Interest bearing liabilities Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Under the effective interest rate method, any transaction fees, costs, discounts and premiums directly related to the borrowings are capitalised to borrowings and amortised in profit or loss over the expected life of the borrowings. If there is an effective fair value hedge of borrowings, a fair value adjustment will be applied based on the mark to market movement in the benchmark component of the borrowings. This movement is recognised in the profit or loss. Refer note 12 Capital and financial risk management for further detail. All borrowings with contractual maturities greater than 12 months after reporting date are classified as non-current liabilities. 2020 2019 Note $m $m Current Unsecured Bank loans – 70.0 US senior notes 1 (a) 364.3 – Total unsecured 364.3 70.0 Total current liabilities – interest bearing liabilities 364.3 70.0 Non-current Unsecured US senior notes 1 (a), (b) 2,217.1 2,369.6 Bank loans (c) 571.0 640.0 Commercial paper (d) 100.0 100.0 Medium term notes (e) 1,206.2 509.3 Exchangeable notes (f) 399.1 395.2 Total unsecured 4,493.4 4,014.1 Deferred borrowing costs (19.7) (17.5) Total non-current liabilities – interest bearing liabilities 4,473.7 3,996.6 Total interest bearing liabilities 4,838.0 4,066.6 1. Includes cumulative fair value adjustments amounting to $238.3 million (2019: $70.0 million) in relation to effective fair value hedges. 132 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 14 Interest bearing liabilities continued Financing arrangements The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financing arrangements: Utilised Facility Limit Type of facility Notes Currency Security Maturity Date $m $m US senior notes (144A) (a) US$ Unsecured Mar-21 364.3 364.3 US Senior notes (USPP) 1 (b) US$ Unsecured Jul-23 to Nov-32 1,653.8 1,653.8 US Senior notes (USPP) (b) A$ Unsecured Jun-28 to Oct-38 325.0 325.0 Multi-option revolving credit facilities (c) Multi Currency Unsecured Nov-21 to Apr-27 571.0 2,200.0 Commercial paper (d) A$ Unsecured Sep-22 100.0 100.0 Medium term notes (e) A$ Unsecured Nov-22 to Aug-38 1,206.2 1,206.2 Exchangeable note (f) A$ Unsecured Jun-26 399.1 399.1 Total 4,619.4 6,248.4 Bank guarantee in place (55.6) Unused at balance date 1,573.4 1. Includes drawn amounts and excludes fair value adjustments recorded in interest bearing liabilities in relation to effective fair value hedges. Each of the Group’s unsecured borrowing facilities are supported by guarantee arrangements, and have negative pledge provisions which limit the amount and type of encumbrances that the Group can have over their assets and ensures that all senior unsecured debt ranks pari passu. a) US senior notes (144a) This includes a total of US$250.0 million (A$364.3 million) of US senior notes with a maturity of March 2021. The USD exposure is economically hedged using cross currency interest rate swaps with a notional value of US$250.0 million. b) US senior notes (USPP) This includes a total of US$1,135.0 million and A$325.0 million (A$1,978.8 million) of US senior notes with a weighted average maturity of February 2029. US$1,135.0 million is designated as an accounting hedge using cross currency interest rate swaps with the same notional value. c) Multi-option revolving credit facilities This includes 20 facilities maturing between Nov 2021 and April 2027 with a weighted average maturity of July 2024. A$55.6 million is utilised as bank guarantees for AFSL requirements and other business requirements including developments. d) Commercial paper This includes a total of A$100.0 million of Commercial Paper which is supported by a standby facility of A$100.0 million with a maturity of September 2022. The standby facility has same day availability. e) Medium term notes This includes a total of A$1,205.0 million of Medium Term Notes with a weighted average maturity of February 2029. The remaining A$1.2 million is the net premium on the issue of these instruments. f) Exchangeable notes This includes Exchangeable Notes with a face value totalling $425 million. The notes are exchangeable based on the exchange price (currently $15.00 representing approximately 28.3 million securities) on the exchange date, at the election of the holder, until 19 March 2024. The holders have an option to put the notes to the issuer for face value 60 days prior but not later than 30 days after 19 March 2024. On expiration of the put option, the notes continue to be exchangeable until 10 days prior to maturity on 19 June 2026. Any securities issued on exchange will rank equally with existing securities. As at 30 June 2020, no notes have been exchanged. Exchange price1 $15.00 Coupon (per annum) 2.30% Notes on issue at 30 June 2020 4,250,000 1. The exchange price has been adjusted for any subsequent equity raises completed at greater than 5% discount to the five-day VWAP prior to the raise. The price will also be adjusted in the event of any Dexus distributions which exceed quoted thresholds in the Exchangeable Note terms and conditions. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 133 Note 15 Commitments and contingencies a) Commitments Capital commitments The following amounts represent remaining capital expenditure on investment properties and inventories as well as committed fit-out or cash incentives contracted at the end of each reporting period but not recognised as liabilities payable: 2020 2019 $m $m Investment properties 94.7 129.6 Inventories and development management services 62.9 108.1 Investments accounted for using the equity method 200.2 276.5 Total capital commitments 357.8 514.2 Lease receivable commitments The future minimum lease payments receivable by the Group are: 2020 2019 $m $m Within one year 515.9 489.8 Later than one year but not later than five years 1,710.5 1,862.0 Later than five years 522.0 627.0 Total lease receivable commitments 2,748.4 2,978.8 b) Contingencies DDF, together with DIT, DOT and DXO, is a guarantor of A$6,248.4 million of interest bearing liabilities (refer to note 14). The guarantees have been given in support of debt outstanding and drawn against these facilities and may be called upon in the event that a borrowing entity has not complied with certain requirements such as failure to pay interest or repay a borrowing, whichever is earlier. During the period no guarantees were called. The Group has bank guarantees of $55.6 million, comprising $50.2 million held to comply with the terms of the Australian Financial Services Licences (AFSL) and $5.4 million largely in respect of developments. The above guarantees are issued in respect of the Group and represent an additional liability to those already existing in interest bearing liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Directors of the Responsible Entity are not aware of any other contingent liabilities in relation to the Group, other than those disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which should be brought to the attention of security holders as at the date of completion of this report. Outgoings are excluded from contingencies as they are expensed when incurred. Note 16 Contributed equity Number of securities on issue 2020 2019 No. of No. of securities securities Opening balance at the beginning of the year 1,096,857,665 1,017,196,877 Issue of additional equity – 79,660,788 Buy-back of contributed equity (5,655,502) – Closing balance at the end of the year 1,091,202,163 1,096,857,665 Each stapled security ranks equally with all other stapled securities for the purposes of distributions and on termination of the Group. Each stapled security entitles the holder to vote in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutions and the Corporations Act 2001. Transaction costs arising on the buy-back of equity instruments are recognised directly in equity (net of tax) as a reduction of the proceeds of the equity instruments to which the costs relate. Transaction costs are the costs that are incurred directly in connection with the buy-back of those equity instruments and which would not have been incurred had those instruments not been bought back. On 23 October 2019, Dexus announced plans to initiate an on-market securities buy-back of up to 5% of Dexus securities on issue over the next 12 months, as part of its active approach to capital management. During the period to 30 June 2020, Dexus acquired and cancelled 5,655,502 securities representing 0.52% of Dexus securities on issue. 134 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 17 Reserves 2020 2019 $m $m Asset revaluation reserve 42.7 42.7 Cash flow hedge reserve 24.0 17.8 Foreign currency basis spread reserve (8.8) (4.6) Security-based payments reserve 9.8 16.3 Treasury securities reserve (17.1) (18.5) Total reserves 50.6 53.7 Movements: Asset revaluation reserve Opening balance at the beginning of the year 42.7 42.7 Closing balance at the end of the year 42.7 42.7 Cash flow hedge reserve Opening balance at the beginning of the year 17.8 (12.5) Change in accounting policy adjustment (AASB 9 opening balance restatement) – 29.9 Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges 6.2 0.4 Closing balance at the end of the year 24.0 17.8 Foreign currency basis spread reserve Opening balance at the beginning of the period (4.6) – Changes in cost of hedge reserve (4.2) (4.6) Closing balance at the end of the period (8.8) (4.6) Security-based payments reserve Opening balance at the beginning of the year 16.3 12.5 Issue of securities to employees (12.3) (4.6) Security-based payments expense 5.8 8.4 Closing balance at the end of the year 9.8 16.3 Treasury securities reserve Opening balance at the beginning of the year (18.5) (15.5) Issue of securities to employees 12.3 6.4 Purchase of securities (10.9) (9.4) Closing balance at the end of the year (17.1) (18.5) Nature and purpose of reserves Asset revaluation reserve The asset revaluation reserve is used to record the fair value adjustment arising on a business combination. Cash flow hedge reserve The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges. Foreign currency basis spread reserve The foreign currency basis spread reserve is used to record the changes in the fair value of cross currency derivatives attributable to movements in foreign currency basis spreads, and represents a cost of hedging. Security-based payments reserve The security-based payments reserve is used to recognise the fair value of performance rights to be issued under the Deferred Short-Term Incentive Plans (DSTI) and the Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTI). Refer to note 22 for further details. Treasury securities reserve The treasury securities reserve is used to record the acquisition of securities purchased to fulfil the obligations of the Deferred Short-Term Incentive Plans (DSTI) and the Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTI). As at 30 June 2020, DXS held 1,670,920 stapled securities which includes acquisitions of 817,412 and unit vesting of 815,794 (2019: 1,580,175). Dexus 2020 Annual Report 135 Note 18 Working capital a) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. b) Receivables Rental income and management fees are brought to account on an accruals basis. Dividends and distributions are recognised when declared and, if not received at the end of the reporting period, reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as a receivable. Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for expected credit losses. Trade receivables are required to be settled within 30 days and are assessed on an ongoing basis for impairment. Receivables which are known to be uncollectable are written off by reducing the carrying amount directly. A provision for expected credit losses is recognised for expected credit losses on trade and other receivables. The provision for expected credit losses is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Cash flows relating to short-term receivables are not discounted as the effect of discounting is immaterial. The calculation of expected credit losses relating to rent and other receivables requires significant judgement to assess the future uncertainty of tenants’ ability to pay their debts. Expected credit losses have been estimated using a provision matrix that has been developed with reference to the Group’s historical credit loss experience, general economic conditions and forecasts, assumptions around rent relief that may be provided to tenants and tenant risk factors such as size, industry exposure and the Group’s understanding of the ability of tenants to pay their debts. Accordingly, expected credit losses include both the part of the rent receivable that is likely to be waived and any additional amount relating to credit risk associated with the financial condition of the tenant. In relation to distributions and fees receivables, an assessment has been performed taking into consideration the ability of the funds and mandates managed by the Group to cash settle their distributions and repay their fee receivables. For any provisions for doubtful debts, the corresponding expense has been recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within Property expenses. 2020 2019 $m $m Rent receivable 1 18.4 17.3 Less: provision for expected credit loss (7.5) (0.1) Total rent receivables 10.9 17.2 Distributions receivable 38.7 49.1 Fee receivable 33.1 58.5 Receivables from related entities 40.5 – Other receivables 9.0 19.2 Total other receivables 121.3 126.8 Total receivables 132.2 144.0 1. Rent receivable includes outgoings recoveries. 136 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Capital and financial risk management and working capital continued Note 18 Working capital continued b) Receivables continued The provision for expected credit loss for rent receivables (which includes outgoings recoveries) as at 30 June 2020 was determined as follows: $m Sector 30 June 2020 Office Industrial Total 0-30 days 1.7 0.7 2.4 31-60 days 1.6 0.7 2.3 61-90 days 1.3 0.6 1.9 91+ days 0.6 0.3 0.9 Total provision for expected credit loss 5.2 2.3 7.5 The provision for expected credit loss for distributions receivable, fees receivable and other receivables that has been recorded is minimal. The provision for expected credit loss for rent receivables as at the reporting date reconciles to the opening loss allowances as follows: Trade receivables 2020 2019 $m $m Opening provision for expected credit loss (0.1) (0.1) Increase in provision recognised in profit or loss during the year (7.4) – Closing provision for expected credit loss (7.5) (0.1) c) Other current assets 2020 2019 $m $m Prepayments 14.9 15.4 Other 13.4 5.2 Total other current assets 28.3 20.6 d) Payables 2020 2019 $m $m Trade creditors 56.0 43.5 Accruals 8.8 12.1 Accrued capital expenditure 60.1 86.1 Prepaid income 19.0 13.3 Accrued interest 34.8 30.4 Other payables 1.1 3.4 Total payables 179.8 188.8 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 137 e) Provisions A provision is recognised when a current obligation exists as a result of a past event and it is probable that a future outflow of cash or other benefit will be required to settle the obligation. In accordance with the Trust’s Constitution, the Group distributes its distributable income to unitholders by cash or reinvestment. Distributions are provided for when they are approved by the Board of Directors and declared. Provision for employee benefits relates to the liabilities for wages, salaries, annual leave and long service leave. Liabilities for employee benefits for wages, salaries and annual leave expected to be settled within 12 months represent present obligations resulting from employees’ services provided to the end of the reporting period. They are measured based on remuneration wage and salary rates that the Group expects to pay at the end of the reporting period including related on-costs, such as workers compensation, insurance and payroll tax. The provision for employee benefits for long service leave represents the present value of the estimated future cash outflows, to be made resulting from employees’ services provided to the end of the reporting period. The provision is calculated using expected future increases in wage and salary rates including related on-costs and expected settlement dates based on turnover history and is discounted using the Australian Corporate Bond Index rates at the end of the reporting period that most closely matches the term of the maturity of the related liabilities. The provision for employee benefits also includes the employee incentives schemes which are shown separately in note 22. 2020 2019 $m $m Provision for distribution 254.3 252.3 Provision for employee benefits 25.5 31.9 Total current provisions 279.8 284.2 Movements in each class of provision during the financial year, other than employee benefits, are set out below: 2020 2019 $m $m Provision for distribution Opening balance at the beginning of the year 252.3 245.3 Additional provisions 550.3 529.0 Payment of distributions (548.3) (522.0) Closing balance at the end of the year 254.3 252.3 A provision for distribution has been raised for the period ended 30 June 2020. This distribution is to be paid on 28 August 2020. 138 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Other disclosures In this section This section includes other information that must be disclosed to comply with the Accounting Standards, the Corporations Act 2001 or the Corporations Regulations, but which are not considered critical in understanding the financial performance or position of the Group. Note 19 Intangible assets Management rights represent the asset management rights owned by Dexus Holdings Pty Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of DXO, which entitles it to management fee revenue from both finite life trusts and indefinite life trusts. Those rights that are deemed to have a finite useful life (held at a value of $0.5 million (2019: $3.3 million) are measured at cost and amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated remaining useful lives of 9 years. Management rights that are deemed to have an indefinite life are held at a value of $286.0 million (2019: $286.0 million). Software is measured at cost and amortised using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, expected to be three to five years. 2020 2019 $m $m Management rights Opening balance at the beginning of the year 289.4 289.8 Impairment of management rights (2.6) – Amortisation charge (0.3) (0.4) Closing balance at the end of the year 286.5 289.4 Cost 294.4 294.4 Accumulated amortisation (5.3) (5.0) Accumulated impairment (2.6) – Total management rights 286.5 289.4 Goodwill Opening balance at the beginning of the year 1.0 1.1 Additions 2.9 – Impairment (3.0) (0.1) Closing balance at the end of the year 0.9 1.0 Cost 5.9 3.0 Accumulated impairment (5.0) (2.0) Total goodwill 0.9 1.0 Software Opening balance at the beginning of the year 31.7 23.7 Additions 19.2 14.0 Amortisation charge (5.5) (6.0) Closing balance at the end of the year 45.4 31.7 Cost 67.9 48.7 Accumulated amortisation (22.5) (17.0) Cost – Fully amortised assets written off (7.5) (7.2) Accumulated amortisation – Fully amortised assets written off 7.5 7.2 Total software 45.4 31.7 Total non-current intangible assets 332.8 322.1 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 139 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill and management rights with an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units). During the year, management carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its management rights, including an assessment of the impacts of COVID-19. On 4 March 2020, it was announced that Dexus will cease the management of the Australian Mandate portfolio, managed on behalf of the NSW Treasury Corporation from 30 June 2020. As a result, the carrying value of the management rights related to the Australian Mandate have been written down to nil. Cash flow forecasts related to the remaining management rights have been updated to reflect the impact of COVID-19, which have not lead to a reduction in carrying amounts. The Directors and management have considered the key assumptions adopted and have not identified impairments of those carrying amounts. The value in use has been determined using Board approved long-term forecasts in a five-year discounted cash flow model and applying a terminal value in year five. Forecasts were based on projected returns of the business in light of current market conditions. Key assumptions: value in use of management rights Judgement is required in determining the following key assumptions used to calculate the value in use: – Terminal capitalisation rate range of between 10.0%-20.0% (2019: 10.0%–20.0%) was used incorporating an appropriate risk premium for a management business. – Cash flows have been discounted at 9.0% (2019: 9.0%) based on externally published weighted average cost of capital for an appropriate peer group plus an appropriate premium for risk. A 1.0% (2019 1.0%) decrease in the discount rate would increase the valuation by $25.8 million (2019: $24.0 million). – An average growth rate of 3% (2019: 3%) has been applied to forecast cashflows. Note 20 Audit, taxation and transaction service fees During the year, the Auditor and its related practices earned the following remuneration: 2020 2019 $'000 $'000 Audit fees PwC Australia – audit and review of Financial Statements 1,535 1,596 PwC Australia – outgoings audits 127 122 PwC Australia – regulatory audit and compliance services 261 213 PwC Australia – sustainability assurance 104 90 Audit fees paid to PwC 2,027 2,021 Taxation fees Fees paid to PwC Australia and New Zealand – 30 Taxation fees paid to PwC – 30 Total audit and taxation fees paid to PwC 2,027 2,051 Transaction services fees Fees paid to PWC Australia in respect of the acquisition of 80 Collins St – 90 Fees paid to PwC Australia – other 132 112 Total transaction services fees paid to PwC 132 202 Total audit, taxation and transaction services fees paid to PwC 2,159 2,253 140 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Other disclosures continued Note 21 Cash flow information a) Reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities Reconciliation of net profit after income tax to net cash inflows from operating activities: 2020 2019 $m $m Net profit/(loss) for the year 983.0 1,281.0 Capitalised interest (9.5) (24.4) Depreciation and amortisation 13.2 10.3 Amortisation of incentives and straight line income 69.9 62.0 Impairment of intangibles 5.6 – Impairment of investments accounted for using the equity method 12.2 – Loss on other assets at fair value 2.7 – Net fair value (gain)/loss of investment properties (386.5) (455.4) Share of net (profit)/loss of investments accounted for using the equity method (494.7) (535.6) Net fair value (gain)/loss of derivatives (26.7) (146.1) Net fair value (gain)/loss of interest rate swaps 29.4 34.9 Amortisation of deferred borrowing costs 3.7 3.9 Net (gain)/loss on sale of investment properties 0.4 (0.4) Net fair value gain/(loss) of interest bearing liabilities 168.3 127.8 Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss (0.1) – Distributions from investments accounted for using the equity method 312.2 214.8 Change in operating assets and liabilities (Increase)/decrease in receivables 15.7 (56.6) (Increase)/decrease in prepaid expenses 0.5 11.3 (Increase)/decrease in inventories 121.9 (17.4) (Increase)/decrease in other current assets (59.3) (1.8) (Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets (8.7) (37.7) Increase/(decrease) in payables (20.7) (1.7) Increase/(decrease) in current tax liabilities (24.1) 16.3 Increase/(decrease) in current liabilities (10.7) 5.5 Increase/(decrease) in other non-current liabilities 16.6 6.7 (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax liabilities 15.6 (4.3) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 729.9 493.1 b) Net debt reconciliation Reconciliation of net debt movements: 2020 2019 Interest Interest bearing bearing liabilities liabilities $m $m Opening balance 4,066.6 3,359.8 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from borrowings 5,244.8 4,914.0 Repayment of borrowings (4,686.1) (4,399.8) Non-cash changes Movement in deferred borrowing costs and other 0.8 (36.0) The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 43.6 100.8 Fair value hedge adjustment 168.3 127.8 Closing balance 4,838.0 4,066.6 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 141 Note 22 Security-based payments The DXFM Board has approved a grant of performance rights to DXS stapled securities to eligible participants. Awards, via the Deferred Short-Term Incentive Plans (DSTI) and Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTI), will be in the form of performance rights awarded to eligible participants which convert to DXS stapled securities for nil consideration subject to satisfying specific service and performance conditions. For each Plan, the eligible participants will be granted performance rights, based on performance against agreed key performance indicators, as a percentage of their remuneration mix. Participants must remain in employment for the vesting period in order for the performance rights to vest. Non-market vesting conditions, including Adjusted Funds from Operations (AFFO), Return on Contributed Equity (ROCE) and employment status at vesting, are included in assumptions about the number of performance rights that are expected to vest. When performance rights vest, the Group will arrange for the allocation and delivery of the appropriate number of securities to the participant. The fair value of performance rights granted is recognised as an employee benefit expense with a corresponding increase in the security-based payments reserve in equity. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the performance rights granted. Key assumptions: fair value of performance rights granted Judgement is required in determining the fair value of performance rights granted. In accordance with AASB 2 Share-based Payment, fair value is determined independently using Binomial and Monte Carlo pricing models with reference to: – the expected life of the rights – the security price at grant date – the expected price volatility of the underlying security – the expected distribution yield – the risk-free interest rate for the term of the rights and expected total security-holder returns (where applicable) The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of performance rights that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. The impact of the revised estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to equity. a) Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan Under the Short-Term Incentive Plan (STI) 25% of any award for certain participants will be deferred and awarded in the form of performance rights to DXS securities. 50% of the performance rights awards will vest one year after grant and 50% of the awards will vest two years after grant, subject to participants satisfying employment service conditions. In accordance with AASB 2 Share-based Payment, the year of employment in which participants become eligible for the DSTI, the year preceding the grant, is included in the vesting period over which the fair value of the performance rights is amortised. Consequently, 50% of the fair value of the performance rights is amortised over two years and 50% of the award is amortised over three years. The number of performance rights granted in respect of the year ended 30 June 2020 was 239,769 (2019: 410,171) and the fair value of these performance rights is $13.10 (2019: $9.71) per performance right. The total security-based payments expense recognised during the year ended 30 June 2020 was $2,523,561 (2019: $3,395,774). b) Long Term Incentive Plan 50% of the awards will vest three years after grant and 50% of the awards will vest four years after grant, subject to participants satisfying employment service conditions and performance hurdles. In accordance with AASB 2 Share-based Payment, the year of employment in which participants become eligible for the LTI, the year preceding the grant, is included in the vesting period over which the fair value of the performance rights is amortised. Consequently, 50% of the fair value of the performance rights is amortised over four years and 50% of the award is amortised over five years. The number of performance rights granted in respect of the year ended 30 June 2020 was 443,657 (2019: 594,094). The weighted average fair value of these performance rights is $11.39 (2019: $8.18) per performance right. The total security-based payments expense recognised during the year ended 30 June 2020 was $2,229,150 (2019: $3,470,130). 142 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Other disclosures continued Note 23 Related parties Responsible Entity and Investment Manager DXH is the parent entity of DXFM, the Responsible Entity of DDF, DIT, DOT and DXO and the Trustee of DOTA and the investment manager of DOTA and DITA. DXH is also the parent entity of DWPL and DWFL, the Responsible Entities of DWPF and HWPF respectively. Management Fees Under the terms of the Constitutions of the entities within the Group, the Responsible Entity and Investment Manager are entitled to receive fees in relation to the management of the Group. DXFM’s parent entity, DXH, is entitled to be reimbursed for administration expenses incurred on behalf of the Group. Dexus Property Services Pty Limited (DXPS), a wholly owned subsidiary of DXH, is entitled to property management fees from the Group. The Group received Responsible Entity and other Management Fees from the unlisted property funds managed by DXS during the financial year. Related party transactions Transactions between the consolidated entity and related parties were made on commercial terms and conditions. All agreements with third party funds and joint ventures are conducted on normal commercial terms and conditions. Transactions with related parties 2020 2019 ‘000 ‘000 Responsible Entity (investment management fees) 64,415.5 56,587.9 Property management fee income 38,929.6 36,590.9 Development services revenue (DS), Development management (DM), Project Delivery Group (PDG), capital expenditure and leasing fee income 145,896.9 17,654.5 Rent paid 5,298.0 3,012.5 Responsible Entity fees receivable at the end of each reporting year (included above) 17,042.0 19,224.0 Property management fees receivable at the end of each reporting year (included above) 3,287.0 9,505.0 DM, PDG, capital expenditure and leasing fees receivable at the end of each reporting year (included above) 44,629.5 10,725.2 Key management personnel compensation 2020 2019 ‘000 ‘000 Compensation Short-term employee benefits 8,278.8 9,882.4 Post-employment benefits 384.5 368.6 Security-based payments 3,675.5 5,917.6 Total key management personnel compensation 12,338.8 16,168.6 Information regarding individual Directors’ and Executive KMPs’ remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 86 of the Annual Report. There have been no other transactions with key management personnel during the year. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 143 Note 24 Parent entity disclosures The financial information for the parent entity of Dexus Diversified Trust has been prepared on the same basis as the Consolidated Financial Statements except as set out below. Distributions received from associates are recognised in the parent entity’s Statement of Comprehensive Income, rather than being deducted from the carrying amount of these investments. Interests held by the parent entity in controlled entities are measured at fair value through profit and loss to reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency. a) Summary financial information The individual Financial Statements for the parent entity show the following aggregate amounts: 2020 2019 $m $m Total current assets 112.3 51.6 Total assets 6,141.6 5,873.8 Total current liabilities – payables 469.0 130.7 Total liabilities 2,693.2 2,538.2 Equity Contributed equity 2,381.4 2,399.0 Reserves 15.2 13.2 Retained profits 1,051.8 923.4 Total equity 3,448.4 3,335.6 Net profit/(loss) for the year 284.6 315.7 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 286.6 311.5 b) Guarantees entered into by the parent entity Refer to note 15 for details of guarantees entered into by the parent entity. c) Contingent liabilities Refer to note 15 for details of the parent entity’s contingent liabilities. d) Capital commitments The following amounts represent capital expenditure of the parent entity on investment properties contracted at the end of the reporting period but not recognised as liabilities payable: 2020 2019 $m $m Investment properties 7.4 60.0 Total capital commitments 7.4 60.0 e) Going concern The parent entity is a going concern. The Group has un-utilised facilities of $1,573.4 million (2019: $921.0 million) (refer to note 14) and sufficient working capital and cash flows in order to fund all requirements arising from the net current asset deficiency of the parent entity as at 30 June 2020 of $355.1 million (2019: $79.1 million). The deficiency is largely driven by the US senior notes of $364.3 million which is due to mature in March 2021. 144 Financial Report – Notes to the Financial Statements Other disclosures continued Note 25 Changes in accounting policies The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit AASB 16 Leases in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the AASB 16 Leases (AASB 16) is effective for annual reporting periods Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group uses beginning on or after 1 January 2019. AASB 16 was adopted its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. Variable by the Group on 1 July 2019. The Group has adopted AASB 16 lease payments that depend on an index or rate are included retrospectively upon implementation of this standard, however in the lease liability, measured using the index or rate as at comparatives have not been restated as permitted under the the date of transition. specific transition provisions in the standard. The right-of-use The lease liability is subsequently increased by the interest cost asset has been measured at an amount equal to the lease on the lease liability and decreased by lease payments made. liability, adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease payments The liability is remeasured when there is a change in future lease relating to that lease recognised in the Consolidated Statement payments arising from a change in index or rate or changes in of Financial Position immediately before the date of initial the assessment of whether an extension option is reasonably application. The changes and considerations are detailed below. certain to be exercised or a termination option is reasonably Under AASB 16, as a Lessee, the Group recognises a right-of-use certain not to be exercised. Interest costs and variable lease asset and lease liability on the Consolidated Statements of payments not included in the initial measurement of the lease Financial Position for all material leases. Right-of-use assets liability are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of that meet the definition of investment property under AASB 140 Comprehensive Income in the period to which they relate. Investment Property are measured at fair value and presented The Group has applied judgement to determine the lease term within Investment property (see section on Ground Leases for contracts which include renewal and termination options. below). Therefore, the Group recognises the right-of-use assets The Group’s assessment considered the facts and circumstances in two separate ways, as investment property for ground leases that create an economic incentive to exercise a renewal option and as right-of-use assets for all other leases. or not to exercise a termination option. In relation to leases of low value assets, such as IT equipment, The Group’s right-of-use assets include ground and small items of office furniture or short-term leases with a term property leases. of 12 months or less, the Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. The Group recognises Ground Leases the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense On transition to AASB 16 on 1 July 2019, a lease liability in relation in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a to leasehold arrangements of investment properties is required straight-line basis over the lease term. to be separately disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and lease liability Financial Position. To ensure this treatment does not result in on the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is an inaccurate net position, the carrying value of investment initially measured at cost, and subsequently at cost less any properties has been adjusted (grossed up) so that the net accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for of these two balances equal the fair value of the investment any remeasurements of the lease liability. The cost of the rightproperties. The Group has recorded any ground leases with a of-use asset includes: peppercorn rent at their nominal amount. As at 30 June 2020, – The amount of initial measurement of the lease liability $9.2 million of lease liabilities and $9.2 million of right-of-use – Any lease payments made at or before the commencement assets within investment property in relation to ground leases date, less any lease incentives received have been recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. – Any initial direct costs, and – Makegood costs Practical expedients Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis On transition to AASB 16, the Group elected to apply the from the commencement date of the lease to the earlier of the practical expedient to grandfather the assessment of contracts end of the useful life of the asset or the end of the lease term, entered into before the transition date which qualified as leases. unless they meet the definition of an investment property. The Group has therefore only applied the principles of AASB 16 The Group tests all right-of-use assets for impairment where to leases which were either previously identified as leases there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired. If an under AASB 117 Leases and Interpretation 4 Determining Whether impairment exists, the carrying amount of the asset is written an Arrangement Contains a Lease or new contracts entered into down to its recoverable amount as per the requirements of on or after 1 July 2019 which meets the revised lease definition AASB 136 Impairment of Assets. as per AASB 16. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 145 Impact on transition Note 26 Subsequent events Impact on Group as a lessor On 3 August 2020, settlement occurred for the acquisition of 155, The Group leases its investment property and has classified 159 & 171 Edward Street, Brisbane QLD for $87.5 million excluding these leases as operating leases. The accounting polices acquisition costs. applicable to the Group as a lessor are not different from On 30 July 2020, Dexus exercised its put option in relation to the those under AASB 117 Leases. However, the Group has sale of its remaining 25% interest in 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney applied AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers for $157.5 million excluding disposal costs. Settlement is expected to allocate consideration in the contract between lease to occur in August 2020. and non-lease components. On 30 July 2020, Dexus entered into an agreement to sell the The adoption of the new AASB 16 standard has no impact on following assets to DALT at a price of $269.4 million excluding the financial reporting of the Group from a lessor perspective disposal costs: and therefore no adjustment is required to this effect. – 47-53 Foundation Drive, Truganina VIC (tranche 1) Impact on Group as a lessee – 380 Doherty’s Road, Truganina VIC (tranche 1) On transition to AASB 16, the Group recognised $18.3 million – 7 Custom Place, Truganina VIC (tranche 2) of right-of-use assets, $9.8 million of Investment Property and – 9 Custom Place, Truganina VIC (tranche 2) $29.0 million of lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement – 58 Foundation Road, Truganina VIC (tranche 2) of Financial Position. – 11 Lord Street, Botany NSW (Lakes Business Park South) In measuring lease liabilities for leases that were classified as (50% in tranche 1 and 50% in tranche 2) operating leases, the Group discounted lease payments using Dexus has exchanged contracts to sell the first tranche of the its incremental borrowing rate at 1 July 2019. The weighted portfolio in October 2020 and entered into put and call option average rate applied was 3.20%. arrangements to sell the second tranche in mid-2021. The difference between the operating lease commitments Rent relief that is expected to be given as a rent waiver for the disclosed at 30 June 2019 discounted using the incremental period April to June 2020 to tenants that are not in arrears as borrowing rate at 1 July 2019 and the liabilities recognised at at 30 June 2020 is estimated to total $11.8 million. This includes 1 July 2019 reflects: waivers for investment properties and investments properties – Adjustments as a result of different treatment of extension held within investments accounted for using the equity method. and termination options There remains significant uncertainty regarding how the – Recognition exemption for leases of low value assets, and COVID-19 pandemic will evolve, including the duration of the – Recognition exemption for leases with less than 12 months pandemic, the severity of the downturn and the speed of Within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, economic recovery. In accordance with AASB 110 Events after the the Group has separately recognised a depreciation expense Reporting Date, the Group considered whether events after the and interest expense, instead of an operating lease expense. reporting period confirmed conditions that existed before the During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group recognised reporting date, e.g. bankruptcy of customers. Consideration was $0.6 million of fair value losses, $3.4 million of depreciation given to the macro-economic impact of lockdowns implemented charges and $0.8 million of interest. No depreciation is in Victoria in the beginning of July 2020, and the closure of the recognised for the right-of-use assets that meet the definition border between Victoria and New South Wales on 7 July 2020, of investment property. and the Group concluded that the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and the disclosures therein The impact of AASB 16 is shown within “Rental guarantees, are appropriate. The economic environment is subject to rapid coupon income and other” in note 1 Operating Segments. change and updated facts and circumstances continue to be closely monitored by the Group. Since the end of the year other than the matters disclosed above, the Directors are not aware of any matter or circumstance not otherwise dealt with in their Directors’ Report or the Consolidated Financial Statements that has significantly or may significantly affect the operations of the Trust, the results of those operations, or state of the Trust’s affairs in future financial periods. 146 Financial Report – Director’s Declaration Director’s Declaration The Directors of Dexus Funds Management Limited as Responsible Entity of Dexus Diversified Trust declare that the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes set out on pages 92 to 145: (i) comply with Australian Accounting Standards, the Corporations Act 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements; and (ii) give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2020 and of its performance, as represented by the results of its operations and their cash flows, for the year ended on that date. In the Directors’ opinion: (a) the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001; (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Group and its consolidated entities will be able to pay their debts as and when they become due and payable; and (c) the Group has operated in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution dated 15 August 1984 (as amended) during the year ended 30 June 2020. The Consolidated Financial Statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The Directors have been given the declarations by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. W Richard Sheppard Chair 18 August 2020 Dexus 2020 Annual Report 147 Independent Auditor’s Report 148 Financial Report – Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report continued Dexus 2020 Annual Report 149 150 Financial Report – Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report continued Dexus 2020 Annual Report 151 152 Financial Report – Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report continued Dexus 2020 Annual Report 153 154 Financial Report – Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report continued Dexus 2020 Annual Report 155 Investor information Dexus recognises the importance of effective communication with existing and potential institutional investors, sell‑side analysts and retail investors. Our Executives and the Investor Relations team maintain a strong rapport with the investment community through proactive and regular engagement initiatives. We are committed to delivering high levels of transparency and disclosure by: – Releasing accurate and relevant information to investors to ensure they can make informed investment decisions – Providing regular access to senior management through one-on-one meetings, presentations, property tours, conferences, dedicated investor roadshows, conference calls and webcasts We adopt strong governance practices including a policy that ensures a minimum of two Dexus representatives participate in any institutional investor or sell-side broker meetings and that a record of the meeting is maintained on an internal customer relationship management database. During FY20, senior management together with the Investor Relations team held 230 engagements with investor/broker groups to discuss the group’s business strategy, operational and financial performance. These engagements were undertaken across a wide range of investor activities including telephone calls, conferences, roadshows, one-on-one meetings, dinners, investor briefings and roundtables. Investor contact method (by number) Security holders by geography 8% 82 97 7% 38% 12% 9 25% 6 10% 36 One-on-one meetings Property tour Australia Europe (ex UK) Group meetings Telephone call UK Asia Panel/presentation North America Rest of world We participated in investor conferences and roadshows in Australia, London and New York. As a consequence of the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent International travel restrictions, we also participated in a number of virtual conferences which were attended by domestic and international institutional investors. These conferences and roadshows enabled access to potential new investors and assisted with strengthening existing relationships with long term investors. We regularly commission independent investor perception studies to gather feedback from the institutional investment community. These studies involve independent surveys and interviews with institutional investors and sell-side brokers to measure perceptions on a number of attributes and report on the findings. The results help the Board and Executive team understand the investment community’s views and concerns and assists in the enhancement of the group’s Investor Relations and communications activities. In 2019, the Australasian Investor Relations Association (AIRA) awarded Dexus first place for Best International Investors Relations by an Australasian Company and Dexus was a finalist in the Best Investor Day by an Australasian Company category at their annual awards evening. Our Treasury team held presentations with institutional debt investors in September 2019 and February 2020. In addition, the team participated in the Property Treasurers’ Round Table events facilitated by the Property Council of Australia and regularly met with banks, rating agencies and other credit investors. 156 Investor information Investor information continued Annual General Meeting Annual Statement (previously the Annual In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, we will be convening our Taxation Statement) Annual General Meeting differently this year. The health and An Attribution Managed Investment Trust Member Annual safety of our Security holders, our employees, all of their families, Statement (AMMA) is sent to investors at the end of August each and the broader community, is paramount. year. The statement summarises distributions provided during Dexus will be holding a fully virtual Annual General Meeting the financial year and includes information required to complete (AGM) on Friday 23 October 2020 commencing at 2.00pm. your tax return. AMMA statements are also available online at We encourage all Security holders and proxyholders www.dexus.com/update to participate in the Meeting via the online platform at www.dexus.com. To do this you will need a desktop or 2021 Reporting calendar1 mobile/tablet device with internet access. 2020 Annual General Meeting You should log onto the Meeting platform at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting commencing. You will need to provide your 23 October 2020 details (including SRN) to be verified as a Security holder or proxyholder. From this platform you will be able to vote on the HY21 Half year results Resolutions, if you haven’t done so already and ask questions 10 February 2021 Details relating to the meeting, will be provided to all investors in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be FY21 Annual results despatched to Security holders electronically/and by mail 17 August 2021 in mid-September 2020. 2021 Annual General Meeting Distribution payments 27 October 2021 Dexus’s payout policy is to distribute in line with free cash flow. Distributions are paid for the six-month periods to 31 December Distribution calendar1 and 30 June each year. Distribution statements are available Period end 31 December 2020 30 June 2021 in print and electronic formats and distributions are paid only Ex-distribution date 30 December 2020 29 June 2021 by direct credit into nominated bank accounts for all Australian and New Zealand Security holders and by cheque for other Record date 31 December 2020 30 June 2021 international Security holders. To update the method of Payment date 26 February 2021 30 August 2021 receiving distributions, please visit the investor login facility at www.dexus.com/update Go electronic for convenience and speed Did you know that you can receive all or part of your security Unclaimed distribution income holder communications electronically? You can change your Unpresented cheques or unclaimed distribution income can be communication preferences at any time by logging in at claimed by contacting the Dexus Infoline on +61 1800 819 675. www.dexus.com/update or by contacting Link Market Services For monies outstanding greater than seven years, please on +61 1800 819 675. contact the NSW Office of State Revenue on +61 1300 366 016, 8.30am-5.00pm Monday to Friday, use their search facility at osr.nsw.gov.au/ucm or email unclaimedmoney@osr.nsw.gov.au Dexus 2020 Annual Report 157 2020 Annual Reporting Suite Making contact Dexus’s 2020 Annual Reporting Suite for the year ended If you have any questions regarding your Security holding or wish 30 June 2020, is available at www.dexus.com/investor-centre to update your personal or distribution payment details, please The reporting suite includes: contact the Registry by calling the Dexus Infoline on +61 1800 819 675. This service is available from 8.30am to 5.30pm (Sydney time) 2020 Annual Report on all business days. All correspondence should be addressed to: An integrated summary of the value created across Dexus’s key Dexus resources and the Consolidated Financial report. C/Link Market Services Limited Locked Bag A14 2020 Financial Statements Sydney South NSW 1235 The Financial Statements for Dexus Industrial Trust, Dexus Office Phone: +61 1800 819 675 Trust and Dexus Operations Trust, which should be read in Email: dexus@linkmarketservices.com.au conjunction with the 2020 Annual Report. We are committed to delivering a high level of service to all 2020 Sustainability Report investors. If you feel we could improve our service or you would like to make a suggestion or a complaint, your feedback is The Sustainability Report incorporates the Sustainability appreciated. Our contact details are: Performance Pack, Sustainability Data Appendix, Sustainability Approach and Procedures, GRI Content Index Investor Relations and Assurance Statement, supporting the results outlined in the 2020 Annual Report. Dexus PO Box R1822 2020 Annual Results Presentation Royal Exchange NSW 1225 Email: ir@dexus.com A summary of Dexus’s operational and financial performance. Complaints handling process 2020 Corporate Governance Statement Dexus has a complaints handling policy to ensure that all The Corporate Governance Statement outlines Dexus’s Security holders are dealt with fairly, promptly and consistently. corporate governance framework. Any Security holder wishing to lodge a complaint, can do The 2020 Annual Reporting Suite is available in hard copy by so verbally by calling the Dexus Infoline on +612 1800 819 675 email request to ir@dexus.com or by calling +61 1800 819 675. or in writing to: Investor communications Dispute Resolutions Officer Dexus Funds Management Limited We are committed to ensuring all investors have equal access to PO Box R1822 information. In line with our commitment to long term integration Royal Exchange NSW 1225 of sustainable business practices, investor communications are or email to ir@dexus.com provided via various electronic methods including: Dexus’s website – www.dexus.com Dexus Funds Management Limited is a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA), an independent dispute Other investor tools available include: resolution scheme which may be contacted at: Online enquiry – www.dexus.com/get-in-touch Australian Financial Complaints Authority Limited Scroll down to the investor section to get in touch with us GPO Box 3 Melbourne VIC 3001 Investor login – www.dexus.com/update Phone: +61 1800 931 678 (free call within Australia) enables investors to update their details and download statements Fax: +61 3 9613 6399 Email: info@afca.org.au Subscribe to alerts – www.dexus.com/subscribe Website: www.afca.org.au enables investors to receive Dexus communications immediately after release Key dates – notifies investors on key events and reporting dates LinkedIn – We engage with our followers on LinkedIn www.dexus.com/LinkedIn and click follow us 1. Please note that these dates are indicative and are subject to change without prior notice. Any changes in our key dates will be published on our website. 158 Investor information Additional information Top 20 Security holders at 31 July 2020 % of issued Rank Name No of units capital 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 475,013,957 43.53 2 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Pty Limited 251,768,159 23.07 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 119,696,857 10.97 4 National Nominees Limited 41,579,468 3.81 5 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <DRP> 31,770,353 2.91 6 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending DRP A/C > 31,531,863 2.89 7 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited <Colonial First State Inv A/C> 11,849,850 1.09 8 Merrill Lynch (Australia) Nominees Pty Limited 10,178,943 0.93 9 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited <NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A/C> 3,682,918 0.34 10 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS Super A/C> 2,776,304 0.25 11 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited-GSCO ECA 2,096,359 0.19 12 Netwealth Investments Limited <Wrap Services A/C> 1,952,173 0.18 13 AMP Life Limited 1,940,758 0.18 14 Pacific Custodians Pty Limited Perf Rights Plan TST 1,670,920 0.15 15 BNP Paribas Nominees (NZ) Ltd <DRP> 1,651,852 0.15 16 Brispot Nominees Pty Ltd <House Head Nominee A/C> 1,632,620 0.15 17 One Managed Investment Funds Limited <Charter Hall Maxim Property Securities A/C> 1,500,000 0.14 18 Charter Hall Wholesale Management Ltd 1,420,000 0.13 19 Avanteos Investments Limited <Encircle IMA A/C> 1,259,056 0.12 20 Morgan Stanley Australia Securities (Nominee) Pty Limited <No 1 Account> 1,247,154 0.11 Sub total 996,219,564 91.30 Balance of register 94,982,599 8.70 Total of issued capital 1,091,202,163 100.00 Substantial holders at 31 July 2020 The names of substantial holders, at 31 July 2020 that have notified the Responsible Entity in accordance with section 671B of the Corporations Act 2001, are: Number of stapled Date Name securities % voting 12 May 2020 Blackrock Group 107,340,102 9.83 8 Apr 2019 State Street Corporation 70,998,322 6.98 21 Dec 2018 Vanguard Group 102,882,077 10.11 Note: Dexus issued capital changed from 1,096,857,665 to 1,091,202,163 between December 2019 and March 2020 as a result of purchasing DXS Securities as part of the on-market securities buy back facility that was announced to the ASX on 23 October 2019. Class of securities Dexus has one class of stapled security trading on the ASX with Security holders holding stapled securities at 31 July 2020. Dexus 2020 Annual Report 159 Spread of Securities at 31 July 2020 Range Securities % No. of Holders 100,000 and over 1,011,817,884 92.73 65 50,000 to 100,000 3,587,369 0.33 53 10,001 to 50,000 19,797,242 1.81 1,146 5,001 to 10,000 18,276,021 1.68 2,653 1,001 to 5,000 32,237,893 2.95 13,448 1 to 1,000 5,485,754 0.50 11,789 Total 1,091,202,163 100.00 29,154 At 31 July 2020, the number of security holders holding less than a marketable parcel of 59 Securities ($500) was 737 and they held a total of 15,724 securities. Voting rights At meetings of the security holders of Dexus Diversified Trust, Dexus Industrial Trust, Dexus Office Trust and Dexus Operations Trust, being the Trusts that comprise Dexus, on a show of hands, each Security holder of each Trust has one vote. On a poll, each Security holder of each Trust has one vote for each dollar of the value of the total interests they have in the Trust. Securities restricted or subject to voluntary escrow There are no stapled securities that are restricted or subject to voluntary escrow. On-market buy-back Dexus announced an on-market securities buy-back program on 23 October 2019 for up to 5% of DXS securities. Throughout the year, Dexus acquired 5,655,502 Securities for $62 million at an average price of $10.96 under the buy-back program. As at the date of this report the buy-back program is still open. Cost base apportionment For capital gains tax purposes, the cost base apportionment details for Dexus securities for the 12 months ended 30 June 2020 are: Dexus Dexus Dexus Dexus Diversified Industrial Office Operations Date Trust Trust Trust Trust 1 Jul 2019 to 31 Dec 2019 28.39% 8.11% 60.91% 2.59% 1 Jan 2020 to 30 Jun 2020 28.04% 7.57% 61.48% 2.91% Historical cost base details are available at www.dexus.com 160 Investor information Key ASX announcements 30 July 2020 Dexus secures future trading profits while 13 December 2019 December 2019 distribution details growing Dexus Australian Logistics Trust (DALT) 13 December 2019 Appendix 3A Notification of distribution 7 July 2020 Dexus Australian Logistics Trust acquires two 12 December 2019 $656 million uplift from independent quality industrial assets valuations 24 June 2020 Resilience of property portfolio valuations at 14 November 2019 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest 30 June 2020 Notice for Darren Steinberg 24 June 2020 Sale of 45 Clarence Street, Sydney for 12 November 2019 Settlement of first tranche of 201 Elizabeth $530 million Street Sydney 23 June 2020 Towards Climate Resilience report 7 November 2019 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest Notice for Richard Sheppard 16 June 2020 Estimated distribution for the six months to 30 June 2020 7 November 2019 Appendix 3D – Changes relating to buy-back 16 June 2020 Appendix 3A Notification of distribution 30 October 2019 2019 Annual General Meeting results 4 June 2020 Settlement of JV acquisition of interest in 30 October 2019 2019 Annual General Meeting release Rialto Towers Melbourne 28 October 2019 Response to Grocon media release 1 June 2020 FY20 distribution guidance update 23 October 2019 September 2019 quarter portfolio update 11 May 2020 Appendix 3Y – Change of Director’s Interest Notice for Patrick Allaway 23 October 2019 Appendix 3C – Announcement of buy-back 5 May 2020 COVID-19 and March 2020 quarter portfolio 15 October 2019 Board Investor Presentation update 15 October 2019 Citi Australian and New Zealand Investor 5 May 2020 2020 Macquarie Australia Conference Conference 9 April 2020 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest 11 October 2019 Grant of ASX waiver from ASX Listing Rule 14.7 Notice for Mark Ford 5 September 2019 2019 Notice of Annual General Meeting 7 April 2020 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest 17 September 2019 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest Notice for Nicola Roxon Notice for Nicola Roxon 6 April 2020 Dexus establishes new JV to acquire interest 2 September 2019 Sale of North Shore Health Hub to HWPF in Rialto Towers Melbourne contributes to FY20 and FY21 trading profits 6 April 2020 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest 30 August 2019 London and US investor presentation Notice for Penny Bingham-Hall 29 August 2019 30 June 2019 distribution payment 1 April 2020 On market buy back and cancellation of securities notice 22 August 2019 Appendix 3Y Change of Director’s Interest Notice for Nicola Roxon 1 April 2020 Settlement of GICs additional interest in DALT 14 August 2019 2019 Appendix 4E as at 30 June 2019. 26 March 2020 COVID-19 and FY20 guidance update 14 August 2019 2019 Final Distribution Details 17 March 2020 Appendix 3E – Daily share buy-back notice 14 August 2019 2019 Annual Results Release 16 March 2020 Appendix 3E – Daily share buy-back notice 14 August 2019 2019 Annual Results Presentation 4 March 2020 Transition of Australian Mandate 14 August 2019 2019 Annual Report 28 February 2020 31 December 2019 distribution payment 14 August 2019 2019 Financial Statements 6 February 2020 HY20 Distribution details 14 August 2019 2019 Property Synopsis 6 February 2020 HY20 Appendix 4D and Financial Accounts 14 August 2019 2019 Property Synopsis xls 6 February 2020 HY20 Results release 14 August 2019 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 6 February 2020 HY20 Results presentation 14 August 2019 2019 Appendix 4G and Corporate 6 February 2020 HY20 Property synopsis Governance Statement 4 February 2020 Appendix 3X – Initial Director's Interest Notice 9 August 2019 Sale of 201 Elizabeth Street Sydney for Patrick Allaway contributes to trading profits 7 January 2020 On-market buy-back and cancellation of 9 August 2019 Appendix 3Y – Change of Director’s Interest securities notice Notice for Darren Steinberg 16 December 2019 Appendix 3E – Daily share buy-back notice 16 December 2019 Appointment of non-executive director – Patrick Allaway Dexus 2020 Annual Report 161 Directory Dexus Diversified Trust Registered office of the Security Registry ARSN 089 324 541 Responsible Entity Link Market Services Limited Level 25, Australia Square Level 12, 680 George Street Dexus Industrial Trust 264 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 ARSN 090 879 137 Sydney NSW 2000 Dexus Office Trust Locked Bag A14 PO Box R1822 Sydney South NSW 1235 ARSN 090 768 531 Royal Exchange Website: linkmarketservices.com.au Dexus Operations Trust Sydney NSW 1225 ARSN 110 521 223 Open Monday to Friday between 8.30am Phone: +61 2 9017 1100 and 5.30pm (Sydney time). For enquiries Responsible Entity Fax: +61 2 9017 1101 regarding security holdings, contact the Dexus Funds Management Limited security registry, or access security holding Email: ir@dexus.com details at www.dexus.com/investor-centre ABN 24 060 920 783 www.dexus.com Australian Securities Exchange AFSL 238163 Auditors ASX Code: DXS Directors of the Responsible Entity PricewaterhouseCoopers LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook W Richard Sheppard, Chair Chartered Accountants Dexus now engages with its followers via Patrick Allaway One International Towers Sydney LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook Penny Bingham-Hall Watermans Quay John C Conde AO Barangaroo NSW 2000 Tonianne Dwyer Investor Enquiries Mark H Ford Registry Infoline: +61 1800 819 675 The Hon. Nicola Roxon Investor Relations: +61 2 9017 1330 Darren J Steinberg, CEO Peter B St George Email: dexus@linkmarketservices.com.au www.dexus.com Secretaries of the Responsible Entity Brett Cameron Scott Mahony About this report The 2020 Annual Report is a consolidated summary of Dexus’s for: property revaluations, impairments, derivative and foreign performance for the financial year ended 30 June 2020. This exchange (FX) mark-to-market impacts, fair value movements report should be read in conjunction with the reports that of interest bearing liabilities, amortisation of tenant incentives, comprise the 2020 Annual Reporting Suite available from gain/loss on sale of certain assets, straight-line rent adjustments, www.dexus.com/investor-centre deferred tax expense/benefit, rental guarantees, coupon income In this report, unless otherwise stated, references to ‘Dexus’ and distribution income net of funding costs. ‘the group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Dexus comprising the Report scope ASX listed entity and the Funds Management business. Any The Annual Report covers financial performance at all reference in this report to a ‘year’ relates to the financial year locations. Environmental data only includes properties ended 30 June 2020. All dollar figures are expressed in Australian under the Group’s operational control as defined under the dollars unless otherwise stated. Dexus referred to the Global National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System (NGER Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to Act). All resource performance figures in this report display determine the report’s boundaries for guidance on identifying consumption and GHG emissions on an intensity (per square and reporting its material issues, management approaches metre) basis. Absolute consumption and additional information and reporting key performance indicators across stakeholder is provided in the 2020 Sustainability Report available from groups including investors, employees, customers, suppliers www.dexus.com/investor-centre and the community. The 2020 Annual Reporting Suite has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Independent assurance and nominated indicators have been externally assured. The GRI In addition to auditing Dexus’s Financial Statements, index is provided with the 2020 Sustainability Report available PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has provided limited assurance from www.dexus.com/investor-centre over select environmental and social data within the integrated Dexus’s Funds From Operations (FFO) is in line with Property online reporting suite covering the 12 months to 30 June 2020. Council of Australia’s definition and comprises net profit/loss The assurance statement, the GRI verification report and after tax attributable to stapled security holders calculated in associated reporting criteria documents are available in the accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and adjusted 2020 Sustainability Report. dexus.com
