COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) From: 2018 To: 2019 30th September, 2019 I am pleased to confirm that IMPACT ADVISORY (T) LTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we as a consulting firm that deals in the management of sustainable development projects describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Angel Mbogoro Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights In support of the human rights this year we; • The company has endeavored in facilitating enjoyment of the right to education to children living in unfavorable environment due to extreme poverty, hunger and poor infrastructure. The facilitation was done by providing books, now in a process facilitating to build a school, with hostel, library and commercial premises in collaboration with other stakeholders, basics needs example food, girl’s needs are provided. • Also African child day, we had an activity at the orphanage secondary to encourage them and reminds them about their right as human being. This was broadcasted live with one of our media house, and agreed on providing awareness about the school to receive the assistant they need and teachers to receive the recognition on their voluntary work at the school. Labor In appreciation to labor services, we; • The company have created a platform that among other things does capacity building activities to employees and employers in the country in order to bring development in their areas of operation. The platform usually goes with a theme that facilitates the capacity building for example the last event was on the theme becoming part of your business DNA. The theme itself is explanatory and among other studies shared in the event is compliance with the law of the land to avoid consequences that could arise for breach of law, costs and time consuming that is very precious and not worth a waste. In these regards employment laws are pertinent in developing work morale for better, efficient and quality production at work place. Environment In an effort to comply with environmental safety precautions, this year we; • The company, in partnership with Tanzanian Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) were able to undergo a research and develop code of conduct and standards for the private sector to abide to when engaging in biodiversity conservation. It has been revealed that engaging the private sector proactively will encourage them to avoid, minimize, and mitigate their negative impacts on biodiversity, and promote good practices that could be models for wise use. In other words the company has taken initiatives to protect the environment by prohibiting hazardous material on the environment. In the research the company has identified several threats to biodiversity that has been caused by the private sector that makes it a necessary condition for the codes to be developed keeping in mind that layman don’t have the knowledge to understand the wordings of the statutes and other regulations governing the industry due to legalese language however the code simplifies the language for easy understanding and compliance. Also the company was among participant on this year African Leadership forum in august 29TH AND 30th of 2019, with theme ‘’Promoting Good Natural Resource Management for Socio-economic Transformation in Africa’. • The company has a plan of implementing an environmental conservation project that includes the formulation of a program that will be carried out in schools and will help build up a passion for environmental conservation, its importance and best methods of doing so. The program will cover topics such as;  Proper waste disposal  Proper farming techniques i.e fishing,  Cooperative environment management  Water and energy conservation  Planting of trees  Environmental sanitation etc. Anti-Corruption In an attempt to fight corruption this year we launched Impact Business Breakfast (IBB) platform, which is an intellectual platform created specifically to influence and share experience with like-minded professionals. IBB is a platform to inspire, influence and share our journeys in order to shape and create professionals of international standards. IBB is a quarterly meeting for business people to gain insights on proven business principles to improve their business management capacity and career development. Anti-Corruption Impact Advisory is committed to supporting and enabling the healthy growth of communities in which we operate. Abiding by the rule of law and setting an example on how to conduct ethical business is one way for us to put this commitment into action. For that purpose, we created IBB which is one of Impact Advisory business pillar to advocate for sustainable business practice in our country. Also we have partner with Tanzania Private Sector Foundation to run a nation research on CSR, which aim to bring together CSR active organizations to develop clear and transparent policies and procedure on the area of community development to align with government for more tangible result. Policies and procedures against fraud and corruption will be first assignment once the platform is launched in 2021. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The company has both a male and female employees balancing the gender and also the Managing Director is a lady that gives her an opportunity to strive and compete in the market on equal chances.
