Sustainability at Infineon Supplementing the Annual Report 2019 Content 1 Introduction 2 Key figures 3 Notable events 2019 5 Sustainability strategy Non-Financial Report 6 About this report The combined separate Non-Financial Report refers to the chapters highlighted in gray. All text sections, tables and graphics in the Sustainability Report which are allocated to the Non-Financial Report are identified by a gray page border. References to information within the Combined Management Report are a part of the Non-Financial Report. References outside of the Combined Management Report constitute supplementary information and are not part of the Non-Financial Report. 12 Business ethics 14 Human rights 15 Human resources management 21 Protection of our employees 22 Environmental sustainability 29 Contribution through sustainable products 32 Our responsibility along the supply chain 34 Corporate citizenship 37 Our sustainability targets 42 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 43 GRI Content Index 50 Sustainable Development Goals 52 Limited Assurance Reports 56 Locations 57 Imprint INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 1 Introduction Introduction  Neubiberg, November 2019 Making more out of less – for a sustainable future Well over nine billion people will be living on earth at the middle of this century, about two billion more than today. The global challenges linked with population growth, urbanization, increasing consumption of resources and climate change can only be mastered through more sustainable acting. Nations, companies and ultimately the consumer have to balance social, ecological and economic aspects in their decision-making. This awareness is growing on a global scale. An essential key to more sustainability and to solving global challenges is digitalization: Thanks to new technologies, digital transformation makes it possible to achieve more while using less resources, cutting emissions and thus permanently ensuring our livelihood. “Making more out of less” is exactly how Infineon helps make sure more and more people in the world can live and maintain a good life. We enable more efficient generation, transmission and use of electric energy. Our products and solutions are used for example in home appliances, mobile devices, data centers, industrial drives, trains and automobiles. We supply the components needed for reliable communication in the Internet of Things and for clean and intelligent mobility in metropolitan centers. Infineon thus makes an essential contribution to higher energy efficiency, better resource management and effective climate protection. Throughout the duration of their use-phase, our products and solutions help save approximately 54 million tons of CO2 equivalents, corresponding to the average annual electricity consumed by about 86 million people living in Europe. These calculations already include the CO2 emissions generated by our own manufacturing. Infineon creates a substantial ecological net benefit. External ratings and rankings in the 2019 fiscal year have once again confirmed to our company that we are doing the right thing. The following are examples of our company’s achievements in the areas of environmental protection, social commitment and corporate governance: ›› For the fifth time Infineon qualified for the inclusion in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index”. ›› I nfineon ranks among the eurozone’s 120 best companies in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility listed in the “Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index”. Our company also received an AA rating (on a scale from AAA to CCC) in the “MSCI Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Ratings”. ›› E coVadis awarded Infineon “Gold” status for the fourth time in a row. The independent rating agency assesses the sustainability of suppliers in terms of ecological, social, ethical and financial influencing factors. At Infineon we take on social responsibility. With our technologies we are the link between the real and the digital world. We help leverage the opportunities of digitalization for sustainable development and use them for the benefit of people. In 2004 Infineon was one of the first semiconductor companies to voluntarily commit to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. In this report you can read about our sustainability strategy, what we are working on today and what we have planned for the future. We intend to remain a driver of sustainable global development in the years to come. Technology which benefits people is a central priority to Infineon. Nothing expresses this fact better than our guiding principle: “Part of your life. Part of tomorrow.” Dr. Reinhard Ploss Chief Executive Officer INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 2 Key figures Key figures Worldwide leader in semiconductor solutions that make life easier, safer and greener. Revenue of €8,029 million €945 million research and development expenses 72 sites in 28 countries and more than 100 nationalities in our teams 4 business segments 41,418 employees of whom 18.7 percent work in research and development €1,451 million investments in property, plant and equipment and in intangible and other assets including €125 million of capitalized development costs INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 3 Notable events 2019 Notable events 2019 October 2018 February 2019 Infineon Austria wins the 2018 Infineon included in the “Sustainability Yearbook” “EFQM1 Global Excellence Award” for the ninth year in a row Infineon Austria is awarded the 2018 “Global Excellence For the ninth consecutive year Infineon makes it into Award”, a globally respected prize recognizing corporate the “Sustainability Yearbook” by RobecoSAM and is quality in accordance with the “EFQM Model for Excellence”. honored this year as “Sustainability Yearbook Member”. Infineon is once again among the ten best semiconductor manufacturers in the world in terms of entrepreneurial November 2018 sustainability. Infineon recognized as a front-runner in the MSCI ESG Research rates Infineon with “AA” category of sustainable development The “MSCI World ESG3 Index” focuses on Environmental, The French company Schneider Electric recognizes Social and Governance aspects. The index works according Infineon as a front-runner in the category of sustainable to the best-in-class principle. Infineon improves its development and for its remarkable strength in the rating from “A” to “AA”. area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Infineon Korea donates prize money to the December 2018 World Vision “Love-Lunch-Box” program Hyundai-Kia Motors Company recognizes Infineon as “Partner of the Year”. Infineon donates the prize money, Infineon receives a “Gold” rating from EcoVadis together with an additional sum, to needy children. in the area of sustainability EcoVadis, an independent rating agency that monitors the sustainability of suppliers, analyzes Infineon with regard to ecological, social, ethical and financial influMarch 2019 encing factors. The result: Infineon is awarded the Sustainalytics ranks Infineon as “Outperformer” status “Gold” for the fourth time in a row. Sustainalytics is a company that evaluates the sustainability of publicly traded companies based on their ESG January 2019 performance. Infineon is considered an “Outperformer” in ESG issues within the semiconductor industry. This is based on above-average performance in the areas of ESG. Infineon receives the CDP2 scoring level “Management” for information in the area of climate change Infineon is confirmed for inclusion in the “Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register” Since 2014 Infineon has been publishing information on the opportunities and risks for the company resulting Once again this fiscal year Infineon will be listed in the from climate change in the CDP. The number of points “Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register”. This means derived is then compared with other companies in the that Infineon is rated at well above average for CSR in its information technology and semiconductor industry. industry sector. 1 EFQM: European Foundation for Quality Management. 2 CDP: Previously referred to as the “Carbon Disclosure Project”. 3 ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 4 Notable events 2019 May 2019 June 2019 Dr. Sven Schneider becomes Infineon CFO Infineon plans Cypress acquisition and effective 1 May 2019 strengthens the orientation towards The Infineon Supervisory Board appoints Dr. Schneider as sustainable digitalization CFO effective 1 May 2019. Dr. Schneider comes to Infineon Infineon and Cypress Semiconductor Corp. sign a from Linde AG, where he was Spokesman of the Executive definitive agreement under which Infineon will acquire Board and CFO. Among other topics he is responsible for Cypress. The result is a product portfolio that is a sustainability. perfect link between the real and the digital world. New comprehensive and efficient system solutions will help Infineon’s customers make more with less resources Infineon is listed in the “Euronext Vigeo Eurozone while avoiding emissions. 120 Index” and in the “Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index” Infineon is ranked in the “Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index”, which lists the 120 best companies in the July 2019 Eurozone in the area of CSR. As one of the most successful companies in Europe, Infineon is listed in Infineon and Tencent Cloud collaborate the “Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index”. This index on smart building solutions includes the 120 companies with the most successful Infineon and Tencent publicly confirm their collaboration performance in the area of Environmental, Social and and hold an open house day at Tencent headquarters in Governance criteria throughout Europe. Shenzhen (China). Tencent Cloud is one of the leading cloud service providers in China. Tencent Cloud belongs to the Tencent Group, which specializes in the development Volkswagen drives with Infineon into of cloud computing and artificial intelligence to accelerate the electric future the digital transformation of companies. Smart buildings Infineon is a new partner in the Volkswagen Group’s is one of the areas promising major potential for innovation strategic supplier network program FAST (Future Autoand sustainable growth. motive Supply Tracks). This program stands for close collaboration in key future fields. As the market leader in semiconductors for electro-mobility, Infineon is contributing significantly to help the world’s largest car September 2019 maker move toward electric drivetrains. Infineon is among the most sustainable companies in the world Infineon is listed once again in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index” as one of the most sustainable companies in the world. Of 47 companies evaluated in the semiconductor industry, Infineon is one of six companies to be included in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index”. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 5 Sustainability strategy Sustainability strategy We understand Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as our voluntary responsibility towards both international and local societies. Our commitment is based on compliance with current legal requirements, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the principle of sustainability as the symbiosis of economy, ecology and social engagement. Based on these tenets we have identified six fields of activity: Business Ethics, Occupational Health and Safety, Environmental Sustainability, CSR Supply Chain Management, Corporate Citizenship, as well as Human Resources Management and Human Rights. Infineon CSR Concept GRI 102 – 40; 102 – 42; 102 – 43; 102 – 44 Investors Politics OLDER MANAGEME • Annual General Meeting TAKEH NT • Political dialogs S • Roadshows & conferences • Cooperation with • Quarterly Reports industry associations • Quarterly segments presentation • Workshops • Annual Report • Yearly Financial Statements Business Ethics • Sustainability reporting Human Corporate Resources Citizenship Management, Human Rights Customers Employees Infineon • Audits CSR • “Great Place to • Services provided Concept Work” Survey by experts • Quarterly “All-Hands • Infineon Service Center CSR Occupational Meetings” 24/7 Supply Chain Health • Daily internal news • Product requirements Management and Safety • Compliance hotline 24/7 • Roadshows • Training • Committees for CSR Environmental topics, e.g.,“Corporate Sustainability Citizenship Panel” Suppliers Social stakeholders • Suppliers’ assessment • Participation in • Principles of Purchasing surveys and studies • Compliance website • Citizenship activities • Awareness-raising campaign • Conferences & about water-stressed areas workshops Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 6 About this report About this report GRI 102 – 46; 102 – 48; 102 – 49 This report documents Infineon’s environmental and social performance during the 2019 fiscal year. We would like to illustrate how sustainability contributes to Infineon’s business success and how our activities in this area create value for all our stakeholders. @ www.infineon.com/annualreport Information on Infineon’s financial status and performance in the 2019 fiscal year has been published in the Annual Report 2019. In the 2019 fiscal year the German CSR Directive Implementation Act requires Infineon to publish a Non-Financial Statement. This Non-Financial Statement is published as a combined separate Non-Financial Report within this Sustainability Report. The legally required information P see page 29 ff. of the Annual Report 2019 for information about the business is contained in the chapters highlighted with a gray page border. References to information model within the Combined Management Report are also a part of the Non-Financial Report. The reporting period covers the 2019 fiscal year, from 1 October 2018 until 30 September 2019. We publish this report annually. The previous report was published in November 2018 as a supplement to the Annual Report 2018. Unless otherwise specified, the statements and key figures in this report refer to the 2019 fiscal year. In order to help readers identify and interpret the trends relating to quantitative disclosures, the present report includes at least the data from the 2018 and 2019 fiscal years. Reporting This report has been prepared in accordance with the “GRI Standards”: “Core” option. These reporting criteria are complemented with corporate rules. The information contained in this report also serves as “Communication on Progress” P see page 42 for the United Nations Global Compact initiative (see the chapter “UN Global Compact Communication on Progress”). P see page 52 ff. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Munich (Germany), has provided independent GRI 102 – 56 “limited assurance” regarding the specified sustainability performance information provided in this report in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, the pertinent standard for assuring sustainability information. @ www.infineon.com/ The Infineon website contains the explanatory notes on the main data and other information csr_reporting pertaining to this report. Two limited assurance reports of the independent auditor KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft are published at the end of this report. GRI 102 – 42; 102 – 43; 102 – 44 Determining the content of the report Infineon engages in continuous dialog with all its stakeholders. In our materiality analysis we evaluate the expectations and requirements of our internal and external stakeholders with regard to sustainability in various topics in accordance with the framework for sustainability reporting, the “GRI Standards”. First, we identified Infineon’s most important stakeholders, taking into account the dimensions “Responsibility”, “Influence”, “Proximity”, “Dependency” and “Representation” in the so-called “Stakeholder Engagement Manual” drawn up by the organization “AccountAbility”. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 7 About this report GRI 102 – 40; 102 – 42; 102 – 43; 102 – 44 In a second step, consideration was given to general as well as sectorand company-specific sustainability standards appropriate for determining the material topics for assessing Infineon’s sustainability performance. Afterwards, relevant topics were pre-selected on our corporate strategy and stakeholder expectations. In a fourth step, we assembled our in-house experts to discuss the topics chosen and any potentially related risks or opportunities which could impact the long-term performance of the organization. The various Infineon divisions and departments use different communication channels and continuously engage in conferences, forums, industry association activities and surveys to ensure targeted communication with the corresponding stakeholder groups. The legal definition of materiality was taken into account during the course of these four steps. The results of this analysis and the material topics were then confirmed by the Infineon Management Board. The present report describes these topics. In accordance with the “GRI Standards” framework on sustainability reporting, the table GRI 102 – 47; 103 – 1 below shows how Infineon has evaluated impact along the value chain. Material aspects and impact along the value chain Material aspects Reporting boundary1 Supply chain Infineon internal Customer (Production materials, (Production processes) (Product application) products, services) Long-term viability of core business Internal/external Medium High High Contribution through sustainable products Internal/external Medium High High Responsible manufacturing Internal/external Medium High Low Diversity and equal opportunity Internal Low High Low Corporate citizenship Internal/external Low High Low Business ethics Internal/external Medium High Medium Labor relations Internal None High None 1 Reporting refers to activities within and/or outside the company. Effective risk and opportunity management is a key element of our business activities. It supports the achievement of our strategic goals, namely sustainable profitable growth and preservation of financial resources through efficient use of capital. We have established a variety of coordinated risk management and control system elements oriented towards the realization of our risk strategy. These elements include in particular the systems “Risk and Opportunity Management System” and the “Internal Control System with Respect to Financial Reporting Processes” as well as the associated planning, management and internal reporting P see page 29 ff. and page 79 ff. processes and our Compliance Management System. Further information is available in the of the Annual Report 2019 “Group strategy” and “Risk and opportunity report” chapters of the Annual Report 2019. TARGETS see page 37 ff. The progress during the 2019 fiscal year as well as the achievement of our targets and the P see page 29 ff. associated key performance indicators are described in this report as well as in the chapter of the Annual Report 2019 “Group strategy” of the Annual Report 2019. Long-term viability of core business: Energy efficiency, mobility and security are important key fields of action for the global society that offer enormous growth potential. Infineon occupies leading positions in these sectors. We expect our innovative power and technological expertise to continue to drive sustainable and profitable growth going forward. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 8 About this report GRI 102 – 47; 103 – 1 The steady progress of digitalization and networking is one of the most vital technological trends of our time, with the potential of radically changing how companies and consumers interact with one another and with the surrounding infrastructure. In the “Internet of Things” (IoT) the physical and virtual worlds converge in ways never seen before. More and more physical “objects” – ranging from people and places to cars and computers all the way to household appliances and industrial machines – are being equipped with electronic systems, software and sensors and connected to the internet. This opens the door to a new dimension of connectivity and intelligence with far-reaching consequences for our society and our economy. As a worldwide leading provider of semi­ conductor solutions, Infineon supplies manufacturers in all market segments with key components for applications in the IoT. International Data Corporation (IDC) estimates that, at a growth rate of 17.5 percent, there will be 28.1 billion installed IoT devices and systems by the 2020 calendar year. At that time the data volume generated annually is expected to reach 40 zettabytes (1 zettabyte = 1,0007 bytes). At the same time, the world market for IoT solutions will grow by 20 percent annually, from US$1.9 trillion in the 2013 calendar year to US$7.1 trillion in the 2020 calendar year. Our sensors, processors, security controllers and actuators set the standards for highly-devel­ oped sensor technologies, cross-application control and optimized power management: They make the IoT intelligent, secure and energy-efficient. Additional information on this P see page 29 ff. in this report and material topic can be found in the chapter “Contribution through sustainable products” page 29 ff. of the Annual Report 2019 in this report as well as in the chapter “Group strategy” of the Annual Report 2019. Contribution through sustainable products: Microelectronics made by Infineon is the key to attaining better living standards. Our invention power and commitment let us create value for customers, staff and investors. We understand how technical systems can be made increasingly efficient through the use of semiconductors, providing sustainable solutions for the world of today and the world of tomorrow. This makes our customers more successful and is an important contribution to society. We make life easier, safer and greener – with technology that achieves more, consumes less and is accessible to everyone. The manufacture of sustainable products is an integral part of our business strategy. Two thirds of our annual research and development expenditures can be allocated to energy efficiency and climate protection. According to the United Nations the earth will have approximately 10.9 billion inhabitants by the year 2100, most of them living in cities. One consequence of this development will be a worldwide rise in the need for energy. Using energy more efficiently is one of the greatest challenges of the future, and semiconductors play a decisive role here. The biggest lever in energy savings is increasing efficiency of use. The savings potential represented by today’s worldwide several hundred million industrial motors and billions of household appliances is gigantic. In accordance with our environmental policy, possible environmental impacts are investigated at the earliest possible stage and are taken into account in the development of products and processes. Infineon has created an integrated management system for this purpose, IMPRES (Infineon Integrated Management Program for Environment, Energy, Safety and Health). This applies to all our company activities, from procurement, development and manufacturing all the way to the sale of our products. All our actions are based on compliance with applicable P see page 29 ff. and 32 f. legislation and regulations. For more information see the chapters “Contribution through sustainable products” and “Our responsibility along the supply chain”. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 9 About this report GRI 102 – 47; 103 – 1 We want to make driving a car safer for everybody. Our systems should support drivers and significantly reduce the number of accidents. Radar chips from Infineon send and receive high-frequency signals and pass them on to the radar electronic control unit (ECU). The radar ECU then determines the distance between the car and other vehicles and their speed in order to warn the driver in good time and to initiate a braking maneuver in case of an emergency. Another system detects signs of driver fatigue (microsleep) or distraction. Infineon is also working in the area of “eCall” (Emergency Call), an emergency call system integrated in the car. In case of an accident, “eCall” automatically transmits the location and other important data to the emergency services, drastically reducing the amount of time needed before reaching the driver. Today, Infineon already has solutions that meet the high requirements of active and passive assistance systems. They enable, for example, piloted driving in traffic jams and automated parking. In the future, car-to-car communication will improve safety and efficiency in road traffic. For example, it will be possible to warn drivers of road damage or accidents on their route. Additional information on this material topic can be found under “The Infineon CO2 footprint” P see page 30 in this report and page 39 ff. in the chapter “Contribution through sustainable products” in this report as well as in the of the Annual Report 2019 chapter “The segments” in the Annual Report 2019. Responsible manufacturing: Respect for human rights is essential for Infineon. As a signatory of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, Infineon made a voluntary commitment to uphold the Ten Principles outlined there. Principles 1 and 2 relate to human rights. In our Business Conduct Guidelines we anchor our mandatory compliance with valid human rights. Additional P see page 12 f., page 14 and page 42 information on this topic can be found in the chapters “Business ethics”, “Human rights” and “UN Global Compact Communication on Progress”. We also demand that our supply chain upholds these principles. This is why we have defined a Group-wide approach aimed at ensuring the necessary transparency within the supply chain. We expect our suppliers to commit to the values outlined in our Principles of Purchasing. The P see page 32 f. chapter “Our responsibility along the supply chain” contains further information on this topic. The availability of natural resources is one of the greatest global challenges. Efficient resource management is therefore a central component of IMPRES. The energy prices have been subject to fluctuations and increases in the past that were partly related to legal regulations. This economic benefit is another motivation for reducing our specific consumption, namely increasing our energy efficiency, and has been part of our sustainability strategy for years. Manufacturing semiconductors requires a wide variety of chemicals. At Infineon we guarantee that we handle hazardous materials in a highly responsible way. We are subject to many laws and regulations which apply, among others, to the areas of environmental and climate protection, as well as to the field of energy. Present or future environmental legislation and other government regulations, or amendments thereto, could require an adjustment to our operating activities and result in higher costs. Infineon keeps abreast of planned legislative changes and engages in these issues in various associations and organizations on an ongoing basis. Additional information on these topics can be found under “Sustainable use of resources at our manufacturing sites” in the chapter “Environmental sustainability” as well as in the P see page 21, 22 ff. and page 29 ff. chapters “Protection of our employees” and “Contribution through sustainable products”. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 10 About this report GRI 102 – 47; 103 – 1 Diversity and equal opportunity: Infineonʼs diversity management provides a framework for a corporate culture that values the individuality of each employee and promotes equal opportunities. International customer relationships demand great intercultural competence. Qualified job applicants expect an open working environment. As an international company, staff diversity is particularly important to us. The promotion of women to leadership positions is a key aspect of Infineon’s diversity management. Changes within the organization that support the successful career development of female managers are prerequisites for meeting our targets. Promoting an adequate work-life balance is also essential for the professional success of our employees and is part of our human resources work. As emphasized in our Business Conduct Guidelines, our employees are paid on the basis of work-related criteria such as job requirements and performance. Men and women are paid equally at Infineon. Additional information on this material topic P see page 12 f., page 14 and 17 f. can be found under “Encouraging diversity” in the chapter “Human resources management” as well as in the chapters “Business ethics” and “Human rights”. Corporate citizenship: We are present at locations around the world dedicated to sales, P see page 56 research and development as well as manufacturing. The global presence of our sites is illustrated at the end of the report. We support local communities at our sites in line with our sustainable business strategy. With our presence in different regions we benefit the communities in various ways – by creating jobs, with our innovative products and solutions and with the taxes we pay as well as our social commitment as part of our corporate citizenship activities. P see page 34 ff. The chapter “Corporate citizenship” in this report illustrates individual examples of Infineon’s engagement. Business ethics: We need to be aware of risks both inside and outside the organization in order to meet our own high business ethics standards and simultaneously interact with our stakeholders as a sustainable and reliable partner. As part of the Compliance Management System, each year a formal assessment of our risks is made, especially in terms of corruption and antitrust law. The necessary measures derived from the assessment are summarized in the compliance program. Employees and business partners can report any indication of breaches to the usual internal bodies (Management, Human Resources and Compliance) or use an anonymous hotline and an external ombudsman. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines define our basic principles for ethical and legal conduct. They are an important foundation for our everyday activities. They apply to all employees and members of corporate bodies around the world when dealing with one another and with our customers, shareholders, business partners and with the public. Infineon reports on the measures implemented in the context of the UN Global Compact’s P see page 42 and 50 f. Principles in the chapter “UN Global Compact Communication on Progress”. In the chapter “Sustainable Development Goals” Infineon reports for the third time on the processes and steps implemented in support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. P see page 12 f. and page 14 in this report The chapters “Business ethics” and “Human rights” in this report, as well as the “Corporate and page 99 ff. of the Annual Report 2019 Governance Report” in the Annual Report 2019 contain additional information on this material topic. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 11 About this report GRI 102 – 47; 103 – 1 Labor relations: We are convinced that effective human resources and a secure working environment are prerequisites to our business success. Long-term high performance is only viable with satisfied and successful employees. In our daily activities we undertake to promote employees’ performance and realize their potential in the best possible way based on the three pillars “Leadership excellence”, “Promoting talent” and “Our workforce”. The integration of refugees in our society and in our labor market is one of the most important challenges of the upcoming years. Infineon participates in the education initiative of the “Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft” (Donors’ Association for the Promotion of Sciences and Humanities in Germany) for the integration of refugees, and thus helps manage this challenge. Our occupational health and safety management system has been certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard at all of our large manufacturing sites as well as at our corporate headquarters. The system is designed to ensure that the required measures are taken to minimize risks identified in the working environment that could endanger our employees. P see page 14, page 15 ff. and page 21 The chapters “Human rights”, “Human resources management” and “Protection of our employees” in this report contain additional information on this material topic. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 12 Business ethics Business ethics MATERIAL TOPICS THE COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT › Business ethics SYSTEM WAS CONFIRMED › Diversity and equal opportunity THROUGHOUT THE GROUP. › Responsible manufacturing › Labor relations TARGETS see page 37 ff. Infineon is committed to being guided by not only what is legally permissible, but also by what is ethically right. Infineon requires that its employees and business partners respect and observe all applicable laws, rules and regulations. Essential principles of ethical behavior are defined in the Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines and the CSR policy. These principles go in part beyond legal requirements. In order to implement these principles, Infineon has introduced a Compliance Management System for all Group companies. The Compliance Management System includes an annual formalized risk assessment, in particular with regard to corruption and antitrust law. This evaluation then serves as the basis for the definition of the necessary measures which are ultimately summarized in the compliance program. The risk assessment entails both analyses at the Infineon Group level and structured interviews at the site and central function levels. The assessment essentially confirmed the known risk areas. The compliance program therefore focuses on detailed training and communication measures, additional processes and tools as well as the refinement of regulations. The Corporate Compliance Officer, heading a worldwide team, is responsible for coordinating the Compliance Management System and reports directly to the member of the Infineon Technologies AG Management Board responsible for Finance. In addition to the development of the Infineon compliance program, the officer helps create guidelines, advises employees, receives complaints and information on relevant issues and heads investigations of compliance cases. Reports of possible compliance breaches 41,418 40,098 178 37,479 36,299 35,424 94 107 114 Number of employees 88 93 Confirmed as compliance breach 56 (after investigation) 66 52 54 Confirmed as non-breach 61 (after investigation) 39 51 48 Still under investigation 36 23 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 13 Business ethics During the 2019 fiscal year Infineon Technologies AG had an independent corporate auditing firm confirm the appropriateness, implementation and effectiveness of its Group-wide Compliance Management System for the areas corruption prevention and antitrust law according to the IDW1 PS 980 standard. Employees and business partners took advantage of the available internal and external possibilities (Management, Human Resources department, Compliance, anonymous whistle­ blower hotline and ombudsman) to report actual or suspected violations during the 2019 fiscal year. The number of reports and the number of subsequent investigations in the last fiscal year again increased compared to the previous year. We fundamentally attribute this to the increased number of employees and the increased familiarity with the reporting options. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines2 form the central element of our Compliance Management System. As a code of conduct, the Guidelines are an essential basis for our daily actions and apply to all employees and corporate bodies worldwide when dealing with one another, with our customers, shareholders, business partners or with the public. All of the company’s employees are trained on the content on a regular basis in web-based sessions or face-to-face. Every employee confirms the awareness of and adherence to the Business Conduct Guidelines. Business partners have to contractually covenant compliance with the legal regulations. Suppliers acknowledge the Infineon “Principles of Purchasing” when signing the respective contract. When necessary, business partners are also directly familiarized with our rules for the prevention of corruption. 1 The corporate auditing association (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer IDW) publishes the principles of proper inspection of compliance management systems. 2 The Business Conduct Guidelines have been published in 14 languages. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 14 Human rights Human rights MATERIAL TOPICS I NFINEON COMPLIES WITH THE › Labor relations FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES › Diversity and equal opportunity OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR › Business ethics ORGANIZATION (ILO). › Responsible manufacturing TARGETS see page 37 ff. Compliance with internationally proclaimed human rights and labor standards is a matter of course for us. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines embody our commitment and define our standards as well as their implementation in this area for all employees worldwide. Those standards are in compliance with the “International Bill of Human Rights” and the “Fundamental Principles” of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our employees receive regular training on the Business Conduct Guidelines. In addition, we have implemented external hotlines which our employees, suppliers, customers and business partners can contact, openly or anonymously. All cases reported are investigated by our P see page 12 f. Compliance experts (see chapter “Business ethics”). The Compliance Management System ensures that violations of human rights and of applicable labor standards are reported to the Management Board. We do not tolerate any form of forced labor, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All work is performed without coercion of any kind and can be terminated by each employee by means of appropriate resignation. We do not tolerate child labor. The term “child” refers to persons under the age of 15. Exceptions apply for certain countries subject to ILO Convention 138 (minimum age reduced to 14 years) or for job training or training programs which are authorized by the respective government and which demonstrably promote those participating. Our employees are compensated in accordance with applicable wage legislation and in compliance with the respective applicable minimum wage, regulations on overtime hours and legally prescribed additional benefits. Infineon requires its suppliers to comply with all valid laws including those dealing with P see page 32 f. human rights as well as fair business practices (see chapter “Our responsibility along the supply chain”). P see page 99 ff. of the Annual Report 2019 The “Corporate Governance Report” in the Annual Report 2019 contains additional detailed explanations. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 15 Human resources management Human resources management MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE 2019 FISCAL YEAR INFINEON › Labor relations INVESTED €18.7 MILLION IN THE › Diversity and equal opportunity FURTHER TRAINING OF ITS STAFF. TARGETS see page 37 ff. Our engagement in human resources (HR) is an essential factor in our efforts towards sustain­ ability. Only contented and successful employees will ensure high performance in the long run. And this conviction characterizes all our employee development measures as well as measures for attracting new employees. We use regular employee surveys to monitor our progress with regard to employee satisfaction. In addition to the HR department, the Chief Executive Officer of Infineon Technologies AG, in the role of Labor Director, is directly involved in human resources policy. On a regular basis, the strategic deployment of HR management is discussed with all members of the Management S see page 37 f. of the Board and the objectives for the following fiscal year are defined. Our Human Resources strategy Annual Report 2019 is explained in greater detail in the Annual Report 2019. The HR concepts based on this strategy are described in the following. Development of employees and managers An organization cannot progress without open and honest feedback. This basic premise is reflected in our values, which are collectively defined in our “High Performance Behavior Model”. These values are not purely theoretical: The “High Performance Behavior Model” shows how we aim to achieve Infineon’s targets and set priorities. High Performance Behavior Model Trust and Be passionate respect others about profit Foster your Focus on the talents We commit. customer We innovate. We partner. Team up We perform. Drive value for best through results innovation Be ambitious Strive for and manage excellence risks Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 16 Human resources management These descriptions of conduct play a significant role in the global STEPS process (“Steps To Employees’ Personal Success”). Feedback from managers to staff is just as important as feedback from teams to their managers. Therefore, in addition to the STEPS dialogs, we have also established the format of the “leadership dialog”, which is carried out every two years for all of our managers starting at the Senior Manager level with direct responsibility for five or more employees. Good leadership is essential to Infineon’s success. In the 2019 fiscal year we defined what “Excellent Leadership” means at Infineon together with the corresponding conduct expected of managers. The Leadership Principles contain eight expectations on conduct and the corresponding operationalization. The Leadership Principles supplement the “High Performance Behavior Model” and provide guidance in case of management questions. Infineon Leadership Principles Desire to grow and motivate Leadership starts with leading yourself others to do so, too and acting as a role model Begin with the big picture Take ownership Infineon and set motivating targets Leadership Integrity, trust and consistency are the Principles Our leadership model: Our people are the key basis for your actions for success Create a framework of action for Team success is a priority: success to achieve results Empower and coach your people, provide a framework for success and focus on result We support our managers in the successful implementation of the Principles and in their management tasks with numerous learning and development opportunities at the various leadership levels. We work on specific examples at face-to-face training events and in eLearning sessions (web-based trainings). Mentoring programs and learning-in-tandem also promote networking and achieve fast learning results which can quickly be put into practice. The “Infineon Leadership Excellence Program” provides a training framework to support managers as far as possible in their leadership role and management responsibility. In addition to this program we also offer training on a range of topics required for specific target groups, such as the “New Leader Orientation Program” – an in-house workshop for new managers. Promoting talent At Infineon, depending on their individual knowledge and talents, development opportunities are available to employees in a variety of careers, based on Infineon’s needs. Four career paths have already been established: the professional career as an “Individual Contributor”, the “Technical Ladder” for technical experts, the “Project Management” career and the “Management” career path. As an international company, we wish to offer our staff development prospects beyond organizational and national boundaries. The “Summits”, in which managers discuss the specific development of our talents with the HR team, are an important instrument in this endeavor. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 17 Human resources management Health management An important contribution to our corporate success are the commitment, performance capabilities and, fundamentally, the health of our employees. The task of our health management is to work towards maintaining and improving the health of our employees. Our international management system IMPRES ensures the high quality of the services and measures we offer. Health management works closely together with occupational health and the social counseling services at the respective sites and helps provide a healthy range of foods and an effective health program. One example in Germany is the qualification measures in the area of “Healthy Leadership”. Encouraging diversity The diversity of our employees is particularly important to us. We live out a culture that appreciates the individuality of each and every person and that promotes equal opportunity regardless of age, disability, ethnic-cultural origin, gender, religion, ideology or sexual orientation. Our global diversity management program with diversity managers at all major sites guarantees that we support the needs of our employees on site and continue to develop our culture of diversity. The promotion of women to management positions is one of the key focus areas of our diversity management policy. We set the ambitious goal of increasing the percentage of female managers to 15 percent by the end of the 2020 fiscal year. We already achieved this goal by the end of the 2019 fiscal year with 15.5 percent women on the middle and senior management levels (in the 2018 fiscal year the share of women was still 14.8 percent). We remain committed to our long-term target of 20 percent women in management positions. In compliance with the “Law on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions in the Private and Public Sector”, relating to Infineon Technologies AG and Infineon Technologies Dresden Verwaltungs GmbH targets for the percentage of women in the first two leadership levels below the Management Board and respectively the Board of Directors have been set. These targets were defined in the 2017 fiscal year and are to be achieved by 30 June 2022. @ www.infineon.com/ Details on the targets can be found in our Corporate Governance Statement on the Infineon declaration-on-corporate-governance website. Women in management positions 14.8 % 15.5 % 15.0 % 13.0 % 13.4 % 13.9 % 10.2 % 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target 2020 Nationalities Infineon employs a total of 41,418 persons of different nationalities. The five most prevalent nationalities represent a total of 73.5 percent of the workforce, with Malaysian nationals 26.5 % 27.6 % accounting for 27.6 percent and German nationals for 26.4 percent. 5.4 % Employees Under 30 years1 30 to 50 years1 Over 50 years1 total 5.7 % 26.4 % Middle and senior level management 2,3 7,009 0.1 61.1 38.8 8.4 % Entry level management 2 8,087 3.6 81.7 14.7 Non-management staff 26,322 33.4 53.9 12.7 Malaysia Germany Austria China Total 41,418 21.9 60.6 17.5 Indonesia Other 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2019, in the respective comparison group. nationalities (103) 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. 3 Including the Management Board. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 18 Human resources management Distribution of gender and age structure: Out of 15,041 female employees 28.4 percent are under 30 years old, 58.9 percent are in the middle age group and 12.7 percent are over 50 years old. Out of 26,377 male employees 18.2 percent are under 30 years of age, 61.6 percent are in the middle age group and 20.2 percent are over 50 years old. Employees Female1 Male1 total Middle and senior level management 2,3 7,009 15.5 84.5 Entry level management 2 8,087 27.9 72.1 Non-management staff 26,322 44.4 55.6 Total 41,418 36.3 63.7 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2019, in the respective comparison group. 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. 3 Including the Management Board. Qualifications and training We regard ourselves as forerunners for outstanding performance. Accordingly, the continuing Per Training hours ¹ employee education of our staff is very important to us. We do all we can to support them in optimally develProduction 14.01 oping their respective individual abilities and apply these abilities towards the success of Infineon. R&D 24.49 In the 2019 fiscal year, our staff participated in a total of 704,187 hours of training. 31.8 percent Sales and Marketing 28.51 of training hours were given to female employees and 68.2 percent to male employees. Administrative 16.99 Production training hours accounted for the majority of the hours utilized, at 58.1 percent. Total 17.02 1 Calculated on the basis of the monthly workTraining hours ¹ Per employee Female Male force in the 2019 fiscal year. Middle and senior level management 2,3 21.87 26.41 21.05 Entry level management 2 27.12 29.47 26.22 Non-management staff 12.77 11.03 14.18 Total 17.02 14.76 18.32 1 Calculated on the basis of the monthly workforce in the 2019 fiscal year. 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. 3 Including the Management Board. Training expenses Our range of functional trainings is made available primarily via the global “Functional € in millions Academies” (operating in specific segments and fields). Together with other internal trainers, 20.0 these academies work together to provide coordinated learning that builds professional expertise. For example, there are academies in the fields of purchasing, finance, manufacturing, 15.0 quality management and supply chain. 10.0 Fringe benefits 5.0 Fringe benefits are a long-standing tradition at Infineon and are also offered in various forms. All benefits form an integral part of the overall remuneration concept and reflect Infineon’s 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 responsibility to its staff. The scale and nature of the benefits are determined in accordance with the relevant regional statutory and standard market requirements. No distinction is made in this respect between full-time and part-time staff. In Germany, Austria, Asia-Pacific, Greater China and Japan, for example, in addition to employer and employee-financed pension plans, benefits granted include the items listed below (the exact arrangements are specific to each location): Industrial accident insurance Company car for work or as additional benefit Paid sick leave beyond the statutory minimum Private car leasing from gross deferred compensation Continued wage payment to surviving dependants Long-service awards in the event of death Sabbatical Preventive health programs Flexible transition to retirement pension Family-friendly services, such as in-house kindergartens or collaboration with local organizations offering day care facilities and vacation care for children Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 19 Human resources management In addition to the benefits above, in Asia-Pacific, Greater China and Japan, site-specific group life insurance and group hospital insurance are also offered, extending beyond the statutory requirements. One noteworthy example is the attractive company pension plan in the USA. Infineon also encourages various work-time models intended, for example, to keep working hours flexible, depending on individual employees’ circumstances. These models include trust-based working hours, part-time work and teleworking arrangements. Thus, for example, in Asia-Pacific, Greater China and Japan 77 percent of all sites already offer flexible working time and 62 percent of all sites offer teleworking options. Compensation Infineon wants to attract and retain the best available talent and for that reason attractive, market-oriented remuneration and appropriate participation in the company’s success are a matter of course. We pay our staff on the basis of work-related criteria, such as job requirements and performance, and in accordance with the respective local market requirements. Men and women are paid equally at Infineon. Each employee receives appropriate, transparent remuneration for their work, in compliance with all legal standards. Number of employees Infineon is active on a worldwide basis. Almost half of the 41,418 employees (previous year: 40,098) worked in Asia-Pacific, Greater China and Japan (18,933 employees). 45.0 percent of all employees were employed in Europe (18,622); the majority of these were employed in Germany (12,087). In the workforce as a whole, as of 30 September 2019, 1,455 female employees and 1,760 male employees had fixed-term contracts and 13,586 female employees and 24,617 male employees had permanent contracts. A total of 1,982 employees were working part-time as of that date. Employees who were, for example, on parental leave or in the non-working phase of early retirement part-time working arrangements, are not active employees and therefore not included in the following tables. Employees by geographical region 2019 2018 Total Female Male Total Female Male Europe 18,622 4,813 13,809 17,411 4,480 12,931 Therein: Germany 12,087 3,257 8,830 11,328 3,037 8,291 Americas 3,863 1,563 2,300 3,914 1,652 2,262 Therein: USA 2,039 621 1,418 1,976 610 1,366 Asia-Pacific 16,674 7,616 9,058 16,494 7,636 8,858 Greater China 2,051 1,008 1,043 2,085 1,024 1,061 Japan 208 41 167 194 41 153 Total 41,418 15,041 26,377 40,098 14,833 25,265 2019 2018 Total Full-time Part-time Total Full-time Part-time Employees on Male 24,617 23,772 845 23,320 22,622 698 permanent contracts Female 13,586 12,470 1,116 12,927 11,876 1,051 Employees on Male 1,760 1,751 9 1,945 1,931 14 fixed-term contracts Female 1,455 1,443 12 1,906 1,893 13 Total 41,418 39,436 1,982 40,098 38,322 1,776 Furthermore, as of 30 September 2019 Infineon employed a total of 390 apprentices and dual students, 148 interns as well as 1,224 working students. 123 new apprentices and dual students were hired in the 2019 fiscal year. Temporary employees are also excluded from the data above. As of 30 September 2019, 2,204 temporary employees were working for Infineon worldwide, of whom 997 were female and 1,207 male. Approximately 73 percent of the temporary employees worked in production, giving Infineon flexibility in its manufacturing in the context of fluctuations in capacity utilization. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 20 Human resources management New hiring and fluctuation Female/male employees Fluctuation rates and the number of new hires are important indicators for us in our efforts new entries to satisfy our demand for high performance and to achieve excellence in management. In the 2019 fiscal year there were 4,698 new hires worldwide, of which 1,775 were female and 2,923 male. 2,354 employees were under the age of 30, 2,163 employees in the age group of 30 to 50 37.8 % and 181 employees over the age of 50. 62.2 % Total Europe Therein: AsiaGreater Japan Americas Therein: Germany Pacific China USA Newly hired Female Male employees 4,698 1,806 1,035 1,926 195 28 743 252 Rate of newly hired employees¹ 11.3 9.7 8.6 11.6 9.5 13.5 19.2 12.4 Staff departures 3,424 718 356 1,659 224 12 811 208 Rate of staff departures ² 8.3 3.9 3.0 9.8 10.7 5.9 20.5 10.3 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2019, in the respective region. 2 Figures in percent, calculated on the basis of the monthly workforce in the 2019 fiscal year. Age structure (new entries) Worldwide there were 3,424 staff departures from Infineon in the 2019 fiscal year. Of these, the majority (1,659 employees) were in the Asia-Pacific region, where the majority of new Under 30 years 50.1 % recruitments also occurred (1,926 employees). Employee fluctuation in the Americas region 30 to 50 years 46.0 % decreased from 27.5 percent in the previous year to 20.5 percent in the 2019 fiscal year. This Over 50 years 3.9 % decrease is attributable to local management and successful measures at the manufacturing site in Tijuana (Mexico). Of the departures, 1,605 were women and 1,819 men. 1,680 employees were in the under 30 age group, 1,344 in the middle age group (30 to 50 years) and 400 in the over 50 age group. The worldwide employee fluctuation rate during the 2019 fiscal year was 8.3 percent (previous year: 9.7 percent). Age structure and length of service Demographic change also impacts the age structure at Infineon. In order to counteract the effects of demographic change at the individual sites, we take appropriate steps in the areas of work organization, qualification and knowledge transfer, talent management, health management as well as corporate and management culture, depending on local need. Age structure The average age among employees worldwide is 39.2 years; it is slightly higher in the 2019 fiscal year than in the previous year (38.7 years). The share of employees below 30 years of age Under 30 years 21.9 % is 21.9 percent (previous year: 24.0 percent). The share of employees in the middle age group 30 to 50 years 60.6 % has increased (2019 fiscal year: 60.6 percent, 2018 fiscal year: 59.5 percent). The share in the Over 50 years 17.5 % group of employees over the age of 50 increased as well (2019 fiscal year: 17.5 percent, previous year: 16.5 percent). The average length of service increased slightly to 9.9 years (previous year: 9.7 years). Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 21 Protection of our employees Protection of our employees MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE 2019 FISCAL YEAR WE INVESTED › Labor relations APPROXIMATELY 40,900 HOURS IN › Responsible manufacturing TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR OUR SPECIALIZED EXPERTS WORLDWIDE IN THE AREAS OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH AS WELL AS IN FIRE PREVENTION. TARGETS see page 37 ff. Ensuring a safe working environment is a very high priority at Infineon. Here we take a preventive approach. Our occupational health and safety management system, certified according to OHSAS 18001, has been implemented at all major manufacturing sites as well as at corporate Injury Rate (IR)¹ headquarters. Workplace-related risk assessments carried out worldwide ensure that work0.5 place-related risks that may result in a danger to employees are identified and required protective measures are taken to minimize risks. This preventive safety concept is reviewed 0.4 and developed on a regular basis; the corresponding reporting goes to management, including 0.3 the Management Board. 0.2 Qualified safety experts supervise the implementation of the protective measures. Creating 0.1 safe and ergonomic workplaces is a matter of course for us. In addition to work areas in 0 production and other technical areas, office workplaces are also analyzed in terms of improve2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ments. One example of realization in everyday practice is the information brochure for our 1 The Injury Rate is calculated as follows: total corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany), which includes tips and advice on topics such number of injuries/total hours worked x 200,000. Holidays and public holidays are included in the as indoor climate and office acoustics. working hours. In the area of fire prevention we regularly carried out safety training sessions and evacuation Lost Day Rate (LDR)¹ drills at all significant manufacturing sites as well as at corporate headquarters. As another 6 element in our preventive approach, we have implemented the seven “Golden Rules of Safety” as part of our behavior-based safety program. 4 The recording and evaluation of work-related accident figures in the course of our general 2 data collection process is performed in accordance with “GRI Standards” requirements on the basis of the standardized Injury Rate (IR) and the Lost Day Rate (LDR). All work-related accidents 0 that have led to more than one lost day have been taken into account. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 The Lost Day Rate is calculated as follows: total There were no fatal work-related accidents at Infineon in the 2019 fiscal year. Our Injury Rate number of lost days/total hours worked x 200,000. Holidays and public holidays are included in the of 0.50 in the 2019 fiscal year is presented on the margin in the graphic above. The Lost Day working hours. Rate of 6.60 in the 2019 fiscal year is illustrated in the margin in the graphic below. The increase of the Injury Rate and consequently the Lost Day Rate can be explained by a rise of behavior-­ based accidents with a low number of days lost. With our behavior-based safety program, we address the causes. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 22 Environmental sustainability Environmental sustainability MATERIAL TOPICS 66 PERCENT OF THE WASTE › Responsible manufacturing GENERATED IS RECYCLED. TARGETS see page 38 ff. Our global management system IMPRES integrates targets and processes relating to environmental sustainability as well as occupational safety and health. IMPRES is certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 worldwide. Additionally, it has been certified in accordance with ISO 50001 energy management standard at our largest European manufacturing sites as well as at our corporate headquarters. Changes in legal requirements and potential performance improvements are continuously evaluated as a part of this integrated management system. The essential results of the evaluations are reported to management and the appropriate measures are decided on. Sustainable use of resources at our manufacturing sites The limited availability of natural resources is one of the greatest global challenges. Increasing resource efficiency enables both environmental and economic potential and is an essential pillar in our sustainability strategy. Water management Infineon’s water balance for the 2019 fiscal year is shown in schematic form in the following chart. Water balance in cubic meters (m3) Water use Evaporation Water withdrawal Production Municipal wastewater (sewage plant) (partly treated): 24,881,690 m³ Cooling water: Water discharge after production: 22,396,680 m³ 9,371,654 m3 Groundwater: 13,473,328 m3 Ultrapure water: 10,588,007 m3 Wastewater: 14,390,222 m3 Drinking water: 9,473,921 m3 Non-ultrapure water Internal wastewater treatment Non-drinking water: Sanitary systems, canteen area, etc. 1,934,441 m3 In accordance with In accordance with purity requirements purity requirements Indirect discharge Direct discharge Sewage plant: Discharge to river: Discharge to river: 7,170,843 m3 7,219,379 m3 8,006,458 m3 Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 23 Environmental sustainability Water is used at our manufacturing sites, for example, for cooling equipment or for generation of ultrapure water. A significant share of our water withdrawal, which is used as cooling water, is returned in at least the same degree of purity. If the water that we withdraw does not meet the applicable purity standards, it is subject to further treatments. Part of the withdrawn water can be re-used after its initial use. During the reporting period, 1,538,138 cubic meters (14.53 percent) of ultrapure water and 1,244,359 cubic meters (8.65 percent) of production wastewater were re-used. Infineon withdrew 24,881,690 cubic meters of water during the year under report. Infineon sources water either from its own groundwater wells or from local providers, who supply both drinking and non-drinking water of lesser quality than drinking water. Our water sources are shown in the following graph. Water withdrawal in cubic meters (m3) 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Groundwater Drinking water Non-drinking water Standardized water consumption The World Semiconductor Council (WSC) has defined “water consumption in liters per square per square centimeter manufactured wafer centimeter of manufactured wafer” as the unit for measuring the efficiency of water use. The Infineon frontend sites consumed approximately 32 percent less water to manufacture a Infineon¹ 68 % square centimeter wafer in the 2018 calendar year than the global average of the WSC. WSC 100 % According to the definition of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 1 Frontend sites worldwide. (WBCSD), water stress begins with an available total amount of renewable water resources of less than 1,700 cubic meters per person in the population per year. We used the “Global Water Tool Version 2015” of the WBCSD to perform a risk analysis at country level. The results show that only our manufacturing site in Singapore is located in a water stress area. This Water discharges site consists primarily of office and test operations with a comparatively low level of water consumption. Although during the 2019 fiscal year only 0.60 percent of our total water volume 32.23 % was consumed there, we implemented measures to ensure efficient water use at the site as well. Two buildings at the site have been awarded the “Water Efficient Building” certificate by 35.75 % the local water authority “PUB”. 32.02 % After water has exited the production area, it is either directly or indirectly discharged, depending on its level of purity, the technical conditions and official permissions. The Wastewater – direct discharge percentage of water discharged is shown in the chart “Water discharges”. Wastewater – indirect discharge Other water discharges The high priority given to sustainable water consumption is demonstrated through our (excluding wastewater) participation in the United Nations CEO Water Mandate. On our website we publish the Infineon “Communication on Progress” for this initiative of the UN Secretary-General. By @ www.infineon.com/ participating in CDP Water Disclosure we also inform our stakeholders about how we csr_reporting handle water and the associated opportunities and risks. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 24 Environmental sustainability Waste management Our sustainable waste management is based on classification and separation of waste and the use of safe disposal methods. In the 2019 fiscal year the total amount of waste generated was 45,083 tons, with 23,389 tons classified as non-hazardous and 21,694 tons classified as hazardous. Besides statutory requirements, fluctuating production has the greatest impact on the amounts of waste generated and the disposal methods used. Waste generation in tons 20,000 16,000 12,000 8,000 4,000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste In the 2019 fiscal year, 69.43 percent of the non-hazardous waste and 63.24 percent of the hazardous waste were sent to recycling. The percentages of the various waste management methods are illustrated in the charts below. Waste management methods Waste management methods for hazardous waste for non-hazardous waste 7.55 % 5.82 % 2.94 % 6.20 % 20.44 % 23.01 % 63.24 % 1.37 % 69.43 % Recycling Incineration Recycling Incineration Chemical treatment Chemical treatment Composting Landfill Landfill Standardized waste generation The WSC has defined the “waste generated in grams per square centimeter manufactured per square centimeter manufactured wafer wafer” as the unit for measuring the efficiency of waste management. Compared to the WSC global average, in the 2018 calendar year our worldwide frontend sites generated Infineon¹ 35 % approximately 65 percent less waste per square centimeter manufactured wafer. WSC 100 % At the Villach (Austria) site, for the last three years reusable plastic packing which is sent back 1 Frontend sites worldwide. and forth between sites has been used in wafer transport, primarily for the site’s deliveries to Warstein (Germany) and Cegléd (Hungary). This saves up to 70,000 cartons and up to 140,000 pieces of foam plastic per fiscal year. This reusable packing was developed by Infineon employees on a cross-site basis in collaboration with suppliers. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 25 Environmental sustainability Energy efficiency and climate protection Efficient energy management Energy consumption (direct/indirect) At Infineon, energy is used mainly in the form of electricity. Primary energy sources such as in gigawatt hours oil and gas play only a minor part. Direct energy (Scope 1) Within our manufacturing sites, the frontend sites consume the majority of the energy, since renewable 1.14 the physical conditions for production are particularly demanding there. Thus, for example, Firewood 1.14 an additional amount of energy is needed to establish the highly stable climatic conditions in Direct energy (Scope 1) the cleanrooms. In comparison, the backend sites have lower energy consumption due to the non-renewable 202.31 nature of their processes. Research and development sites and the offices have the lowest Natural gas 184.89 energy demand. Liquid gas 0.93 Petrol 0.05 In the 2019 fiscal year Infineon consumed approximately 1,869 gigawatt hours (GWh) of energy Petrol (cars) 0.47 worldwide. Diesel 0.46 Diesel (cars) 14.47 Consumption by material energy source is shown in the following graph and in the adjoining Fuel oil 1.04 table. Indirect energy (Scope 2) 1,665.83 Electricity 1,598.79 Energy consumption District heating 67.04 in gigawatt hours 1,600 1,200 800 400 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Natural gas Electricity District heating At our main manufacturing sites we have implemented the systematic of the energy management standard ISO 50001 according to local requirements, and continually analyze options to further improve energy efficiency. Standardized electricity consumption The WSC has defined “electricity consumed per square centimeter manufactured wafer” as per square centimeter manufactured wafer the unit for measuring the energy efficiency of frontend sites. Compared to the global average value of the WSC, our frontend sites worldwide used approximately 52 percent less electricity Infineon¹ 48 % to manufacture one square centimeter wafer in the 2018 calendar year. WSC 100 % In the 2019 fiscal year, the energy consumption per revenue was 0.23 kilowatt hours per euro. 1 Frontend sites worldwide. Figures from previous years are also shown in the following graph as a comparison. Energy consumption per revenue in kilowatt hours per € 0.30 0.20 0.10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 26 Environmental sustainability Greenhouse gas emissions Infineon started developing strategies to reduce the amount of material used to the technically necessary minimum at an early stage, thereby limiting CO2 emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions are classified into Scope 1, 2 and 3. The classification of direct and indirect emissions in Scope 1, 2 and 3 is performed as set out in the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”. The Scope 2 guidelines require companies to calculate and disclose two values for their Scope 2 emissions: “market-based accounting”, based on provider-specific emission factors, and “location-based accounting”, based on the average for the regional or national network. Scope 1 emissions The semiconductor industry uses greenhouse gases in wafer-etching processes for structuring wafers as well as for cleaning production equipment. This includes perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), namely perfluorinated and polyfluorinated carbon compounds, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). These greenhouse gases cannot be replaced by another class of substances and account for around 86 percent of Scope 1 emissions. The increasing level of product complexity results in the tendency towards increased demands for these gases. We are reacting to this trend with continuous optimization of our processes through more efficient manufacturing methods and intelligent abatement concepts. The use of alternative gases with higher utilization rates and lower greenhouse gas potential helps minimize the increase in emissions wherever possible. Since the 2015 fiscal year, we have changed our PFC reporting from absolute values to the Normalized Emission Rate (NER) by normalizing the emissions per manufactured wafer surface. The WSC has set the objective to achieve an average normalized emission rate of 2.2 tons of CO2 per square meter by the year 2020. This corresponds to a reduction of 30 percent compared to 2010. We have set the target of falling below this 2020 target value of the WSC at an earlier point in time. With a NER of 1.21 we have once again achieved this target this fiscal year. Normalized Emission Rate in tons of CO2 per square meter 3.50 3.00 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 World Semiconductor Council 1 Infineon frontends Maximum value 2 1 The WSC did not publish official NER values for the 2018 and 2019 calendar years. 2 Derived from the WSC‘s objective value not to be exceeded. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 27 Environmental sustainability In addition to the PFC reporting, we calculate emissions for other relevant substances used at our relevant manufacturing sites on an annual basis. In the 2019 fiscal year, 6.03 tons of sulfur oxides (SOx), 93.41 tons of nitrogen oxides (NOx), 19.84 tons of carbon monoxide (CO), 496.76 tons of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and 7.12 tons of particulate matter were emitted. The total Scope 1 emissions in the 2019 fiscal year are equivalent to 264,203 tons of CO2. Scope 2 emissions Considering provider-specific emission factors of the energy sources used (“market-based accounting”), our Scope 2 emissions totaled 664,770 tons of CO2 equivalents1 in the reporting period. This approach was selected in order to illustrate the implementations achieved so far in terms of regenerative energy supply. The energy concept of our corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany) is a good example of sustainability. The architects’ objective was an efficient and environmentally friendly use of energy. They developed a concept that combines a good indoor climate with energy-efficient cooling. This concept makes air conditioning unnecessary in the office areas and instead uses well water that flows through the ceilings for cooling. In addition, our corporate headquarters is connected to a geothermal system. In this way, we are making an active contribution to climate protection. Scope 3 emissions Scope 3 emissions refer to emissions generated for the provision and disposal of all raw materials and supplies as well as other utilities, operational materials and other process media, goods transportation, travel and energy supply activities (transmission losses). Scope 3 emissions totaled 467,148 tons of CO2 equivalents. The following emissions have been included in the calculation of the Infineon CO2 footprint: Calculation of the CO₂ burden in tons of CO₂ equivalents 1,396,121 264,203 664,770 467,148 Scope 1 – Direct Scope 2 – Indirect Scope 3 – Indirect PFCs Electricity Fuel and energy supply Gas District heating Water supply Diesel Wastewater Fuel oil Waste Petrol Materials Firewood Raw materials and supplies Infineon function cars Flights Transportation 1 Based on regional or national network averages (“location-based accounting”) Scope 2 emissions (i.e. electricity and district heating) amount to 753,254 tons of CO2 equivalents. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 28 Environmental sustainability Altogether, the Infineon environmental carbon footprint totaled approximately 1.40 million tons of CO2 equivalents in the 2019 fiscal year. The following chart illustrates the emissions by origin. The input streams show emissions generated in the course of supplying the materials. The output streams show emissions that were directly generated (during production) and through internal and external transportation. Allocation input and output of emissions by origin in tons of CO2 equivalents (tCO2e) Raw materials Process gases 69,291 tCO2e 15,896 tCO2e Process Electricity chemicals 833,183 tCO2e 48,645 tCO2e NPPUUTT IIN Other energy Water supply 46,234 tCO2e 3,259 tCO2e Infineon production sites Internal and external OUTPUT Air emissions OUTPUT transportation 225,963 tCO2e 146,233 tCO2e Waste Wastewater 3,234 tCO2e 4,184 tCO2e Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 29 Contribution through sustainable products Contribution through sustainable products MATERIAL TOPICS ECOLOGICALLY POSITIVE CO2 FOOTPRINT: › Responsible manufacturing DURING THEIR USE-PHASE, INFINEON › Contribution through sustainable PRODUCTS ENABLE CO2 EMISSION SAVINGS products OF ROUGHLY 56 MILLION TONS OF CO2 › Long-term viability of core business EQUIVALENTS. TARGETS see page 39 ff. Semiconductors from Infineon help generate electricity from renewable energy sources. They also offer increased efficiency in all value added stages of the energy sector: in generation, transmission and in particular in the use of electricity. They form a basis for the intelligent and efficient use of energy: in industrial applications, power supplies for computers and entertainment electronics as well as in motor vehicles. Semiconductors and solutions from Infineon make end-products more energy-efficient during their lifetimes and thus make an essential contribution to the improvement of the environmental footprint. For example, in industrial applications such as drives or motor control units, products from Infineon reduce power loss and thus improve efficiency. Products from Infineon are also used in technology fields such as LED lamps and induction cookers. The production of energy from renewable sources with large wind power turbines and photovoltaic parks is also enabled by our high-performance products. Infineon HybridPACK™ − Semiconductors are a key enabler in electro-mobility In electrified cars, Infineon’s HybridPACK™ family power modules serve as the energy bridge between the battery system and the electric drive. They convert the battery’s direct current (DC) into alternating current (AC) to drive the electric motor, and convert the AC generated during braking back to DC to charge the battery. The amount of energy lost in these processes has an impact on the range of an electric car: The smaller the loss, the smaller the necessary battery and the greater the advantages in terms of resource conservation and cost-efficiency. Hyundai-Kia Motors Company named Infineon “Partner of the Year 2018” for its power modules in hybrid and electric vehicles (for example HybridPACK™). The world’s fifth-largest automobile manufacturer has presented the award since 2002; Infineon is the first semiconductor manufacturer to receive it. The award selection committee stated that “Infineon has shown excellent performance in developing and quickly ramping a new power module. Our collaboration in creating the Double Sided Cooling products with their increased electrical performance will support Hyundai’s further growth in electro-­ mobility. We are also expecting a good long-term partnership in the future.” Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 30 Contribution through sustainable products The Infineon CO2 footprint When calculating a CO2 footprint a variety of complex processes and a multitude of influencing factors need to be considered. Therefore, carbon footprint calculations are subject to certain estimates. We have further optimized our approach in order to further improve the accuracy of such estimates. The calculation of CO2 emissions is based on the ISO 14000 standard series, which is further specified by the PAS (Public Available Specification) 2050 guideline issued by the BSI (British Standards Institution) for determining product-specific environmental impacts, as well as by the principles of the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” for determining carbon footprints (relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency and accuracy). In calculating the Infineon CO2 footprint, we have considered the entire manufacturing process in accordance with PAS 2050, including all of the utilities (raw materials and supplies) as well as internal and external logistics including final distribution to customers. The results of the Infineon CO2 balance are reported to management on a regular basis. During their use-phase, Infineon products in the fields of automotive electronics, industrial drives, servers, lighting, photovoltaics, wind energy, mobile phone chargers and induction cookers enable CO2 emission savings amounting to approximately 56 million tons of CO2 equivalents. Thus, with its products and innovations in combination with efficient production, Infineon achieved an environmental net benefit of more than 54 million tons of CO2 equivalents. Carbon footprint CO₂ burden ¹ CO₂ savings ² Ratio around 1 : 40 Around 1.40 million tons of CO2 equivalents Around 56 million tons of CO2 equivalents Net ecological benefit: CO₂ emissions reduction of more than 54 million tons 1 This figure considers manufacturing, transportation, function cars, flights, materials, chemicals, water/wastewater, direct emissions, energy consumption, waste, etc., and is based on internally collected data and externally available conversion factors. All data relate to the 2019 fiscal year. Manufacturing service providers are not included. 2 This figure is based on internally established criteria, which are explained in the explanatory notes. The figure relates to the 2018 calendar year and considers the following fields of application: automotive, LED, induction cookers, servers, renewable energy (wind, photovoltaic), mobile phone chargers as well as drives. CO2 savings are calculated on the basis of potential savings of technologies in which semiconductors are used. The CO2 savings are allocated on the basis of Infineon market share, semiconductor content and lifetime of the technologies concerned, based on internal and external experts’ estimations. Despite the fact that CO2 footprint calculations are subject to imprecision due to the complex issues involved, the results are nevertheless clear. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 31 Contribution through sustainable products Compliance with legal and customer-specific requirements The processes involved in manufacturing semiconductors are complex and require a wide variety of special chemicals and materials. At Infineon, we responsibly manage the handling of hazardous substances to safeguard human health and the environment. Our products meet all of the requirements set out in the European chemicals policy REACH (Regulation EC 1907/2006 “Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals”). Two important European directives regulate the use of certain substances defined by the European legislature as hazardous in end-products, the directive 2000/53/EC (ELV directive: “End-of-Life Vehicles”) and the directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS directive: “Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment”). No Infineon product is in the scope of these directives. However, our customers expect Infineon products to meet legal requirements in their applications. Infineon products comply with these requirements and are conform with the substances restrictions in the aforementioned legal regulations and thus meet customer requirements. Furthermore, we provide our customers with information on the chemical composition of the materials contained in our products. Infineon constantly works to develop and implement alternatives for certain materials, such as lead. Thus, for example, we participate in the DA5 (DA: Die Attach, five cooperation partners) partnership working to find lead-free alternatives for high temperature solders, which are necessary for specific applications because of their properties. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 32 Our responsibility along the supply chain Our responsibility along the supply chain MATERIAL TOPICS ALL INFINEON PRODUCTS ARE DRC › Responsible manufacturing CONFLICT-FREE. › Contribution through sustainable products TARGETS see page 39 ff. A long-term partnership between Infineon and its suppliers is a core element of our corporate philosophy. In the course of this partnership, all our suppliers are managed centrally in a supplier management portal where data is updated as necessary. This system is also used for supplier evaluation. The compliance with our requirements in the areas of environmental protection, occupational safety and health as well as CSR are highly relevant when selecting new suppliers, evaluating existing suppliers, and also for future supplier development. Principles of Purchasing Labor standards Conflict Human rights of interest Occupational Fair business safety and health Principles practices of Purchasing Business continuity Business gifts planning Environmental Security protection Our Principles of Purchasing are based on internationally recognized guidelines, such as the Principles of the UN Global Compact and the fundamental principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) as well as our Business Conduct Guidelines. The requirements described therein cover the topics shown in the diagram “Principles of Purchasing” above. By anchoring sustainability requirements and monitoring measures in the purchasing process we increase the effectiveness of our supplier management, reduce possible risks, create transparency along the supply chain and initiate improvement processes at suppliers. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 33 Our responsibility along the supply chain Furthermore, our main suppliers are contractually obliged to uphold our environmental, occupational safety and health as well as CSR commitments. Only suppliers that have committed to our basic principles can enter into a business relationship with us. Our expanded supplier management portal offers our suppliers a central portal for registration and automated update of relevant information such as compliance, sustainability, environmental protection, occupational safety, labor standards and social standards. Additionally, this portal allows suppliers to submit updated certifications. We encourage all suppliers to have themselves certified according to international standards. More than 100 new suppliers and new subsidiaries of existing suppliers are thus categorized every quarter according to their products and services. Depending on this categorization, the supplier receives up to eleven questionnaires on various topics in the supplier management portal. The responses received are evaluated by the respective Infineon specialist departments. The supplier is not approved unless it gets a successful evaluation. When necessary, improvement measures are jointly agreed with the supplier. This procedure supports a fast and up-to-date assessment. Furthermore the annual reevaluation of selected suppliers serves to determine whether or not corrective measures are to be initiated. Each year approximately 375 existing suppliers, representing approximately 75 percent of the purchasing volume, are reevaluated according to the topics mentioned above. Infineon products without DRC conflict minerals The US Dodd-Frank Act (Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) was adopted in July 2010. It contains disclosure and reporting obligations for companies listed on stock exchanges in the USA concerning the utilization of so-called “conflict minerals” that originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or its adjoining countries. The term “DRC conflict minerals” applies to tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, inasmuch as their extraction and/or trade does directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries. The use of the materials mentioned is absolutely necessary for the functionality of our products. Respect for human rights is a matter of course for Infineon. The avoidance of conflict minerals throughout the supply chain is a firm contribution towards the prevention of human rights abuses. Infineon is not listed on US stock exchanges and therefore not legally required to publish a report on conflict minerals. Nevertheless, as a member of the “Responsible Minerals Initiative” (RMI), we uphold our voluntary commitment towards our responsibility within the supply chain. At the same time, our comprehensive declaration on the use of conflict materials supports those of our customers who are required to perform due diligence within their supply chains in meeting their reporting duties in accordance with the requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Since Infineon does not purchase these metals directly from mines or smelters, we identify their origin in close cooperation with our direct suppliers. For this purpose we have introduced a standardized process throughout the organization based on the “OECD1 Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas” in order to create the necessary transparency within our supply chain. Our targets and requirements towards our supply chain are set forth in the Infineon “Conflict @ www.infineon.com/ Minerals Policy” and the “Supplier Code for a Responsible Sourcing of Conflict Minerals”, csr_reporting which are published on our website. In the 2019 fiscal year, Infineon identified 100 percent of its potential suppliers of conflict minerals and evaluated them with regard to their use of conflict minerals. Based on the thorough response of our suppliers and in accordance with the requirements of the OECD guidance, we can duly state that all Infineon products are DRC conflict-free. Moreover, we request our suppliers to continue purchasing only raw materials from smelters that meet the “Responsible Minerals Assurance Process” (RMAP) requirements or those of an equivalent auditing program. 1 OECD: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 34 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship MATERIAL TOPIC INFINEON IS CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN › Corporate citizenship CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 17 COUNTRIES. TARGETS see page 39 ff. Infineon and its employees understand corporate citizenship as a voluntary social contribution to the communities in which we operate. Infineon has defined four areas of activity in the field of corporate citizenship: “Environmental Sustainability”, “Local Social Needs”, “Education for Future Generations” and “Responding to Natural and Humanitarian Disasters”. These focus areas of engagement are contained in our rule “Corporate Citizenship and Sponsoring”. This rule ensures that our corporate citizenship activities are performed transparently and in line with our ethical principles. We have also appointed a citizenship representative for this topic at all our major sites. The request and approval process in the area of corporate citizenship is also defined in the aforementioned rule “Corporate Citizenship and Sponsoring”, which is binding worldwide. This rule describes the possibilities for involvement and regulate the involvement of central functions and of the Management Board as part of the request and approval process. Infineon supported 302 activities worldwide in the 2019 fiscal year. 8 percent of the donations were investments in the local communities we interact with. 92 percent were donations to charitable activities. Corporate citizenship expenditure 2019 in € Donations Sponsoring In-kind giving Employee Total volunteering 1,022,649 462,351 64,581 21,819 1,571,400 Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 35 Corporate citizenship Examples of the corporate citizenship activities of Infineon 2019 Environmental Sustainability ›› S  upport for planting mangroves in Kedah ›› S  ponsorship of the “Rende Foundation” with state in order to conserve the forests for a focus on environmental protection (China) upcoming generations (Malaysia) ›› S  upport for the “Plant-for-the-Planet Foundation”, which plants trees for a better world (Germany) Education for Future Generations ›› S  upport for the “Lakeside Research Days ›› S  upport for “Politecnico di Milano” 2019”: Research event to promote university in the development of a joint exchange between science and industry research program (Italy) (Austria) ›› S  upport for the “International School ›› S  ponsorship of the prizes for the “Smart Carinthia”: Promotion of education in an Model Car Contest” held at Hanyang international environment (Austria) University (Korea) ›› V  olunteer activities at “Beach Cities ›› S  upport for the “I.E.C.T. Summer School Robotics”: Support for STEM 1 education on Entrepreneurship”: The objective of and robotics competitions (USA) the Summer School is to support scientists, researchers and early-stage start-ups and to show them how they can bring their ideas and research to market readiness (Austria) Local Social Needs ›› S  upport for the “Second Harvest Food ›› S  upport for the “Vobis” association: ProBank”: Fighting hunger (USA) moting language skills and integration of refugees and immigrants in Carinthia ›› D  onation to “Lebenshilfe Pirna-Sebnitz-­ (Austria) Freital e.V.”: The association represents in particular the interests of those with ›› S  upport for the St. Jude Children’s mental or multiple disabilities, with chronic Research Hospital: The St. Jude Children’s psychological illnesses in all age groups Research Hospital is a world-renowned as well as their parents, family members and leading hospital for malignant illand guardians (Germany) nesses, in particular acute leukemia, in children (USA) ›› D  onation to the charitable home “Rumah Amal Kulim”: The home used the donation ›› V  olunteer activities at the “SDN 5 Sei to purchase a van which brings special-­ Beduk” school in Batam (Indonesia): Supneeds children to their daily education port for renovation of restrooms and for (Malaysia) planting trees in order to inspire young people and encourage them to care for society in the future (Indonesia) Responding to Natural and Humanitarian Disasters ›› S  upport for the UNICEF water program ›› D  onation to the organization “Lifewater in South Sudan, in which the creation of International” for providing the village of permanent access to a water source in a Gohjota with clean water (Ethiopia) crisis zone provides children and families with clean water (South Sudan) ›› D  onation to the “American Red Cross”: Humanitarian aid for disaster areas affected by the wildfires in California (USA) 1 STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 36 Corporate citizenship Memberships and partnerships Infineon is involved in numerous industry associations and standardization organizations including for example: Industry associations › World Semiconductor Council (WSC; organization of regional semiconductor associations) › Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA) › Industrial Internet Consortium (IIC) › Alliance for the Internet of Things Innovation (AIOTI) › European Semiconductor Industry Association (ESIA) › Association representing the Smart Security Industry (EUROSMART) › China Semiconductor Industry Association (CSIA) › US Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) › Federal Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media (BITKOM) › German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI) › German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) › 5G Automotive Association (5GAA) › Association for European NanoElectronics ActivitieS (AENEAS) › Advanced Research & Technology for EMbedded Intelligence and Systems (ARTEMIS-IA) Standardization organizations › International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) › International Organization for Standardization (ISO) › Global Standards for the Microelectronics Industry (JEDEC) › Near Field Communication Forum (NFC Forum) › Mobile Industry Processor Interface (MIPI) Alliance › Universal Serial Bus Implementers Forum (USB-IF) › TCG-Trusted Computing Group (Computer Security Standards) › European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) › Automotive Open System Architecture (AUTOSAR) › German Institute for Standardization (DIN) › German Commission for Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies of DIN and VDE (DKE) › Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) Others › United Nations Global Compact › Platform Industrial Internet › Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) › European Cyber Security Organisation (ECSO) › European Technology Platform on Smart Systems Integration (EPoSS) Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 37 Our sustainability targets Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2019 FISCAL YEAR STATUS DESCRIPTION Business ethics On-schedule revision of the web-based training on the Business The web-based training for Business Conduct Guidelines was Conduct Guidelines in the 2019 fiscal year. All employees revised in the 2019 fiscal year. worldwide are required to complete the training. The participation of our employees will be ensured by means of an automated reminder system and escalation process to the manager. Human rights Review of the supply chain assessment method in terms of The various approaches for supplier evaluation were reviewed sustainability as part of continuous improvement. Therefore, based on sustainability criteria. The United Nations “Universal standardized software solutions available on the market will Declaration of Human Rights” was the basis for assessing the be evaluated in the 2019 fiscal year based on sustainability criteria. topic of human rights. The focus topics of the Charter are proThe evaluation criteria will contain among other things inter­ cessed by the software solutions in varying degrees of detail. nationally valid human rights as a focus area. The Infineon supplier evaluation covers the focus topics of the Charter. Human resources management Increasing the share of women in management positions to 15 We were able to increase the share of women in middle and percent by the 2020 fiscal year. Our long-term goal is a 20 percent senior management levels from 14.8 percent in the previous share of women in management positions. This target is to be fiscal year to 15.5 percent in the 2019 fiscal year. This means we achieved by developing division-specific targets and measures, have achieved the defined target. which will be inspected on a regular basis by the responsible management groups and by the Management Board. Another measure is increasing the internal visibility of talented females. The currently existing global target of 80 percent overall employee With an agreement ratio of 81 percent to the statement “All in satisfaction will remain unchanged for the time being. The all, Infineon is a very good employer” in the survey from the measures for achieving this goal include in particular the further 2018 fiscal year, we have achieved our target. development of leadership skills as well as ensuring balanced workloads. At least 90 percent of all our managers (Senior Manager level The leadership dialogs provide managers with structured feedwith five or more direct employees and higher) will conduct a back from their employees. This makes it possible for them to leadership dialog with their employees within two years. The reflect on their own management behavior, to strengthen it and leadership dialogs provide managers with structured feedback identify potential improvements. This improves collaboration from their employees. This makes it possible for them to reflect both with and within the team. At present a share of approxion their own management behavior, to strengthen it and identify mately 81.8 percent (previous year: 81 percent) of managers potential improvements. This improves collaboration both with has conducted their leadership dialogs within the last two years. and within the team. The measures for achieving this target Compared to the last fiscal year we were able to increase this include regular monitoring of the completion of the leadership share by 0.8 percentage points. dialog and the training of internal or external moderators for the leadership dialog. Protection of our employees Implementation of a behavior-based safety program by the end Information material on the “Golden Rules of Safety” was of the 2020 fiscal year at all manufacturing sites included in developed in the 2019 fiscal year. The information material was IMPRES and at the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany), provided to the sites for communication and training purposes in addition to measures already in existence. Here we launched and implemented at all manufacturing sites included in IMPRES, communication of the “Golden Rules of Safety” in the 2018 fiscal as well as at the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany). year. Additional supporting information materials will be develop­ed in the 2019 fiscal year and made available to the sites. Target achieved In progress Target not yet achieved Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 38 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2019 FISCAL YEAR STATUS DESCRIPTION Environmental sustainability Water management Due to the increasing complexity of our products, the use of Our specific water consumption was below 8.5 liters per square water in manufacturing increases too. Regardless of this growing centimeter manufactured wafer. product complexity, our water consumption will nevertheless remain under 8.5 liters per square centimeter manufactured wafer. The measures for achieving this target include regularly occurring exchange between the sites for identification and realization of potential improvements. Waste management Regardless of growing product complexity, our aim is to keep the Our specific waste generation was below 27.5 grams per square specific waste generation below 27.5 grams per square centimeter centimeter manufactured wafer. manufactured wafer. The typically increasing complexity of our products requires an increase in the use of raw materials and supplies. This also means an increase in the amount of waste generated. Therefore, this target is a challenge and a practical reference unit for the effectiveness of our measures aimed at waste reduction. This target is to be achieved in particular through regularly occurring exchange between the sites for identification and implementation of potential improvements. Implementation of measures at the frontend sites in order to In the 2019 fiscal year 344.64 tons of the solvent PGMEA were save 300 tons of the solvent propylene glycol methyl ether recovered by distillation of waste containing PGMEA and were acetate (PGMEA) by the end of the 2020 fiscal year. This target is reused in manufacturing. This corresponds to a 114.9 percent to be achieved primarily through the distillation of waste target achievement. containing PGMEA by external recycling contractors and through the reuse of the recovered PGMEA in manufacturing. Efficient energy management Implementation of projects and measures by the end of the In the 2019 fiscal year we completed measures which saved 2020 fiscal year for increasing energy efficiency, totaling annual 23.1 gigawatt hours of energy. Over the last two fiscal years, total potential energy savings of 25 gigawatt hours. The realization savings of 46.5 gigawatt hours were achieved. of site-specific measures in the area of infrastructure and manufacturing will support the achievement of this target. Completion of an energy assessment of the data centers at all In the 2019 fiscal year an energy assessment was conducted in manufacturing sites included in IMPRES and of the corporate order to derive suitable and reasonable measures for further headquarters Campeon (Germany) in order to identify additional increasing energy efficiency. possible energy efficiency potential by the end of the 2019 fiscal year. The analysis developed will be conducted at the sites included in IMPRES. Greenhouse gas emissions In the 2019 fiscal year, the PFC-relevant emissions of the frontend Our PFC-relevant emissions were below 2.2 tons CO2 equivalents sites will remain below the World Semiconductor Council target per square meter manufactured wafer surface. value of 2.2 tons of CO2 equivalents per square meter manufactured wafer surface. The challenge here is the constantly increasing complexity of our products and thus the associated increase in the number of process steps requiring the use of climate-relevant gases. Measures for achieving this target include smart abatement concepts as well as the use of alternative gases with higher utilization rates and lower greenhouse potential, where technically possible and economically feasible. Performance of a comprehensive efficiency analysis (ABC analyThe comprehensive efficiency analysis (ABC analysis) of our PFC sis) of our PFC abatement concept at all frontend sites by the end abatement concept was performed in the 2019 fiscal year at all of the 2019 fiscal year in order to identify additional possible frontend sites. In accordance with this analysis, all relevant PFC optimization potential. emission flows at the Infineon sites are directed to thermal treatment wherever economically and ecologically reasonable. Target achieved In progress Target not yet achieved Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 39 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2019 FISCAL YEAR STATUS DESCRIPTION Contribution through sustainable products Updating of the Infineon CO2 footprint as well as achievement of The CO2 footprint was updated. The proportion of CO2 savings by a ratio of CO2 savings through our products in the use-phase our products during their use-phase was by the factor 40 higher compared to the emissions generated in manufacturing our products than the corresponding emissions in manufacturing those products. of at least 30 to 1. Our responsibility along the supply chain Maintaining a DRC1 conflict-free supply chain and conducting A comprehensive supplier evaluation was conducted and the a renewed evaluation with regard to the use of conflict minerals DRC conflict-free supply chain was maintained. for 100 percent of the relevant suppliers. Here, the dynamic development of the product portfolio and the resulting modification in the supplier topology, as well as the increase of customer-specific requirements present a significant challenge. Review of the supply chain assessment method in terms of The various approaches for supplier evaluation were reviewed sustainability as part of continuous improvement. Therefore, based on sustainability criteria. The focus was on the topic areas standardized software solutions available on the market will of Environmental, Social and Governance. Software solutions be evaluated in the 2019 fiscal year based on sustainability criteria. address these topic areas to different degrees of detail. The Infineon supplier evaluation covers all essential topics. Corporate citizenship Application of the methodology defined in the 2018 fiscal year The methodology was applied. Based on the results a regular for evaluating the impact of our corporate citizenship activities exchange of experience was established involving the relevant by regularly occurring exchange among the sites. The evaluation sites. This exchange is ongoing. for previous years will also be integrated in order to enable derivation of a trend. 1 DRC: Democratic Republic of Congo. Target achieved In progress Target not yet achieved Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 40 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2020 FISCAL YEAR Business ethics In the 2020 fiscal year all employees will be trained on the updated version of the Business Conduct Guidelines. The training is obligatory for all employees worldwide. The participation of our employees will be ensured by an automated reminder system and escalation process to the manager. Human rights Evaluation of the possible impact on supplier management at Infineon from the German National Action Plan (NAP) for Business and Human Rights. Human resources management The target of maintaining a share of women in management positions of at least 15 percent by the end of the 2020 fiscal year remains in place. Our long-term goal is a 20 percent share of women in management positions. This target is to be achieved by developing division-specific targets and measures, which will be inspected on a regular basis by the responsible management groups and by the Management Board. Another measure is increasing the internal visibility of talented females. The currently existing global target of 80 percent overall employee satisfaction will remain unchanged for the time being. The measures for achieving this goal include in particular the further development of leadership skills as well as ensuring balanced workloads. At least 90 percent of all our managers (Senior Manager level with five or more direct employees and higher) will conduct a leadership dialog with their employees within two years. The leadership dialogs provide managers with structured feedback from their employees. This makes it possible for them to reflect on their own management behavior, to strengthen it and identify potential improvements. This improves collaboration both with and within the team. The measures for achieving this target include regular monitoring of the completion of the leadership dialog and the training of internal or external moderators for the leadership dialog. Protection of our employees Implementation of a behavior-based safety program by the end of the 2020 fiscal year at all manufacturing sites included in IMPRES and at the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany), in addition to measures already in existence. Transition of our occupational health and safety management system from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 and certification of all manufacturing sites covered by IMPRES and of the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany). Environmental sustainability Water management Due to the increasing complexity of our products, the use of water in manufacturing increases too. Regardless of this growing product complexity, our aim is to keep our water consumption under 8.5 liters per square centimeter manufactured wafer. The measures for achieving this target include regularly occurring exchange between the sites for identification and realization of potential improvements. Non-Financial Report INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 41 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2020 FISCAL YEAR Waste management Regardless of growing product complexity, our aim is to keep the specific waste generation below 27.5 grams per square centimeter manufactured wafer. The typically increasing complexity of our products requires an increase in the use of raw materials and supplies. This also means an increase in the amount of waste generated. Therefore, this target is a challenge and a practical reference unit for the effectiveness of our measures aimed at waste reduction. This target is to be achieved in particular through regularly occurring exchange between the sites for identification and implementation of potential improvements. Implementation of measures at the frontend sites in order to save 300 tons of the solvent PGMEA by the end of the 2020 fiscal year. This target is to be achieved primarily through the distillation of waste containing PGMEA by external recycling contractors and through the reuse of the recovered PGMEA in manufacturing. Efficient energy management Implementation of projects and measures by the end of the 2020 fiscal year for increasing energy efficiency, totaling annual potential energy savings of 25 gigawatt hours. The realization of site-specific measures in the area of infrastructure and manufacturing will support the achievement of this target. Transition of the energy management system according to ISO 50001 at the European manufacturing sites which are certified under IMPRES and at our corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany) to the new standard ISO 50001:2018. Greenhouse gas emissions In the 2020 fiscal year, our aim is to keep the PFC-relevant emissions of the frontend sites below the World Semiconductor Council target value of 2.2 tons of CO2 equivalents per square meter manufactured wafer surface. The challenge here is the constantly increasing complexity of our products and thus the associated increase in the number of process steps requiring the use of climate-­ relevant gases. Measures for achieving this target include smart abatement concepts as well as the use of alternative gases with higher utilization rates and lower greenhouse potential, where technically possible and economically feasible. Contribution through sustainable products Updating of the Infineon CO2 footprint as well as achievement of a ratio of CO2 savings through our products in the use-phase compared to the emissions generated in manufacturing our products of at least 30 to 1. Our responsibility along the supply chain Maintaining a DRC conflict-free supply chain and conducting a renewed evaluation with regard to the use of conflict minerals for 100 percent of the relevant suppliers. Here, the dynamic development of the product portfolio and the resulting modification in the supplier topology, as well as the increase of customer-specific requirements present a significant challenge. Corporate citizenship A proposal for an internal communication strategy for CSR and sustainability topics will be formulated in the 2020 fiscal year. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 42 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Measures implemented Human rights Principle 1: › Our Business Conduct Guidelines define our responsibility towards our customers, employees, suppliers, community and Support for human rights societies as well as to our shareholders around the world, including respect for and protection of human rights. Our CSR policy describes our strategic CSR focus areas and our voluntary commitment to fulfill the corresponding obligations. Both Principle 2: our strategic objectives and our daily actions must always be based on high ethical and legal standards. Non-complicity in human rights abuses › Training for all employees on Business Conduct Guidelines which reflect our commitment to respect and uphold international human rights. Every new employee is automatically signed up for a web-based training session or required to physically attend training. Every employee has to retake the training sessions on a regular basis. › We conducted various evaluations in the area of human rights at our manufacturing sites around the world. On the basis of these evaluations we concluded that our activities are in compliance with the “International Bill of Human Rights” and with the conventions and principles of the International Labour Organization (Fundamental ILO Conventions). › We require our suppliers and service providers to comply with permanently defined regulations in our Principles of Purchasing. Infineon expects its suppliers to comply with human rights. A violation would result in consequences for the business relationship with the affected supplier. Labor Principle 3: › Our Business Conduct Guidelines prohibit discrimination and any form of forced labor. Uphold freedom of association › There are various options available for reporting compliance violations, ranging from a report to the supervisor to a report Principle 4: to the Corporate Compliance Officer, the respective responsible regional Compliance Officer or the external ombudsman. Elimination of all forms of Cases can also be submitted, either openly or anonymously, via the whistleblower hotline. The Compliance Officer investiforced labor gates any cases received and decides on the initiation of internal investigations. The “Infineon Integrity Line” is a whistleblower hotline which provides the reporting party with functions supporting dialog with the Compliance Officer under the highest Principle 5: standards of data protection and without compromising anonymity. In addition, Infineon also investigates reports from Abolition of child labor external persons received through our reporting channels. Principle 6: › We react rigorously to demonstrated violations with balanced and suitable measures within the limits of company and legal Elimination of discrimination regulations. Here we follow the principle of proportionality. We therefore decide on an individual case basis which conseGRI 102 – 41 quences are appropriate, necessary and suitable. › Around 86 percent of our employees work at sites that have entered into collective agreements and where independent employee representatives are in place. › More than 90 percent of our employees work at production sites where committees are in place that also offer employers, employees and/or independent employee representatives the opportunity to discuss and receive advice on topics relating to environmental protection, occupational safety and health. › We uphold and promote the fundamental principles defined in the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), such as protection from discrimination in the selection, hiring, employment and promotion of employees, the right to form workers’ councils, as well as the rejection of child labor and all forms of forced labor. Persons under the age of 15 are not allowed to work at Infineon. Exceptions apply for countries subject to ILO Convention 138 (minimum age reduced to 14 years) or for job training or training programs which are authorized by the respective government and which demonstrably promote those participating. Environment Principle 7: › Our IMPRES (Infineon Integrated Management Program for Environment, Energy, Safety and Health) is globally certified in Precautionary approach to accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. Relevant EU frontend sites and our corporate headquarters are environmental protection additionally certified under ISO 50001. Principle 8: › Our IMPRES policy is an essential part of our management system which contains binding internal strategies, processes, Support initiatives for greater goals and requirements in the areas of environmental protection, energy, occupational safety and health. awareness of environmental responsibility › The responsible member of the Infineon Management Board defines the framework for the objectives in this area within the Infineon Group. As part of these definitions, the responsible management sets appropriate targets at site level and ensures Principle 9: the achievement of the targets. Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly › Internal environmental, energy, occupational safety and health audits and external certification audits take place at the sites in the context of our multi-site certification. technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: › In order to further increase awareness of the topic of preventing corruption in the company, this topic has also been integraAction against corruption ted in the web-based Business Conduct Guidelines training. In addition a web-based training unit focusing specifically on prevention of corruption is continuously rolled out for particular target groups. All new employees belonging to these target groups are automatically signed up for mandatory, web-based training sessions. › The topic of reporting compliance violations is generally described in the Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines. Details of the reporting and notification process in case of violations of laws, the Business Conduct Guidelines and other internal regulations are also part of the worldwide rule “Management of Compliance Cases”. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 43 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the German version of the report. Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 GRI 100: GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 57, Cover Cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services “Infineon at a glance” 102-3 Location of headquarters 56 102-4 Location of operations 56 102-5 Ownership and legal form 65 – 67 102-6 Markets served 39 – 55 102-7 Scale of the organization 2 “Infineon key data” 102-8 Information on employees and 15 – 20 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 32 – 33 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and 56 96 – 98 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 21 102-12 External initiatives 42, 50 – 51 102-13 Membership of associations 36 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 2–5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6 – 11 79 – 94 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 12 – 13 norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 12 – 13 about ethics 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 99 – 116 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 12 – 35 environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 5 – 11 environmental and social topics 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 5 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 42 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5–7 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 5 – 7, GRI Content For the definition of our stakeholders we evaluated Index international sustainability guidelines and directives, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and applied the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Model for Excellence and the UN Global Compact Blueprint. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 5–7 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 44 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 191 – 193, GRI Content @ www.infineon.com/annualreport financial statements Index 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 6 102-47 List of material topics 7 102-48 Restatements of information GRI Content Index The representation of information in the 2019 fiscal year has not significantly changed compared to the previous fiscal year. 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI Content Index The reporting of the 2019 fiscal year has not significantly changed compared to the previous fiscal year. 102-50 Reporting period 6 102-51 Date of most recent report 6 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 58 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 6 the “GRI Standards” 102-55 GRI content index 43 – 49 102-56 External assurance 52 – 55 196 – 201 GRI 200: ECONOMIC TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 12 – 35 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 – 35 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 34, GRI Content “Infineon key data”, Retained economic value is not reported. Splitting distributed Index 118 – 123 direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) by region or market is not relevant. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 8–9 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 137 – 141 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from GRI Content Index 144 Splitting of “received benefits” by country is not relegovernment vant. Governments do not participate in Infineon. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 12 – 35 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 – 35 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 34 – 35 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI Content Index 29 – 38 Through the use of products in which our semiconduct­ ors are used, Infineon has indirect economic impacts, for example, in efficiency improvements. The significance of those impacts was – due to external parameters – not determined in each individual case. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 45 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 12 – 13 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 – 13 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about 12 – 13, 42, Compliance training is carried out in particular at anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI Content Index management level and Board level. Splitting training participation by individual regions or employees category is not an indicator relevant to the management process for Infineon. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 83 – 86 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 – 86 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 166 – 169 anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22 – 28 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 28 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 25 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 25, 28, GRI Content The description of the Scope 3 emissions is based on organization Index the Infineon CO2 footprint, which includes the whole energy consumption of Infineon, and is reported in metric tons of CO2 equivalents. The other steps, that is, the use-phase of the products by the customer as well as their disposal, cannot be automatically calculated due to the different potential applications and fields of use of Infineon products. 302-3 Energy intensity 25, GRI Content Due to the confidentiality of specific information, Index Infineon reported the specific energy consumption in kilowatt hours per euro. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 38 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 29 – 31 products and services INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 46 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 WATER GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22 – 28 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 28 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 22 – 23, GRI Content Disclosure due to the production site placed in a Index water-stressed area and the associated specific local requirements. 303-3 Water recycled and reused 22 – 23 EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22 – 28 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 28 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 26 – 28 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 27 – 28 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 27 – 28 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 26, GRI Content Reported by the NER (Normalized Emission Rate) Index calculation. Herewith only PFC emissions were taken into account, since these are the most significant source of CO2 emissions. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 38, 41, GRI Content The avoided CO2 emissions were reported in the Index form of energy under disclosure 302-4. These are corresponding to 11,622 tons CO2 equivalents. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 27 and other significant air emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its Boundary 6 – 11 The management approach and its 103-2 components 22 – 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 28 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 22 – 23 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 24 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 32 – 33 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 – 33 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 32 – 33 environmental criteria INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 47 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 GRI 400: SOCIAL TOPICS EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 15 – 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 15 – 20 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 20 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 18 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 21 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 42 management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupation­al 21, GRI Content In addition to the general accident data, in the 2019 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Index fiscal year we have sorted the information by gender. number of work-related fatalities The female employees had an IR of 0.67 and LDR of 6.63 and the male employees had an IR of 0.39 and LDR of 6.58. Reporting of the accident rate and lost days rate by region is not a global steering-relevant figure. Infineon has currently no globally harmonized information for the reporting of occupational diseases. The absenteeism rate is not a global steering-relevant figure. TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 15 – 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 15 – 20 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 18 employee DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 15 – 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 15 – 20 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 48 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 17 – 19 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 19, GRI Content Men and women are paid equally at Infineon. Each women to men Index employee receives appropriate, transparent remu­ neration for their work, in compliance with all legal standards. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 6 – 11 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 12 – 14 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 – 14 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 12 – 14 actions taken FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 12 – 14, 32 – 33 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 – 14, 32 – 33 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 32 – 33 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 14 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 14, GRI Content Infineon carried out 6,000 hours of training on the or procedures Index Code of Conduct (Business Conduct Guidelines). It included information related to human rights. LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 34 – 35 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 – 35 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engage5, 34 – 35 ment, impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potenGRI Content Index During the 2019 fiscal year our worldwide citizenship tial negative impacts on local communities representatives did not find any adverse effects. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 49 GRI Content Index Issue Page Report Page Remarks “Sustainability at Annual Report Infineon 2019“ 2019 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 14, 32 – 33 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 32 – 33 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 32 – 33 social criteria CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 29 – 31 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 – 31 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 31 of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning GRI Content Index During the 2019 fiscal year, Infineon could not identify the health and safety impacts of products any incidents of non-compliance with regulations and and services voluntary codes related to the impacts of products and services on health and safety. MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 6 – 11 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 29 – 31 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 – 31 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service infor31 mation and labeling INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 50 Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals The Agenda 2030 for sustainable development of the United Nations is an expression of the conviction of the international community of states that the global challenges we face can only be mastered together. The Agenda creates a foundation for shaping worldwide economic progress in harmony with social justice and within the ecological boundaries of the earth. The heart of the Agenda is an ambitious catalog with 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Subsequently, Infineon reports on which measures have been or will be implemented for relevant goals and where our business model can contribute to realizing the goals of the Agenda 2030. GOAL IMPLEMENTATION AT INFINEON Ensure healthy lives and Training and continuing education in the area of environmental protection, promote well-being for all occupational safety and health are available to employees including at all ages specialized experts. In the 2019 fiscal year, our worldwide specialized experts in the areas of occupational safety and health as well as in fire prevention invested approximately 40,900 hours in training and continuing education measures. Infineon also offers projects in the area of ergonomics and health measures. Ensure inclusive and We are committed to high-quality education as a part of the focus area equitable quality “Education for Future Generations” of our corporate citizenship program. education 63 percent of Infineon’s donations and sponsoring activities belong to this area. Achieve gender equality No one may be personally attacked, disadvantaged, harassed or excluded because of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, ideology, age, disability or sexual orientation. Our Business Conduct Guidelines reflect this value. We take decisive action against every form of discrimination, sexual harassment, physical violence, coercion or verbal abuse. Employment of women and equal opportunity for women in taking on management roles is an integral part of Infineon’s diversity policy and programs. Ensure availability and We participate in the United Nations CEO Water Mandate and provide sustainable management of information on specific activities and programs on our Communication water and sanitation for all on Progress. Ensure access to affordable, Semiconductors from Infineon enable a more efficient production of reliable, sustainable and electricity from renewable energy sources. Furthermore, they offer increased modern energy for all efficiency in all value added stages of the energy industry: in generation, transmission and in particular in the use of electric energy. They form the basis for the intelligent and efficient use of electric energy – for example, in industrial applications, power supplies for computers and entertainment electronics as well as in vehicles. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 51 Sustainable Development Goals GOAL IMPLEMENTATION AT INFINEON Promote sustained, inclusive We respect and promote the fundamental principles defined by the International and sustainable economic Labour Organization (ILO) conventions in our daily actions. Infineon also growth, full and productive supports special activities that promote decent work opportunities for everyone. employment and decent These include programs for the integration of refugees and asylum seekers: work for all career preparation for refugees as well as support for the “Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft” (Donors’ Association for the Promotion of Sciences and Humanities in Germany) in assisting refugees within the program “Integration through Education”. Promote inclusive and Our environmental management system enables more efficient use of sustainable industrialization resources and the use of clean and environmental friendly technologies and and foster innovation industrial processes. Infineon has defined specific processes for taking environmental aspects into account in the purchasing of manufacturing equipment and services. Make cities and human One of the key topics of the 21st century is sustainable and optimally connected settlements inclusive, safe, mobility within urban metropolitan areas as well as mobility between cities. resilient and sustainable Today, reliable and fast public transportation is more important than ever for the quality of life and competitiveness of many regions and cities around the world. Our components are used both in local public transportation trains, subway trains and trams as well as in high-speed trains. Hybrid and electric vehicles are taking on a key role in shaping sustainable mobility. Our components are applied here as well. Ensure sustainable The availability of natural resources is one of the largest global challenges. consumption and Efficient resources management is therefore a central component in IMPRES. production patterns The manufacture of semiconductors requires the use of chemicals which we handle with a great sense of responsibility. As part of IMPRES we commit to our responsibility in the supply chain by concentrating on the procurement of environmentally friendly materials for the manufacture of our products. Take urgent action We recognize the urgent global challenge of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. to combat climate change We contribute to this effort with innovative products and solutions that help and its impacts reduce emissions during their entire use-phase. Furthermore ensuring resource efficiency in manufacturing secures an essential pillar of our sustainability strategy. In addition Infineon provides a transparent overview of greenhouse gas emissions as a part of the annual reporting. Protect, restore and In the context of the focus area “Environmental Sustainability” of our corporate promote sustainable use citizenship program we engage in special projects aimed at protecting of terrestrial ecosystems ecosystems. Thus for example planting mangroves in the Kedah state (Malaysia) was supported as part of an integrated CSR project in collaboration with the Malaysian Kedah Forestry Department (Jabatan Perhutanan Negeri Kedah). In general, soil protection and biodiversity are a permanent part of IMPRES. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 52 Limited Assurance Reports Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding Sustainability Information1 To the Management Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information published in “Sustainability at Infineon – Supplementing the Annual Report 2019” (further: Report) including the “Explanatory Notes” of Infineon Technologies AG (further “Infineon”) for the fiscal year 2019, published in the Report as well as at @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting. Management’s Responsibility The legal representatives of Infineon are responsible for the preparation of the reporting in accordance with the principles and standard disclosures of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, in combination with internal guidelines, as well as internally developed criteria for the reporting and calculation of the indicator “CO2 savings enabled through our products” (further: Reporting Criteria). This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the assured information and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the information in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We are independent from the entity in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the national statutory provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed within a limited assurance engagement on the abovementioned information. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that abovementioned sustainability information including the “Explanatory Notes”, published online at @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting, as well as in the Annual Report 2019 for the period from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019, has not been prepared, in all material respects, with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each sustainability disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2019. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 53 Limited Assurance Reports Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: ›› I nterviewing employees at Group level in order to gain an understanding of the process for determining material sustainability topics and the respective boundaries of Infineon ›› A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Infineon in the reporting period ›› Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Criteria ›› E valuation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for determining, processing and monitoring of disclosures relating to environmental, employee and social matters, respect for human rights and combating corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of the data ›› I nquiries of personnel at Group level who are responsible for determining disclosures on concepts, due-diligence processes, results and risks, for conducting internal controls and consolidation of the disclosures ›› Evaluation of selected internal and external documentation ›› An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at Group level ›› E valuation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on samples at Cegléd (Hungary) and Melaka (Malaysia) ›› Assessment of the overall presentation of the selected sustainability performance disclosures. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence received to obtain assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information published in “Sustainability at Infineon – Supplementing the Annual Report 2019” including the “Explanatory Notes” is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Restriction of Use / Clause on General Engagement Terms This assurance report is issued for the purposes of the Management Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Management Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditors) and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Audit Firms) (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated 1 January 2017 (@ https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms having taken note of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the attached General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Munich, 18 November 2019 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hell ppa. Graff INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 54 Limited Assurance Reports Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Combined Separate Non-Financial Report1 To the Supervisory Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the Combined Separate Non-Financial Report (further “Report“) of Infineon Technologies AG and the Group (further “Infineon”) as well as the section “Group Strategy” of the Combined Management Report, which has been qualified as part of the Report by reference, according to Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB (German Commercial Code) for the fiscal year from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. Management’s Responsibility The legal representatives of the entity are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We are independent from the entity in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the national statutory provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report based on our work performed within our limited assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance of whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Report of the entity has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. We do not, however, provide a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2019. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 55 Limited Assurance Reports Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: ›› I nterviewing employees at Group level in order to gain an understanding of the process for determining material sustainability topics and the respective boundaries of Infineon ›› A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Infineon in the reporting period ›› Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Criteria ›› E valuation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for determining, processing and monitoring of disclosures relating to environmental, employee and social matters, respect for human rights and combating corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of the data ›› I nquiries of personnel at Group level who are responsible for determining disclosures on concepts, due-diligence processes, results and risks, for conducting internal controls and consolidation of the disclosures ›› Evaluation of selected internal and external documentation ›› An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at Group level ›› E valuation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on samples at Cegléd (Hungary) and Melaka (Malaysia) ›› Assessment of the overall presentation of the selected sustainability performance disclosures. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report of Infineon, for the business year from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Restriction of Use / Clause on General Engagement Terms This assurance report is issued for the purposes of the Supervisory Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditors) and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Audit Firms) (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated 1 January 2017 (@ https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms having taken note of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the attached General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Munich, 18 November 2019 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hell ppa. Graff INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 56 Locations Locations Worldwide headquarters, frontend and backend manufacturing sites GRI 102 – 45 EUROPE GERMANY AUSTRIA Neubiberg Villach Corporate headquarters Frontend manufacturing Dresden Warstein Dresden Frontend manufacturing HUNGARY Cegléd Regensburg Regensburg Frontend and backend Backend manufacturing Neubiberg Villach Cegléd manufacturing Warstein Backend manufacturing ASIA-PACIFIC GREATER CHINA Beijing SINGAPORE Shanghai Cheonan Tokyo Regional headquarters Regional headquarters Backend manufacturing (test) Beijing Wuxi Backend manufacturing Shanghai INDONESIA Batam Wuxi Backend manufacturing Backend manufacturing MALAYSIA Kulim JAPAN Frontend manufacturing Tokyo Melaka Regional headquarters Kulim Backend manufacturing Melaka Batam Singapore KOREA Cheonan Backend manufacturing AMERICAS USA MEXICO El Segundo Tijuana Regional headquarters Backend manufacturing Milpitas Regional headquarters Leominster Leominster Milpitas Backend manufacturing San José El Segundo Mesa Mesa Temecula Tijuana Frontend manufacturing San José Backend manufacturing Temecula Frontend manufacturing Corporate headquarters Regional headquarters Frontend and backend manufacturing INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2019 57 Imprint Imprint Published by: Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg (Germany) Editors: Corporate Sustainability & Continuity Planning Copy deadline: 25 November 2019 Fiscal year: 1 October to 30 September Independent auditors: KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Munich (Germany) Designed by: HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg (Germany) Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements about the business, financial condition and earnings performance of the Infineon Group. These statements are based on assumptions and projections resting upon currently available information and present estimates. They are subject to a multitude of uncertainties and risks. Actual business development may therefore differ materially from what has been expected. Beyond disclosure requirements stipulated by law, Infineon does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG Headquarters: Am Campeon 1– 15, D-85579 Neubiberg near Munich (Germany), Phone + 49 89 234 0 Contact for Investors and Analysts: investor.relations@infineon.com, Phone + 49 89 234 26655, Fax + 49 89 234 955 2987 Media Contact: media.relations@infineon.com, Phone + 49 89 234 28480, Fax + 49 89 234 955 4521 Visit us on the web: www.infineon.com/sustainability
