Communication on progress (COP) for Scania CV AB From the core values to our global management systems and the way Scania conducts its business, Scania is committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are embedding its 10 principles in our operations, in our supplier and other business relationships or partnerships and take actions that advance societal goals. This Communication on Progress (COP) is Scania’s annual disclosure to stakeholders about the company’s efforts to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact. Scania joined the UNGC in 2012. Scania has one primary channel to report sustainability information, our integrated Annual and sustainability report. The 2018 edition of Scania’s Annual and Sustainability Report takes significant steps in outlining the journey that Scania is taking towards a sustainable transport system and Scania’s contribution to society – delivering sustainable transport solutions by improving customer profitability. The report addresses sustainability issues both on strategic and in-depth level all along the value chain of our products. It reflects how sustainability drives and has impact on our business, long-term strategy, risks, and opportunities. Content is written both for business partners, employees and for other engaged stakeholders, CSR specialists and analysts. The report is complemented with information on our webpage. The report is available at https://www.scania.com/group/en/home/investors/financialreports/annual-reports.html. It is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting Guidelines, we aim to fulfil the “In accordance – Core” criteria of the GRI standards. The report is also aligned with the Volkswagen Group guidelines on sustainability reporting, and is self-declared. This year as well you can find our GRI-index with references on how each GRIindicator relates to a UN Global Compact principle: www.scania.com/gri-index A description of the transport industries relation with the Sustainable Development Goals and examples on Scania’s contribution can be found on: https://www.scania.com/group/en/home/sustainability/sustainability-atscania/transport-and-the-agenda-2030.html In his CEO statement Mr. Henrik Henriksson, Scania’s President and CEO expresses Scania´s continued support for the Global Compact. https://www.scania.com/group/en/home/sustainability/sustainability-atscania/committed-to-strong-principles.html In addition, the table on the following pages indicates where to find information, on the web about how Scania works with the respective principles of the UN Global Compact. UN Global Compact principle Reference Committed to high principles Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and Responsible sourcing respect the protection of internationally Our impact Human rights management proclaimed human rights. Responsible raw material Principle 2 make sure that they are not Sustainability KPI's Sustainability at Scania, page 12 Responsible raw material complicit in human rights abuses. Our impact Human rights management Responsible sourcing Committed to high principles Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the People sustainability Sustainability KPI's freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of Sustainability KPI's forced and compulsory labour; Responsible raw material Human rights management Responsible sourcing Principle 5 the effective abolition of child Responsible raw material labour; and Human rights management Responsible sourcing People sustainability Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination Responsible raw material in respect of employment and occupation. Human rights management Responsible sourcing Committed to high principles Environment Environmental footprint Principle 7 Businesses should support a Responsible chemical use precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental footprint Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote Our impact greater environmental responsibility; Environmental performance Three pillars for sustainable transport Principle 9 encourage the development Environmental footprint and diffusion of environmentally friendly Three pillars for sustainable transport technologies. Anti-corruption Committed to high principles Principle 10 Businesses should work Business ethics against all forms of corruption, including Our impact extortion and bribery.
