Eat well. Save time. Live better. Annual Report 2019 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 01 In this year’s report Strategic report Governance Financial performance Appendix Our new page 2 Our business Governance Financial statements 216 Contact information purpose 02 Our new purpose 74 Our Management Board 120 Consolidated income 217 Key dates 03 Q&A with our CEO and Executive Committee statement 218 Cautionary notice 06 Group highlights 76 Our Supervisory Board 121 Consolidated statement 78 Corporate governance of comprehensive income 07 At a glance 84 Letter from the Supervisory 122 Consolidated balance sheet 08 Our great local brands Board Chairman 123 Consolidated statement 17 Our Leading Together of changes in equity strategy 85 Supervisory Board report 91 How we manage risk 124 Consolidated statement 18 Our growth drivers of cash flows 18 – Omnichannel growth 105 Declarations 19 – Technology 125 Notes to the consolidated Financial page 6 20 22 – Healthy and sustainable – Portfolio and scale Remuneration 106 Letter from the financial statements 193 Parent company financial highlights efficiencies Remuneration Committee Chairman statements 23 – Best talent 195 Notes to the parent company 24 Value creation 107 Remuneration policy financial statements 27 Creating value for 110 2019 Remuneration Other information our stakeholders 204 Assurance report on the 27 – Customers financial statements 29 – Associates 31 – Communities 213 Assurance report on 33 – Shareholders non-financial information 215 Distribution of profit A guide to using this report Performance review 215 Details of special Use the tabs and contents Our growth page 18 34 45 Group financial review Group non-financial review shareholder rights button at the top of the page to navigate around drivers 53 Financial review by segment 215 Details of shares without profit rights and non-voting the document Page reference to more 63 Outlook shares information elsewhere 64 Information about in this document Ahold Delhaize shares More information is 66 Five-year overview available on our website and reporting hub 68 Definitions: Performance measures For best results, view this interactive pdf with Adobe Acrobat Reader or iBooks. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 02 Our new purpose Not only do we want to make it easy for people to choose a Eat well. Save time. Live better. healthy, balanced diet, but also have access to products that are high quality, responsibly sourced Our new purpose helps us answer – and of course, delicious! the question: what difference are we going to make? Millions of customers around the world turn to our great local brands for their daily needs – and our brands are well-positioned to make a positive difference in their well-being. People’s wants and needs are diverse, but there are three things we believe they all deserve, and For some, this means healthy that we can have an impact on: People are busy. And in this hectic world, anything eating. For others, shopping more inexpensively or more ethically. we can do to make things Whatever it means to our quicker, smoother and customers, associates and easier is a good thing. communities, we’re committed to helping make it happen. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 03 We sat down with our CEO, Frans Muller, to talk about the highlights of the past year and what’s most important for driving Ahold Delhaize’s success. with Frans Muller President and CEO Q Q How would you look back During the busy Easter period, the strike at Stop We exceeded our full-year 2019 guidance What were the most important & Shop, in New England, had a significant impact outlook for underlying earnings per share on 2019? achievements the company A on our results. In the end, Stop & Shop was able with 8.4% growth, and met our free cash flow It was our first full calendar year to reach fair and responsible agreements for local guidance of €1.8 billion. I was pleased that we made on the growth drivers implementing our Leading Together associates, and I am pleased and grateful that also surpassed our guidance for our Save for Our over the year? strategy and our growth drivers. These growth drivers have helped us to further strengthen our leading positions across the company. customers returned to its stores during the second half of the year. Customers program, generating €709 million in savings compared to our guidance of €600 million. In addition, we have proposed a 2019 dividend A Our growth drivers are the areas that we need to focus on, working together as a Q company, in the coming years to drive sustainable, How would you characterize increase of 8.6%, which reflects our ambition to profitable growth. We made a lot of progress on Our local brands remained closely knit to their communities, working hand-in-hand with local our 2019 financial results? sustainably grow the dividend per share. these in 2019 – you’ll find examples throughout this suppliers and being good employers for our 380 thousand people. This “localness” is something we believe in, that our customers appreciate and A Thanks to our omnichannel strategy, we had a strong performance in 2019, both in stores and online. Our net sales were Since this is the last Annual Report our CFO Jeff Carr will be a part of before he leaves our company, I want to take the opportunity to thank him for all report, but I’ll mention three highlights. First, omnichannel growth has been an important area of focus. We’ve expanded our store network that is benefiting our business. €66.3 billion. We grew net consumer online his contributions. He has been a great partner in with innovative new urban formats – such as sales 28.6% at constant exchange rates across shaping Ahold Delhaize over the past eight years, Giant Heirloom in the U.S. and Fresh Atelier in In 2019, we also had our challenges. In October, the group; we saw it accelerate in the U.S. helping us drive our Save for Our Customers Belgium. And we’re helping people save time by we experienced a terrible tragedy when a bus and continue at a very strong pace in Europe. program and deliver on our commitments. rolling out frictionless shopping solutions. Our U.S. accident in Romania took the lives of eight Mega Image associates and injured seven more. It’s so In addition, we officially closed our merger businesses did a phenomenal job in expanding important that we come together in times like integration efforts and overdelivered on the the number of click-and-collect points, resulting these, and I was moved by how colleagues synergies we promised. in a total of 692 locations at the end of 2019, across the company showed their sympathy boosting our omnichannel growth considerably. by contributing to a fund in support of the victims and their families. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 04 Q&A with Frans Muller Q In both Europe and the U.S., we’re linking together What does the new purpose And “live better” has everything to do with We’re working to get to a more sustainable supply with other companies and educational institutes how we can contribute as a company to make chain, together with our vendors and partners. mean to you? A to make sure we have the capabilities and the communities thrive, to improve health – especially This means partnering with suppliers to source talent to drive advances in digital and technology. Being in the food business, we are for children and young people – and to support sustainably-produced critical commodities. It very close to the daily lives of 54 million the well-being of our associates. People across means improving social compliance in high-risk Second, we continued to reduce CO2 emissions customers each week, of our associates who work our company feel a strong responsibility for doing countries. And it means using our influence where from our own operations as well as from together with us as a team, and of our communities our part to make our communities healthier, we can to ensure good working conditions for the production of our own-brand products, where we want to support health and well-being. happier and more successful. the people who make our products. investing in more efficient energy, refrigeration To me, our new purpose radiates and reflects the Q and transportation systems. We also made This is the second year that we’ve published passion we have for food and for our communities. Why is the new healthy and progress on plastic waste reduction; for example, an annual report combining both our financial we reduced the number of non-reusable bags “Eat well” is about our passion for food, the respect sustainable ambition for 2025 and non-financial results. By openly sharing our used in our businesses by more than 600 million. we have for farming communities, our collaboration so important? performance towards our targets and having our Finally, health is another big area of focus. In 2019, many of our brands continued reformulating their own-brand products to make them healthier with the manufacturers of our products – all of which help us provide a wider variety of fresh, healthy food, and innovative new products for A Our world today is facing serious challenges – many of which are related to food and the food chain; for example, the numbers assured, we are showing how seriously we take our sustainable retailing agenda. In this year’s report, we proudly launch a new set of our customers to enjoy. rise of lifestyle-related diseases like diabetes, targets for 2025. They build on the progress we’ve and expanded their use of nutritional navigation which places stress on global health systems, already made and focus our efforts on the areas programs such as Guiding Stars and Nutri-Score We know that customers’ lives are getting busier. and climate change, which is putting pressure where we believe we can create the most value to help customers make healthier choices as We want to help people “save time” so they can on global food production. We want to help make for our stakeholders and our business: helping they shop. dedicate their precious hours to the most important a positive change in people’s well-being and build customers make healthier and more informed things in their lives. We’re doing this by helping the foundation of our business in the long run choices, increasing product transparency and them build lists and prepare for the shopping trip, through our healthy and sustainable growth driver. eliminating waste. by providing a more efficient shopping experience Q through a mix of stores, pick-up points and home We are on track towards most of our 2020 What were you most proud delivery, and by offering easy recipes and meal Sustainable Retailing targets – which were quite solutions that help them get a healthy dinner on of during the year? A ambitious when we set them in 2016. I was pleased the table for their families. that we once again ranked among industry leaders I’m proud of the positive way we stepped in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. up collaboration between teams – how We’ve made progress in almost every area we we came together across countries, brands and chose to focus on and have developed more geographies – to fulfill our purpose, but also professionalism around sustainable retailing contribute more to our communities. We ramped within our company. up our digital strategy and organization and Our growth drivers became more of an omnichannel company. Omnichannel Technology Healthy and Portfolio and Best talent growth sustainable scale efficiencies For more details on each of Our growth drivers, see pages 18–23 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 05 Q&A with Frans Muller Q Of course, everything we achieved comes down to What are your expectations And I want us to become a true omnichannel As a food retailer, we are also able to support our people. I’m proud of and grateful to our associates, company, not just in terms of our store network, economic development in our communities for the year ahead? A whose hard work and dedication made it all happen. online, and pickup but in providing meal solutions by offering employment to people of different They are there for our customers and communities in I would like us to continue developing and making fresh foods affordable and accessible backgrounds, generations and education, countless ways, every day. One notable example from our proposition for customers, leveraging so that they can occupy a bigger portion of the including many who face challenges finding the year was the Food Lion team, who not only pledged the best from all of our brands, especially when it plate for the customers and communities we serve. employment or might otherwise be left behind. to expand the fight against hunger and donate one comes to health and nutrition, and the information Q Contributing to our communities in this way is billion meals to neighbors in need – a promise they and ideas we provide to help people make Any final thoughts you would an important part of our values – and has been for are already well on their way to fulfilling – but also healthier choices. When customers think of fresh, like to share? a very long time. Many of our local brands started A provided tireless support when Hurricane Dorian hit healthy and tasty food for their families, I would Our great local brands operate 6,967 as family businesses, as far back as 150 years the U.S. East Coast. Local teams worked day in and like them to think of our brands first. stores – many of which sit at the center of ago. It’s in our DNA to want to take care of the day out to supply communities with food and other I would also like to see us make a big leap forward their communities. In some small towns our brands people living in our communities and working supplies – it showed me the meaningful ways that in technology and digital, getting customers more are the last retailer remaining to supply a good for our company, to maintain long-standing we can impact people’s lives. connected to our company but also helping them grocery offer and healthy, fresh food. relationships with vendors, and to contribute And I’m also proud that we improved our associate design their own lives in better, healthier ways. wherever we can. As a food retailer, I believe we engagement – which shows that we’re creating This is why our participation in initiatives like I’m convinced we have a unique opportunity to have a chance to do great things – and that’s why a culture where people feel included, can relate to Kickstart AI, to boost the artificial intelligence set up customers and communities for success I’m happy to be a part of our company and our our purpose and see growth opportunities. We also ecosystem in the Netherlands, will continue to be by making nutritious and healthy food accessible. industry – Leading Together! improved our performance in diversity and inclusion, so important. We want to connect with customers We know that good health is very much linked to an area that is very important to me as we strive through an ecosystem that is broader than only good food; and health in turn is linked to overall towards a workforce that reflects the diversity of the selling products and involves advising people happiness and well-being, and the ability to communities we serve. I was especially proud to sign about food and innovations that can contribute create a good life. the UN CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s to good health. Empowerment Principles during the year, as a sign of my own personal commitment to gender equality. 2019 Timeline October September April June January December August Joined Kickstart AI to boost artificial intelligence in the Netherlands Giant/Martin’s Stop & Shop’s Issued our first Food Lion pledged Albert Heijn Increased our bol.com expanded Fatal traffic accident With 692 click-andAnnounced we launched “Giant management and sustainability to donate one billion Albert Heijn started commitment to into French-speaking occurred at Mega collect points will invest $480 million Direct,” its new online local unions agreed bond meals to fight hunger piloting a fully digital slash food waste Belgium and rolled Image in Romania operational in the U.S. in our U.S. supply brand, and opened on a fair and AH to go store in half by 2030 out pick-up points by the end of the year, chain to create an eCommerce hub responsible at Delhaize stores we exceeded our a fully integrated, in partnership with agreement after in Flanders 2019 goal of 600, self-distribution model Peapod Digital Labs 11-day strike ahead of schedule Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 06 Group highlights Net sales Underlying Underlying Net income operating income operating margin €66.3bn 20181: €62.8 billion €2.8bn 20181: €2.8 billion 4.2% 20181: 4.4% €1,766m 20181: €1,780 million +5.5% (+2.3% at constant rates) +0.6% (-2.6% at constant rates) -0.2% pt -0.8% (-3.8% at constant rates) IFRS 16 IFRS 16 IFRS 16 IFRS 16 2019 66.3 2019 2.8 2019 4.2% 2019 1,766 20181 62.8 20181 2.8 20181 4.4% 20181 1,780 2017 62.9 2017 2.5 2017 3.9% 2017 1,817 20162 62.3 20162 2.3 20162 3.7% 20162 1,078 Net consumer Free cash flow3 Underlying income per share Dividend per online sales from continuing operations common share €4.5bn 2018 : €3.5 billion 1 €1.8bn 2018 : €2.2 billion 1 €1.71 2018 : €1.57 1 €0.76 20181: €0.70 +30.1% (+28.6% at constant rates) -14.9% +8.4% +8.6% Own-brand food sales Associate Dow Jones Reduction in carbon-equivalent from healthy products engagement score Sustainability Index emissions 48% 2018: 47% 80% 2018: 79% 69 2018: 72 -4.6% 2019: 435 kg/m2 +1% pt Industry benchmark: 80% -3 2018: 456 kg/m2 Industry average: 36 1 2018 figures have been restated for the change in accounting policies (IFRS 16 Leases). See Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements for more details. For the definitions of alternative performance measures,see 2 The 2016 figures presented in the graphs are pro forma figures. To read more about the 2016 pro forma figures, see our Annual Report 2016. Definitions: Performance measures on page 68 3 In 2019, after €2.2 billion cash capital expenditure (2018: after €1.8 billion capital expenditure). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 07 At a glance Our family of great local brands Technology Omnichannel Albert Heijn piloted its first frictionless serves millions of customers growth store, enabling customers to scan Portfolio and each week in the United States, 692 click-and-collect points a debit card, take what they want from the shelves and leave without scale efficiencies Europe and Indonesia. operational in the U.S. by the end of 2019 – exceeding the goal of 600. checking out. Mega Image acquired supermarket chain Zanfir to strengthen its position Our local retail brands are the core of our business – in eastern Romania. they operate at the heart of our communities and are how our customers know us. Teams in all our The Netherlands businesses work hard every day to translate our The United States global Leading Together strategy to fit local needs, Belgium Indonesia because they know their customers and communities Czech Republic best. At group level, we set global strategies and frameworks, share best practices and encourage Romania economies of scale across our company. In the following pages, you can read, per reportable Luxembourg segment, about how each of our great local brands uniquely fulfills our purpose to help customers eat well, save time and live better and brings to life our growth drivers in a locally relevant way. Serbia 380 thousand Portugal associates Greece 54 million customers served every week Best talent Healthy 19 Ahold Delhaize CEO Frans Muller signed CEO Statement of Support and sustainable great local consumer-facing brands 1 for the UN Women’s Empowerment 10 tons of waste collected by Alfa Beta Principles. associates during Volunteering Day. 6,967 stores serving our local communities in Europe and the United States2 For more information on our local Countries where we operate brands, see our reporting hub 1 Including the brands of our joint ventures. Joint ventures www.aholddelhaize.com 2 Excluding the stores of our joint ventures. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 08 Our great local brands USA The United States USA Net sales The United States is our biggest 413 stores €40.1bn market and we have a particularly 1,029 strong presence along the East Coast. Our U.S. brands include some of the country’s most established, Net online sales stores innovative and best-known €985m supermarkets and online grocers. Market area: Connecticut, Massachusetts, Market area: Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York and Rhode Island Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia Formats: Supermarkets, online shopping Formats: Supermarkets, online shopping Pick-up points: 237 Pick-up points: 208 Average sales area per store (in m2): 3,827 Average sales area per store (in m2): 2,348 A neighborhood grocer for more than 100 years, today’s Stop & Shop is refreshed, re-energized Food Lion, based in Salisbury, North Carolina, and inspired. has been serving customers since 1957. We’re focused on delivering fresh, healthy By leveraging our longstanding heritage of low options for the millions of customers we serve prices and convenient locations, Food Lion is and everyday low prices we’re proud of. We working to provide the easiest full shop grocery know our customers are busy, so we provide experience in the Southeast for our customers, a wide assortment they can count on, including anchored by a strong commitment to affordability, high-quality prepared foods that make it easy freshness and the communities we serve. to pick up freshly made meals to go. Plus, At Food Lion, our “Count on me” is more than technology and eCommerce solutions like home a promise – it’s a philosophy that sums up our delivery and same-day pickup enable our culture and how we help you bring home customers to shop wherever and whenever affordable groceries to your family. Our fresh is most convenient. food is backed by a double-your-money-back Hannaford Committed to helping its communities enjoy guarantee and, at our stores, you can always Stop & Shop better food and better lives, Stop & Shop has expect a consistent experience with friendly Giant/Martin’s a longstanding history of giving back to the associates who are ready to help – every day. Giant Food neighborhoods it serves with a focus on the Food Lion And why do we do it? Because you deserve it. Peapod (online: delivers in greater Chicagoland, Milwaukee and Indianapolis) fight against hunger. The map above illustrates the presence of our local brands and general store distribution across regions and is not intended to accurately show locations of individual stores. Each dot can represent multiple stores. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 09 Our great local brands USA USA USA USA 163 182 stores Online 186 stores stores Market area: Maryland, Pennsylvania, Market area: Maine, Massachusetts, Market area: Delaware, District of Columbia, Market area: Greater Chicagoland area, Virginia and West Virginia New Hampshire, New York and Vermont Maryland and Virginia Indianapolis (Indiana) and Milwaukee (Wisconsin) Formats: Supermarkets, small urban Formats: Supermarkets, online shopping Formats: Supermarkets, online shopping supermarkets, online shopping Formats: Online grocery shopping Pick-up points: 78 Pick-up points: 111 Pick-up points: 135 Average sales area per store (in m2): 3,056 Average sales area per store (in m2): 3,611 For more than 30 years, customers have trusted Average sales area per store (in m2): 3,987 Peapod to deliver everyday meal solutions to The Hannaford brothers began selling produce With flexible options and convenient solutions, their homes. Peapod delivers much more than Founded in 1923 in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, in Portland, Maine, in 1883, but it took a lot Giant Food fits all the ways today’s busy groceries: the quality, convenience and value Giant/Martin’s is passionate about creating more than fresh tomatoes and apples to grow consumers want to shop – whether in store, it promises brings ease, inspiration and joy to a shopping experience that fits into the lives their business. The brothers looked at their via Giant Pickup or through home delivery the customers it serves. of our busy customers – no matter where or customers and understood what they cared from Giant Delivers. Our commitment starts As the first online grocer, Peapod continues how they need us. about most – family, community, quality, value and ends with our customers. For over 75 years, to take pride in its innovation and best-in-class – and built the business accordingly, with core we’ve operated our business with a single goal We’re an omni-channel retailer, proudly serving service. Customers can shop via an intuitive values that show us the way today. in mind: delivering unmatched selection, quality millions of neighbors in our stores, pharmacies, website or award-winning mobile app with and value. fuel stations, online pickup hubs and grocery We’re still connected to those early roots as a shoppable recipes, useful dietary shopping delivery service in hundreds of zip codes. local market, and the connection we have to the Since we opened Washington D.C.’s first guides and many other convenient features. sources of our fresh foods is core to the way we supermarket in 1936, we’ve continued to grow They can also choose from a full range of flexible We’re changing the customer experience, do business. We’re proud to work with more than and innovate, pioneering computer-assisted delivery options including early morning and connecting families and creating healthier 900 local farms and producers, large and small, checkout scanning and opening over 150 stores. late-night delivery times, unattended service, communities for a better future. All with a simple to bring you more than 7,000 high-quality local and expanding same-day service. At Giant, local is a commitment, not just a label. goal: no matter where you experience Giant, products made right here. We love local, and we Each of our local products represents the cities Peapod is all about food. In addition to all the your life gets a little simpler and a little better – know you do, too. and communities we’re proudly part of. fresh variety and pantry staples a typical grocery so you can get back to what matters most. We make it easy for customers to shop for great store offers, Peapod also provides access to fresh food and to find healthy options, both online select fresh organic produce, easy-to-make The Giant Food Stores family of brands includes: and in our stores. We create innovative solutions “no subscription required” meal kits and artisanal Giant; Martin’s Food Markets; Giant Heirloom to serve you in new ways and meet local needs. products from smaller local vendors. Market; Giant Direct; and Martin’s Direct. We treat customers like friends and neighbors because you are. Hannaford is in the community and a part of our customer’s day, every day. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 10 Our great local brands USA There are two organizations USA under Ahold Delhaize USA that provide services to support the growth of our consumer-facing brands. Services company Services company Peapod Digital Labs is the digital and Retail Business Services, LLC, is the services eCommerce engine of Ahold Delhaize USA. company of Ahold Delhaize USA, providing services to the U.S. brands. We power digital and eCommerce strategies aimed at engaging consumers no matter when, Retail Business Services leverages the scale of where or how they choose to shop, and support the local brands to drive synergies and provides Ahold Delhaize USA’s great local brands to industry-leading expertise, insights and analytics springboard growth through new eCommerce to local brands to support their strategies with and digital capabilities. services including information technology, merchandising & marketing services, private Today’s consumer is changing, and at Peapod brand products, pharmacy services, sourcing, Digital Labs, we’re there for the great local not for resale, store services, financial services, brands we support, augmenting customerlegal services, communications, supply chain centric online and mobile technologies, driving and people systems and services. digitization and personalization, providing leading eCommerce technology and the infrastructure to deliver it, and pioneering the latest technologies in pickup, next-day and same-day delivery. Peapod Digital Labs is helping Ahold Delhaize USA’s local brands to create a better omnichannel experience for their dynamic grocery shoppers. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 11 Our great local brands The Netherlands Belgium The Netherlands ALBERT HEIJN Net sales Our brands in the Netherlands 1,029 €14.8bn have served local customers and communities for more than stores 130 years. Today, we are the nation’s #1 food retail company, Net online sales a leader in specialty stores and the €2,432m Netherlands’ top online retailer. Market area: the Netherlands and Belgium We understand that value for money is more important than ever. We make it easier and more Formats: Supermarkets, convenience stores, personal to eat good and healthy food. Just like online shopping shopping itself. At Albert Heijn, we make more things possible. We are there for you always and Pick-up points: 50 everywhere – in our stores, online and on your Average sales area per store (in m2): 1,282 mobile device – with value for money, better food and convenience that matches your life and what you want. We all like to be busy these days. And we all want good food, but we also want it to be fresh, Albert Heijn is your trusted and inspiring partner, healthy, varied and easy. Of course, we want offering all the ingredients for better living. For it without paying too much. And we have more everyone. We fill around five million plates every options than ever, leaving us with endless day, thanks to our team of associates who take choices – and at the same time, dilemmas. great responsibility for ensuring that customers can always find tasty, healthy, sustainable and In short, life is sometimes quite a challenge. fresh products in our stores. Albert Heijn gets that better than anyone. We have been a part of everyday life for more than 130 years and have grown along with our customers, from a simple grocer to the food tech company we are today. That’s why with us you will find everything you need to get the most out of life every day, in the way that suits you. Albert Heijn (excluding stores in Belgium) Etos Gall & Gall bol.com (online: delivers in the Netherlands and Belgium) The map above illustrates the presence of our local brands and general store distribution across regions and is not intended to accurately show locations of individual stores. Each dot can represent multiple stores. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 12 Our great local brands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Belgium 585 stores Online 542 stores By joining forces, Etos has become the largest Market area: the Netherlands and Belgium Market area: the Netherlands health and wellness platform in the Netherlands. Market area: the Netherlands Formats: Online shopping with a focus on Formats: Drugstores, online shopping Causes, symptoms, tips and treatments are Formats: Liquor stores, online shopping general merchandise described on the platform and wide-ranging Average sales area of own-operated stores questions are answered regarding health, beauty, Average sales area per store (in m2): 76 (in m2): 209 exercise, nutrition and a balanced lifestyle. The Bol.com started in March 1999. Today, online platform offers videos, a symptom checker At Gall & Gall, we have been selling liquor 10.5 million Belgians and Dutch shop on The world has changed a lot in the last century, and personal solutions. Customers can book since 1884 and are the largest specialist in our online retail platform. but so has Etos! One thing has remained the consultations directly with medical service the Netherlands. With 22 million items, spread over more same: whatever your question is, we have been providers, receive personalized advice from the Our logo refers to our strong roots. Founder than 40 product categories, customers can there for you with answers for 100 years. Etos staff in the stores – including our 2,400 Maria Gall had a motto: “No order too large, no choose from the widest range – including books, certified druggists – and even find products that With the acquisition of the Solvo-groep, order too small, no order too far.” And although e-books, music, films, games, electronics, toys, can be used to treat symptoms. Etos made an important step towards defining times have changed, our passion to help and jewelry and accessories, baby items, garden a new drugstore concept where physical stores In the past eight years, Etos has been declared inspire customers has remained. and DIY items and everything for living, animals, are integrated with providing 24-7 information the Netherlands’ best drugstore by independent sports, leisure and personal care. To serve At Gall & Gall, everyone is a connoisseur. We on health. Through the new web platform, researchers GfK no less than seven times and customers in the best possible way, bol.com promise that every customer can come home Etos customers can ask questions relating to was chosen last year as best personal care works with more than 20,000 Belgian and Dutch with the right bottle. Even if you don’t know their health and, if desired, book a consultation retailer chain. entrepreneurs who sell through its platform. anything about liquor. with a medical service provider. At bol.com, customers can choose how to pay and when they want their packages delivered. Our competitive prices, great offers and always available customer service means people can shop without worry. Today, bol.com is a fast-growing network, at the heart of society. We feel responsible for making a positive contribution, so we try to do better every day. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 13 Our great local brands Belgium Luxembourg Belgium Net sales Belgium is one of the historical €5.1bn homes of Ahold Delhaize, with Delhaize supermarkets established in the country in 1867. Our stores 796 stores provide a huge selection of Net online sales products, including foods from our €57m quality own-brand ranges, as well as thousands of non-food items. Market area: Belgium and Luxembourg Our associates have a passion for food and regularly follow training courses to offer customers Formats: Supermarkets, convenience stores, the very best in modern distribution: proximity, online shopping pleasant surroundings, very flexible opening hours, products of impeccable quality and the Pick-up points: 127 introduction of new technology to make shopping Average sales area per store (in m2): 969 as easy as possible. At Delhaize, sustainable business is part of our The first Delhaize self-service supermarket daily operations and our commercial mission; we saw the light in 1957. Today, Delhaize’s formats do everything we can to put people and nature – Delhaize, AD Delhaize, Proxy Delhaize, first and foremost. Shop & Go and Fresh Atelier – offer a unique shopping experience and quality service. Customers can also do their shopping online for collection via pick-up points and home delivery. Delhaize offers a wide range with more than 20,000 high-quality products at competitive prices. Thanks to its eight own‑brand product ranges, Delhaize can meet all its customers’ needs. Delhaize (excluding stores in Luxembourg) The map above illustrates the presence of our local brands and general store distribution across regions and is not intended to accurately show locations of individual stores. Each dot can represent multiple stores. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 14 Our great local brands Greece Central and Southeastern Europe Czech Republic Net sales Ahold Delhaize companies have 510 stores €6.3bn over 2,000 stores in four countries 325 in central and southeastern Europe. Our teams include over 50,000 talented associates who serve Net online sales stores millions of customers each week. €19m Market area: Czech Republic Market area: Greece Formats: Supermarkets, compact hypers Formats: Supermarkets, convenience stores, cash & carry, online shopping Average sales area per store (in m2): 1,586 Average sales area per store (in m2): 766 At Albert, our motto is “It’s worth eating Czech Republic better.” We want to meet the changing needs At Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos (“Alfa Beta”), we are of customers, helping and inspiring them to pleased to be closely connected to the hearts Romania eat well and live better. and minds of our customers. We always want to offer the best. This drives us to constantly We are proud to offer a great shopping innovate to make our shopping experience Serbia experience in our stores, whether it is in our unique – because, for Alfa Beta, every customer urban supermarkets or our compact hypers is unique! for family shopping. Our great customer offer includes healthy inspiration in own brands and For 80 years, we have constantly updated what local products. Our own brands are unique to we offer to match our customers’ changing Albert and include our Czech Taste line of needs, always looking for new ideas in products genuine Czech origin products, the exclusive and services to make the Alfa Beta shopping Nature’s Promise range of healthy and organic experience exceptional. In addition to our Alfa Greece foods, and Albert Fresh Bistro, a unique concept Beta supermarkets, we serve customers in our of fast and healthy eating. AB Food Market, AB Shop & Go, AB City and ENA Food Cash & Carry formats. We want to be a responsible retailer in all our communities, supporting a healthy lifestyle for Corporate responsibility is also reflected in customers and associates and the development every step we take! Whatever we do, we are here Albert of local communities, in partnership with Czech for our customers, associates and communities, Mega Image, Shop & Go suppliers and food banks. Since 2009, the Albert offering the finest products and protecting the Maxi, Shop & Go, Tempo Endowment Fund has supported the education, environment in which we live. We treat our Alfa Beta, ENA integration and development of children from associates with trust and respect, because we The map above illustrates the presence of our local brands and general store socially disadvantaged groups and healthy consider them part of our family. distribution across regions and is not intended to accurately show locations lifestyles for children and adults. of individual stores. Each dot can represent multiple stores. Everything we do comes from the heart. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 15 Our great local brands Serbia Romania 442 765 stores stores We are more than a supermarket, we are a Market area: Romania well-loved brand that inspires customers and Market area: Serbia Formats: Supermarkets, convenience stores, the people in our communities to live as they like. Formats: Supermarkets, hypermarkets, online shopping We offer customers fresh food, quality, healthy online shopping and safe products and a unique and diverse Pick-up points: 40 assortment of own brands, but also shopping Average sales area per store (in m2): 463 Average sales area per store (in m2): 277 experiences enhanced by special store departments, innovative concepts and Since coming to Serbia in 2011, Delhaize Serbia personalized offers. has been working intensively to expand its Founded in 1995, Mega Image is the leading product range and improve its quality, recipes supermarket in Bucharest, with a national We are passionate about a healthy lifestyle and design. It is now the largest store chain in coverage of stores under the Mega Image, and we show it with fresh and healthy products the country, operating through three formats: Shop & Go and Gusturi Românești brands. and through helpful advice. We engage in social Maxi, Shop & Go and Tempo. causes that matter for our communities. We care Every day, Mega Image supermarkets aim about people and diversity and always strive to Maxi supermarkets are recognized for their to provide customers with quality services and provide a safe environment for our colleagues. wide range and high quality of fresh products. a range of nutritious, healthy and safe products We look for solutions to reduce our environmental Customers know Maxi as a supermarket at affordable prices. Our Shop & Go concept is footprint and give back to our communities. We with great prices and the best promotions, for customers who want to make their purchases are a mega team of associates doing good where symbolically displayed through the Maxi Bee – quickly, close to home. The Gusturi Românești it matters. a sweet guide to help with smart shopping. concept brings together authentic products with the unmistakable flavor of traditional Shop & Go locations are modern neighborhood Romanian cuisine. stores tailored both for everyday shopping in the neighborhood, as well as for customers who need a place to shop fast on-the-go. Tempo hypermarkets are a favorite place for family shopping because they have a wide range of products, low prices, excellent promotions and a focus on special seasons. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 16 Our great local brands Indonesia Portugal Joint ventures We are active in Indonesia and Portugal through joint ventures Super Indo and Pingo Doce, respectively. Both are among the leading supermarket brands in their countries. Market area: Indonesia Market area: Portugal Since 1997, Super Indo has grown and Pingo Doce brings quality and innovation developed into Indonesia’s largest supermarket to you from north to south in a country that chain. Today, it provides a wide range of items makes it your brand. Because the best families to fulfill customers’ everyday needs with reliable deserve the best supermarket. The goal is to quality and economical prices in easily bring customers a unique shopping experience accessible stores. in the marketplace. Portugal Super Indo always maintains the freshness Pingo Doce products guarantee excellent and quality of its products by selecting fine value for money, which strengthens the brand’s sources and applying highly-monitored standard commitment to customers. The brand brings food operating procedures in product handling. solutions to customers at very competitive prices This makes it the right choice for shopping for even more savings. Pingo Doce stores are that is always fresher, affordable, and closer. designed for families and are always located where customers are. Indonesia For more information on our brands, see our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 17 Our Leading Together strategy For more information on our strategy, see our website www.aholddelhaize.com This is our strategic framework, that enables us to leverage both our scale and local connections. It guides our decisions and defines shared values and promises, while giving our great local brands the flexibility to best serve their customers, associates and communities. Our purpose Our growth drivers Eat well. Save time. Live better. Our growth drivers are the areas we will invest in to accelerate profitable growth through our Leading Together strategy. Omnichannel growth Our business model Our promises Save for our customers: ...D Invest in our customer Technology • Buy better riv proposition: e A better ... place to shop • Operate smarter o sa • Fresher and healthier Sav me • Waste less et • Best own brands store sales... • Local, personal Our Great Every and convenient Day Healthy and Offer an omnichannel Local Brands • Dependable value experience: A better A better sustainable • Sustainable place to work neighbor • Supermarkets and smaller stores . .. An • eCommerce d fu .. . nd grow th • Meal solutions Portfolio and scale efficiencies Our values Best talent Courage Integrity Teamwork Care Humor We drive change, are We do the right thing Together, we take ownership, We care for our customers, We are humble, down-toopen-minded, bold, and earn customers’ trust. collaborate, and win. our colleagues, and our earth, and we don’t take and innovative. communities. ourselves too seriously. For more details see page 18 – 23 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 18 Our growth drivers To help us fulfill our purpose today and prepare our business for tomorrow, we have intensified our focus and attention on the following growth areas across all our great local brands. Why is it important? What are we doing about it? Expanding meal solutions We are expanding our meal solutions to help Customers today are in control of how, where Our customers have told us they want to eat people eat well by offering more meal kits and when they shop. The world of retail keeps well and live better, save time, get value and be and food counters in our stores, growing our changing at an astonishing speed, and companies inspired – and we are determined to help them convenience formats and experimenting with need to keep moving just as fast. Technology and fulfill these needs. meals on demand and restaurant concepts. new ways of shopping continue to challenge the To keep winning in our markets, both today and status quo in the retail industry, bringing customers in the future, we want to be the most trusted more information and countless options at an partner in connecting customers with the myriad unprecedented rate. of options available to them. We are working to Omnichannel With consumers increasingly strapped for time and living “on-the-go,” their demands for convenience, provide the leading consumer experience across all phases of the customer journey: from planning growth speed and proximity are growing. They need to shopping to enjoying great food. This means support in filtering what is relevant from the having a seamless omnichannel offering – unlimited data available to them and choosing the a unified shopping experience across all our right solutions for themselves and the people they online and offline channels. care about. How are we measuring it? We are driving omnichannel growth across all In response, retailers are offering a multitude of options, both offline and online. They are rolling out a range of new store formats and becoming our local brands in three key focus areas: Enhancing our stores First, we are enhancing our brick-and-mortar 95% of net sales come from markets For more on what’s happening increasingly flexible with online delivery and in our great local brands, see the value proposition and adapting it to respond to where we have a #1 or #2 position1 case studies on our reporting hub pick-up times, all while accelerating data-driven ever-evolving customer needs. We’re doing this by Case study Meeting the personalization. And as the line between in-home and out-of-home food consumption continues to blur, retailers are offering quick and innovative further differentiating our offering, expanding our footprint and upgrading our in-store experience +28.6% net online consumer sales growth through remodels and new, innovative formats. meal solutions. changing needs Strengthening eCommerce (at constant rates) of urban customers Case study We continue to strengthen our eCommerce value proposition and expand our network of pick-up and delivery locations, in both Europe and the 987 pick-up points by the end of 2019 Expanding online United States. delivery and pickup Case study We are finding ways to engage with our customers more effectively through our digital platforms – 59% of U.S. customers with access including loyalty and rewards programs – and Offering fresh further personalize our marketing campaigns and to same‑day pickup or delivery meals fast communications. This enables us to be even more 1 Excluding bol.com, Peapod, Etos, Gall & Gall and relevant to each of our customers and help them our joint ventures. Based on latest available data. save time. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 19 Our growth drivers Why is it important? What are we doing about it? Expanding our capabilities and partnerships Our success in the future will depend on Technology is having a transformative impact We believe technology can help people live better whether we have the right capabilities in place on both our personal lives and the way we – and we are leveraging it for the benefit of our today. We will build our internal capabilities by do business. customers and our business, through a number focusing on attracting, retaining and developing of key focus areas. By opening up an omnichannel world, it is bringing our digital talent. To expand them even further, customers unprecedented convenience, and Enriching the customer experience we have partnered with open labs in the U.S. allowing them to shop wherever and whenever We want to enable customers to eat well, save (Peapod Digital Labs) and the Netherlands they want. It is also transforming health and time and live better by anticipating their needs (AIR Labs) to accelerate research on and sustainability. Wearable technology helps people and offering them a seamless and easy shopping development of artificial intelligence and Technology manage nutrition, fitness and drug treatment for diseases like diabetes. Blockchain lets us track experience, however they choose to shop. We are continuously working on enhancing our online and robotics with a focus on practical applications that will help our brands enrich the customer and trace products through complex supply offline channels. By delivering inspiring apps, we experience and increase efficiencies. Today, chains more precisely than ever before. are giving customers the best mobile experience the right partnerships are more important than – one that can also be leveraged to support a ever, so we are creating a strong ecosystem Connected devices interacting with their great in-store, delivery and pick-up experience. of digital and tech-focused companies and environment through sensors (the Internet Our brands are offering more convenient payment entering into strategic collaborations that enable of Things) are capturing reams of useful data, and check-out solutions to help customers save us to share knowledge and resources in a and the cloud has made it financially viable for time. In addition, we are delivering market-leading mutually beneficial way. companies to store and utilize more of this data personalization, such as targeted offers and a than ever before. This is enabling machine learning For more on what’s happening tailored shopping experience, to help build more to predict more accurately than people can. in our great local brands, see the sustainable relationships with our customers and, case studies on our reporting hub How are we measuring it? Technology is transforming our workplaces. in turn, drive customer loyalty. Case study Checking out without It’s driving change in business processes, from automated warehouses and home delivery using autonomous vehicles, to machine learning We have also adopted Principles for the Responsible Use of Data to ensure alignment with our value of integrity and to protect the privacy 66% of net sales generated by loyalty card checking out in supply chain replenishment, assortment and interests of customers and associates. members, with Food Lion at 85% optimization and detecting anomalous behavior 5.4m Case study for cyber defense. Increasing the efficiency of our business Redefining retail To accomplish our goals, we need a strong through AI and foundation, so we are working to modernize our back office with innovative systems in areas monthly active mobile app users (straight average over 2019) robotics like supply chain replenishment, merchandise Case study Augmented reality optimization and distribution center mechanization. And we are delivering new digital solutions that will transform how we can serve our customers faster 1,989 stores offering self-scanning makes shopping with and better, hyper-personalize our offering, further solutions, including 96% of improve our omnichannel experience, and better children more fun utilize our eCommerce scale. Stop & Shop stores Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 20 Our growth drivers Why is it important? What are we doing about it? That’s why our brands will not only continue to educate customers generally by promoting Our world is facing enormous challenges. Climate Sustainable retailing has long been an important nutritional navigation systems, such as Nutrichange and public health issues are impacting our part of how we do business. For the past four years Score and Guiding Stars in stores and online. communities and business. Customers are asking we have been working towards targets we set for They will also further develop personalized for more healthy and sustainable products and 2020 – you can find more about our performance diet advice for customers through loyalty cards product information. in Group non-financial review. Now we are and apps, to support them in adapting their launching a new Healthy and Sustainable Strategy Climate change is making it more difficult to farm, personal shopping habits and diets in order that looks towards 2025, building on the fish and raise livestock; it’s changing what and to eat healthier. successes we’ve already achieved. We have how we can feed ourselves – at a time when our defined longer-term targets and will accelerate Healthy and But it is not just about education. Our brands global population is growing. change across our great local brands. For more have to offer more healthy products too. So, sustainable Health issues, including diabetes and obesity, are affecting billions of people. It’s clear that how and information on our 2025 targets, see How we manage risk. they are also continuing to reformulate products to make them healthier. We have set a target of what we eat can both influence and help prevent having 51% of our own-brand food sales come At Ahold Delhaize, we are committed, along with disease. Eating well also contributes to good from healthy products by 2022. our great local brands, to targets that stretch our mental and physical health. capabilities. These are built on the UN’s Sustainable Driving product transparency Every year, around one-third of all food produced Development Goals (SDG) – SDG 2 Zero Hunger, We will drive transparency about the origins of for human consumption is lost or wasted on the SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being and SDG12 our fresh products and make the nutritional journey from farm to fork. Plastic waste is another Responsible Consumption and Production. value of all products more transparent. We For more on what’s happening major challenge, especially for life in our oceans, believe our brands can help people understand Our ambitions for 2025 are to inspire our in our great local brands, see the lakes and rivers. the impact of their buying decisions and enable case studies on our reporting hub customers to make healthier choices, increase them to make choices that fit their needs, their product transparency, and eliminate waste. Case study tastes, and their values. We believe these are the areas where we can Inspiring healthy create the most value. To achieve this, our brands will use the latest technologies, such as blockchain and choices Inspiring healthier choices artificial intelligence, to bring customers more As a global retailer we can make a big difference Case study transparency by 2025 – starting with fresh fruit to our customers’ awareness of what they eat and and vegetables and then moving to the seafood Reducing plastic provide healthier food in our stores. People are and meat supply chains. By giving customers waste in our looking at us to be their partner in helping them live better. access to personalized information – for operations and example, through loyalty apps or online advice – our brands will empower and enable busy beyond customers to make better choices. Case study Working together to eradicate food waste Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 21 Our growth drivers Eliminating waste Managing risks We are working hard to reduce food waste, both As the global context around our business How are we measuring it? 48% inside our own operations and across our supply rapidly changes, we are also accelerating chain, together with customers and suppliers. our work to protect Ahold Delhaize from Within our own operations, we aim to reduce food potential risks. waste by 50% by 2030 compared to our 2016 of total own-brand food sales We are working to understand how climate from healthy products baseline. We will accomplish this objective by change will impact our business. And we are 9% making replenishment systems more effective and also mapping the emissions from our supply by applying innovative methods, such as dynamic chain to understand how we are impacting pricing based on sell-by date. We are a founding Healthy and climate change. We have committed to setting food waste reduction compared member of the World Resources Institute’s long-term, science-based targets to reduce our to our 2016 baseline “10x20x30” initiative, which brings together 10 sustainable impact in both our own operations as well as in 4.6% global food retailers that will each engage with our supply chains. 20 of their priority suppliers to halve their rates continued of food loss and waste by 2030. To promote future food security, we are reduction of CO₂-equivalent developing partnerships and taking action Plastic waste is another major challenge, emissions per m2 sales area to combat negative impacts on biodiversity. particularly for life in our oceans, lakes and rivers. compared to 2018, a 32% That’s why, as a global retailer, we have signed up On human rights, we are conducting due reduction compared to our to the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment diligence exercises to guide a continuous 2008 baseline – location-based – to work on ways to significantly reduce plastic improvement plan that will ensure our businesses approach (kg CO₂-eq/m2) in our overall supply chain. and supply chains are protecting the rights of customers, associates and community members. Concretely, brands across Ahold Delhaize are working towards zero plastic waste from ownOur brands are also focused on improving safety brand packaging by 2025. One way is by selling in our workplaces. more fruits and vegetables that are not wrapped Finally, across our brands, we are increasing in plastic; some of our brands are already piloting standards for the sustainability of products we plastic-free fruit and vegetable sections in stores. sell, while maintaining best-in-class standards for food safety and quality. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 22 Our growth drivers Why is it important? What are we doing about it? How are we measuring it? The grocery industry is in the midst of continued We operate a portfolio of strong brands and consolidation, as retailers look to mergers and acquisitions as a means to grow and seek synergies to counter decreasing margins. Scale want to be the consolidator of choice in our markets. Our ambition and the opportunity we have to grow in the fragmented retail market is €709m Save for Our Customers continues to be critical for enabling businesses supported by our strong and predictable cash savings in 2019 to make the required capital investments to flow, successful merger integration and synergy remain relevant in the long term. Companies also continue to embrace vertical delivery, efficient platforms for growth and strong omnichannel proposition. 3.3% Portfolio and integration. Grocers are integrating backwards, investing in farms and processing plants to We will continue to evolve our portfolio in line with the following principles: total cash capital expenditures as a percentage of net sales scale efficiencies 95% guarantee product supply and quality and lower • Maintaining a portfolio of great local brands costs. Consumer packaged goods companies are that aim to have #1 or #2 positions in integrating forward, using eCommerce to develop their markets. direct relationships with customers. of net sales come from markets • Prioritizing potential partners with where we have a #1 or #2 position1 Companies across industries remain focused advantageous positions in attractive markets For more on what’s happening on seeking efficiencies and streamlining their according to their size and growth prospects. 1 Excluding bol.com, Peapod, Etos, Gall & Gall and in our great local brands, see the our joint ventures. Based on latest available data. operations to further invest in their value • Ensuring we have sufficient global scale to case studies on our reporting hub propositions and drive sustainable growth. attract a strong ecosystem of partners and Case study share best practices among our brands. Strengthening our In addition, we have always worked to be brick-and-mortar as efficient as possible, and we are constantly on the lookout for new ways to save money to base reinvest in our business. What we call “Save for Case study Our Customers” is in our DNA, and we believe there are many more efficiencies to go after and Bringing experts into to scale across our group. We have committed the family to help to deliver €1.9 billion of savings in the period from us serve customers 2019-2021, and we will reach this target partly through best-practice sharing. better In December, we announced that Ahold Delhaize Case study USA is investing $480 million to transform and Leveraging our scale expand its supply chain operations on the U.S. East Coast, in support of a new three-year to bring customers strategy to move the U.S. supply chain into more a fully integrated, self-distribution model. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 23 Our growth drivers Why is it important? What are we doing about it? Cultivating our talent We want to cultivate our talent so that we have The world of work is changing dramatically, We want to play a part in creating the future the right people and leaders for the future. and employers are evolving to meet the needs of work by investing in developing our associates, By building robust, diverse talent pipelines we of today’s employees. Technology is not only becoming a more purpose-driven organization will ensure we have the best talent – people who transforming the shopping experience, it is with a much stronger focus on diversity and can help us drive the growth of our business. reshaping the workplace. First, in creating the inclusion, and building the capabilities of our We’re putting a much stronger focus on diversity need for people to gain new skills. Companies workforce. We have four strategic focus areas and inclusion by making sure we have balanced are looking for ways to support their employees’ under our best talent growth driver. slates of candidates for open roles, developing development and make sure they have the right Creating the future of work associates from all backgrounds, building more capabilities for the future. Secondly, artificial Best talent intelligence and automation are improving our Our local brands are working to take our vision of the future of work and bring it to life by putting diverse succession pools and creating a more inclusive environment, overall. efficiency and helping us to work smarter, so in place customer-centric operating models and people have more time to devote to deploying strategic workforce plans that will support our creative strategies and driving market growth. omnichannel and digital ambitions. In an environment of rapid change, companies Pivoting our culture have to be more externally focused and agile. We want to embed our company’s purpose deeply They will need to find ways to create a more within the organization because we believe it will flexible workforce by hiring great people through drive personal accountability. As part of this, we both new and innovative talent sourcing are supporting associates in defining their own opportunities as well as traditional employment unique contributions in line with our purpose. models. The need for stronger partnerships and We want to help them maximize their potential even recruiting from within the customer base For more on what’s happening by nurturing a mindset of continuous growth and are just some of the exciting ways retailers are in our great local brands, see the life-long learning. Our values will guide this finding the best talent. case studies on our reporting hub process, and we want to amp up the focus Like today’s customers, today’s workers are more we place on Courage, Care and Teamwork, How are we measuring it? Case study 80% socially and environmentally aware, and seek to in particular. Building a work for a company that has an authentic culture, Transforming our capabilities digital mindset in an environment that is inclusive and supportive We are working to understand what capabilities associate engagement score of their individual growth. They want to feel inspired we need today, and in years to come, and then to 72% Case study by and able to make a unique contribution to the develop them in our workforce. We are supporting Improving associate mission and purpose of the organization. Offering our brands as they continue building a digital and a great associate experience continues to be engagement critical for attracting and retaining talent. data mindset and reskilling their workforces for associate development score the future. Case study Best places to work 78% for LGBTQ equality inclusive workplace score Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 24 Value creation Our business model is Across Ahold Delhaize, teams at each Our brands invest in the local customer ...D brand work hard to save for our customers, proposition to provide a great shopping riv e ... drive same-store sales and fund growth. experience that meets consumers’ changing a continuous cycle that o Sav et sa me To jump-start this continuous cycle, needs and builds loyalty. Through the growth drivers, we seek to drive growth so our shows how our great Our Great store sales... we evaluate every area of our businesses to see where we can do things smarter and brands can be there wherever and however people shop, providing more of the meals Local Brands local brands create value better to save money, conserve resources and reduce waste. they enjoy each day, and healthier choices to help them live better. for all our stakeholders. . .. An d fu .. . For more information on our strategy nd grow th and business model, see our website www.aholddelhaize.com Supply chain Creating value for stakeholders Production Retail Consumption As a global company, we have a large variety of stakeholders. But the four primary groups Online Retail stores Ahold Delhaize impacts are our: Shop customers communities now associates shareholders Raw materials Production Distribution Retail operations Consumption Communities We engage with these stakeholders on a daily basis, and they challenge us, share insights into their concerns, offer feedback As a food retailer, Ahold Delhaize is positioned The way we do this takes into account feedback This helps us to ensure that our strategy and on how we are doing and collaborate with in the middle of the supply chain, delivering from our stakeholders, including through our reporting are in line with our most significant us to solve problems. We also commit to products from farmers and suppliers to annual materiality assessment, that identifies impacts and stakeholder expectations. transparency and high integrity with a broad consumers through our retail stores and online the areas our stakeholders are concerned with list of stakeholders who have a strong interest See How we manage risk for more information operations. We apply our business model at and where we can make an impact. in our company, including global and local every point of the supply chain to create value suppliers, governments and NGOs. for, and in partnership with, our stakeholders. We promise all our stakeholders that we’ll strive to be a better place to shop, a better place to work and a better neighbor, every day. For more detail on how we create value for our stakeholders, see pages 27–33 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 25 Value creation customers associates The most important input, output and outcomes per capital that occur as we create value are summarized in the following table communities and explained in more detail, by stakeholder group, in the pages following. We followed the guidance of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), including its definition of six capitals every organization depends on for success, when we created the model. shareholders Input Output Outcomes for our stakeholders Our financial framework – Financial capital We strive for strong operational Shortto medium-term focus: Our 2019 results: • Strong balance sheet with attractive returns to performance and best-in-class cash • Delivery of consistent and sustainable results • Net sales: €66.3 billion shareholders through a sustainably growing dividend generation. A strong balance sheet and portfolio • €1.9 billion Save for Our Customers target and the return of excess liquidity to shareholders and scale • Net consumer online sales growth sustainable profits are essential to our for 2019-2021 • Dividend payout ratio of 40-50% of underlying efficiencies (at constant rates): 28.6% business model and to fund growth. Long-term focus: net income • Underlying operating margin: 4.2% Across Ahold Delhaize, each brand • Financial solidity • Free cash flow: €1.8 billion • Funds to invest in customers and growth – Save for works to save, drive same-store sales • Solid investment grade credit rating • Underlying earnings per share (EPS): €1.71; Our Customers savings of €709 million in 2019 and fund growth. • Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) increase of 8.4% over 2018 • Achievement of ESG goals investment and prioritization • Completion of €1bn share buyback program in 2019 and announcement of new program for 2020 amounting to €1bn Omnichannel network – Tangible capital We meet our customers every day Shortto medium-term focus: • Service to more than 54 million customers • Funding of growth in key retail and eCommerce in our network of stores and pick-up • 6,967 brick-and-mortar stores, 242 of which per week channels – inorganic and organic points and through our delivery services. omnichannel were newly opened / acquired in 2019 • 12 million online visitors • Return on capital among top quartile of the industry growth • 987 pick-up points • Net consumer online sales growth We take a disciplined approach to capital • Warehouse automation (at constant rates): 28.6% • A leading customer experience that helps investments and a balanced capital • 454 stores remodelled in 2019 save time allocation. Long-term focus: portfolio • The ability for customers to shop wherever • Ongoing cash capex spend of approximately and scale and whenever they want 3% of sales efficiencies • Access to same-day pickup or delivery for 59% • Omnichannel growth – expanding our footprint of our U.S. customers and in-store experience • State-of-the-art stores • State-of-the-art online platforms • Balanced capital allocation • Meal solutions Technology – Intellectual capital We believe technology can help people Shortto medium-term focus: • 66% of net sales generated by loyalty card • Increase in the number of personalized offers live better – and we are leveraging it for • Knowledge and expertise members to our customers the benefit of our customers and our technology • Strong local brands • 1,989 stores offering self-scan solutions • 5.4 million monthly active mobile app users business. • Inspiring apps and loyalty card programs • Healthy product navigation systems in • Enhanced omnichannel presence and improved • Digital solutions seven brands customer experience We have policies and procedures at best talent all levels of our operations that are • Rollout of self-scan solutions • Understanding of local consumer needs • Make healthier choices easier aimed at ensuring the quality and • Nutritional navigation systems • Efficient processes • Healthy and safe products safety of products sold. Long-term focus: • Established partnerships to accelerate • Efficient processes facilitating savings for • Innovation and data – redefining retail research and development of AI and robotics our customers through AI and robotics • Improved internal digital capabilities Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 26 Value creation customers associates communities shareholders Input Output Outcomes for our stakeholders Associates – Human capital We are committed to the continued Shortto medium-term focus: • Net sales per associate (FTE) of €286 thousand • Job opportunities development of our associates, with • Diverse workforce • 54% women in workforce • Better place to work a strong focus on diversity and inclusion best talent • Digital / data mindset • 13% Executive Committee members is female • 2019 associate engagement score of 80% (2018: 79%) and providing a safe and healthy work • Associate wages and safety, health and well-being • 67% part-time associates • 2019 associate development score of 72% (2018: 72%) environment. • Rate of lost days due to accidents of 2.1 • 2019 inclusive workplace score of 78% (2018: 78%) Long-term focus: technology per 200,000 hours worked (2018: 2.4) Cultivating our talent supports individual • Development and training programs • 2019 Healthy workplace score of 76% (2018: 74%) and business growth. Investing in our • Programs to attract the best talent • 55% of associates under collective labor • Skilled workforce people ensures we are aligned in our • Corporate culture and values agreements • Safe place to work company’s purpose, to help people eat • Focus on diversity and inclusion • 17% reduction of serious injuries well, save time and live better. • 6.4 million training hours in 2018 Communities – Social and relationship capital Our brands are closely connected to Shortto medium-term focus: • 71% of own-brand production units in high-risk • 48% of own-brand food sales from healthy products their communities, playing a role in the • Focus on providing information on healthy living countries meeting social compliance standards in 2019 lives of millions of people every day. healthy and • Donations, sponsorships and partnerships • Sustainable sourcing of products, including • 95% of own-brand products with front-of-pack We feel a deep sense of responsibility sustainable • Personal data privacy seven critical commodities nutritional labeling in 2019 for helping people live better. • 90% of own-brand suppliers GFSI-certified • Over seven billion personalized offers sent in 2019 Long-term focus: Our influence – and the positive impact • Promotion of health and well-being • 22.7 million addressable loyalty program • Better place to shop technology participants • More health-conscious / informed consumers we can have – extends much further • 80% of own-brand production units in high-risk than our operating area. Through our countries meeting social compliance standards • Good relationships with communities • Reduced sugar, salt and fat in own-brand products suppliers, we are connected to, and (by end 2020) in our markets omnichannel • Own-brand food sales from healthy products • Better neighbor impact, communities across the globe. • 100% of own-brand food production sites certified growth • Connected communities against GFSI or equivalent standard (by end of 2020) • €358 million income taxes paid • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • Associates assisting communities during critical times (by 2020) • Status as responsible taxpayer Products and climate – Natural capital Climate change is a significant global Shortto medium-term focus: • 4,056 thousand tonnes CO2 emissions (SBT); • 32% CO2 reduction compared to 2008 issue impacting our society, our quality • Waste minimization and plastic reduction reduction of 159 thousand tonnes in 2019 • 9% food waste (per sales) avoided since 2016 of life and our business. The natural healthy and • Lowering of carbon emissions • €1.5 billion in inventories written off during 2019 • Sustainably sourced products environment can be positively or sustainable • Implementation of Science-Based Targets (own operations) (represents 2.3% of net sales) • Better neighbor negatively affected by business activities. • Product transparency and safety • 6,649 million kilowatts of energy consumed • Mitigating negative impact on biodiversity • Respect for human rights in 2019 (own operations) The products we sell rely on natural resources, and how they are grown and Long-term focus: • Food waste of 255 thousand tonnes in 2019 produced impacts soils, water resources, • Biodiversity – sourcing of products, including • Increased number of products with clean labels and biodiversity. We aim to make it easier seven critical commodities in our U.S. brands for customers to understand these • Impact of climate change and eliminating waste connections and more easily shop for • Building and maintenance of long-term sustainably-sourced products. relationships with strategic suppliers Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 27 Creating value for our stakeholders Customers We meet our customers every day in our network Through our loyalty programs, we look for Our business is built on our of stores and pick-up points and through our innovative ways to provide value to our loyal relationships with our customers. delivery services – all of which enable customers to shop wherever and whenever is most convenient customers. In 2019, Food Lion received an award for its Shop & Earn personalized loyalty rewards for them. In 2019, we offered our services to program. Through it, customers can track monthly We help them eat well, save time even more customers by opening 242 new stores, progress against offers in real time using the Food and live better by enhancing the remodeling 454 stores and increasing our portfolio Lion mobile app or website and redeem wallet of pick-up points by 425. We opened new formats, earnings automatically on their next purchase. whole customer journey – from such as urban stores Fresh Atelier in Belgium Helping customers live better in a healthy when they plan their shopping, and Giant Heirloom Market in the U.S., to further and sustainable way customize our offering to the needs of local to the shopping experience itself shoppers. One way we support customers in their aim and even afterwards, when they Personalizing shopping through tech-enabled to live better is by helping them make healthier and more sustainable choices for themselves enjoy our products at home or loyalty programs and the environment. on-the-go. Using technology, through our popular loyalty For example, many of our brands use nutritional programs, we are able to make the shopping navigation systems to help customers choose experience even more relevant by increasingly healthier products. In Europe, Delhaize was the personalizing it to each customer’s specific needs. first Belgian retailer to adopt Nutri-Score in 2018, Approximately 66% of net sales are generated Albert Heijn rolled it out in 2019, and our other from customers enrolled in our loyalty programs. European brands are currently evaluating the Over 20 million customers have signed up to program. In the U.S., all our brands use a similar receive personalized communications and offers program, Guiding Stars. from our local brands, based on their shopping behavior and preferences. We also make sure to offer customers a wide variety of healthy and sustainable products when We have adopted a set of Principles for the they shop. In 2019, 48% of our total own-brand Responsible Use of Data to ensure we respect food sales came from healthier products – and people’s privacy and act ethically in our business. we have the ambition to grow this to 50% by the We have now implemented digitalized loyalty end of 2020. programs in almost all of our brands and are continuously expanding the range of loyalty benefits and services they provide. Customers often access 5.4m 48% 66% these benefits through popular apps and websites – such as Albert Heijn’s website, which in 2019 was voted by consumers as “Best Website” in the monthly active own-brand food sales net sales generated supermarket category of the Website of the year mobile app users from healthy products from customers enrolled (Website van het Jaar) award, the largest online in our loyalty programs audience award in the Netherlands. in 2019 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 28 Creating value for our stakeholders Customers continued We ensure the products we offer customers Saving to provide more for our customers Staying engaged with customers to better are safe, of high quality and are sourced and We leverage our scale to save for our customers serve their needs produced taking into account their environmental and ensure we can offer them the best prices Our associates help to develop and maintain close and social impact. In 2019, 71% of the production and service. In 2019, we exceeded our target, relationships with our customers through their units of our own-brand products in high-risk delivering €709 million in savings over the year everyday interactions. They provide advice and countries were audited against acceptable social through our Save for Our Customers program. support as customers shop in our stores, make compliance standards. sure online orders are accurate and complete and We continuously look for ways to add more staff the strong customer service departments we We have identified seven critical commodities of the services customers want to our portfolio. operate at each of our brands, where customers linked to major environmental and social issues In 2019, Albert Heijn acquired the FoodFirst can ask questions and get assistance. such as deforestation, carbon emissions, child Network – which provides subscribers with advice labor, forced labor, illegal fishing and overfishing. and tips from experts on nutrition, health, exercise We make sure to stay tuned in to what customers We have embedded programs in our operations and relaxation – to accelerate its ability to inspire want through third-party surveys, consumer to make sure these commodities – coffee, tea, people to live a healthy lifestyle and create a studies, focus groups and through the immediate cocoa, palm oil, soy, seafood and wood fibers shopping experience that fits the personal needs feedback they provide to our customer service – are sourced in a way that mitigates the negative of each customer. departments, associates and websites and impacts on the environment and communities through social media. This way we know what they Our Dutch drugstore chain, Etos, took over the where they come from. want and how we can keep adding value to their Solvo Group, owner of popular health-related shopping experience both in the short and the Alfa Beta has helped develop a new internationally websites in the Netherlands, making it the largest long term. recognized certificate for sea bream and sea provider of health and wellness information bass, as part of its efforts to offer customers and products for consumers in the country. seafood from sustainable and responsible This marked an important step for Etos towards sources. The brand is the first Greek retailer establishing a new drugstore concept that to carry the certified product in its stores, under serves customers around the clock through its own-brand label AB Choice. For more details a combination of physical stores and 24-7 online on our progress on the critical commodities, see health information. Performance review: Group non-financial review. For more details on our progress on the critical commodities, see Performance review: Group non-financial review Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 29 Creating value for our stakeholders Associates Committed to diversity and inclusion There are many talent programs in place for future Associates are at the center We strive to be a better place to work where leaders, including internships, co-op programs, of our relationships with customers associates reflect the markets we serve and where their voices are heard and valued, they management traineeships, accelerated development and leadership development and communities. find purpose in their work, and they can grow programs. Leaders play a pivotal role in fostering and contribute to the fullest extent. For this reason, the right culture, and these programs help drive They bring our Leading Together diversity and inclusion is a key focus area in all individual and company growth. Ahold Delhaize our businesses. Retail Academy, Gearing up for Growth, From strategy to life every day, working Purpose to Legacy, and Leadership Decoded We are committed to tracking and monitoring together to serve customers our candidate and succession slates at the officer (focused on digital mindset) are just a few examples of the development programs we offer. across our stores, warehouses level. We select and develop associates from all and support offices. backgrounds, building diverse succession pools and an inclusive environment. We hold our leaders Creating a good work-life balance Our brands offer flexible working hours, where accountable for inclusion by tying an Inclusive possible, and make sure associates can have And they are the reason we Workplace metric from our yearly associate a good work-life balance. Our great local brands have deep connections in our engagement survey to their annual incentive. are enhancing their leave policies. For example, In 2019, we had a score of 78% on the Inclusive all Ahold Delhaize USA brands are now offering local communities. Workplace dimension, four points higher than the parental leave benefits providing full-time retail benchmark. We are proud of the inclusive associates between four and six weeks of fully culture we are building with and for our associates. paid leave after the birth, adoption or legal placement of a child. This new benefit The U.S. brands, including Retail Business demonstrates our brands’ commitment to flexibility, Services and Peapod Digital Labs, were diversity and inclusion, and our value Care. recognized as Best Places to Work for LGBTQ equality earlier this year. They received perfect Offering equal opportunities for everyone scores on the Human Rights Campaign Our businesses are committed to the principles Foundation’s 2020 Corporate Equality Index. of equal employment opportunities, freedom of association and respecting the legal right to Supporting associate development collective bargaining and we offer associate Our brands offer development programs for wages that are in line with market practice. In 2019, associates that fit their needs and make sure 55% of our associates were covered by collective they receive individual appraisals to identify bargaining agreements. In April 2019, negotiations 78% 54% 4-6 weeks their strengths and opportunities for further with local unions representing Stop & Shop development. In 2019, more than one million associates led to an 11-day strike before a new learning modules were completed, and offered score on Inclusive of the workforce amount of fully paid agreement was reached. For more information, a wide variety of ways for associates to learn Workplace from our is female parental leave benefits see Performance review: Group financial review. and grow. associate engagement now available to full-time survey associates of Ahold Delhaize USA brands Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 30 Creating value for our stakeholders Associates continued In 2019, 54% of the workforce across all brands All of the brands are focused on reducing Making sure associates have a voice consisted of females. Our Supervisory Board is work-related injuries and have initiated a global Each year we conduct a global engagement currently 33% female, and our Management Board focus on activities that lead to Serious Injury survey to hear from associates about what’s will be 25% female as of April 2020. Of the total and Fatality (SIF) risk. This includes prevention working well and where the company can improve. associates in leadership positions (director and and risk reduction for high-risk activities, such as In 2019, we had a participation rate of 80% and above), 31% are female. We continue to focus associates working at heights. We also report the an overall engagement score of 80%. The survey on gender balance and in 2019, we signed the frequency of SIF injuries, to provide more accurate showed that associates feel they work in a safe CEO Statement of Support for the UN Women’s insights into the effectiveness of safety prevention environment, have clear job expectations, are Empowerment Principles. We have also signed the programs. In 2019, the rate of lost days due to empowered to make decisions and are treated LEAD Network Europe’s CEO Pledge to accelerate accidents decreased by 12.5% and serious with respect. In addition, associates provided gender parity and inclusion in our industry. injuries decreased by 17%. constructive feedback related to career opportunities and increasing cooperation across Providing a healthy and safe place to work Despite the focus on keeping associates safe, the various functions. Workplace safety is another important priority in 2019, our Mega Image brand experienced for us. We strive to make sure associates a tragic road accident involving a bus transporting Building deep connections to our communities are working in a healthy and safe environment, 15 store associates to work in Bucharest, Romania. Associates connect our brands to their through several company-wide focus areas. Eight of them died and seven others were seriously neighborhoods and communities – after all, injured in the collision. After many people both this is where they live and work. Their knowledge Ahold Delhaize brands have established inside and outside of the company expressed of local needs and passion for being of service executive safety committees as a forum to review a desire to help, the brand set up a fund to benefit enables the brands to do good in a relevant way and discuss operational risks within the business. the victims and their families. in all our communities and be better neighbors. They have increased the awareness and prioritization of safety in their communications, Situations like this increase our dedication and at management meetings and through events focus on safety, and we strive to learn from tragedy such as World Day for Safety that support our so we can review and enhance safety standards commitment to ensure a safe place to work and requirements in our operations. and shop. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 31 Creating value for our stakeholders Communities Supporting our communities when and Respecting human rights Our brands are closely connected where they need it most We are committed to respecting the human rights to their communities, playing Our work to reduce our negative impact on the environment becomes more urgent as we see of our associates, our customers, our communities and the people who work throughout our supply a role in the lives of millions of our local communities already feeling the effect chains. We finalized our global human rights due people every day. of climate change, with extreme weather events, diligence this year, to identify salient issues in our such as hurricanes and flooding, becoming more own operations and our supply chains. The report prevalent. Our local brands are there for our will be published in the first half of 2020. Many of our stores are places communities when disaster strikes; for example, Promoting health and well-being locally where neighbors come together when Hurricane Dorian hit the East Coast of the As a food retailer, health and well-being is a United States in September, Food Lion aided not only to shop, but to have relief efforts by accepting financial donations at major focus area for us in helping people in our a chat, grab a coffee or even its stores to benefit the American Red Cross and communities live better. Many of our brands work to increase awareness among children of the share a meal. by providing water, supplies and food to those displaced by the storm. importance of eating well and consuming healthy food. They create educational programs and We feel a deep sense of In addition, each of our brands has a community invite children into their stores to learn more engagement program in place to support local about food retail, and particularly, healthier eating. responsibility for helping people needs all year round. In 2019, we donated 56,681 For example, our Serbian brand continued to live better in the communities tonnes of food to food banks and we donated operate its innovative Maxi School Caravan that €17.5 million to community projects. For example, travels around bringing education about healthy we serve. customers at Giant/Martin’s donated a recordeating to thousands of children in elementary breaking $794 thousand to support local hungerschools across the country. relief efforts during the biannual Bag Hunger Focusing on our environment campaign. Funds raised go to more than 100 We are working hard to eliminate waste, reduce local food pantries. Since 2008, the Bag Hunger the use of plastics in our operations and lower campaigns have raised over $12.3 million. Through our carbon emissions. In 2019, our total waste its “Food Lion Feeds” program, our Food Lion increased slightly to a total of 1,039 thousand brand expanded its long-term partnership with tonnes. At the same time we increased our Feeding America®, to address hunger and engage waste recycling by one percentage point to 77% customers in a bigger way while committing to and we implemented several programs to reduce donate one billion more meals to neighbors in the amount of plastic we use. We joined the New 56,681 100% 1 billion need by the end of 2025. Plastics Economy Global Commitment, led by the At the end of 2019, Mega Image launched its Ellen MacArthur Foundation in collaboration with tonnes of food donated of own-brand meals Food Lion first internal volunteerism program, “12 Acts of the UN Environment Programme, and committed to food banks plastic packaging committed to donate Kindness.” Associates can choose a charitable to make 100% of our own-brand plastic packaging we commit to make to neighbors in need cause to support each month, through their reusable, recyclable or compostable by the end of reusable, recyclable or by the end of 2025 intranet platform, Mega Community, and either 2025. Many of our brands implemented initiatives compostable by 2025 give their time or a monetary donation. to reduce plastic packaging. For example, after Delhaize Belgium received customer comments Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 32 Creating value for our stakeholders Communities continued asking why they needed to wrap multi-packs Collaborating across the industry to have Tax transparency and responsibility of apples in plastic, the produce team put their a global impact Another way we seek to make a positive impact heads together to think of a solution, together with In addition, we collaborate with other retailers and in the communities where we operate and be the supplier. They came up with an idea to use manufacturers, through memberships in industry a better neighbor is by paying taxes. In doing so, a carton made from cardboard alone. This has associations and other partnerships, to improve we take into consideration social and corporate resulted in impressive plastic reduction. global health, sustainability, product transparency, responsibility and the interests of all our compliance monitoring and the well-being of stakeholders. Our risk appetite for non-tax While reducing carbon emissions from our workers in our communities and around the world. compliance is very low. operations, we are working to better understand how climate change will impact our business. Ahold Delhaize has a strong collaboration with We aim to file our taxes in full compliance with We are mapping the emissions from our supply the Consumer Goods Forum, a platform to work local laws and regulations. Our tax compliance chain and have committed to setting long-term, on non-competitive issues such as sustainability is based on a reasonable and responsible science-based climate targets covering our and health and wellness. Other memberships interpretation of tax laws. We recognize the operations and supply chain. In 2019, we reduced include regional and local industry associations, risk that non-compliance with applicable tax emissions from our stores, distribution centers such as the Food Marketing Institute, the Dutch laws and regulations could result in damage to and transportation by 159 thousand tonnes to Food Retail Association (“Centraal Bureau Ahold Delhaize’s reputation or to the relationship 4,056 thousand tonnes. Levensmiddelenhandel”), the European Retail with our host countries. We also recognize that Round Table, and Eurocommerce. not contributing our share in taxes could impact Partnering with suppliers to improve lives the economic development of these countries outside of our markets Ahold Delhaize is a signatory of the United Nations due to reduced tax receipts. Our influence – and the positive affect we can Global Compact – an initiative for businesses have – extends much further than our operating committed to aligning their operations and Ahold Delhaize engages with tax authorities area. Through our suppliers, we are connected strategies with 10 universally accepted principles based on mutual trust, and we seek open and to, and impact, communities across the globe. in the areas of human rights, labor, environment transparent working relationships with them. This and anti-corruption. These principles are helps both the tax authorities and Ahold Delhaize Input from our suppliers, both local and global, addressed in our policies, practices and ensure timely and efficient compliance. In the U.S., helps us to create better products for customers, Leading Together strategy. we participate in the IRS Compliance Assurance find new ways to reduce food waste, and Program (CAP) and in the Netherlands we increase economic, social and environmental concluded a covenant (horizontal monitoring) value for the communities we source from with the Dutch tax authorities. Starting in 2020, throughout the supply chain. To this end, we a new arrangement with the Dutch Tax Authorities maintain multiple communication channels with will be implemented. We attempt to discuss and our suppliers, including face-to-face meetings, clarify uncertainties about the tax treatment online communication and supplier events. up-front with the tax authorities. We aim for long-term relationships and have several strategic partnerships with key suppliers. Additional information on our tax position and tax paid is disclosed in Note 10 to the consolidated In 2019, 71% of own-brand production financial statements and in our tax policy as units in high-risk countries were audited on published on the Ahold Delhaize website. social compliance. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 33 Creating value for our stakeholders Shareholders Our financial strategy and ambitions are intended Committed to transparent communications We strongly believe that by to ensure we can achieve long-term value creation We aim to be transparent with our investors about serving customers, associates and for our investors by delivering consistent and sustainable results with a focus on strong our progress on our Leading Together strategy, including our performance against our targets to communities well, our businesses operational performance, best-in-class cash build a more sustainable business. will prosper and our shareholders generation and a disciplined and balanced We disclose information through both financial approach to capital allocation. will benefit. and non-financial performance briefings, The case for investing such as during our quarterly results releases By purchasing or holding Ahold Delhaize shares, and conference calls, the annual General We strive to live up to the investors gain a stake in one of the world’s largest Meeting of Shareholders and Capital Markets trust our shareholders put in us retail groups, operating strong local consumer days. We also publish additional information through open and transparent brands in the United States and Europe. We pride ourselves on having: when relevant. For example, in March 2019, we published an extensive booklet to help communications about our shareholders and investors understand the • Great local brands with 95% of net sales coming performance and our plans. from markets where we have a #1 or #2 position.1 impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases on our results. In addition, we participate in • Strong free cash flow generation, with investor conferences and organize roadshows. a disciplined capital allocation strategy. To demonstrate our commitment to long-term • The ability to fund growth in key retail and success, our disclosures cover both our financial eCommerce channels. Our goal is to double as well as Environmental, Social and Governance net consumer online sales from 2018 levels (ESG)-related performance. to around €7 billion in 2021. ESG performance is becoming more important • A strong focus on cost management, including to shareholders. In 2019, Ahold Delhaize was €1.9 billion of cost savings from our Save for Our included in the World Index of the Dow Jones Customers program expected from 2019-2021. Sustainability Index and received an A score from • Solid underlying EPS growth prospects. MSCI in their Retail – Food & Staples industry. • A strong balance sheet with attractive returns We issued our first Sustainability Bond in 2019 to shareholders through a sustainably growing to accelerate the transition toward sustainable dividend paid semi-annually (See section food systems, broaden our investor base to reach Key dates for dividend payment dates) and further like-minded investors, and inspire other a €1 billion share buyback program completed global retailers and manufacturers. during 2019. We announced a new €1 billion See Information about the Ahold Delhaize shares €1.71 €1 billion +8.6% share buyback program for 2020, and commenced it on January 2, 2020. under Performance review for more information about our dividend, share performance and underlying income per share buyback growth to proposed returns, share-buyback programs, capital share from continuing program dividend per common structure and major shareholders. operations share (2019: €0.76) 1 Excluding bol.com, Peapod, Etos and Gall & Gall. Based upon latest available data. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 34 Group financial review Group performance Due to the implementation of IFRS 16 and the application of the full retrospective approach, the These are the key indicators that 2018 comparative figures have been restated. See Note 36 of the consolidated financial statements help us to monitor our progress towards for more details. 2018 our goals and measure our success. € million 2019 restated Change % change We include them to help give readers Net sales 66,260 62,791 3,469 5.5% Of which: online sales 3,493 2,817 676 24.0% a better understanding of our Cost of sales (48,200) (45,838) (2,362) (5.2)% Company’s overall performance. Gross profit 18,060 16,953 1,107 6.5% Operating expenses (15,397) (14,330) (1,067) (7.4)% Net sales Operating income 2,662 2,623 39 1.5% €66.3bn Net financial expense (528) (487) (41) (8.5)% +5.5%1 Income before income taxes 2,134 2,136 (2) (0.1)% 2018: €62.8bn Income taxes (417) (373) (44) (11.9)% Share in income of joint ventures 50 34 16 46.5% Comparable sales growth Income from continuing operations 1,767 1,797 (30) (1.7)% (excluding gasoline sales) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (1) (17) 16 (94.9)% 1.9% Net income 1,766 1,780 (14) (0.8)% Operating income 2,662 2,623 39 1.5% Underlying operating income Adjusted for: Impairment losses and reversals – net 89 53 36 €2,777m 2018: €2,761m +0.6% 2 (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net Restructuring and related charges and other items (53) 78 (23) 108 (30) (30) Underlying operating income 2,777 2,761 16 0.6% Underlying operating margin Underlying operating income margin 4.2% 4.4% (0.2)% pt 4.2% Underlying EBITDA1 Underlying EBITDA margin1 5,510 8.3% 5,363 8.5% 147 (0.2)% pt 2.7% 1 Underlying operating income was adjusted for depreciation and amortization in the amount of €2,732 million for 2019 and €2,602 Free cash flow million for 2018. The €26 million difference between the total amount of depreciation and amortization for 2019 of €2,758 million and €1.8bn the €2,732 million mentioned above relates to two items which were excluded from underlying operating income. This difference amounted to €5 million in 2018. 1 +2.3% at constant rates. 2 -2.6% at constant rates. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 35 Group financial review Group performance continued Shareholders Net sales Net sales for the financial year ended December 29, 2019, were €66,260 million, an increase of €3,469 2018 € 2019 restated % Change million, or 5.5%, compared to net sales of €62,791 million for the financial year ended December 30, Net income per share attributable to common shareholders (basic) 1.60 1.51 5.4% 2018. At constant exchange rates, net sales were up by €1,480 million or 2.3%. Underlying income per share from continuing operations 1.71 1.57 8.4% Change versus prior Dividend payout ratio 44% 42% 2.0% pt year at % change at Change constant constant Dividend per common share 0.76 0.70 8.6% 2018 versus prior exchange exchange € million 2019 reinstated year % change rates rates Other information Net sales 66,260 62,791 3,469 5.5% 1,480 2.3% Of which gasoline sales 952 1,017 (65) (6.5)% (118) (11.0)% 2018 2019 restated Net sales excluding gasoline 65,308 61,774 3,534 5.7% 1,598 2.5% € million € million € million Change Of which online sales 3,493 2,817 676 24.0% 636 22.3% Net debt 11,581 10,978 5.5% Net consumer online sales 4,547 3,494 1,053 30.1% 1,012 28.6% Free cash flow 1,843 2,165 (14.9)% Capital expenditures included in cash flow statement Gasoline sales decreased by 6.5% in 2019 to €952 million. At constant exchange rates, gasoline sales (excluding acquisitions) 2,218 1,780 24.6% decreased by 11.0%, driven by both decreased gasoline prices and decreased volumes. Number of employees 380,000 372,000 2.2% Net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2019 by €3,534 million, or 5.7%, compared to 2018. At Credit rating / outlook Standard & Poor’s BBB / stable BBB / stable – constant exchanges rates, net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2019 by €1,598 million, or 2.5% Credit rating / outlook Moody’s Baa1 / stable Baa1 / stable – compared to 2018. Sales growth was negatively impacted by the 11-day strike at Stop & Shop. The direct impact of the strike on net sales is estimated at $224 million, and, in addition, the subsequent Certain key performance indicators contain alternative performance measures. The definitions of these sales loss during the recovery period following the strike is estimated to be $121 million. Sales growth measures are described in the Definitions: Performance measures section of this Annual Report. was driven by the growth of our eCommerce businesses, new store openings, and positive comparable sales growth in most segments. Net sales 66.3 Net sales contribution The United States 60.5% € billion 62.9 62.8 by segment The Netherlands 22.4% 49.7 Belgium 7.7% 38.2 Central and 9.5% Southeastern Europe 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 36 Group financial review Group performance continued Online sales Impairment losses and reversals – net We continued to see strong sales growth in our online businesses. Ahold Delhaize’s online businesses Ahold Delhaize recorded the following impairments and reversals of impairments of assets – net in 2019 contributed €3,493 million to net sales in 2019 (2018: €2,817 million). Net consumer online sales and 2018: amounted to €4,547 million and increased in 2019 by 28.6% at constant exchange rates. 2018 € million 2019 restated Gross profit The United States (67) (26) Gross profit was up by €1,107 million, or 6.5%, compared to 2018. At constant exchange rates, gross The Netherlands (2) (13) profit increased by €525 million, or 3.0%. Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for 2019 was 27.3%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points compared to 27.0% in 2018. Higher vendor Belgium (2) – allowances were partly offset by higher shrink and logistics and distribution costs. Central and Southeastern Europe (18) (14) Total (89) (53) Operating expenses In 2019, operating expenses increased by €1,067 million, or 7.4%, to €15,397 million, compared to Impairment charges in 2019 were €89 million, up by €36 million compared to 2018. The impairments in €14,330 million in 2018. At constant exchange rates, operating expenses increased by €572 million, both years mainly related to underperforming stores and investment property. or 3.9%. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses increased by 0.4% to 23.2%, compared to 22.8% in 2018. Excluding gasoline sales and at constant exchange rates, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased by 0.3 percentage points. Operating expenses include impairments, gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets, restructuring and related charges, and other items that management believes can distort an understanding of the trend related to the development of our underlying business. Impairment losses and reversals – net, gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets – net, and restructuring and related charges are summarized below. Online sales 3.5 Contribution to Net consumer online sales 4.5 € billion Ahold Delhaize’s € billion 2.8 3.5 2.4 net sales (%) 2.0 1.6 2.8 2.3 1.8 5.3% 4.3% 4.0% 4.5% 3.8% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 37 Group financial review Group performance continued Gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets – net Operating income Ahold Delhaize recorded the following gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets – net in 2019 Operating income in 2019 was up by €39 million, or 1.5%, to €2,662 million compared to €2,623 million and 2018: in 2018. The increase of €39 million is explained by the changes in gross profit and operating expenses, 2018 which are explained above. At constant rates, operating income was down (1.7)%. € million 2019 restated Net financial expenses The United States 39 17 Net financial expenses in 2019 increased by €41 million, or 8.5%, to €528 million compared to €487 million The Netherlands 13 1 in 2018. The increase was primarily due to other gains (losses). This related to transaction results from Belgium (5) 2 the redemption of the cumulative preferred shares, which resulted in a one-off cost of €22 million, and Central and Southeastern Europe 2 3 a cancellation of mortgages payable in the Czech Republic, which resulted in a one-off cost of €13 million. Global support office 4 – Income taxes Total 53 23 In 2019, income tax expense excluding the impact of statutory corporate income tax rate changes was The gains (losses) in 2019 were €53 million, which was €30 million higher than 2018, mainly due to the €412 million, up by €20 million compared to €392 million in 2018 (excluding the impact of statutory €22 million increase in the United States, explained by the sale of non-strategic investment property, corporate income tax rate changes). pharmacy scripts, stores and properties, and the €12 million increase in the Netherlands, mainly The effective tax rate, calculated as a percentage of income before income tax, excluding the impact explained by a gain on leases and subleases at Albert Heijn. of statutory corporate income tax rate changes, was 19.3% in 2019 (2018: 18.4%). The increase in the Restructuring and related charges and other items effective tax rate from 18.4% to 19.3% and the increase in income tax expense are mainly the result of Restructuring and related charges and other items in 2019 and 2018 were as follows: one-time items in 2018 and 2019. 2018 The 2019 tax expense, including the one-time impact of statutory corporate income tax rate changes, € million 2019 restated was €417 million. The effective tax rate, calculated as a percentage of income before income tax, The United States (16) (57) including the one-time impact of statutory corporate income tax rate changes, was 19.6% in 2019 The Netherlands (22) (5) (2018: 17.5%). The impact of the statutory corporate income tax rate changes was a tax expense of Belgium (13) (14) €5 million in 2019 and a tax benefit of €19 million in 2018. Central and Southeastern Europe (18) (1) Global Support Office (10) (31) Total (78) (108) Restructuring and related charges and other items in 2019 were €78 million, down by €30 million compared to 2018. This decrease is mainly explained by €55 million lower integration costs related to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, as the merger was fully completed in Q2 2019, partially offset by higher one-time costs mainly in the Netherlands, due to restructuring, and CSE, mainly due to assets write-down. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 38 Group financial review Group performance continued Share in income of joint ventures As a result of the implementation of IFRS 16, the comparative figures for the 2018 financial year for Ahold Delhaize’s share in income of joint ventures was €50 million in 2019, up by €16 million compared underlying operating income and underlying EBITDA have been restated as follows: to last year. The €16 million increase is mainly explained by our 49% shareholding in JMR (€3 million) Effect of and 51% share in Super Indo (€5 million). For further information about joint ventures, see Note 15 to the 2018 IFRS 16 2018 € million as reported adoption restated consolidated financial statements. Operating income 2,395 228 2,623 Underlying operating income and underlying operating income margin Impairment losses and reversals – net 58 (5) 53 Underlying operating income was €2,777 million in 2019, up €16 million, or 0.6%, versus €2,761 million (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net (7) (16) (23) in 2018. Underlying operating income margin in 2019 was 4.2%, compared to 4.4% in 2018. At constant Restructuring and related charges and other 108 — 108 exchange rates, underlying operating income was down by €74 million, or 2.6%, compared to 2018. Adjustments to operating income 159 (21) 138 2019 result was negatively impacted by the strike at Stop & Shop, impacting underlying operating income by approximately $100 million. Underlying operating income 2,554 207 2,761 Depreciation and amortization1 1,751 851 2,602 With the integration of Ahold and Delhaize fully completed in Q2 2019, we achieved synergies of Underlying EBITDA 4,305 1,058 5,363 €512 million on an annual run-rate basis, slightly ahead of our €500 million target. 1 Underlying operating income was adjusted for depreciation and amortization in the amount of €1,751 million for 2018 as reported Tight cost management remains a core objective of our business model. Our Save for Our Customers and €2,602 million for 2018 restated. The €7 million difference between the total amount of depreciation and amortization for 2018 program has delivered €709 million this year, well on our way to reach our updated target of €1.9 billion as reported of €1,758 million and the €1,751 million mentioned above relates to an item that was excluded from underlying operating income. For the 2018 restated, the difference is €5 million. savings by 2021. This enables us to continue to invest in our customer proposition and, at the same time, provides our businesses with optimized store processes and improved sourcing conditions. Underlying operating income Underlying Underlying operating The United States 58.7% 2.8 2.8 operating margin income contribution The Netherlands 26.6% € billion 2.5 by segment1 Belgium 5.1% 1.9 Central and 9.6% 1.5 Southeastern Europe 3.9% 4.4% 4.2% 3.8% 3.8% 20151 20161 20171 20181 2019 IFRS 16 1 2018 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Financial information prior to 2018 has not been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. 1 Before Global Support Office costs. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 39 Group financial review Financial position Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, Total assets increased by €1,660 million. Property, plant and equipment increased by €473 million, are summarized as follows: primarily due to the capital expenditure levels, which were higher than depreciation. In addition, December the balance was also impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro. For more December 30, 2018 information, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Right-of-use assets increased € million 29, 2019 % of total restated % of total by €281 million. Investments and reassessments and modifications to leases were higher than Property, plant and equipment 10,519 25.4% 10,046 25.2% depreciation, and the balance was impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro. Right-of-use asset 7,308 17.6% 7,027 17.6% For more information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Intangible assets 12,060 29.1% 11,813 29.7% Intangible assets increased by €247 million and investments are nearly offset by amortization. Pension assets 43 0.1% 24 0.1% The balance is primarily impacted by exchange rate differences of the U.S. dollar against the euro. Other non-current assets 1,990 4.8% 2,002 5.0% For more information, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits and similar instruments, and current portion Our defined benefit plans showed a net deficit of €633 million at year-end 2019 compared to a investment in debt instruments1 3,863 9.3% 3,507 8.8% net deficit of €508 million at year-end 2018. This increase was the result of €76 million of actuarial Inventories 3,347 8.1% 3,196 8.0% remeasurements, €39 million of excess annual expenses over contributions and a strengthening Other current assets 2,360 5.6% 2,215 5.6% of the U.S. dollar (€10 million). Total assets 41,490 100.0% 39,830 100.0% A significant number of union employees in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans. Group equity 14,083 33.9% 14,205 35.7% With the help of external actuaries, we have updated the most recently available information that Non-current portion of long-term debt 12,325 29.7% 12,408 31.2% these plans have provided (generally as of January 1, 2018) for market trends and conditions Pensions and other post-employment benefits 677 1.6% 532 1.3% through the end of 2019. We estimate our proportionate share of the total net deficit to be $962 million Other non-current liabilities 1,816 4.4% 1,742 4.4% (€861 million) at year-end 2019 (2018: $1,228 million or €1,073 million). These amounts are not Short-term borrowings and current portion recognized on our balance sheet. While this is our best estimate based on the information available of long-term debt and lease liabilities1 3,119 7.5% 2,077 5.2% to us, it is imprecise and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made. For more information, see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. Payables 6,311 15.2% 5,815 14.6% Other current liabilities 3,159 7.7% 3,051 7.6% Total equity and liabilities 41,490 100.0% 39,830 100.0% 1 See footnotes to next table (page 40) for a reconciliation of amounts to the figures included in the consolidated financial statements. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 40 Group financial review Financial position continued December As a result of the implementation of IFRS 16, the 2018 gross and net debt figures have been restated December 30, 2018 as follows: € million 29, 2019 restated December Effect of December Loans 3,841 3,683 30, 2018 IFRS 16 30, 2018 Lease liabilities 8,484 8,270 € million as reported adoption restated Cumulative preferred financing shares — 455 Loans 3,683 — 3,683 Non-current portion of long-term debt 12,325 12,408 Lease liabilities 1,379 6,891 8,270 Short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt and lease liabilities1 3,119 2,077 Cumulative preferred financing shares 455 — 455 Gross debt 15,445 14,485 Non-current portion of long-term debt 5,517 6,891 12,408 Less: Cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits and similar instruments, Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt 1,095 982 2,077 and short-term portion of investments in debt instruments2, 3, 4, 5 3,863 3,507 Gross debt 6,612 7,873 14,485 Net debt 11,581 10,978 Less: Cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits and similar instruments, and short-term portion of investments 1 Short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt and lease liabilities comprises €1,211 million lease liabilities, €60 million short-term borrowings, €1,395 million bank overdrafts and €453 million current portion loans (for more information see Note 27 to in debt instruments 3,507 — 3,507 the consolidated financial statements). Net debt 3,105 7,873 10,978 2 Short-term deposits and similar instruments include investments with a maturity of between three and 12 months. The balance of these instruments at December 29, 2019, was €15 million (December 30, 2018: €266 million) and is presented within Other current financial assets in the consolidated balance sheet. 3 Included in the short-term portion of investments in debt instruments is a U.S. treasury investment fund in the amount of €130 million Gross and net debt Cash, short-term deposits (December 30, 2018: €119 million). € billion 15.4 and similar instruments 4 Book overdrafts, representing the excess of total issued checks over available cash balances within the Group cash concentration 14.5 Gross debt structure, are classified in accounts payable and do not form part of net debt. This balance at December 29, 2019, was €277 million Net debt (December 30, 2018: €292 million). 5 Cash and cash equivalents include an amount held under a notional cash pooling arrangement of €1,391 million (December 30, 11.0 11.6 2018: €695 million). This cash amount is fully offset by an identical amount included under Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt. 7.6 7.3 In 2019, gross debt increased by €960 million to €15,445 million, primarily due to an increase of 3.5 the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling arrangement and the increase of the lease liability. 3.2 2.5 Other gross debt changes, while material, broadly offset each other. The latter included the issuance 1.1 of €600 million bonds in June, the redemption of $130 million outstanding bonds due in April 2019 and 2.4 3.5 3.9 the repurchase and cancellation of €455 million cumulative preferred financing shares. 4.3 4.7 IFRS 16 Ahold Delhaize’s net debt was €11,581 million as of December 29, 2019 – an increase of €603 million from December 30, 2018. The increase in net debt was mainly the result of the payment of the common 20151 20161 20171 20181 2019 stock dividend (€1,114 million) and the completion of the €1 billion share buyback program, which more than offset the free cash flow generation (€1,843 million). 1 2018 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Financial information prior to 2018 has not been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 41 Group financial review Liquidity December Group credit facility December 30, 2018 Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion committed, unsecured, multi-currency and syndicated 29, 2019 restated credit facility. In February 2015, the facility was amended and extended to 2020 with two 1-year Total cash and cash equivalents (Note 20) 3,717 3,122 extension options. In 2017, the Company exercised its option to extend until 2022. Short-term deposits and similar instruments (Note 19) 15 266 Investments in debt instruments (FVPL) – current portion (Note 19) 130 119 The credit facility contains customary covenants and a financial covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, Cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits and similar instruments, in the event that its corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than BBB / Baa2 and short-term portion of investments in debt instruments 3,863 3,507 respectively, not to exceed a specified maximum leverage ratio. On May 3, 2019, the lenders agreed Less: Notional cash pooling arrangement 1,391 695 to amend the maximum leverage ratio from 4.0:1 to 5.5:1 as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16. Liquidity position 2,472 2,812 During 2019 and 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. However, it was not required to test the financial covenant due its credit rating. As of December 29, 2019, there were Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances and funds from operating activities as its primary no outstanding borrowings under the facility other than letters of credit to an aggregate amount of sources of liquidity, complemented by external sources of funds when deemed to be required. $165 million (€148 million). Ahold Delhaize manages short-term liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of December 29, 2019, Credit ratings the Company’s liquidity position primarily consisted of €2,472 million of cash (including short-term Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s financial strategy deposits and similar instruments and current portion of investments in debt instruments, adjusted for because such ratings lower the cost of funds and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and markets. cash held under a notional cash pooling arrangement), and the undrawn portion of the €1 billion Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies are as follows: revolving credit facility. • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, with a stable outlook since June 2009 (previous Based on the current operating performance and liquidity position, the Company believes that cash rating BBBassigned in 2007). provided by operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends, the announced €1 billion share buyback • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable outlook since February 2018 (previous rating Baa2 program, and scheduled debt repayments for the next 12 months. In addition, the Company has assigned in August 2015). access to the amount available on its revolving credit facility and to the debt capital markets based on its current credit ratings. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 42 Group financial review Cash flows Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated cash flows for 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Free cash flow 2018 Free cash flow, at €1,843 million, decreased by €322 million compared to 2018, driven by higher € million 2019 restated net capital expenditures and higher repayment of lease obligations. In 2019, the main uses of free Operating cash flows from continuing operations 5,449 5,360 cash flow included: Purchase of non-current assets (cash capital expenditure) (2,218) (1,780) • Share buyback program, for a total amount of €1,002 million. Divestment of assets / disposal groups held for sale 144 27 • Common stock dividend of €0.70 per share for 2018 and common stock dividend of €0.30 Dividends received from joint ventures 36 17 per share for 2019 resulting in a total cash outflow of €1,114 million. Interest received 56 74 • Repayment of bonds due in 2019 for $130 million and the repurchase and cancellation of the Lease payments received on lease receivables 94 86 €455 million cumulative preferred financing shares. Interest paid (189) (227) Repayments of lease liabilities (1,530) (1,392) As a result of the implementation of IFRS 16, the free cash flow definition has been updated as Free cash flow 1,843 2,165 explained in Definitions: Performance measures. The comparative figures for the 2018 financial year have been restated as follows: Proceeds from long-term debt 596 798 Effect of Repayments of loans (656) (783) 2018 IFRS 16 2018 Changes in short-term loans 689 (733) € million as reported adoption restated Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments 253 (242) Operating cash flows from continuing operations before Dividends paid on common shares (1,114) (757) changes in working capital and income taxes paid 4,124 1,065 5,189 Share buyback (1,002) (2,003) Changes in working capital 484 (33) 451 Acquisition / divestments of businesses, net of cash (54) (33) Income taxes paid – net (280) — (280) Other cash flows from derivatives (5) (29) Purchase of non-current assets (1,780) — (1,780) Other (15) 30 Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 27 — 27 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 535 (1,587) Dividends received from joint ventures 17 — 17 Interest received 74 — 74 Operating cash flows from continuing operations were higher by €89 million. At constant exchange Interest paid (324) 97 (227) rates, operating cash flows from continuing operations were lower by €71 million, or (1.3)%. The Free cash flow – old definition 2,342 1,129 3,471 purchase of non-current assets was higher by €438 million, or €392 million higher at constant Lease payments received on lease receivables — 86 86 exchange rates. Repayment of lease liabilities (177) (1,215) (1,392) Free cash flow – new definition 2,165 — 2,165 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 43 Group financial review Capital investments and property overview Capital expenditure, including acquisitions and additions to right-of-use assets, amounted The total number of stores (including stores operated by franchisees) is as follows: to €3,604 million in 2019 and €2,838 million in 2018. Total cash capex for the year amounted Opening Opened / Closed / Closing to €2,218 million in 2019, an increase of €438 million compared to the previous year. balance acquired sold balance The United States 1,961 19 (7) 1,973 2018 Change versus % € million 2019 restated prior year of sales The Netherlands1 2,151 28 (23) 2,156 The United States 2,021 1,603 418 5.0% Belgium 777 25 (6) 796 The Netherlands 882 583 299 6.0% Central and Southeastern Europe 1,880 170 (8) 2,042 Belgium 176 167 9 3.4% Total number of stores 6,769 242 (44) 6,967 Central and Southeastern Europe 398 368 30 6.3% 1 The number of stores as of December 29, 2019, includes 1,127 specialty stores (Etos and Gall & Gall) (December 30, 2018: 1,139 Global Support Office 36 51 (15) specialty stores). Total regular capital expenditures 3,512 2,772 740 5.3% The total number of retail locations owned or leased by Ahold Delhaize was 5,776 in 2019. This total Acquisition capital expenditures1 92 66 26 0.1% includes 523 stores sub-leased to franchisees and 21 pick-up points in stand-alone locations. Ahold Total capital expenditures 3,604 2,838 766 5.4% Delhaize also operates 244 gas stations in the premises of some of the group’s stores. The total number of retail locations owned or leased increased by 148 compared to 2018. Total regular capital expenditures 3,512 2,772 740 5.3% Change versus Right-of-use assets2 (1,296) (823) (473) (2.0)% 2019 2018 prior year Change in PP&E Payables Number of stores operated by Ahold Delhaize 5,232 5,093 139 (and other non-cash adjustments) 1 (169) 170 —% Number of stores operated by franchisees 1,735 1,676 59 Total cash capex 2,218 1,780 438 3.3% Number of stores operated 6,967 6,769 198 1 Including conversion expenditure of acquired stores. Franchisees operated 1,735 stores in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Greece. 2 Right-of-use assets comprises additions (€499 million), reassessments and modifications to leases (€769 million) (for more information see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements) as well as additions (€15 million) and reassessments and Change versus modifications to leases (€12 million) relating to right-of-use assets included within investment properties (for more information 2019 2018 prior year see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). Number of stand-alone pick-up points 21 22 (1) Capital investments were primarily related to the construction, remodeling and expansion of our stores Number of in-store pick-up points 966 540 426 and supply chain (including online), as well as IT infrastructure improvements. Excluding acquisitions, Total 987 562 425 capital expenditures in 2019 totaled €3,512 million. The increase, compared to 2018, mainly relates to investments in new distribution centers and a larger number of new store openings in 2019. At the end of 2019, Ahold Delhaize operated 987 pick-up points, which was 425 more than in 2018. These were either stand-alone, in-store or office-based. As of December 29, 2019, Ahold Delhaize operated 6,967 stores. The Company’s total sales area amounted to 9.5 million square meters in 2019, an increase of 1.0% from the prior year. Ahold Delhaize also operated the following other properties as of December 29, 2019: Warehouse / distribution centers / production facilities / offices 136 Properties under construction / development 53 Investment properties 877 Total 1,066 The investment properties consist of buildings and land. The vast majority of these properties were subleased to third parties. Of these, most were shopping centers containing one or more Ahold Delhaize stores and third-party retail units generating rental income. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 44 Group financial review Earnings and dividend per share Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) was €1.60, an increase of €0.07 or 4.5% If approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, a final dividend of €0.46 per share will be paid on compared to 2018. The main driver is the decrease in the number of outstanding shares as a result April 23, 2020. This is in addition to the interim dividend of €0.30 per share, which was paid on August of a €1 billion share buyback program carried out in 2019 (see Note 21 to the consolidated financial 29, 2019. The total dividend payment for the full year 2019 would therefore total €826 million. statements for more information on the share movements). Lower income from continuing operations and an increase on charges from non-recurring items provided a partial offset. Underlying income Underlying income from 1.71 from continuing operations per common share (basic) was €1.71, an increase of €0.14 or 8.4% continuing operations 1.57 compared to 2018, driven by the share buyback program and higher underlying operating profits per common share (basic) 1.16 1.20 1.26 after tax. The implementation of the IFRS 16 standards impacted the income from continuing operations per common share (basic) and underlying income from continuing operations per common share (basic) in 2018 by €(0.01) and €(0.03), respectively. Ahold Delhaize’s policy is to target a dividend payout of 40-50% of its underlying income from 20151 20161 20171 20181 2019 continuing operations. As part of our dividend policy, we adjust income from continuing operations IFRS 16 for Impairment losses and reversals – net, gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets – net, 1 2018 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Financial information prior to restructuring and related charges, and other unusual items. Underlying income from continuing 2018 has not been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. operations amounted to €1,888 million in 2019 and €1,852 million in 2018, respectively, and was determined as follows: Dividend per common share 0.76 2018 0.70 € million 2019 restated 0.63 Income from continuing operations 1,767 1,797 0.52 0.57 Adjusted for: Impairment losses and reversals – net 89 53 (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net (53) (23) Restructuring and related charges and other items 78 108 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unusual items in net financial expense 37 (7) Tax effect on adjusted and unusual items (30) (59) As a result of the implementation of IFRS 16, the comparative figures for the 2018 financial year have Tax rate changes due to local tax reforms1 — (17) been restated as follows: Underlying income from continuing operations 1,888 1,852 2018 Effect of 2018 Income from continuing operations per share attributable € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated to common shareholders 1.60 1.53 Income from continuing operations 1,809 (12) 1,797 Underlying income from continuing operations per share attributable Adjustments to operating income 159 (21) 138 to common shareholders 1.71 1.57 Unusual items in net financial expenses (7) — (7) 1 The statutory corporate income tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms show the impact of recalculating Ahold Delhaize Tax effect on adjusted and unusual items (59) — (59) Netherlands’ deferred tax positions and applying the reduced statutory Dutch corporate income tax rates; see Note 10 to the Tax rate changes due to local tax reforms (22) 5 (17) consolidated financial statements for more information. Underlying income from continuing operations 1,880 (28) 1,852 We propose a cash dividend of €0.76 per share for the financial year 2019, an increase of 8.6% Basic income from continuing operations per share1 1.54 (0.01) 1.53 compared to 2018, reflecting our ambition of sustainable growth of the dividend per share. This Underlying income from continuing operations per share1 1.60 (0.03) 1.57 represents a payout ratio of 44% of underlying net income from continuing operations. 1 Basic and underlying earnings per share from continuing operations are calculated by dividing the (underlying) income from continuing operations attributable to equity holders by the average numbers of shares outstanding. The weighted average number of shares used for calculating the basic and underlying earnings per share for 2018 is 1,176 million. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 45 Group non-financial review We have celebrated a diverse and inclusive workforce and helped associates to reach their Our 2020 Sustainable Retailing ambition potential so they can thrive. And we have further reduced our climate impact by continuing to lower our carbon emissions. For the past four years we have been In addition to the focus areas outlined above, we have continued our journey to improve performance working towards a set of ambitions for 2020, in: associate development, climate impact, product safety and sustainability, safety at work and local community connection. The following section shows how we performed in 2019 on the targets we set outlined in our Sustainable Retailing strategy, in our Sustainable Retailing 2020 strategy. which supports the achievement of our Now that 2020 is upon us, we have developed our healthy and sustainable ambition for 2025, which Leading Together strategy. describes how and where we aim to accelerate toward food systems that are healthier for people and the planet. For more information, see Our growth drivers: Healthy and sustainable. Our Sustainable Retailing 2020 strategy How we manage sustainable retailing was shaped by our most material topics, the The Executive Committee, supervised and advised by the Supervisory Board (and its Sustainability and Innovation Committee) has accountability for setting strategy and driving performance. Brand leadership UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is responsible for establishing implementation plans, resourcing their plans and monitoring performance. and market knowledge from our great local The Sustainable Retailing function reports directly to the President and CEO at the global level. The Vice President Sustainable Retailing and the Group Support Office Sustainable Retailing team are responsible brands. We also considered trends in our for advising on Ahold Delhaize’s Sustainable Retailing strategy, reporting global performance internally markets and around the world, integrated and externally, engaging external stakeholders, supporting the brands in implementation, monitoring stakeholder feedback, and referenced trends, and tracking related issues and risks. A global Sustainable Retailing Steering Committee, made up of Executive Sponsors from the local brands and relevant global functional leaders, reviews and other global frameworks (such as the OECD recommends the strategic direction and public targets, and tracks overall performance. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises). This year’s annual report on fiscal year 2019 contains sustainable retailing data from all Ahold Delhaize brands except bol.com, Etos, Gall & Gall and Peapod, unless otherwise noted. To reach these ambitions by the end of 2020, From an operational scope perspective, the data includes the following parts of the business, unless we have taken steps that make it easier for specifically noted otherwise: our customers to eat more nutritious food, • All stores (company-owned and franchise / affiliated stores) which helps to reduce the prevalence of • Offices diseases and increase overall vitality. • Company-owned distribution centers, including all transportation from distribution centers to stores, regardless of whether the transportation companies are owned by Ahold Delhaize. We have reduced food waste, in line with When we did not achieve full alignment in reporting on an indicator for 2019, we have explained it in the footnotes. our aim to responsibly manage the earth’s resources, and worked with food banks to Global Reporting Initiative We use the GRI Standards: Core option to report on our progress. An overview of how we followed the feed the undernourished in our communities. GRI standards can be found at www.aholddelhaize.com. For more information on the definitions used see Definitions: Performance measures. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 46 Group non-financial review Product Our local brands are well-positioned to help customers understand the impact of their buying decisions Giant Food launched its first-ever podcast, “Nutrition Made Easy!” The informative series of and enable them to make choices that fit their needs, their tastes and their values. discussions, led by Giant’s registered dietitians and nutritionists, answers customers’ most frequently asked questions and gives healthcare providers a tool to help educate patients. Healthier food leads to healthier communities; nutritious food reduces the risk of chronic diseases and contributes to a community’s overall resilience and vitality. Eating healthier is a priority for our Product sustainability customers. They look to us for fresh, healthy inspiration as they strive to serve delicious, nutritious We take responsibility for maintaining the highest levels of safety in regards to our products, while also family meals, every day. improving their environmental and social footprints. Diving deep into our supply chain helps us ensure that our products are more sustainable from production to plate. Our programs and targets are supportive of the Sustainable Development Goals We work to ensure products are safe, produced in clean, efficient facilities with good working conditions, made from responsibly sourced ingredients and components, and clearly and accurately labeled. Product safety Performance indicator description 2019 2018 2020 target % of production sites of own-brand food products that are Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI)-certified or comply with an acceptable Promote healthier eating 20191 2018 2020 target level of assurance standard 94% 93% 100% % of healthy own-brand food sales as a proportion of total % of production sites for own-brand food products that are own-brand food sales1 48% 47% 50% certified according to a GFSI-recognized standard 90% 89% 93% % of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling 95% 88% 100% % of production sites for own-brand food products that comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard (other than GFSI) 4% 4% 7% 1 2019 data includes Peapod. % of production sites of high-risk non-food own-brand products During 2019, we further increased the sale of healthy own-brand products as a portion of total ownaudited by an independent third party against acceptable standards brand food sales to 48%. The percentage of our own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional for the relevant product category 71% 64% – labeling increased by seven percentage points to 95%. We increased the percentage of audits performed at own-brand production sites for both food safety The increase in healthy own-brand sales was mainly driven by the reformulation of products, and social compliance. marketing campaigns and increased communication to customers. Many of our brands now have healthy navigation systems in place, such as Guiding Stars and Nutri-Score. Reformulation of products The percentage of own-brand production locations that are GFSI-certified or comply with an at Stop & Shop, Giant Food and Giant/Martin’s had a positive impact on their own-brand healthy sales. acceptable level of assurance increased slightly to 94.4%. The remaining group that is needed to get to 100% certification is made up mainly of smaller local suppliers. The certification process has become After the launch of Nutri-Score last year, Delhaize Belgium took another step towards integrating more complex due to an increased consumption of locally produced products, which fragments the Nutri-Score into associates’ lives by giving them extra purchasing power to buy healthy foods. The supply base. “Healthy UCoins” project was piloted in 2019, offering associates a 20% discount on products with a Nutri-Score A or B, including fruits and vegetables, chicken and water. Due to the pilot’s success, The percentage of production sites of high-risk, non-food, own-brand products that were audited for Delhaize Belgium extended the program to also offer discounts to customers buying the same Nutrisafety increased by seven percentage points to 71%. We expect to increase this further in 2020. Score A and B products, on top of any other discounts offered at the time. The combined customer and associate program lasted four months and was called NutriPlus. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 47 Group non-financial review Product continued Social compliance The percentage of own-brand certified wood-fiber products increased to 84% from 52% in 2018. The increase was mainly driven by activities in the U.S. and Greece. Greece can now report more accurate Performance indicator description 2019 2018 2020 target data sets and both the U.S. and Greece worked closely with their suppliers to increase the number of % of production sites of own-brand products in high-risk countries certified products. audited against an acceptable standard with a valid audit report or certificate and no non-compliances on deal-breakers 71% 66% 80% Performance indicator description 2019 2018 2020 target % of own-brand products containing tea certified The percentage of own-brand production sites in high-risk countries that were audited by a third party against an acceptable standard 97% 84% 100% against social compliance increased by five percentage points to 71%. We expect this percentage to % of own-brand coffee products certified continue to increase in the coming year. Most of the remaining portion of unaudited suppliers consists against an acceptable standard 96% 87% 100% of local suppliers covered by audits that address deal breakers like child labor, forced labor and % of own-brand products containing cocoa certified life-threatening situations, but are not fully compliant with the acceptable standards. against an acceptable standard 84% 49% 100% Organics % of own-brand products containing over 25% cocoa certified against an acceptable standard 82% 69% 100% Performance indicator description 2019 2018 % of own-brand products containing under 25% cocoa certified % total food sales from certified organic products 3% 3% against an acceptable standard 69% 34% 75% Total sales from free-from or organic own-brand lines (€ millions) 1,727 1,554 % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified Our brands continue to add organic products to their assortment. For example, during 2019, Albert to an acceptable standard or to RSPO Book & Claim 100% 100% 100% boosted its organic assortment by adding more products in cooperation with local farmers and suppliers. % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified As a result, more than 100 hectares of conventional agricultural fields were converted to organic. against an acceptable standard (Mass Balance or Segregated supply chain option) 87% 86% 75% Even with additions to the organic product assortment, however, the percentage of total food sales from % of palm oil volume in own-brand products offset by purchase certified organic products in 2019 did not increase from 2018. Our total sales from free-from or organic of RSPO Book & Claim 13% 14% 25% own-brand lines increased by 11.1% to a total of €1,727 million. % of own-brand wood fiber products certified sustainable Commodities against an acceptable standard, low risk, or recycled 84% 52% 100% Ahold Delhaize drives sustainable sourcing practices through targets on seven critical commodities % of own-brand paper and wood packaging (as defined, and per (tea, coffee, cocoa, palm oil, seafood, soy and wood fiber). To reach these targets we partner with SKU) certified sustainable against an acceptable standard, low risk, farmers, suppliers and industry groups to achieve more sustainable production. or recycled1 46% 37% – We made progress in all areas. We were able to use more certified ingredients for our own-brand % of high priority (South American) direct and embedded products, but we also removed products for which we could not find a sustainable option. soy volumes in the supply chain of own-brand products certified against an acceptable standard2 95% 91% 100% The largest improvements were in sustainable cocoa – we reached 84% certified cocoa as an % of own-brand seafood product sales certified ingredient in our own-brand products – and own-brand wood fiber products. against an acceptable standard, from sustainable sources During 2019, Alfa Beta started selling the Delicata line of chocolates from Albert Heijn in its stores, assessed by a credible third party, or from credible FIPs / AIPs 98% 94% 100% which significantly increased the total number of certified cocoa products. In the U.S., the decision % of own-brand seafood product sales with an identified was made to remove several cocoa products that were not certified from the local brands’ assortments. farm / fishery of origin 100% 100% 100% 1 2018 data excludes Albert Heijn. 2 Soy credits are purchased through the Roundtable on Responsible Soy. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 48 Group non-financial review People A safe work environment is fundamental, but the workplace should also offer opportunities for Associates from across all our businesses participated in Ahold Delhaize’s annual associate development and for a healthy life, as well as a true spirit of inclusiveness and diversity. engagement survey this year, with good results. We showed an overall engagement score of 80% – a one-percentage-point increase over last year. We also scored a 76% rating for being a healthy We strive to create workplaces that reflect the diversity of our communities, and contribute to the health workplace, an increase of two points over 2018. and well-being of all associates. Everywhere we operate, we want to provide an environment where each person feels valued and inspired to develop to their full potential. It is an ambition that matches Striving to create an environment that supports the overall well-being of our associates was a focus our values and helps our brands to remain innovative and competitive. area for us in 2019 after feedback from last year’s survey. To this end, we expanded our healthy living programs for associates, which aim to make healthier choices easy. Free fruit in a number of offices, Associate engagement additional educational programs on nutrition and weight loss and smoke-free campuses were some of the initiatives we rolled out further during 2019. Our programs and targets are supportive of the Sustainable Development Goals The other two key index scores on the survey were 78% for being an inclusive workplace and 72% for development. These were consistent with last year’s results. Associates also said they have clear objectives and feel they work in a safe environment. For more information see Our growth drivers: Best talent. The survey had a high participation rate, with 80% of associates taking the time to express their views and ensure their voices were heard. Safety at work Performance indicator description 20191 20181 Change 2020 target Performance indicator description 20191,3 20181,2 Associate engagement score (%) 80% 79% 1% pt – Rate of lost days due to accidents 2.1 2.4 Healthy workplace score 76% 74% 2% pt 75% Occupational illness frequency rate4 0.17 0.11 Inclusive workplace score 78% 78% —% 79% Associate development score 72% 72% —% 73% 1 Safety at work data excludes offices. 2 2018 data includes bol.com, Etos and Gall & Gall. 1 2019 and 2018 figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. 3 2019 data includes bol.com, Etos, Gall & Gall and Peapod. 4 2018 data excludes Delhaize Belgium, Alfa Beta, Delhaize Serbia, Mega Image and Albert. 2018 data includes Etos and Gall & Gall. 2019 data excludes Alfa Beta, Delhaize Belgium. 2019 data includes Etos and Gall & Gall. The rate of lost days due to accidents fell by 0.3 points to 2.1. The brands have increased the awareness and prioritization of safety in company communication, at management meetings and through events such as World Day for Safety that support the commitment to be a safe place to work and shop. Occupational illness frequency rate increased by 0.06 percentage points to 0.17 illnesses per one million hours worked. The increase in the occupational illness rate is primarily due to an increased understanding of the Occupational Illness definition across all the brands, which has led to more accurate reporting. In 2019, our Mega Image brand experienced a tragic road accident involving a bus transporting 15 store associates to work in Bucharest, Romania. Eight associates died and seven others were seriously injured in the collision. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 49 Group non-financial review People continued Local community connection Diversity Performance indicator description 2019 20181 Total monetary value of our Company’s corporate citizenship / philanthropic Performance indicator description 20191 20181 contributions (€ millions) 196.4 182.6 Number of associates (thousands) 380 372 Cash contributions (€ millions) 17.5 14.1 % of female associates 54% 53% In kind and volunteer hours cash-equivalent contributions (€ millions) 178.9 168.5 % of female Executive Committee members 13% 14% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as charitable donations 91% 91% % of female Supervisory Board members 33% 22% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as community investments 3% 3% % of male associates 46% 47% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as commercial initiatives 6% 6% % of full-time associates 33% 33% Total monetary value of donations by customers, suppliers and associates % of female full-time associates 47% 47% to charities, facilitated by Ahold Delhaize brands (€ millions) 20 8 % of male full-time associates 53% 53% % of cash and cash-equivalent donations to charities by the Company % of part-time associates 67% 67% on pre-tax profit 9% 8% % of female part-time associates 57% 56% Tonnes of food donated 56,681 55,509 % of male part-time associates 43% 44% 1 2018 figures are restated, due to more accurate and complete reporting. % Greatest Generation (1900-1945) 1% 1% % Baby Boomers (1946-1964) 15% 16% Our contributions and charitable donations are mainly driven by the U.S. brands. In 2019, the total % Generation X (1965-1979) 22% 22% monetary value of Ahold Delhaize’s contributions was €196.4 million, compared to €182.6 million in % Generation Y (millenials) (1980-1995) 26% 27% 2018. This increase is mainly due to an increase of in-kind donations. We contributed €17.5 million in direct cash contributions to community projects and the equivalent of €178.9 million through in-kind % Generation Z (1996+) 36% 34% donations and volunteer hours. % associates covered by collective bargaining 55% 56% 1 2019 and 2018 data includes Peapod, Gall & Gall, Etos and bol.com. During 2019, several of the U.S. brands launched the Bags 4 My Cause program. Each time customers purchase a Bags 4 My Cause reusable shopping bag with a giving tag, they’ll have the power to direct Our diversity results in 2019 were stable compared to 2018 except for the percentage of female a $1 donation to a local organization of their choice. If the customer does not direct the donation within Supervisory Board members. In 2019, Katie Doyle and Peter Agnefjäll joined the Supervisory Board seven days, it will automatically be donated to a local nonprofit chosen by the store where it was sold. while Rob van den Bergh and Mark McGrath stepped down. Each of our brands has a community engagement program in place to support local needs all year In October 2019, we announced the appointment of Natalie Knight as Executive Vice President Finance round. In 2019, we donated 56,681 tonnes of food to food banks and €17.5 million to community for Ahold Delhaize and member of the Executive Committee, effective March 1, 2020. projects. For example, customers at Giant/Martin’s donated a record-breaking $794 thousand to For more information on our commitment to diversity and inclusion please see Our growth drivers: support local hunger-relief efforts during the biannual Bag Hunger campaign. Best talent. Another big driver of our food bank donations is the Food Lion Feeds program. Over the past five years, Food Lion worked with its national hunger relief partner, Feeding America, and the 30 Feeding Americaaffiliated food banks across the brand’s service territory to identify opportunities to help and feed their neighbors. After committing to donate 500 million meals by the end of 2020, Food Lion reached its goal more than 18 months early. In 2019, they set a new goal to donate one billion meals by the end of 2025. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 50 Group non-financial review Planet Climate impact Carbon emissions Climate change is a significant global issue impacting our society, our quality of life and our business. CO2 -equivalent emissions per sales area were 435 kg/m2, a 4.6% decrease from 2018 and a 32% The increasing instability of temperature and rainfall is already impacting the ability to farm, fish and reduction from Ahold Delhaize’s 2008 baseline. raise livestock, while the frequency and intensity of storms is impacting our facilities and transportation. CO2 -equivalent emissions are mainly driven by energy consumption, refrigerant leakage and transport. Climate change is also of concern to an increasing number of our customers, associates, suppliers In all areas, we reduced our absolute consumption as well as the consumption per square meter of and partners. sales area. Ahold Delhaize is taking action to reduce emissions from the operations of its brands and businesses An example of an action by the brands on climate is Albert Heijn’s remodeling of stores to maximize as well as in producing own-brand products. We are lowering direct emissions by investing in more energy efficiency, eliminate natural gas and only use natural refrigerants. In 2019, Albert Heijn efficient energy, refrigeration and transportation systems. We are reducing food waste – one of the remodelled 123 stores, achieving a further reduction in carbon emissions. major global drivers of climate emissions – from our stores and distribution centers and we are helping our customers to reduce their food waste. Our programs and targets are supportive of the Sustainable Development Goals Carbon emissions per m2 of sales area Facilities energy consumption equivalent emissions per m2 300 sales area (2019: 254) 250 Refrigerants equivalent emissions per m2 Index value 200 sales area (2019: 135) Transport equivalent 150 emissions per m2 100 sales area (2019: 46) In addition, we are exploring the climate impact of the consumption of meat and other products, and how we can provide support to address these concerns, such as by offering alternative 50 protein products. 2017 2018 2019 Period ended CO2 emissions Energy consumption 2,372 Refrigerants 1,257 Transport 427 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 51 Group non-financial review Planet continued Performance indicator description 20191 20181 2020 target When building or remodeling our stores and offices, we include renewable energy where possible. For example, the completely renovated AD Delhaize store in Lochristi, Belgium, has 1,180 rooftop % change in CO2 equivalent emissions per m of sales area 2 solar panels to ensure electricity consumption is 100% sustainable. The Giant/Martin’s support office (from 2008 baseline) (32)% (28)% (30)% in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, installed more than 1,800 solar panels – the first phase of covering 100% of Total CO2 -equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – the office’s energy consumption. location-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2) 435 456 445 Total CO2 -equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – From 2018 to 2019, we significantly increased the renewable energy produced on site. location-based approach 4,056 4,215 – Fuel consumption from truck transportation decreased to a total of 149 million liters in 2019. Our brands Scope 1 (thousand tonnes) 1,699 1,816 – continue to look at ways to supply their stores with products efficiently and improve the climate impact Scope 2 (thousand tonnes) 1,926 1,950 – of their trucks. Albert Heijn and four transportation partners are testing the use of electric trucks for Scope 3 (thousand tonnes) 431 449 – supermarket deliveries in cities, starting with Amsterdam. The test involves fully electric tractor-trailers Total CO2 -equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – as well as plug-in hybrids – a first in Europe – with the goal of determining the functional and operational market-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2) 418 430 – requirements to make emissions-free deliveries in the near future. Total CO2 -equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – We further decreased the average Global Warming Potential (GWP) of our refrigerants to 2,242, nearly market-based approach 3,902 3,973 – achieving our 2020 target. Leakage rate decreased by one percentage point to 13%. Scope 2 (thousand tonnes) 1,772 1,707 – Delhaize Serbia replaced HFC refrigeration systems with their CO2 counterparts in six retail stores in 1 2018 and 2019 figures include Etos and Gall & Gall. 2019. It is expected that the use of CO2 as a refrigerant will boost the refrigeration systems’ energy efficiency by 35%. In addition, Delhaize Serbia focused on preventive maintenance of refrigeration system installations, resulting in a reduction of refrigerant leakage. Performance indicator description 20191 20181 2020 target Facilities energy consumption (million kWh) 6,649 6,833 – Food waste Facilities energy consumption per m2 sales area (kWh/m2) 797 826 – In 2019, Ahold Delhaize brands reduced food waste per sales by 9% compared to our 2016 baseline, Total renewable electricity produced on site (million kWh) 51 20 – making limited progress toward our 2020 target of 20% reduction. As we continue to drive healthier eating, increase our fresh assortment and promote sales of fresh and convenient products, we run % renewable electricity on total electricity consumed 9% 13% – the risk of simultaneously increasing shrink. Therefore, our 2020 targets remain ambitious and will be Avoided grid electricity CO2 emissions (thousand tonnes) 173 248 – difficult to reach. % ozone-friendly refrigerants1 78% 77% 85% Average refrigerant Global Warming Potential (GWP) 2,242 2,320 2,230 The strike at Stop & Shop during the busy Easter period, had an impact on both food waste as well as the percentage of unsold food donated to feed people. Refrigerant leakage rate 13% 14% – Fuel consumption by trucks (million liters) 149 155 – We have identified several projects to further reduce food waste in the future. Total water consumption (thousand m3)2 6,824 8,016 – During 2019, Retail Business Services, the services company of the Ahold Delhaize USA brands, Total water consumption (m3) per m2 of sales area2 0.87 1.03 – launched a forecasting and replenishment project. This is a three-year initiative that will provide U.S. 1 2018 and 2019 figures include Etos and Gall & Gall. associates with the data they need to make smarter forecasting and ordering decisions to supply 2 2018 and 2019 figures exclude Albert Heijn. fresher products for customers no matter how they choose to shop. The project will significantly improve inventory and analysis technology by offering one simplified solution that will give each brand end-to-end visibility from supplier to shelf. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 52 Group non-financial review Planet continued Albert Heijn took a new step to reduce food waste by testing “dynamic discounting” of chicken and fish Waste products at a store in Zandvoort, the Netherlands. Using electronic shelf labels, the products were Performance indicator description 2019 2018 2020 target automatically reduced in price based on their sell-by date, with a higher discount for items that need to Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 1,039 1,024 – be sold soonest. As a result, food shrink levels stayed under Albert Heijn’s average in the Netherlands for the same products during the test period and improved in the final phase. Albert Heijn plans further % of waste sent to landfill 14% 15% – pilot testing in 10 stores to better estimate the benefits and optimize processes and infrastructure in % of waste incinerated and transformed into energy 9% 9% – order to roll out the electronic shelf labels solution nationwide. % of waste recycled 77% 76% 80% Number of non-reusable carrier bags distributed (million bags)1 3,257 3,915 – We are committed to continuing to improve our ability to redistribute unsold food and recycle waste. In 2019, we increased food waste recycling to 77% compared to 76% in 2018. 1 2018 and 2019 figures include Peapod. Food waste recycling is especially difficult in our Central and Southeastern European brands. The In 2019, we generated 1,039 thousand tonnes of waste, of which 77% was recycled, 9% was infrastructure in the countries where we operate does not always facilitate food waste recycling, which incinerated and transformed into energy and 14% was sent to landfill facilities. makes it difficult to further increase our performance in these countries. We reduced the number of non-reusable bags by more than 600 million to a total of 3,257 million bags. Performance indicator description 2019 20182 2020 target1 In Europe, Alfa Beta and Mega Image stopped using non-reusable carrier bags. Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/€ million) 5.0 (-9%) 5.2 (-5%) 4.38 (-20%) ESG ratings Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales (t/€ million) 1.1 1.2 – 2019 2018 change % of total food waste recycled 77% 76% 90% DJSI score 69 72 (3) % food waste recycled for animal feed 26% 24% – MSCI ESG rating A A – % food waste recycled for biogas generation 34% 33% – % food waste recycled for compost 7% 9% – The 2019 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) ranked Ahold Delhaize among the % food waste recycled by rendering 33% 34% – industry leaders in the Food and Staples Retailing sector for the fourth consecutive year. Ahold % of unsold food donated to feed people 18% 18% – Delhaize received a total score of 69 in this year’s global sustainability benchmark, a decline of three points compared to last year and scored seven points below the average score of the sector leaders. 1 2020 target is to reduce food waste 20% from the 2016 baseline. 2016 baseline is restated due to a more accurate calculation, resulting in a 2020 target restatement from 4.25 to 4.38. While we maintained many areas of strength, the higher scoring sector leaders are advancing quickly, 2 2018 figures are restated, due to more accurate and complete reporting. so the gap between our performance and theirs widened from 2018 to 2019. Our score and percentile ranking fluctuate each year, partially from our own performance and partially based on how quickly the rest of our industry advances. In 2019, Ahold Delhaize continued to show a constant solid A performance from the MSCI ESG rating. With this performance, according to MSCI, we fall into the highest scoring range for all the companies assessed, relative to global peers, indicating that the Company’s corporate governance practices are generally well-aligned with shareholder interests. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 53 Financial review by segment Key financial and non-financial information The key financial and non-financial information per segment for 2019 and 2018 is presented below: The United States The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 restated 2019 restated 2019 restated 2019 restated Net sales (€ millions) 40,066 37,460 14,810 14,218 5,096 5,095 6,288 6,018 Net sales ($ millions) 44,841 44,174 Of which: online sales (€ millions)1 985 751 2,432 1,999 57 51 19 16 Of which: online sales ($ millions) 1,101 886 Net sales growth in local currency 1.5% 1.9% 4.2% 3.7% 0.0% 2.9% 4.9% 3.1% Comparable sales growth 1.1% 2.3% 3.5% 3.8% (0.1)% 2.2% 3.0% 0.9% Comparable sales growth (excluding gasoline sales) 1.4% 2.1% 3.5% 3.8% (0.1)% 2.2% 3.1% 0.9% Operating income (€ millions) 1,668 1,633 765 731 128 130 246 262 Operating income ($ millions) 1,867 1,924 Underlying operating income (€ millions) 1,712 1,699 776 748 149 142 280 274 Underlying operating income ($ millions) 1,916 2,002 Underlying operating margin 4.3% 4.5% 5.2% 5.3% 2.9% 2.8% 4.5% 4.6% Number of employees / headcount (at year-end in thousands) 215 207 100 102 14 13 51 50 Number of employees / FTEs (at year-end in thousands) 143 136 31 32 12 11 45 45 Contribution to Ahold Delhaize net sales 60.5% 59.7% 22.4% 22.6% 7.7% 8.1% 9.5% 9.6% Contribution to Ahold Delhaize underlying operating income2 58.7% 59.3% 26.6% 26.1% 5.1% 5.0% 9.6% 9.6% 1 Net consumer online sales for the Netherlands in 2019 amounted to €3,486 million and to €2,677 million in 2018. 2 Before Global Support Office costs. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 54 Financial review by segment The United States Change % change at Net sales 2018 versus prior % constant € million 2019 restated year change rates €40.1bn 2018: €37.5bn +7.0% 1 Net sales Of which online sales 40,066 985 37,460 751 2,606 234 7.0% 31.2% 1.5% 24.3% Comparable sales growth 1.1% 2.3% Comparable sales growth excluding gasoline 1.4% 2.1% Comparable sales growth Operating income 1,668 1,633 35 2.1% (3.0)% (excluding gasoline sales) Adjusted for: 1.4% Impairment losses and reversals – net (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net 67 (39) 26 (17) 41 (22) Underlying operating income Restructuring and related charges €1,712m and other items 16 57 (41) +0.7%2 Underlying operating income 1,712 1,699 13 0.7% (4.3)% Underlying operating income margin 4.3% 4.5% 2018: €1,699m In 2019, net sales were €40,066 million, up by €2,606 million or 7.0% compared to 2018. At constant Underlying operating margin exchange rates, net sales were up by 1.5%. Sales growth was negatively impacted by the 11-day strike 4.3% at Stop & Shop. The direct impact of the strike on net sales is estimated at $224 million, and, in addition, the subsequent sales loss during the recovery period following the strike is estimated to be $121 million. Online sales were €985 million, up by 24.3% compared to last year at constant rates. The increase was Online sales driven by more click-and-collect points across all the brands, third-party delivery and same-day delivery. €985m 2018: €751m +31.2%3 Comparable sales excluding gasoline for the segment increased by 1.4%, with negative volume. Strong positive comparable sales growth across most of the U.S. brands was only partly offset by negative comparable growth at Stop & Shop and Peapod. Operating income of €1,668 million increased by €35 million, or 2.1%, compared to 2018. Underlying operating income was €1,712 million and is adjusted for the following items, which impacted operating income: • Impairment losses and reversals – net: In 2019, impairment charges amounted to €67 million, while in 2018, they amounted to €26 million. In 2019, the impairments related primarily to Stop & Shop’s underperforming stores and investment locations. The impairments in 2018 related primarily to underperforming stores and investment properties across all the brands. 1 +1.5% at constant rates. 2 -4.3% at constant rates. 3 +24.3% at constant rates. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 55 Financial review by segment The United States continued • (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net: In 2019, Stop & Shop sold a non-strategic investment property, Giant/Martin’s sold stores and pharmacy scripts and Giant Food sold two Growth drivers in action properties. In 2018, no individually significant gains or losses were recorded. The U.S. brands exceeded their goal of having • Restructuring and related charges and other items: The 2019 charges decreased by €41 million 600 click-and-collect points operational in 2019 compared to 2018. In 2019, these charges mainly related to integration costs as a result of the – with 692 by the end of the year – supporting the merger, partially offset by insurance reimbursement for Hurricane Florence. In 2018, these charges Omnichannel 24.3% online growth in the United States. mainly related to integration costs, the set-up of the U.S. brand-centric organization and other items, including Hurricane Florence. growth In 2019, underlying operating income was €1,712 million, up by €13 million or 0.7% compared to last Peapod Digital Labs built and launched PRISM, year. At constant rates, underlying operating income decreased by (4.3)%. a digital eCommerce ecosystem that enables the The United States’ underlying operating income margin in 2019 was 4.3%, down 0.2 percentage points brands to offer customers a robust omnichannel compared to 2018. The 2019 result was negatively impacted by the strike at Stop & Shop, impacting Technology experience with hyper personalization, alternative underlying operating income by approximately $100 million. In addition, the results were impacted by payment types, an enhanced B2B offering and higher shrink and supply chain costs, partly offset by increased vendor allowances. Underlying a reward program. Giant/Martin’s, Giant Food expenses increased compared to last year, mainly driven by salary increases, cost inflation, exceeding and Stop & Shop will launch PRISM in 2020 and sales growth (negatively impacted by the strike) and click-and-collect expansion, partly offset by our Hannaford and Food Lion will follow in 2021. Save for Our Customers program. Ahold Delhaize USA is investing $480 million to transform and expand its supply chain operations, Number of stores Stop & Shop 413 Food Lion 1,029 in support of a new three-year strategy to move Giant/Martin’s 186 Portfolio and to a fully integrated, self-distribution model. Hannaford 182 This will enable the U.S. businesses to reduce costs, Giant Food 163 scale efficiencies improve speed to shelf, enhance relationships with vendors, and improve product availability and freshness. For more information on how we are driving growth, see our reporting hub www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 56 Financial review by segment The Netherlands Change Net sales 2018 versus € million 2019 restated prior year % change €14.8bn 2018: €14.2bn +4.2% Net sales Of which online sales 14,810 2,432 14,218 1,999 592 433 4.2% 21.6% Net consumer online sales 3,486 2,677 809 30.2% Comparable sales growth 3.5% 3.8% Comparable sales growth Operating income 765 731 34 4.7% 3.5% Adjusted for: Impairment losses and reversals – net (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net 2 (13) 13 (1) (11) (12) Underlying operating income Restructuring and related charges €776m and other items 22 5 17 +3.8% Underlying operating income 776 748 28 3.8% Underlying operating income margin 5.2% 5.3% 2018: €748m Net sales in 2019 were €14,810 million, up by €592 million or 4.2% compared to 2018. Underlying operating margin This increase was due to a 3.5% growth in comparable sales, driven by strong sales growth of 21.6% 5.2% at our online brands, bol.com and ah.nl. For the full year, market share at Albert Heijn in 2019 was 34.9%, flat compared to 2018 (Source: Nielsen). Net consumer online sales Bol.com continued its strong net consumer online sales growth from 32.0% in 2018 to 33.2% in 2019. €3.5bn The brand’s business in Belgium and its third-party platform – which currently offers a marketplace to +30.2% more than 20,000 merchant partners in the Netherlands and Belgium – remain important growth drivers. 2018: €2.7bn Operating income increased by €34 million, or 4.7%, to €765 million, affected by the following items that Ahold Delhaize adjusts for to arrive at underlying operating income: • Impairment losses and reversals – net: There were no individually significant impairment charges recorded in 2019. In 2018, impairment charges were mainly related to underperforming stores. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 57 Financial review by segment The Netherlands continued • (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net: Results were mainly related to a €10 million gain on leases and subleases at Albert Heijn in 2019. In 2018, The Netherlands sold assets with Growth drivers in action an aggregate gain of €1 million. • Restructuring and related charges and other items: In 2019, the charges were mainly related To keep up with strong growth at ah.nl, Albert to restructuring costs of €19 million at Albert Heijn, while in 2018, they related mainly to IT Heijn opened its fifth fulfillment center this year integration costs. and is expanding the number of distribution hubs Omnichannel with smaller trucks to make city deliveries. In 2019, underlying operating income in The Netherlands was €776 million, up by €28 million or 3.8% compared to 2018. Underlying operating margin in The Netherlands was 5.2% in 2019, down 0.1% growth In 2019, bol.com celebrated its 20th anniversary. compared to 2018. Margins were impacted by higher underlying operating expenses, which were Over the past two decades, bol.com has partly offset by better growth margins. developed from an online book store to an online retailer selling over 22 million products. In recent Excluding bol.com, the underlying operating income margin was 5.8% in 2019. This was flat compared years, its growth has been strongly influenced by to 2018 as a result of saving programs, including synergy savings and Save for Our Customers the more than 20,000 third-party resellers using initiatives, offset mainly by the growth of ah.nl. bol.com as an online sales platform. Our net sales in The Netherlands consist of sales to consumers and to franchise stores. Franchise stores operate under the same format as Ahold Delhaize-operated stores. Franchisees purchase Albert Heijn piloted its first frictionless digital merchandise primarily from Ahold Delhaize, pay a franchise fee and receive support services. store, providing customers with a grab-and-go experience that does not require scanning or Number of stores Albert Heijn: the Netherlands 894 Technology checking out items. It uses cutting-edge computer Albert Heijn: Belgium 49 vision and sensing technologies to enable Albert Heijn to go 86 automated checkout. Etos 542 Gall & Gall 585 Albert Heijn continues to rapidly convert stores to its new freshand technology-focused concept, with 123 stores converted in 2019 – exceeding its Healthy and goal of 120 – and more scheduled for 2020. sustainable Etos took over the largest online health platform in the Netherlands. By acquiring the Solvo Group, Etos can capitalize on an integrated drugstore model combining physical stores with the ability to provide around-the-clock health information. For more information on how we are driving growth, see our reporting hub www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 58 Financial review by segment Belgium Change Net sales 2018 versus € million 2019 restated prior year % change €5.1bn 2018: €5.1bn 0.0% Net sales Of which online sales 5,096 57 5,095 51 1 6 0.0% 14.4% Comparable sales growth (0.1)% 2.2% Operating income 128 130 (2) (1.5)% Comparable sales growth Adjusted for: -0.1% Impairment losses and reversals – net (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net Restructuring and related charges 2 5 — (2) 2 7 Underlying operating income and other items 13 14 (1) €149m Underlying operating income 149 142 7 4.4% +4.4% Underlying operating income margin 2.9% 2.8% 2018: €142m Net sales in 2019 were €5,096 million, up €1 million or flat compared to 2018, and comparable sales decreased by 0.1%. The affiliated network continued to show strong growth, driven by accelerated Underlying operating margin growth in the convenience store format. 2.9% Delhaize.be, our online business in Belgium, grew by 14.4% in 2019, as more customers utilized the convenience of home delivery. For the full year, market share for Delhaize in 2019 was 24.1%, slightly up compared to 2018 (Source: Nielsen). Online sales Operating income decreased by €2 million or (1.5)% to €128 million. Underlying operating income €57m 2018: €51m +14.4% is adjusted for the following items, which impacted operating income: • Impairment losses and reversals – net: There were no individually significant impairment charges recorded in 2019 and 2018. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 59 Financial review by segment Belgium continued • (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net: There were no individually significant gains or losses on leases and / or the sale of assets recorded in 2019 and 2018. Growth drivers in action • Restructuring and related charges and other items: The charges in 2019 and 2018 mainly related to restructuring costs of €13 million in both years. In 2018, integration costs amounted to €2 million. Bol.com is now operating pick-up points in all Delhaize stores throughout Flanders and Underlying operating income in 2019 was €149 million, up by €7 million, or 4.4%, compared to last year. the two brands have held their first joint Underlying operating income margin in 2019 was 2.9%, up 0.1 percentage points compared to 2018. marketing promotion. Portfolio and Underlying operating income benefited from good cost control of underlying expenses and shrink, partly offset by increased logistics costs. scale efficiencies Our net sales in Belgium consist of sales to consumers and to affiliate stores. Affiliates receive goods at Delhaize helps customers eat better and make a wholesale price that includes a mark-up on our purchase price. The Belgium segment also includes healthier choices with promotions like Nutri-Plus, sales of 55 stores in Luxembourg. a four-month program providing discounts on Healthy and thousands of healthy products. Number of stores Delhaize 358 sustainable Proxy 266 Shop & Go 172 Delhaize is enhancing speed and convenience for shoppers with the launch of a mobile payment application at its Fresh Atelier store in Brussels. Technology For more information on how we are driving growth, see our reporting hub www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 60 Financial review by segment Central and Southeastern Europe Change % change at Net sales 2018 versus prior % constant € million 2019 restated year change rates €6.3bn 2018: €6.0bn +4.5% 1 Net sales Of which online sales 6,288 19 6,018 16 270 3 4.5% 15.3% 4.9% 15.9% Comparable sales growth 3.0% 0.9% Comparable sales growth excluding gasoline 3.1% 0.9% Comparable sales growth Operating income 246 262 (16) (5.9)% (5.4)% (excluding gasoline sales) Adjusted for: 3.1% Impairment losses and reversals – net (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net 18 (2) 14 (3) 4 1 Underlying operating income Restructuring and related charges €280m and other items 18 1 17 +2.2%2 Underlying operating income 280 274 6 2.2% 2.6% Underlying operating income margin 4.5% 4.6% 2018: €274m In 2019, net sales in Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) were €6,288 million, up by €270 million Underlying operating margin or 4.5% compared to 2018. At constant exchange rates, net sales were up by 4.9%. 4.5% Sales growth was driven by comparable sales growth of 3.0% and by the net addition of 162 stores in 2019. Comparable sales growth was driven by our businesses in the Czech Republic, Romania and Serbia, while Greece’s comparable sales growth remained negative as a consequence of the Online sales competitive market environment. €19m 2018: €16m +15.3%3 Operating income decreased by €16 million to €246 million, compared to €262 million in 2018. Underlying operating income is adjusted for the following items, which impacted operating income: • Impairment losses and reversals – net: The 2019 impairment charges of €18 million in CSE were mostly related to underperforming stores in Greece. In 2018, an impairment of €14 million was recorded, which was also mainly related to Greece. 1 +4.9% at constant rates. 2 +2.6% at constant rates. 3 +15.9% at constant rates. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 61 Financial review by segment Central and Southeastern Europe continued • (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net: No individually significant gains or losses were recorded in 2019 or 2018. Growth drivers in action • Restructuring and related charges and other items: In 2019, a loss of €18 million was taken, mainly due to asset write-down in our business in the Czech Republic. No individually significant Maxi was named the favorite supermarket in charges were recorded in 2018. Serbia for the third time in a row. In 2019, underlying operating income in CSE was €280 million, up by €6 million or 2.2% from In the Czech Republic, Albert made good progress Omnichannel on its remodeling project to refresh all its large €274 million in 2018. Underlying operating income margin was 4.5%, which was 0.1 percentage points lower than in 2018. growth format hypermarkets and also deployed a second generation of urban stores with a new Czech Republic supermarket format. Number of stores 325 Greece 510 In Romania, Mega Image opened 92 new Serbia 442 Romania 765 stores and successfully launched various ready meal concepts. In Greece, Alfa Beta introduced a smart farming project, highlighting the power of partnerships for sustainable development, and became the first Healthy and Greek retailer to carry ASC-certified sea bass and sustainable sea bream. Mega Image acquired supermarket chain Zanfir to strengthen its position in eastern Romania. Portfolio and scale efficiencies For more information on how we are driving growth, see our reporting hub www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 62 Financial review by segment Global Support Office Changes € million 2019 2018 restated versus prior year % change Growth drivers in action Global Support Office costs (146) (133) (13) (9.0)% In October, the AI for Retail (AIR) Lab in Delft, the of which restructuring and related charges Netherlands, held its official launch. The facility and other items (6) (31) 25 80.9% is an expansion of Ahold Delhaize’s AIR Lab in Underlying Global Support Office costs (140) (102) (38) (35.9)% Amsterdam, created in partnership with Delft Technology of which related to self-insurance activities 4 50 (46) (92.8)% University. The focus of the lab is to research the Underlying Global Support Office costs future of robotics and develop state-of-the-art excluding self-insurance (143) (153) 10 6.2% innovations in the retail industry. Global Support Office costs in 2019 were €146 million, up €13 million compared to last year. Global After successfully rolling out the Office 365 Support Office costs were adjusted for restructuring and related charges and other items that platform company-wide last year, in 2019, teams amounted to €6 million in 2019, or €25 million lower than last year. This is mainly caused by fewer across Ahold Delhaize focused on using its tools to integration costs in 2019, as the merger was fully completed in Q2 2019. transform the way we work, improve productivity Portfolio and scale and collaborate better. Underlying Global Support Office costs were €140 million, €38 million higher than 2018. The €46 million efficiencies decrease in self-insurance activities was caused by movements in the discount rates offset in part by a favorable impact from the change in the composition of expected losses increasing the overall duration Our senior leaders across the Company, at of the loss reserves versus last year. Underlying Global Support Office costs excluding self-insurance Vice President level and above, were invited to were €143 million, or €10 million lower than last year. attend “The Digital Mindset,” a course that builds Best talent awareness around data analytics, cybersecurity and digital innovation. For more information on how we are driving growth, see our reporting hub www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 63 Outlook While group margin should benefit from lapping the effect of the U.S. strike in 2019, this is offset We anticipate that underlying operating by the margin dilution related to transition expenses from the U.S. supply chain initiative announced margin for the group in 2020 will be broadly in December, as well as an increased non-cash service charge for the Netherlands employee pension plan, resulting from lower discount rates in the Netherlands. Excluding the impact of the in line with 2019, and note that the 53rd week U.S. supply chain transition expenses and non-cash service charge for the Netherlands employee does not significantly impact underlying pension plan, underlying operating margin would be up from the prior year. operating margin. Additionally, we expect underlying earnings per share growth for the year to be in the mid-single-digit range. We expect group free cash flow of around €1.5 billion for the full year 2020, affected by the cash impact of €270 million in capital expenditure related to the U.S. supply chain transformation. We expect to spend €2.5 billion in capital expenditures in 2020, impacted by the aforementioned investment in the U.S. supply chain transformation. The free cash flow and capital expenditure guidance expressly excludes M&A activity. Also, as announced in December 2019, a new €1 billion share buyback program is in place for 2020. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 64 Information about Ahold Delhaize shares Shares and listings Performance of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares on Euronext Amsterdam Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is a public limited liability company registered in the Netherlands with 2019 2018 a listing of shares on Euronext’s Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) and Euronext Brussels (Ticker: Closing common share price at calendar year-end (in €) 22.75 22.07 AD, Bloomberg code: AD NA, ISIN code: NL0011794037, CUSIP: N0074E105, Reuters code: AD.AS). Average closing common share price (in €) 22.05 20.04 Ahold Delhaize’s shares trade in the United States on the over-the-counter (OTC) market Highest closing common share price (in €) 24.41 23.13 (www.otcmarkets.com) in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) (ticker: ADRNY, Bloomberg Lowest closing common share price (in €) 19.50 17.26 code: ADRNY US, ISIN code: US5004675014, CUSIP: 500467501). Average daily trading volume 3,591,720 5,663,575 The ratio between Ahold Delhaize ADRs and the ordinary Netherlands (euro denominated) shares is Market capitalization (€ million) 24,751 24,938 1:1, i.e., one ADR represents one Ahold Delhaize ordinary share. Source: FactSet Structure: Sponsored Level I ADR Share capital J.P. Morgan (the Depositary) acts as the depositary bank for Ahold Delhaize’s ADR program. Please During 2019, Ahold Delhaize’s issued and outstanding share capital decreased by approximately also see Contact information for details on how to contact J.P. Morgan regarding the ADR program. 42 million common shares to 1,088 million common shares. This decrease resulted mainly from the share buyback of €1 billion as announced on November 13, 2018, marginally offset by the issuance Share performance in 2019 of shares for the Company’s share-based compensation program. On December 27, 2019, the closing price of an Ahold Delhaize ordinary share on Euronext Amsterdam was €22.75, a 3.1% increase compared to €22.07 on December 28, 2018. During the same period, the The common shares issued decreased by 83 million to 1,101 million at the end of 2019. The difference Euro STOXX 50 index increased by 26.6% and the AEX index increased by 26.2%. between the common shares outstanding and common shares issued are the treasury shares. During 2019, Ahold Delhaize shares traded on Euronext Amsterdam at an average closing price of As of December 29, 2019, there were 13 million shares held in treasury, the majority held by Ahold €22.05 and an average daily trading volume of 3.6 million shares. Ahold Delhaize’s market capitalization Delhaize to cover the equity-based long-term incentive plan. was €24.8 billion at year-end 2019. The highest closing price for Ahold Delhaize’s shares on Euronext Ahold Delhaize’s authorized share capital as of December 29, 2019, was comprised of the following: Amsterdam was €24.41 on November 11, 2019, and the lowest was €19.50 on June 27, 2019. • 1,923,515,827 common shares at €0.01 par value each On December 27, 2019, the closing price of Ahold Delhaize’s ADR was $25.40, 0.7% higher than the closing price on December 28, 2018 ($25.23). In the same period, the Dow Jones index increased • 326,484,173 cumulative preferred financing shares at €0.01 par value each by 24.2% and the S&P 500 increased by 30.3%. In 2019, the average daily trading volume of Ahold • 2,250,000,000 cumulative preferred shares at €0.01 par value each Delhaize American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) was 103,697. For additional information about Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, see Notes 21 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements. Ahold Delhaize Highest closing share price Lowest closing € Year-end price 24.41 23.13 22.75 20.76 22.07 19.50 18.34 17.26 14.80 2017 2018 2019 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 65 Information about Ahold Delhaize shares Distribution of shares Shareholder returns Shareholders by region1: For the 2018 financial year, a cash dividend of €0.70 per common share was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019, and paid on April 25, 2019. February 2020 2020 2019 U.K. / Ireland 12.8 16.1 We propose a cash dividend of €0.76 for the financial year 2019, an increase of 8.6% compared North America 29.2 26.9 to 2018, reflecting our ambition of sustainable growth of the dividend per share. This represents Rest of Europe 9.1 9.2 a payout ratio of 44%, based on the expected dividend payment on underlying income from France 8.5 8.6 continuing operations. The Netherlands2 5.4 4.4 If approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, a final dividend of €0.46 per share will be paid Rest of the world 4.9 4.5 on April 23, 2020. This is in addition to the interim dividend of €0.30 per share, which was paid on Germany 3.7 3.5 August 29, 2019. Undisclosed2 26.4 26.8 Shareholders key performance indicators 2015-2019: 1 Source: CMi2i. 2019 2018 2017 2016 20152 2 The Netherlands excludes the percentage of shareholdings of all retail holdings and treasury shares, which are included in Undisclosed. Dividend per common share 1 0.76 0.70 0.63 0.57 0.52 Final dividend 0.46 0.70 0.63 0.57 0.52 Significant ownership of voting shares Interim dividend 0.30 N/A N/A N/A N/A According to the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, any person or legal entity who, directly or indirectly, acquires or disposes of an interest in Ahold Delhaize’s capital or voting rights must Dividend yield 3.3% 3.2% 3.4% 2.8% 2.7% immediately give written notice to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Payout ratio3 44% 42% 47% 48% 49% Financiële Markten or AFM) if the acquisition or disposal causes the percentage of outstanding capital 1 2019 dividend subject to the approval of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. interest or voting rights held by that person or legal entity to reach, exceed or fall below any of the 2 2015 numbers refer to Ahold only. following thresholds: 3 Dividend payout ratio for 2015 is based on adjusted income from continuing operations. For 2017 and 2016, the payout ratio is based on underlying income from continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). 3% 5% 10% 15% 20% Dividends on cumulative preferred financing shares 25% 30% 40% 50% 60% Ahold Delhaize paid a dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares in 2019. The cumulative preferred financing shares were cancelled on July 16, 2019. 75% 95% Share buyback The obligation to notify the AFM also applies when the percentage of capital interest or voting rights On November 13, 2018, Ahold Delhaize announced it will return €1 billion to shareholders by means of referred to above changes as a result of a change in Ahold Delhaize’s total outstanding capital or voting a share buyback program, which was completed on December 11, 2019. An additional €1 billion share rights. In addition, local rules may apply to investors. buyback program was announced on December 4, 2019, which is expected to be completed before The following table lists the shareholders on record in the AFM register on February 24, 2020, that hold the end of 2020. Maintaining a balanced approach between funding growth in key channels and an interest of 3% or more in the share capital of the Company1. returning excess liquidity to shareholders is part of Ahold Delhaize’s financial framework to support our Leading Together strategy. The purpose of the program is to reduce Ahold Delhaize’s capital, by • BlackRock, Inc – 5.35% shareholding (6.4% voting rights) disclosed on November 5, 2019. cancelling all or part of the common shares acquired through the program. • State Street Corporation – 3.49% shareholding (2.7% voting rights) disclosed on July 18, 2019. 1 In accordance with the filing requirements, the percentages shown include both direct and indirect capital interests and voting rights and both real and potential capital interests and voting rights. Further details can be found at www.afm.nl. For further details on the number of outstanding shares, and the percentages of the issued share capital they represent, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 66 Five-year overview Results, cash flow and other information € million, except per share data, exchange rates and percentages 2019 2018 restated1 20171 20161, 2 20151 Net sales 66,260 62,791 62,890 49,695 38,203 Net sales growth at constant exchange rates3 2.3% 2.5% 28.9% 32.3% 2.3% Operating income 2,662 2,623 2,225 1,584 1,318 Underlying operating income margin 4.2% 4.4% 3.9% 3.8% 3.8% Net financial expense (528) (487) (297) (541) (265) Income from continuing operations 1,767 1,797 1,817 830 849 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (1) (17) — – 2 Net income 1,766 1,780 1,817 830 851 Earnings and dividend per share Net income per common share (basic) 1.60 1.51 1.45 0.81 1.04 Net income per common share (diluted) 1.59 1.49 1.43 0.81 1.02 Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) 1.60 1.53 1.45 0.81 1.04 Income from continuing operations per common share (diluted) 1.59 1.51 1.43 0.81 1.02 Dividend per common share 0.76 0.70 0.63 0.57 0.52 Cash flows Free cash flow 1,843 2,165 1,926 1,441 1,184 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 535 (1,587) 827 2,114 73 Capital expenditures (including acquisitions)4 3,604 2,838 1,822 16,775 1,172 Capital expenditures as % of net sales 5.4% 4.5% 2.9% 33.8% 3.1% Regular capital expenditures 3,512 2,772 1,723 1,377 811 Regular capital expenditures as % of net sales 5.3% 4.4% 2.7% 2.8% 2.1% Average exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8934 0.8476 0.8868 0.9038 0.9001 1 2018 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Financial information prior to 2018 has not been restated for the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. 2 Included former Delhaize business as of July 24, 2016. 3 Net sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53 in 2015. 4 The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment; right-of-use assets; investment property; and intangible assets. The amounts exclude discontinued operations. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 67 Five-year overview Balance sheet and other information December 29, December 30, December 31, January 1, January 3, € million, except for number of stores and otherwise indicated 2019 2018 restated1 20171 20171 20161,3 Group equity2 14,083 14,205 15,170 16,276 5,621 Gross debt 15,445 14,485 7,250 7,561 3,502 Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term deposits and similar instruments and investments in debt instruments – current portion 3,863 3,507 4,747 4,317 2,354 Net debt 11,581 10,978 2,503 3,244 1,148 Total assets 41,490 39,830 33,871 36,275 15,880 Number of stores 6,967 6,769 6,637 6,556 3,253 Number of employees (in thousand FTEs) 232 225 224 225 129 Number of employees (in thousands headcount) 380 372 369 370 236 Common shares outstanding (in millions)2 1,088 1,130 1,228 1,272 818 Share price at Euronext (€) 22.75 22.07 18.34 20.03 19.48 Market capitalization2 24,751 24,938 22,508 25,484 15,944 Year-end exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8947 0.8738 0.8330 0.9506 0.9208 1 Financial information prior to 2018 has not been restated for the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Financial information prior to 2018 has not been restated for the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. 2 In 2019, €1,002 million was returned to shareholders through a share buyback (2018: 1,997 million, 2017: €998 million, 2016: nil and 2015: €161 million). In 2016, €1,001 million were returned to shareholders through a capital repayment. 3 Excluded former Delhaize business, only incorporated as of July 24, 2016. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 68 Definitions: Performance measures Financial performance measures Free cash flow Following the adoption of IFRS 16, Ahold Delhaize defines free cash flow as operating cash flows from The financial information included in this Annual Report is prepared in accordance with International continuing operations minus net capital expenditures, net repayment of lease liabilities and receivables Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as explained in Note 2 and (both interest and principal portions) and net interest paid plus dividends received. Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise indicated. Previously, Ahold Delhaize did not include the repayment of finance lease liabilities under IAS 17 in free This Annual Report also includes alternative performance measures (also known as non-GAAP cash flow. In addition, Ahold Delhaize did not previously have lease receivables and all rent income was measures). The definitions of these financial and non-financial alternative performance measures included in operating cash flows from continuing operations. However, after the adoption of IFRS 16, can be found below. some lessor contracts were classified as finance leases resulting in the recognition of lease receivables. Rent payments received on such lease receivables continue to be included in free cash flow. Financial alternative performance measures Management believes that financial alternative performance (non-GAAP) measures allow for a better Ahold Delhaize has included free cash flow as the Company believes it is a useful measure for understanding of Ahold Delhaize’s operating and financial performance. These alternative performance investors, because it provides insight into the cash flows available to, among other things, reduce measures should be considered in addition to, but not as substitutes for, the most directly comparable debt and pay dividends. Free cash flow is derived from the financial statements; however, this is not IFRS measures. a measure calculated in accordance with IFRS and may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Accordingly, free cash flow should not be considered as an alternative Comparable sales to operating cash flow. Comparable sales are net sales, in local currency, from exactly the same stores – including stores that are replaced within the same market area – and online sales in existing market areas for the most recent Global Support Office costs comparable period. Ahold Delhaize measures a store for comparable sales after it is open for a full 56 Global Support Office (GSO) costs relate to the responsibilities of the Global Support Office, including weeks. Comparable stores are locations that were open for both the full time period being reported on Finance, Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, Internal Audit, Legal, Compliance, Human Resources, and the full comparable time period in the preceding year. Information Technology, Insurance, Tax, Treasury, Communications, Investor Relations, Sustainable Retailing and the majority of the Executive Committee. Global Support Office costs also include results For markets that sell gasoline, Ahold Delhaize also calculates the comparable sales excluding gasoline from other activities coordinated centrally but not allocated to any subsidiary. Underlying Global Support sales, to eliminate gasoline price volatility in the comparison. Office costs exclude impairments of non-current assets, gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets, Comparable sales and comparable sales excluding gasoline sales are not reflected in Ahold Delhaize’s and restructuring and related charges and other items, including business acquisition transaction costs. financial statements. However, the Company believes that disclosing comparable sales and Net consumer online sales comparable sales excluding gasoline sales provides additional useful analytical information to investors Net consumer online sales is defined as online sales including sales of third parties via bol.com’s Plaza. regarding the operating performance of Ahold Delhaize as it neutralizes the impact of, for example, Net consumer online sales excludes Value Added Tax (VAT). Ahold Delhaize’s management believes newly acquired stores, in the calculation of sales growth. that this measure provides more insight into the growth of our online businesses. Online sales is net Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA sales generated through electronic ordering by the final customer at the fair value of the consideration Ahold Delhaize defines EBITDA as operating income / (loss) plus depreciation and amortization. received or receivable. EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure for investors to analyze profitability by eliminating the Net debt effects of financing (i.e., net financial expense), capital investments and the impact of the purchase Net debt is the difference between (i) the sum of loans, lease liabilities, cumulative preferred financing price allocation (i.e., depreciation and amortization). shares and short-term debt (i.e., gross debt) and (ii) cash, cash equivalents, current portion of investment in debt instruments, and short-term deposits and similar instruments. In management’s view, because cash, cash equivalents, current portion of investments in debt instruments, and short-term deposits and similar instruments can be used, among other things, to repay indebtedness, netting this against gross debt is a useful measure for investors to judge Ahold Delhaize’s leverage. Net debt may include certain cash items that are not readily available for repaying debt. The definition remains unchanged following the adoption of IFRS 16. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 69 Definitions: Performance measures Net sales at constant exchange rates Underlying income from continuing operations Net sales at constant exchange rates excludes the impact of using different currency exchange rates Ahold Delhaize defines underlying income from continuing operations as income from continuing to translate the financial information of Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries or joint ventures to euros. Ahold operations adjusted for impairments of non-current assets, gains and losses on the sale of assets, gains Delhaize’s management believes this measure provides a better insight into the operating performance and losses on leases and subleases, restructuring and related charges, and other items considered not of Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures. to be directly related to the underlying operating performance, as well as material non-recurring finance costs and income tax expense, and the potential effect of income tax on all these items. Net sales in local currency In certain instances, net sales are presented in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management Prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, gains and losses on lease and sublease were not adjusted for to believes this measure provides a better insight into the operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s determine underlying operating income but the amounts were not significant. foreign subsidiaries. Underlying income per share from continuing operations Operating income in local currency Underlying income per share from continuing operations is calculated as underlying income from In certain instances, operating income is presented in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management continuing operations, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding, also referred believes this measure provides better insight into the operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s to as “underlying earnings per share” or “underlying EPS.” foreign subsidiaries. Underlying earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Regular capex expenditure or underlying EBITDA and margin The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment; right-of-use assets; investment Ahold Delhaize defines underlying EBITDA as underlying operating income plus depreciation and property; and intangible assets. The amounts exclude discontinued operations. amortization. Underlying EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure for investors to analyze profitability by eliminating the effects of financing (i.e., net financial expense), capital investments and Return on capital the impact of the purchase price allocation (i.e., depreciation and amortization). Underlying EBITDA Return on capital (RoC) is calculated as underlying operating income before depreciation, amortization margin is calculated as underlying EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. divided by the annual rolling average of the sum of company-owned property, plant and equipment at purchase price, intangible assets (excluding goodwill) at purchase price, operating working capital Non-financial performance measures components and repayment of lease liabilities, divided by 8%. The specific definitions outlined below add context to our non-financial performance measures, as well Underlying operating income and margin as detail to some of the specific calculations. Underlying operating income is defined as total operating income, adjusted for impairments of non-current assets, gains and losses on the sale of assets, gains and losses on leases and subleases, Acceptable standards and certifications for commodities restructuring and related charges, and other items considered not to be directly related to the Ahold Delhaize defines acceptable standards as multi-stakeholder initiatives or standards supported by underlying operating performance. multiple stakeholders. They include third-party verification and focus on mitigating the main environmental and / or social issues associated with a commodity’s production. Acceptable standards are globally Prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, gains and losses on lease and sublease were not adjusted for to consistent and focus on continuously improving production and supply chain practices. Acceptable determine underlying operating income but the amounts were not significant. standards for tea, coffee and cocoa include UTZ Certification, Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade USA / Ahold Delhaize’s management believes this measure provides better insight into the underlying Fairtrade International or equivalent standards. Acceptable standards for palm oil include Roundtable operating performance of the Company’s operations. Underlying operating income margin is on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Principles & Criteria, Rainforest Alliance SAN Standard or equivalent calculated as underlying operating income as a percentage of net sales. standards. Acceptable standards for wood fiber are the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody, Program for Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Grade A standards, Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) or equivalent standards. Acceptable standards for soy are Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS) standard for Responsible Soy Production, ProTerra, or equivalent standards. We purchase area-based RTRS credits from the Cerrado Region. Acceptable standards for seafood products include certification against a program that is recognized by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) or Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) farm standards. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 70 Definitions: Performance measures Palm oil RSPO-certified Biodiversity The Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) initiated a certification program to promote the use of The variety of species present on earth, or in a specific habitat or ecosystem. sustainable palm oil, with different supply chain options: RSPO Segregated, RSPO Mass Balance and Carbon footprint methodology and data scope RSPO Book & Claim. RSPO Segregated certifies that palm oil only comes from RSPO-certified palm The carbon footprint methodology follows the guidelines of the World Business Council for Sustainable plantations. RSPO Mass Balance certifies that palm oil comes from a mix of RSPO-certified and Development (WBCSD) / World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol regarding RSPO-uncertified palm plantations. RSPO Book & Claim enables companies to buy credits from corporate greenhouse gas accounting and reporting. Our Ahold Delhaize carbon footprint reporting RSPO-certified growers, crushers and independent smallholders. To comply with RSPO Certification takes into account Scope 1, Scope 2 and limited Scope 3 emissions. requirements, any supplier that uses palm-based ingredients must be RSPO Chain of CustodyCertified, and purchase RSPO-Certified (Mass Balance or Segregated) palm oil. Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions): emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Ahold Delhaize. Scope 1 emissions include emissions from refrigerant leakages, owned trucking and amfori BSCI on-site fuel usage (natural gas, propane, light fuel). amfori BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative): a non-profit organization that supports more than 1,000 international companies in the process of monitoring and improving working conditions in the Scope 2 (indirect GHG emissions): emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat global supply chain through its own auditing program. We consider the following standards to be “BSCI or steam consumed by the Company. They are not “direct” emissions in that they arise from Equivalent”: Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) / SMETA; Fair for Life / For Life; Fair Labor Association (FLA)†; third-party installations but are attributed to the Company’s operations as the end user of the Fair Trade USA††; Fairtrade Hired Labor; Fairtrade Textile; Florverde††; Initiative Clause Sociale (ICS); electricity, heat or steam. Kenya Flower Council (KFC); MPS – Socially Qualified (SQ); Proterra; Rainforest Alliance (RA) / Limited Scope 3 (other indirect emissions): emissions from franchise stores (including estimates) and Sustainable Agriculture Network (SAN); Sustainable Agriculture in South Africa (SIZA); Sustainably affiliated stores and trucking emissions from subcontracted trucks that deliver Ahold Delhaize products Grown; Social Accountability (SA) 8000; UTZ Certified††; Wine and Agricultural Ethical Trade from operated distribution centers to stores. Association (WIETA). † Only audit reports conducted by external, independent auditors are considered equivalent. The Group’s total CO2 -equivalent emissions and energy figures include all energy and related †† Only applicable if the production unit is a farm. emissions data as defined by the scopes above, including data from facilities that closed or opened during 2019. Associate engagement survey Associate engagement is measured through an annual survey of all associates employed by Ahold We use the latest available emission factors in our reporting. We source electricity emission factors from Delhaize and its brands. A number of items in the survey are used to derive and calculate an associate the International Energy Agency (IEA, 2018 edition; 2016 data) for European countries and from GHG engagement score. Protocol 2014 (based on eGrid 2016 values, issued in February 2018 by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency – EPA) for the United States. We source fuel emission factors from GHG Protocol • Healthy workplace: Associates are asked about the support they receive to have healthier lives. 2014 wherever available, and otherwise from other appropriate sources. For refrigerant leakages, we • Inclusive workplace: Associates are asked about the support they receive to have a more apply the Global Warming Potentials (GWP) for refrigerant blends used in Ahold Delhaize facilities inclusive workplace. based on Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change Assessment Report data IPCC, AR5 (2014). • Associate development: Associates are asked about the support they receive to develop their We do not extend our reporting to include all Scope 3 emissions, but we work with our peer companies careers with Ahold Delhaize. and suppliers to better understand the climate change impact we have throughout our entire value chain. Scope 3 defined by the GHG Protocol accounts for all the remaining emissions that result from Associate engagement benchmarks our activities, ranging from products transportation to affiliated stores to emissions from our supply Global retail benchmark: This is a reflection of companies in the retail sector that have a brick-and-mortar chain, including emissions from growing and packaging the food we sell. and online presence globally. Ahold Delhaize defines this more broadly than just grocery retailers and the countries we have a presence in because we compete for talent with all retailers globally and we want to understand our strengths and opportunities against the global talent competition. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 71 Definitions: Performance measures CO2 emissions / CO2 equivalent (CO2e) Free from products The CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions data we report consists of a calculated CO2 equivalent: actual “Free from” products exclude certain ingredients, such as allergens, synthetic colors or artificial flavors. CO2 emitted plus equivalent emissions from other greenhouse gases (such as CH4, N2O and F-gases). The excluded ingredients are normally referenced on the packaging or product marketing materials. Location-based approach Front-of-pack nutritional labeling The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines the location-based approach as “a method that reflects Nutritional labeling (showing the amount of certain nutrients) that is on the front of a product package. the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs (using mostly gridAt a minimum, it comprises the calories per serving. average emission factor data).” GFSI Market-based approach Global Food Safety Initiative: a Consumer Goods Forum activity that enables continuous improvement The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines the market-based approach as “a method that reflects of food safety management across the supply chain, through benchmarking, collaboration and emissions from electricity that companies have purposefully chosen (or their lack of choice). It derives harmonization of food safety certification programs. emission factors from contractual instruments, which include any type of contract between two parties Greenhouse gases for the sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy generation, or for Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane that contribute to climate change. unbundled attribute claims. Markets differ as to what contractual instruments are commonly available or used by companies to purchase energy or claim specific attributes about it, but they can include Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) energy attribute certificates (RECs, GOs, etc.), direct contracts (for both low-carbon, renewable, or An independent international not-for-profit organization that developed the GRI Sustainability Reporting fossil fuel generation), supplier-specific emission rates, and other default emission factors representing Standards and works to support their implementation. the untracked or unclaimed energy and emissions (termed the ‘residual mix’) if a company does not Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) have other contractual information that meets the Scope 2 Quality Criteria.” A global platform and partnership of seafood companies, NGOs, experts and governmental and Deforestation intergovernmental organizations working towards more sustainable seafood. GSSI’s Global Benchmark The removal of a forest or stand of trees from land which is then converted to a non-forest use. Tool includes GSSI Essential Components that are based on the Code of Conduct for Responsible Deforestation can involve conversion of forest land to farms, ranches, or urban use. The most Fisheries (CCRF) and the FAO Guidelines and seafood certification schemes must meet to be concentrated deforestation occurs in tropical rainforests. recognized by GSSI. Food waste Global Warming Potential (GWP) As defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), food waste is any Defined by the GHG Protocol as “a factor describing the radiative forcing impact (degree of harm to the removal of food from the food supply chain that is or was at some point fit for human consumption, but atmosphere) of one unit of a given GHG relative to one unit of CO2.” By using GWP, GHG emissions can has been disposed of, or has spoiled or expired, mainly as a result of economic behavior, poor stock be standardized to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) that allows expressing the emissions of different management or neglect. In our calculations, in contrast to shrink, food waste excludes donations from greenhouse gases using carbon dioxide as a reference. For example, for a 100-year time horizon, the hunger relief organizations, theft, and cash shortages. We measure food waste using the Food Loss impact of one unit of methane is 25 times greater than one unit of CO2 (according to IPCC’s 4th and Waste Protocol. assessment report). Hence, methane’s global warming potential (GWP) is 25. Hence, methane’s global warming potential (GWP) is 25. Food Loss and Waste Protocol A multi-stakeholder effort to develop the global accounting and reporting standard (known as Average GWP the FLW Standard) for quantifying food and associated inedible parts removed from the food The GWP of all refrigerants we use in our systems (including stores and distribution centers) weighted supply chain (referred to for simplicity’s sake as “food loss and waste”). For more information, in relation to their total charge. see www.flwprotocol.org. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 72 Definitions: Performance measures Healthy products Pick-up point Products that meet nutritional criteria as determined by Guiding Stars (in the U.S.) and Choices nutrition A pick-up point (PUP) is a location that serves as a point where customers can pick up groceries they criteria (in Europe). See guidingstars.com or www.choicesprogramme.org. have ordered online. PUPs with pick-from-store capability are also referred to as click-and-collect points. Last-stage of production unit Private label products The entity that performs the last stage of production or processing in the supply chain where food and Private label products are a sub-set of Ahold Delhaize own brands, consisting of products with a visible non-food safety and / or working conditions are impacted. The last stage of production (LSOP) is: proprietary label from an Ahold Delhaize brand. • For food safety: the location where the final consumer product (including packing) is handled. Rate of lost days due to accidents • For non-food safety: the location where the final consumer product (excluding packing) is assembled. Number of days lost that are directly related to work-related accidents per 200,000 hours worked. The number of days lost are days scheduled to be worked according to each associate’s schedule. • For social compliance: the location where labor is involved in producing or processing the final An accident is a non-fatal or fatal injury arising in the course of work. product – (re-)packing in a non-high-risk country is excluded. Sales area National brands The sum of the store areas (in square meters) where products are sold and services provided, Products that are distributed nationally under a brand name owned by the producer or distributor. taken at the end of the year. Occupational illness frequency rate Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Work-related illnesses or diseases occurring in the course or scope of employment. Occupational The United Nations SDGs are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure illnesses or diseases are only measured if a patient requires a medical professional to administer that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The 17 goals replace the Millennium Development Goals direct care or evaluate the illness or disease. In the U.S., information from our local claims management and are set on a 2016-2030 time frame. or insurance providers is used to monitor performance in this area. Since local claims management or insurance providers need to comply with local legislation, the acceptance of illnesses or diseases United Nations Global Compact as work-related can deviate across brands. Occupational illnesses are calculated per one million An initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally hours worked. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environmental and anti-corruption. Own brands Waste Own-brand products, at Ahold Delhaize company-operated and affiliated stores, include: private “Total Waste Generated” includes all waste, regardless of the waste management (recycling, labels, fancy brands (proprietary private labels that are a fantasy name owned by Ahold Delhaize), incineration or landfill). It is broken down by percentage sent to landfill, recycled and sent to incinerators exclusive brands (brands that are not international, national or regional brands), store-prepared that produce energy. Waste data covers all types of facilities (stores, distribution centers, and offices). products (in-store food preparation, even if derived from branded stock), non-branded products Information about all waste disposal methods has been determined through information provided by the (such as bulk fruit and vegetables or no name non-food products) and promotional items relating to waste disposal contractors. the former. In short, every product that is not an international, national or regional brand is considered Waste recycling to be an own-brand product. All methods that do not include sending waste to landfill or incineration. For food waste, this includes Ozone-friendly refrigerant four methods: recycling through animal feed, recycling through biogas generation for energy, A refrigerant that has no ozone depletion potential (ODP=0), meaning there is no degradation to the composting and rendering. For other waste streams, such as cardboard, paper, plastic and other ozone layer. The data are based on the 2015 Report from United Nations Environment Programme waste, recycling refers to applied methods for each specific waste type. (UNEP), “TOC Refrigeration, A/C and Heat Pumps Assessment Report 2015.” Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 73 Governance Governance 74 Our Management Board and Executive Committee 76 Our Supervisory Board 78 Corporate governance 84 Letter from the Supervisory Board Chairman 85 Supervisory Board report 91 How we manage risk 105 Declarations Remuneration 106 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman 107 Remuneration policy 110 2019 Remuneration Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 74 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board Executive Committee diversity Gender1 Male 87% Female 13% Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt Wouter Kolk President and Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer; Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Officer; Chairman and member Member Management Board Ahold Delhaize USA; Europe and Indonesia; 1 With the arrival of Natalie Knight, gender diversity of the Management Board and and Executive Committee Member Management Board Member Management Board will shift to 25% female and 75% male. Executive Committee Jeff Carr has served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Committee and Executive Committee Frans Muller started as President and Chief of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Jeff Kevin Holt has served as Chief Executive Wouter Kolk started as Chief Executive Executive Officer of Ahold Delhaize on July 1, joined Ahold on November 14, 2011, as acting Officer Ahold Delhaize USA since January 1, Officer Europe and Indonesia on October 1, 2018. Before that, he served as Deputy Chief member of the Management Board and CFO. 2018. Prior to that, Kevin had been Chief 2018. He had been Chief Operating Officer Executive Officer and Chief Integration Officer Ahold’s shareholders appointed him to the Operating Officer Ahold USA since October the Netherlands and Belgium and member since 2016. He was also Acting Chief Management Board on April 17, 2012. Ahold 2016, after serving as COO Delhaize of the Executive Committee of Ahold Operating Officer for Delhaize America from Delhaize announced in September 2019 that America since July 24, 2016. He had earlier Delhaize since September 8, 2017. October 2016 until January 2018. Prior to Jeff will not stand for another term as member served as Executive Vice President of Wouter re-joined Ahold in 2013 as EVP Ahold Delhaize, Frans served for three years of the Management Board when his current Delhaize Group and CEO of Delhaize Specialty Stores and New Markets at Albert as President and CEO of Delhaize Group. term expires at the time of the annual General America, starting in 2014. Heijn following a six-year period as CEO of Before joining Delhaize Group, Frans worked Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. Before joining Delhaize Group, Kevin was international retailer WE Fashion. He became for German retailer Metro AG for more than 15 Jeff began his career at Unilever, and held president of retail operations for SuperValu. Chief Executive Officer Albert Heijn in years, serving in various leadership positions senior roles in finance at Grand Metropolitan During his tenure there, the company owned January 2015. He first started at Ahold in at Metro AG, including managing director of plc, Reckitt Benckiser and Associated British the Albertsons, Jewel-Osco and Save-A-Lot 1991, and over the next 16 years served in Makro, member of the board of Metro Cash & Foods. From 2005 to 2009, he was group chains and was the third largest food several international commercial and general Carry International, president for Asia Pacific finance director and a member of the board retailing company in the United States. management roles, including Commercial and Russia / Ukraine, and CEO of Metro at easyJet plc. Jeff was then appointed to the Director Asia-Pacific based in Singapore, Group Buying. From 2006 until 2013, he was a Prior to SuperValu, Kevin worked for three role of group finance director and a member Regional Director Albert Heijn, General member of the Metro AG Management Board years with Sears Holding Company and of the board at FirstGroup plc, a leading Manager Gall & Gall and General Manager and served as CEO of Metro Cash & Carry 14 years with Meijer, serving in various transport operator in the UK and the of Etos. from 2008 until 2013. From 1988 to 1997, leadership positions, including executive United States. Frans held various management and vice president of retail operations and senior Wouter is a member of the supervisory Jeff serves as non-executive director of vice president of information technology / boards of the Hortus Botanicus Amsterdam executive positions at KLM Cargo in Kingfisher plc, Europe’s leading home services and strategic planning. and concert hall Paradiso. Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Vienna and Singapore. improvement retailer. Frans is president of the European Retail Before joining the retail industry, Kevin spent Age: 53 Jeff has lived and worked in Europe and nine years at NCR delivering technology Nationality: Dutch Round Table and serves as chairman of the the United States. solutions to large and complex organizations. board of directors of the Vlerick Business School and a board member of the Age: 58 Age: 61 Consumer Goods Forum. Nationality: British Nationality: American Age: 58 Nationality: Dutch Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 75 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Executive Committee Executive Committee diversity Nationality1 Dutch 38% British Abbe Luersman Jan Ernst de Groot Ben Wishart Farhan Siddiqi 24% Chief Human Resources Officer; Chief Legal Officer; Global Chief Information Officer; Chief Digital Officer; Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee American Abbe Luersman has served as Chief Jan Ernst de Groot has served as Chief Legal Ben Wishart became a member of Ahold Farhan Siddiqi joined Ahold Delhaize 38% Human Resources Officer and member of Officer and member of Ahold Delhaize’s Delhaize’s Executive Committee on January as Chief Digital Officer and member of 1 With the arrival of Natalie Knight, nationality Ahold Delhaize’s Executive Committee since Executive Committee since July 24, 2016. 1, 2018. Ben joined Ahold in 2013 in the role the Executive Committee on January 28, diversity will shift to 50% American, 37.5% Dutch July 24, 2016. She is responsible for Global Prior to that, he was Chief Legal Officer and of Global Chief Information Officer and has 2019. He is responsible for driving digital and 12.5% British. Human Resources, including Talent and member of Ahold’s Executive Committee continued in this role for Ahold Delhaize. transformation and innovation across Diversity; Leadership and Development; since February 1, 2015. Jan Ernst is He is responsible for leadership and Ahold Delhaize’s local brands, focusing on Organizational Effectiveness and Design; responsible for Ahold Delhaize’s legal affairs, governance on technology matters globally, loyalty, data analytics and personalization. and Total Rewards. Prior to this, Abbe had governance and compliance functions, including strategy and solution delivery, Before joining Ahold Delhaize, Farhan served as Ahold’s Chief Human Resources safety, public affairs, and product integrity. enabling digital platforms, cyber defense served as chief digital officer at McDonald’s, Officer and member of the Executive Before joining Ahold, Jan Ernst was general and sourcing. and led the restaurant chain’s digital Committee from November 1, 2013. counsel and managing director at TNT He previously served as CIO of Morrisons transformation, including the launch of Before that, Abbe worked for Unilever, Express. Prior to that, he worked for KLM plc and Whitbread plc and held various mobile commerce in 20,000 restaurants, where she held various HR leadership roles, Royal Dutch Airlines in a wide range of senior Information Technology roles at a new mobile app and an upgrade of its most recently as head of human resources business and corporate roles, most recently Tesco plc following early career roles in self-service ordering kiosks. He was also for Unilever Europe. Prior to Unilever, Abbe as managing director and a member of the consulting with Cap Gemini and sales and responsible for data analytics and extending worked at Whirlpool Corporation, holding board of management. Jan Ernst started marketing with American Express. the chain’s Customer Relationship a number of senior roles in human resources, his career at law firm De Brauw Blackstone Ben is an independent non-executive director Management capabilities. both in the United States and internationally. Westbroek. at PayPoint. He serves as a member of the Prior to this, Farhan held various key Abbe is a member of the boards of directors Jan Ernst is chairman of the supervisory nomination and remuneration committees leadership positions within Bank of of the Network of Executive Women and council of Hivos, a supervisory board together with the audit committee and its America, Target and General Electric, the Netherlands American Chamber of member of ADG Dienstengroep and sub-committee, the cyber and IT committee. where he focused on implementing Commerce and a member of the Gartner a board member of the Hermitage Age: 57 successful customer loyalty programs CHRO Global Leadership Board. Museum Amsterdam. Nationality: British and digital payment solutions and Age: 52 Age: 56 launching strategic partnerships. Nationality: American Nationality: Dutch Farhan serves on the board of directors of Alliant Credit Union. Age: 51 Nationality: American Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 76 Our Supervisory Board Jan Hommen Bill McEwan Jacques de Vaucleroy René Hooft Graafland Mary Anne Citrino Chairman and Chairman of the Vice Chairman and Chairman of Vice Chairman Chairman of the Audit, Finance Governance and Nomination the Remuneration Committee Jacques de Vaucleroy has served on Ahold and Risk Committee Mary Anne Citrino has served on Ahold Committee Bill McEwan has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, René Hooft Graafland has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance Jan Hommen has served on Ahold is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Risk Committee and the Sustainability 2016, and is Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee and the Sustainability Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, and a member of the Sustainability and and Innovation Committee. Prior this, he and Risk Committee and a member of the and Innovation Committee. Prior to this, she 2016, and as its Chairman since April 11, Innovation Committee. Prior to this, he served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors Sustainability and Innovation Committee. was appointed to the Ahold Supervisory 2018. Jan is also Chairman of the served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2005 and was Chairman of its Prior to this, he was appointed to the Ahold Board on March 14, 2016. Governance and Nomination Committee as of 2011 and was Chairman of its Governance and Nomination Committee. Supervisory Board on April 16, 2014, with Mary Anne is a senior advisor to Blackstone. and a member of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee. In addition, he served Remuneration Committee. Jacques has spent most of his career within effect from January 1, 2015. She joined the Blackstone Advisory Partners as Chairman of Ahold’s Supervisory Board Bill is the former president and CEO of the ING group, where he was a member of René previously held the position of CFO and Group as senior managing director in 2004. from 2013 until 2016. Jan was Vice Chairman Sobeys Inc., and was a member of the the executive board and CEO of ING member of the executive board of Heineken Mary Anne was employed at Morgan Stanley of Ahold’s Supervisory Board and Chairman board of directors of its parent company, Insurance and Investment Management N.V. until April 2015. Before being appointed for over 20 years, during which she served of its Audit Committee from 2003 to 2007. Empire Company Limited. Europe. Jacques was a member of AXA as a member of Heineken’s executive board as the global head of consumer products Group’s management committee and CEO of in 2002, he held various international investment banking, co-head of healthcare Jan is the former CEO of ING Group N.V., Between 1989 and 2000, Bill held a variety the company’s Northern, Central and Eastern management positions with the company services investment banking, and as a CEO of KPMG the Netherlands, CFO and of progressively senior marketing and Europe business unit from 2010 until 2016. in Europe, Asia and Africa. mergers and acquisitions analyst. vice chairman of the board of management merchandising roles with Coca-Cola Limited He also assumed global responsibility for the of Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. and and Coca-Cola Bottling as well as with The René is vice-chairman of the supervisory Currently, Mary Anne is a member of the AXA Group’s life and savings and health CFO of Aluminum Company of America Inc. Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company board and chairman of the audit committee board of directors of Aluminum Company businesses from 2011 until 2016. Currently, Jan is chairman of the supervisory (A&P), both in Canada and in the United of Wolters Kluwer N.V. (retirement on April 23, of America Inc. and is a member of its States. Bill served as president of A&P’s Currently, Jacques is a member of the boards 2020), a member of the supervisory board governance and nominating committee and board of Koninklijke VolkerWessels N.V., Canadian operations before his appointment of directors of Swiss Re Ltd, Swiss Re Europe, and audit committee of Koninklijke public issues committee. She is chair of the chairman (senior advisor) of BlackRock as president and CEO of the company’s U.S. Fidelity International Ltd, Eight Roads FrieslandCampina N.V. and member of the audit committee and member of the finance, Netherlands and member of the Stichting Atlantic Region. Holdings Ltd, Zabka Polska and Colt supervisory board of Lucas Bols N.V. He is investment and technology committee of Continuiteit of ProQR. Technology Services Group plc. He is also chairman of the boards of the Royal Theatre Hewlett Packard, Inc. Mary Anne also serves Age: 76 Age: 63 a member of the advisory boards of Artexis Carré Fund, the Stichting African Parks as non-executive director and member of the Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Canadian Easyfairs and CVC Belgium. Foundation and Nationaal Fonds 4 en 5 Mei. board risk committee of Barclays plc. Age: 59 René is also a member of the Monitoring Age: 60 Nationality: Belgian Commissie Corporate Governance Code. Nationality: American Age: 64 Nationality: Dutch Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 77 Our Supervisory Board Supervisory Board diversity Gender Male 67% Ben Noteboom Dominique Leroy Katie Doyle Peter Agnefjäll Female Co-chair of the Sustainability Co-chair of the Sustainability 33% Ben Noteboom has served on Ahold Dominique Leroy has served on Ahold and Innovation Committee and Innovation Committee Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Katie Doyle was appointed to Ahold Peter Agnefjäll was appointed to Ahold 2016, and is a member of the Remuneration 2016, and is member of the Governance and Delhaize’s Supervisory Board on April 10, Delhaize’s Supervisory Board on April 10, Committee and the Sustainability and Nomination Committee and the Sustainability 2019, and is Co-chair of the Sustainability 2019, and is Co-chair of the Sustainability Innovation Committee. Prior to this, he was and Innovation Committee. Prior to this, she and Innovation Committee and a member and Innovation Committee and a member Supervisory Board diversity first appointed to the Ahold Supervisory served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors of the Governance & Nomination Committee. of the Remuneration Committee. Nationality Board on April 28, 2009. starting in 2015. Katie was most recently the CEO of Swanson Peter serves on the board of directors of Ben is former CEO and chairman of the Dominique previously held the position of Health Products, a direct-to-consumer health Orkla ASA, a leading supplier of branded American executive board of Randstad Holding N.V., CEO and member of the board of directors and wellness brand providing a full range of consumer goods to the grocery, out-of-home, Canadian 22% to which he was appointed in 2001. He had of Proximus (formerly Belgacom) until products to help consumers around the specialized retail, pharmacy and bakery 11% first joined Randstad in 1993 and held September 2019. Before being appointed world to live healthier, as well as a member sectors. In addition to this, he serves on the various senior management positions as a member of the board of directors of of the board of directors of Bemis Company, board of directors of Wizz Air and on the during his time with the company. Proximus, she held various management where she served on the audit, advisory board of Deichmann, a familySwedish Dutch Ben is chairman of the supervisory board positions with the company. compensation and nominating committees. owned European shoe retailer. 11% 34% of Koninklijke Vopak N.V., chairman of its Prior to this, Dominique worked at Unilever Prior to these roles, Katie was a senior vice Peter served as president and CEO of the selection and appointment committee and for 24 years. She was managing director president leading Abbott’s Nutrition division IKEA Group from 2013 to 2017. He started a member of its remuneration committee. at Unilever Belgium / Luxemburg and a for the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Before his career there as a trainee in 1995 and over He is also a member of the supervisory member of the Unilever Benelux that, she was senior principal at McKinsey & the years, held several (senior management) Belgian board of Aegon N.V., chairman of its management committee. Company, serving and leading consumer positions within the IKEA Group. 22% remuneration committee and a member of Dominique is an independent board member good and retail clients globally. Age: 48 its risk committee. In addition, he serves for the French construction materials group Katie also serves as a member of the board Nationality: Swedish as a member of the board of the Cancer Compagnie de Saint Gobain. She is an of trustees of the Museum of Science and Center Amsterdam. external independent advisor at Bain & Industry in Chicago, where she serves on the Age: 61 Company. She was chairwoman of the finance and audit committees. Finally, she is Nationality: Dutch international advisory boards of the Solvay a member of The Chicago Network, an Brussels School of Economics and invitation-only organization of leading C-level Management and the Proximus affiliates female executives. BICS and BE Mobile until September 2019. Age: 52 Age: 55 Nationality: American Nationality: Belgian Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 78 Corporate governance We have designed our corporate governance structure to best support our business, meet the needs Governance structure of our stakeholders and comply with laws and regulations. This section contains an overview of our corporate governance structure and includes information General Meeting of Shareholders Audit, Finance and Risk Committee required under the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code, effective January 1, 2017 (“Dutch Corporate Governance Code”). Remuneration Committee Supervisory Board Governance structure Governance and Nomination Committee Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“the Company” or “Ahold Delhaize”) is a public company under Dutch law, structured to execute our strategy and to balance local, regional and global decision-making. Management Board Sustainability and Innovation Committee In 2019, our Company comprised a Global Support Office and four reportable segments: The United States, The Netherlands, Belgium, and Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) – each of which are Executive Committee made up of a number of local brands. See also Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. Starting in 2020, the segments The Netherlands, Belgium and Central and Southeastern Europe will be combined into one reporting segment, Europe, to align with the structure of the European organization The United under Wouter Kolk’s leadership. Europe States Ahold Delhaize has a two-tier board structure with a Supervisory Board and Management Board that are accountable to our shareholders. Our Management Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall management of Ahold Delhaize. The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Central and The Management Board. Belgium Southeastern Netherlands Europe The Executive Committee comprises our Management Board and other key officers of the Company, led by the Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee has been established to involve a broader leadership team in the decision-making process, to optimize strategic alignment and operational The Management Board and Executive Committee together support our business, meet the needs execution while having the flexibility to adapt to developments in the business and across the Company of our stakeholders and ensure we comply with relevant rules and regulations. The members of the and the industry. Executive Committee are sometimes invited to the meetings of the Supervisory Board by invitation of The diagram to the right shows Ahold Delhaize’s governance structure. A list of subsidiaries, joint the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and attend the Supervisory Board committee meetings relevant ventures and associates is included in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. to their respective functional responsibilities. Management Board and Executive Committee According to our Articles of Association, the Management Board must consist of at least three members. Our Management Board has the responsibility for the overall management of the Company and Composition of the Management Board and Executive Committee oversees corporate governance. It is also responsible for the actions and decisions of the Executive The current members of the Management Board are: Frans Muller, President and Chief Executive Committee, which manages our general affairs and ensures effective implementation of the strategy Officer; Jeff Carr, Chief Financial Officer; Kevin Holt, Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA; and and achievement of the Company’s objectives. Wouter Kolk, Chief Executive Officer Europe and Indonesia. The current members of the Executive Committee are the members of the Management Board along with Abbe Luersman, Chief Human Resources Officer; Jan Ernst de Groot, Chief Legal Officer; Ben Wishart, Global Chief Information Officer; and Farhan Siddiqi, Chief Digital Officer. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Management Board and the Executive Committee, see the Rules of Procedure in the Governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 79 Corporate governance At the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019, Frans Muller was reappointed by the Remuneration Company’s shareholders for a term of four years ending on the day of the annual General Meeting of On April 10, 2019, Ahold Delhaize’s General Meeting of Shareholders adopted the current remuneration Shareholders in 2023. On September 9, 2019, it was announced that Jeff Carr informed the Company policy for Management Board members. that he will not stand for another term as member of the Management Board. Natalie Knight will be You can find details of this policy in Remuneration. For detailed information on the individual remuneration nominated by the Supervisory Board to be appointed as a member of the Management Board at the of Management Board members, see Notes 32 and 33 to the consolidated financial statements. annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. Reappointment schedule Management Board At Ahold Delhaize, we believe that having a diverse and fully representative Management Board and Executive Committee contributes to well-balanced decision-making processes and the optimal Year of possible Name Date of first appointment reappointment functioning of both the Management Board and the Executive Committee. In accordance with provision Frans Muller March 14, 20161 2023 2.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, Ahold Delhaize’s diversity policy states that the Jeff Carr April 17, 2012 20202 composition of the Executive Committee and the Management Board and the combined experience and expertise of their members should reflect the profile of the Company as it relates to nationality, age, Kevin Holt March 14, 20161 20203 education, gender and professional background. At the same time, we aim for the best fit, in Wouter Kolk April 11, 2018 2022 combination with the availability of qualified candidates. 1 Effective July 24, 2016. 2 On September 9, 2019, it was announced that Jeff Carr informed the Company that he will not stand for another term as member At this moment, Ahold Delhaize has a Management Board in which all four members are male and an of the Management Board. Executive Committee in which one member is female and seven members are male. The nomination 3 The Supervisory Board will nominate Kevin Holt for reappointment for an additional term of four years at the annual General of Natalie Knight as a new member of the Management Board serves as a next step in our process Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. to continuously improve diversity in the Company. We recognize there is still room for improvement. Evaluation In order to meet our diversity ambitions and comply with statutory guidelines for gender diversity in In 2020, the Management Board and the Executive Committee conducted a self-assessment by the coming years, we continue to work to ensure we build robust development and succession plans; means of a structured dialogue chaired by the CEO. Items that were assessed and discussed generate diverse, balanced slates; and take the necessary actions to retain our current diverse talents included diversity in relation to the composition of the Management Board and the Executive so we can build our talent pipeline and drive greater diversity at all levels in our organization. Committee, meeting processes and procedures, discussions and decision-making, and team Appointment, suspension and dismissal dynamics. Findings and follow-up actions included the conclusion that, overall, the team functions The General Meeting of Shareholders can appoint, suspend or dismiss a Management Board member in an open and constructive way and that there is a need to further improve meeting efficiency and by an absolute majority of votes cast, upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Board. If another party the robustness of the decision-making process. makes the proposal, an absolute majority of votes cast, representing at least one-third of the issued Supervisory Board share capital, is required. If this qualified majority is not achieved, but an absolute majority of the votes The Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising and advising our Management Board and exercised was in favor of the proposal, then a second meeting may be held. In the second meeting, overseeing the general course of affairs, strategy, operational performance and corporate governance only an absolute majority of votes exercised, regardless of the number of shares represented at the of the Company. The Supervisory Board is guided in its duties by the interests of the Company and meeting, is required to adopt the proposal. the enterprise connected with the Company, taking into consideration the overall well-being of the Management Board members are appointed for four-year terms and may be reappointed for additional enterprise and the relevant interests of all its stakeholders. The Supervisory Board is responsible for terms not exceeding four years. The Supervisory Board may at any time suspend a Management Board monitoring and assessing its own performance. member. The other members of the Executive Committee are appointed, suspended and dismissed by the Supervisory Board, at the proposal of the CEO. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 80 Corporate governance Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association require the approval of the Supervisory Board for certain major Shares and shareholders’ rights resolutions by the Management Board, including: General Meeting of Shareholders Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders exercise their rights through annual and extraordinary General Meetings • Issuance of shares of Shareholders. The Company is required to convene an annual General Meeting of Shareholders in • Acquisitions, repurchases of shares, and any reduction in issued and outstanding capital the Netherlands each year, no later than six months after the end of the Company’s financial year. • Allocation of duties within the Management Board and the adoption or amendment of the Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders may be convened at any time by the Supervisory Rules of Procedure of the Management Board and the Executive Committee Board, the Management Board, or by one or more shareholders (and / or holders of depository receipts) • Significant changes in the identity or the nature of the Company or its enterprise representing at least 10% of the issued share capital. Appointment, suspension and dismissal The agenda for the annual General Meeting of Shareholders must contain certain matters as specified The General Meeting of Shareholders can appoint, suspend or dismiss a Supervisory Board member in Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association and under Dutch law, including the adoption of our annual by an absolute majority of votes cast, upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Board. If another party financial statements. The General Meeting of Shareholders is also entitled to vote on important decisions makes the proposal, an absolute majority of votes cast, representing at least one-third of the issued regarding Ahold Delhaize’s identity or character, including major acquisitions and divestments. share capital, is required. If this qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute majority of the votes Shareholders (and / or holders of depository receipts) are entitled to propose items for the agenda exercised was in favor of the proposal, then a second meeting may be held. In the second meeting, of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders provided that they hold at least 1% of the issued only an absolute majority of votes exercised is required, regardless of the number of shares share capital or the shares or depository receipts that they hold represent a market value of at least represented at the meeting. €50 million. Proposals for agenda items for the annual General Meeting of Shareholders must be A Supervisory Board member is appointed for a four-year term and may be reappointed for another submitted at least 60 days prior to the date of the meeting. four-year period. The Supervisory Board member may subsequently be reappointed for a period of Adoption of resolutions two years, which may be extended by, at most, two years. Subject to certain exceptions provided by Dutch law or our Articles of Association, resolutions are Conflict of interest passed by an absolute majority of votes cast without a requirement for a quorum. A member of the Supervisory Board is required to immediately report any potential conflict of interest to Proposals submitted to the agenda by shareholders require an absolute majority of votes cast at the the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the other members of the Supervisory Board and provide annual General Meeting of Shareholders representing at least one-third of the issued shares. If this them with all relevant information. Similarly, in the event of a potential conflict of interest concerning a qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute majority of the votes exercised was in favor of the member of the Management Board, he or she is required to immediately report this to the Chairman of proposal, then a second meeting may be held. In the second meeting, an absolute majority of votes the Supervisory Board and to the other members of the Management Board and provide them with all exercised is required to adopt the proposal, regardless of the number of shares represented at the relevant information. meeting (unless the law or our Articles of Association provide otherwise). Should a conflict of interest arise, the Supervisory Board or the relevant Management Board member A resolution to dissolve the Company may be adopted by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders may not participate in the discussions and decision-making process on subjects or transactions following a proposal of the Management Board made with the approval of the Supervisory Board. relating to the conflict of interest. Any proposed resolution to wind up the Company must be disclosed in the notice calling the annual We will record any such facts or transactions in the annual report for the relevant year, with reference to General Meeting of Shareholders at which that proposal is to be considered. the conflict of interest and a confirmation that we have complied with best practice provisions 2.7.3 and 2.7.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. During 2019, no member of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board had a conflict of interest that was of material significance to the Company. In addition, no transactions between the Company and legal or natural persons who hold at least 10% of the shares in the Company occurred in 2019, corresponding to the best practice provision 2.7.5 of the Code. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Management Board and the Executive Committee, see the Rules of Procedure in the Governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 81 Corporate governance Voting rights Each common share entitles its holder to cast one vote. Dutch law prescribes a record date to be set Name Year of possible reappointment 28 days prior to the date of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders to determine whether a person W.G. van Hassel, chairman Lawyer and former chairman of Dutch Bar Association may attend and exercise the rights relating to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Shareholders G.H.N.L. van Woerkom Former chairman of Detailhandel Nederland registered at that date are entitled to attend and to exercise their rights as shareholders in relation to the J. van den Belt Former CFO Océ annual General Meeting of Shareholders, regardless of a sale of shares after the record date. B. Vree Former CEO APM Terminals Europe Shareholders may be represented by written proxy. For further details on Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred shares, including restrictions on transfer, We encourage participation in our General Meetings of Shareholders. We use J.P. Morgan Chase Bank see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. The related documents are available on our public N.A., the Depositary for the Company’s American Depositary Receipt (ADR) facility, to enable ADR website at www.aholddelhaize.com. holders to exercise their voting rights, which are represented by the common shares underlying the ADRs. Issuance of additional shares and preemptive rights Shares may be issued following a resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders on a proposal Neither Ahold Delhaize nor any of its subsidiaries may cast a vote on any share they hold in the of the Management Board made with the approval of the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting Company. These shares are not taken into account for the purpose of determining how many of Shareholders may resolve to delegate this authority to the Management Board for a period of time shareholders are represented or how much of the share capital is represented at the General Meeting not exceeding five years. A resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders to issue shares, or to of Shareholders. authorize the Management Board to do so, is also subject to the approval of each class of shares Repurchase and cancellation of cumulative preferred financing shares whose rights would be adversely affected by the proposed issuance or delegation. On April 10, 2019, On April 10, 2019, the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Management Board to acquire the General Meeting of Shareholders approved a delegation of this authority to the Management Board, all cumulative preferred financing shares in the Company. On May 10, 2019, the Company acquired all relating to the issuance and / or granting of rights to acquire common shares up to a maximum of 10% 223,415,103 cumulative preferred financing shares. The cumulative preferred financing shares were of the issued share capital until and including October 10, 2020, and subject to the approval of the cancelled on July 16, 2019. The Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente Financierings Aandelen was Supervisory Board. dissolved on January 17, 2020. Upon the issuance of new common shares, holders of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares have a For further details on cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 23 to the consolidated preemptive right to subscribe to common shares in proportion to the total amount of their existing financial statements. holdings of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares. According to the Company’s Articles of Association, this preemptive right does not apply to any issuance of shares to associates. The General Meeting of Cumulative preferred shares Shareholders may decide to restrict or exclude preemptive rights. The General Meeting of Shareholders In March 1989, the Company entered into an agreement with the Dutch foundation Stichting Continuïteit may also resolve to designate the Management Board as the corporate body authorized to restrict or Ahold Delhaize (SCAD, previously named Stichting Ahold Continuïteit), as amended and restated exclude preemptive rights for a period not exceeding five years. in April 1994, March 1997, December 2001, December 2003 and May 2018 (the “Option Agreement”). The Option Agreement was designed to, in accordance with the purpose of SCAD under its articles, On April 10, 2019, the General Meeting of Shareholders delegated to the Management Board, subject potentially exercise influence in the event of a public offer or a potential change of control over the to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the authority to restrict or exclude the preemptive rights of Company, to safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders and to potentially avert, holders of common shares upon the issuance of common shares and / or upon the granting of rights to the best of its ability, influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s to subscribe for common shares until and including October 10, 2020. continuity, independence or identity. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has been granted an option to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company from time to time for no consideration. SCAD and the members of its board are independent from the Company. As of February 25, 2020, the members of the board of SCAD are: Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 82 Corporate governance Repurchase by Ahold Delhaize of its own shares Articles of Association Ahold Delhaize may only acquire fully paid-up shares of any class in its capital for consideration Our Articles of Association outline certain of the Company’s basic principles relating to corporate following authorization by the General Meeting of Shareholders and subject to the approval of the governance and organization. The current text of the Articles of Association is available at the Supervisory Board and certain provisions of Dutch law and the Company’s Articles of Association, if: Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Amsterdam and on our public website at www.aholddelhaize.com. 1. Shareholders’ equity minus the payment required to make the acquisition is not less than the sum of paid-in and called-up capital and any reserves required by Dutch law or Ahold Delhaize’s Articles The Articles of Association may be amended by the General Meeting of Shareholders. A resolution to of Association; and amend the Articles of Association may be adopted by an absolute majority of the votes cast upon a 2. Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries would not, as a result, hold a number of shares exceeding a total proposal of the Management Board. If another party makes the proposal, an absolute majority of votes nominal value of 10% of the issued share capital. cast representing at least one-third of the issued share capital is required. If this qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute majority of the votes is in favor of the proposal, then a second meeting may In line with the above, the Management Board has been authorized by the General Meeting of be held. In the second meeting, only an absolute majority of votes, regardless of the number of shares Shareholders on April 10, 2019, to acquire a number of shares in the Company. Such acquisition of represented at the meeting, is required. shares, at the stock exchange or otherwise, will, for common shares, take place at a price between par value and 110% of the opening price of the shares at Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext on The prior approval of a meeting of holders of a particular class of shares is required for a proposal to the date of their acquisition, provided that the Company and its subsidiaries will not hold more than amend the Articles of Association that makes any change in the rights that vest in the holders of shares 10% of the issued capital. Ahold Delhaize may acquire shares in its capital for no consideration or of that particular class. for the purpose of transferring these shares to associates through share plans or option plans, without Right of inquiry authorization of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The share buyback program of €1 billion that The thresholds for shareholders to exercise the right of inquiry (“het enquêterecht”) are based on article started on January 2, 2019, was successfully completed on December 11, 2019. In total, 45,621,384 of 2:346 sub clause 1 under c of the Dutch Civil Code, regardless of the current nominal share capital of the Company’s own shares were repurchased at an average price of €21.92 per share. On January 2, the Company. More information on the nominal value of shares can be found in Note 21 and Note 23 to 2020, the Company commenced the €1 billion share buyback program that was announced on the consolidated financial statements. December 4, 2019. The program is expected to be completed before the end of 2020. External independent auditor Major shareholders The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the external independent auditor. The Audit, Finance Ahold Delhaize is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any and Risk Committee recommends to the Supervisory Board the external independent auditor to be government. The Company does not know of any arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, proposed for (re)appointment by the General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, the Audit, Finance result in a change of control, except as described under Cumulative preferred shares. and Risk Committee evaluates and, where appropriate, recommends the replacement of the external independent auditor. On April 10, 2019, the General Meeting of Shareholders appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. as external independent auditor for the Company for the financial year 2019. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 83 Corporate governance Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive Corporate Governance statement According to the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive, we have to report on, among other things, The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires companies to publish a statement concerning their our capital structure; restrictions on voting rights and the transfer of securities; significant shareholdings approach to corporate governance and compliance with the Code. This is referred to in article 2a of in Ahold Delhaize; the rules governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the Management the decree on additional requirements for management reports “Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag” last Board and the Supervisory Board and the amendment of the Articles of Association; the powers of the amended on January 1, 2018 (the “Decree”). The information required to be included in this corporate Management Board (in particular the power to issue shares or to repurchase shares); significant governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree, which are incorporated and agreements to which Ahold Delhaize is a party and which are put into effect, changed or dissolved repeated here by reference, can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report: upon a change of control of Ahold Delhaize following a takeover bid; and any agreements between • The information concerning compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as required Ahold Delhaize and the members of the Management Board or associates providing for compensation by article 3 of the Decree, can be found in the section Compliance with the Dutch Corporate if their employment ceases because of a takeover bid. Governance Code. The information required by the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive is included in this Corporate • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s diversity policy, as required by article 3a sub d of the governance section, in the Information about Ahold Delhaize shares section, as well as in the notes Decree, can be found in the Management Board and Executive Committee and Supervisory Board referred to in these sections or included in the description of any relevant contract. sections of Corporate governance as well as in the Supervisory Board report. Compliance with Dutch Corporate Governance Code • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s risk management and control frameworks relating to the Ahold Delhaize complies with the relevant principles and best practices of the Dutch Corporate financial reporting process, as required by article 3a sub a of the Decree, can be found in the relevant Governance Code applicable to the Company in 2019, as reported in the Governance section. section under How we manage risk. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found at www.mccg.nl. • The information regarding the functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s General Meeting of Shareholders and At the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on March 3, 2004, our shareholders consented the authority and rights of our shareholders, as required by article 3a sub b of the Decree, can be to apply the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Ahold Delhaize continues to seek ways to improve found in the relevant sections under Shares and shareholders’ rights. its corporate governance, including by measuring itself against international best practice. • The information regarding the composition and functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board and its committees, as required by article 3a sub c of the Decree, can be found in the Management Board and Executive Committee and Supervisory Board sections included in Corporate governance as well as in the Supervisory Board report. • The information concerning the inclusion of the information required by the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive, as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found in the section Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 84 Letter from the Supervisory Board Chairman The Company continued to evolve its governance during 2019. In a period of only three years’ time, Dear shareholder, five members of the Supervisory Board are retiring and need to be replaced. In 2019, we welcomed Jan Hommen I am pleased to present our two new members to the Supervisory Board, Katie Doyle and Peter Agnefjäll. And, in 2020, we are Chairman of the Supervisory Board proposing another two new members to the Board, Helen Weir and Frank van Zanten, for approval by Supervisory Board report for 2019. shareholders at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April. At that same meeting, Jacques 2019 was the first full year de Vaucleroy will retire from the Board after many years of distinguished service to our Supervisory Board and our Company. We are also pleased to be nominating Natalie Knight to become CFO and Ahold Delhaize worked on the new member of the Management Board. implementation of its Leading Together strategy and the five At the same time, we thank Jeff Carr for his significant contributions to the Company and his continued partnership in helping shape Ahold Delhaize, drive our Save for Our Customers program and deliver strategic growth drivers that help on our commitments. We are also pleased to nominate Kevin Holt for an extension of his term as the Company to create sustainable Management Board member given his strong tenure as CEO of Ahold Delhaize USA. long-term value for all its During the year, we saw continued discussion in society on a number of broader topics, such as stakeholders. executive remuneration and wages, diversity, climate change, technological and digital developments impacting the workforce and the role companies can and need to play to address these topics. Our Innovation & Sustainability Committee, in which all Board members participate, is very much involved in these topics. We have stepped up the non-financial targets for management in these areas going forward. Significant investments were made in omnichannel retail solutions, supporting double-digit growth in online sales, and in making supply chain management in the United States more efficient. Both are The Supervisory Board’s relationship with the Management Board and Executive Committee is open examples of the Company’s commitment to invest with a view to the long term. and transparent. Detailed information on strategic and operational performance is available and is discussed in a constructive, but critical, dialogue. The rapidly changing environment in consumer behavior, together with massive technological changes, requires that, as a Supervisory Board, we constantly review the strategic risks of our From time to time, small delegations of the Supervisory Board pay visits to the brands to better Company, including the business models used to bring our products to market. Risk reviews also understand performance and the strategic choices that are made locally. These visits also provide include the safety of our operations. The tragic road accident in Romania, that took the lives of eight an excellent first-hand view of local management and talent. In 2019, visits were made to Greece, associates and seriously wounded another seven, while they were on their way to work, more than Romania and a number of the U.S. brands. supports the importance of this. We are pleased to report that 2019 was a successful year, which makes us comfortable that the Company is on track with its Leading Together strategy. We thank the members of the Management Board and the Executive Committee and all associates across the Company for their commitment and support. You can find more details on our 2019 focus areas, meetings and other governance-related topics in this Supervisory Board report. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, Jan Hommen Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 85 Supervisory Board report Composition of the Supervisory Board Ongoing education Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board determines the number of its members. The Supervisory As part of its ongoing education, the Supervisory Board attended several deep dives on various Board profile is published on Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com and is topics to enable its members to gain greater insight into Ahold Delhaize’s key priorities. In addition, updated regularly. the Supervisory Board attended a workshop focusing on the specific risks associated with the digital and omnichannel ambitions of the Company. In accordance with provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, Ahold Delhaize’s diversity policy states that the composition of the Supervisory Board and the combined experience and For our new members, Katie Doyle and Peter Agnefjäll, a multiple-day induction program was expertise of its members should reflect the profile of the Company as it relates to nationality, age, organized at our businesses in the U.S. and the Netherlands as well as at the Global Support Office education, gender and professional background. In addition, the composition of the Board, including in Zaandam. As part of the onboarding program, the two new members were briefed on their its members’ combined experience, expertise and independence, should reflect the best fit for Ahold responsibilities and informed by senior management on the financial, commercial, technological, Delhaize’s profile and strategy. Three members of Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board are female and digital, social, sustainability, human resources, governance, legal and reporting affairs of our Company six members are male. Currently we are satisfied with the size of our Board, and we will continue to look and its businesses. In addition, the new members visited the brands in Greece and Romania and for improvement in our diversity, which will remain a key aspect in the selection process for new several brands in the U.S. Supervisory Board members. Evaluation Rules of Procedure The Supervisory Board conducted a self-assessment in early 2020. The Board assessed its own The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board state that if a member is concurrently a member performance as well as the performance of its committees and its individual members. The of another company’s supervisory board, the main duties arising from and / or the number and nature performance of the Management Board and its individual members was also assessed during of any other supervisory board memberships must not conflict or interfere with that individual’s duties a private meeting. as a member of Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board. Overall, the Supervisory Board was positive about its functioning. The Board has an open and Appointments and other changes constructive relationship with the Management Board. The Supervisory Board paid special attention After the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019, Rob van den Bergh and Mark to its composition and succession and concluded that searches for new members should focus on McGrath stepped down from the Supervisory Board and were succeeded by Katie Doyle and Peter financial skills and eCommerce and leadership experience. Agnefjäll, who were appointed by our shareholders during the same meeting. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 86 Supervisory Board report Supervisory Board profile Experience Core competencies General business Social / Name management International Retail Consumer goods Online / digital Finance employment Sustainability Disclosure Marketing IT Jan Hommen * * * * * * * * Bill McEwan * * * * * * * Jacques de Vaucleroy * * * * Ben Noteboom * * * * * * René Hooft Graafland * * * * * * Mary Anne Citrino * * * Dominique Leroy * * * * * * * * Katie Doyle * * * * * * * * * Peter Agnefjäll * * * * * * * * Supervisory Board1 reappointment schedule Name Date of first appointment1 Reappointment for second and third term End of current appointment Jan Hommen October 1, 2013 2017 2021 Bill McEwan March 14, 20163 2020 Jacques de Vaucleroy4 March 14, 20163 2020 Ben Noteboom April 28, 2009 2013 / 2017 2021 René Hooft Graafland April 16, 20142 2018 2022 Mary Anne Citrino March 14, 2016 2020 Dominique Leroy March 14, 20163 2020 Katie Doyle April 10, 2019 2023 Peter Agnefjäll April 10, 2019 2023 1 In its decision to nominate its members for reappointment, the Supervisory Board takes into account their tenure in the Board of Directors of the former Delhaize Group, prior to their appointment to the Supervisory Board. 2 Effective January 1, 2015. 3 Effective July 24, 2016. 4 On December 20, 2019, it was announced that Jacques de Vaucleroy will retire at the end of his current term. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 87 Supervisory Board report Supervisory Board engagement • April 2019: During a two-day meeting, the Supervisory Board received an extensive update on the During 2019, 10 Supervisory Board meetings took place. Five of these meetings were held performance, risks and opportunities of the brands in Europe and the United States and discussed in person in Europe and the United States and five by means of a conference call. The Management the upcoming annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The Supervisory Board approved issuing a Board attended these meetings and the other members of the Executive Committee, as well as other sustainability bond. senior management, were regularly invited to be present. • May 2019: During a conference call, the Supervisory Board reflected on the Stop & Shop strike (including the learnings gained) and the update on the financial guidance following the strike. The Supervisory Board held several private meetings without other attendees to independently review The Board also discussed and approved the Q1 2019 Interim Report. In addition, the Supervisory certain issues and to discuss matters related to the functioning of the Management Board, Executive Board discussed reports from the external independent auditor and internal auditor as well as the Committee and Supervisory Board itself. The Supervisory Board also held several private meetings internal control report and the governance, risk management and compliance report. with only the CEO present, to obtain his view on certain matters and discuss the functioning of the members of the Management Board and Executive Committee. The external independent auditor • June 2019: During a three-day meeting, the Supervisory Board visited Peapod Digital Labs in attended the meeting of February 25, 2019, at which the 2018 Annual Report and financial statements Chicago. The Supervisory Board performed a review of the Company’s portfolio strategy in view were recommended for adoption by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The external of the “portfolio and scale efficiencies” growth driver. The Board reviewed the Peapod Digital Labs’ independent auditor also attended the quarterly meetings, at which the financial results were discussed. strategy and the way it supports the brands in the United States. The Peapod Digital Labs leadership team, along with a number of talents across the Company, presented demos of initiatives in the digital In addition, the Chairman and the CEO held regular one-to-one meetings to discuss progress and domain. Lastly, the Supervisory Board received an update on the Peapod brand and visited several key topics. retail chains offering interesting omnichannel experiences. During its meetings throughout the year, the Supervisory Board reviewed reports from its various • August 2019: The Q2 2019 Interim Report was presented to and subsequently approved by the committees and regularly evaluated the Company’s progress on its Leading Together strategy, talent Supervisory Board. The Board discussed and approved the interim dividend pay out. management and succession planning. The Board members had regular contact with associates in • September 2019: The Supervisory Board held a three-day meeting in which it received status various levels of management to ensure that the Supervisory Board remained well-informed about the updates on Stop & Shop, Giant Food and IT. The Board discussed the report from the Governance Company’s operations. & Nomination Committee on the Company’s talent pipeline and the succession tables for the brand presidents. The Board also reviewed progress on the five strategic growth drivers. During the last day The Company organized a trip for four Board members to visit the Alfa Beta brand in Greece and the of the meeting, the Board visited several stores of the Giant Food brand as well as the competition. Maxi brand in Romania and another trip for five Board members to visit the Food Lion and Giant/ Martin’s brands and the RBS support organization in the U.S. During these trips, the Board members • November 2019: During a two-day meeting, the Supervisory Board approved the Q3 2019 interim met with senior management of the local brands and visited their local operations and stores. results, together with the Company’s annual budget plan for 2020 and the plan for 2021-2022. In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed reports from the external independent auditor and • January 2019: The Supervisory Board held a conference call to discuss and approve Ahold Delhaize’s internal auditor as well as the internal control report and the governance, risk management and Q4 / full year 2018 trading statement and to start preparations for the upcoming annual General Meeting compliance report. The Board discussed the digital strategy and the digital organization’s new of Shareholders. operating model. Lastly, the Board approved Ahold Delhaize USA’s investment in its supply chain • February 2019: During a two-day meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed and approved Ahold to create a fully integrated self-distribution model. Delhaize’s Q4 / full year 2018 results, as well as the Annual Report 2018. In addition, the Supervisory • December 2019: During a call, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board reflected on the Board approved the dividend proposal. During the same meeting, the agenda and explanatory notes past year and approved several investment proposals. for the April 2019 annual General Meeting of Shareholders were approved. On the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory Board resolved to approve the 2018 Executive Committee Incentive Plan Payout, in addition to the salary review and salary adjustment of the Executive Committee members. In addition, the Supervisory Board reviewed and approved the updated Rules of Procedure for the Management Board and the Executive Committee as well as the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board. Lastly, the Supervisory Board was updated on specific IT projects, the IFRS 16 “Leases” implementation, post-investment reviews and significant litigation with potential impact on the Company. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 88 Supervisory Board report Attendance Remuneration Except for a limited number of occasions, and for valid reasons, all Supervisory Board members The annual remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board was determined by the attended all Supervisory Board meetings in 2019. In all cases, the Supervisory Board members who extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on March 14, 2016. Remuneration is subject to annual were not able to attend made sure they were represented. All Supervisory Board members made review by the Supervisory Board. adequate time available to give sufficient attention to matters concerning Ahold Delhaize. Chairman Supervisory Board €220,000 Governance & Sustainability & Supervisory Audit, Finance & Nomination Remuneration Innovation Vice Chairman (and member of the presidium) €180,000 Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Vice Chairman €125,000 No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Member Supervisory Board €90,000 Board attendance held attended held attended held attended held attended held attended Chairman Audit, Finance and Risk Committee €30,000 Jan Hommen 10 10 4 41 4 4 5 4 2 2 Member Audit, Finance and Risk Committee €15,000 Bill McEwan 10 10 5 5 2 2 Chairman Other Committee €20,000 Jacques de Vaucleroy 10 9 4 4 2 2 Member Other Committee €12,500 René Hooft Graafland 10 10 4 4 2 2 Travel compensation intercontinental per round trip €7,500 Ben Noteboom 10 10 5 5 2 2 Travel compensation continental per round trip €2,500 Rob van den Bergh 3 3 3 2 1 1 Mary Anne Citrino 10 9 4 4 2 1 In the execution of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members, the Company continued the Dominique Leroy 10 8 4 4 2 2 2018 practice. At the 2020 annual General Meeting of Shareholders, a remuneration policy for the Mark McGrath 3 3 1 1 1 1 Supervisory Board will be up for vote to formalize this practice (including some additional updates). Katie Doyle 7 7 3 3 1 1 Committees of the Supervisory Board Peter Agnefjäll 7 7 2 2 1 1 The Supervisory Board has four committees to which certain tasks are assigned. The committees 1 Attendance in his capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. have advisory powers and provide the Supervisory Board with regular updates on their meetings. The composition of the committees has changed over 2019 and is detailed in the following table. Independence Governance and Sustainability and Audit, Finance and Nomination Remuneration Innovation The Supervisory Board confirms that during 2019 as well as on February 25, 2020, all Supervisory Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Board members were independent within the meaning of provision 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate Jan Hommen (Chairman) Chairman Member Governance Code. Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) Chairman Member Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) Member Member Ben Noteboom Member Member René Hooft Graafland Chairman Member Mary Anne Citrino Member Member Dominique Leroy Member Member Katie Doyle Member Co-chair Peter Agnefjäll Member Co-chair In addition, from time to time, the Supervisory Board establishes ad-hoc committees for specific topics when appropriate. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 89 Supervisory Board report Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee also discussed items including: The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee assists the Supervisory Board in its responsibility to oversee • Quarterly interim reports Ahold Delhaize’s financing, financial statements, financial reporting process and system of internal business controls and risk management. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief • Ahold Delhaize’s 2018 Annual Report including the financial statements Legal Officer, Senior Vice President Internal Audit, Senior Vice President Tax and Accounting and • Review and approval of the internal audit plan representatives of the external independent auditor are invited to, and attend, the Audit, Finance and • Management report on internal controls over financial reporting Risk Committee meetings. • The findings in the internal audit letters and the external independent auditor’s The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee determines how the external independent auditor should be findings in relation to the internal controls over financial reporting involved in the content and publication of financial reports other than the financial statements. The • The Company’s finance structure Management Board and the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee report to the Supervisory Board • IFRS 16 “Leases”, the implementation of the new lease accounting standard annually on their cooperation with the external independent auditor, including the auditor’s independence. The Supervisory Board takes these reports into account when deciding on the • Quarterly internal control report and the governance risk and compliance report nomination for the appointment of an external independent auditor that is submitted to the General • Treasury Meeting of Shareholders. • Taxation, including being a responsible tax payer In 2019, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee held two meetings in person and two by means of a • Guarantees conference call. The attendance rate of the Board members of this Committee was 100%. Throughout • Self-insurance programs the year, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee closely monitored the financial closing process and • Recognition of vendor allowances reviewed the publication of quarterly results. Updates on internal controls were provided during all Committee meetings. The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee was informed regularly on compliance • Impairment testing of goodwill and reviewed and received regular updates on fraud and health and safety (including fatalities). • Associate benefits (including pensions and multi-employer pension plans) measurement and disclosure • Appointment of the external independent auditor • Cyber security • Compliance, fraud, ethics and safety matters • Sustainability reporting The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee and the Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee also held private meetings together with the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Vice President Internal Audit and the external independent auditor. The Supervisory Board has determined that René Hooft Graafland, Mary Anne Citrino and Jacques de Vaucleroy are “Audit Committee Financial Experts” within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, provision 2.1.4. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 90 Supervisory Board report Governance and Nomination Committee Sustainability and Innovation Committee In 2019, the Governance and Nomination Committee held four meetings in person, all of which the Chief During the course of 2019, the Sustainability and Innovation Committee held two meetings in person, Executive Officer and the Chief HR Officer were invited to attend. The attendance rate of the Board both of which the Chief Executive Officer was invited to attend. The attendance rate of the Board members of this Committee was 100%. The Committee focused on the Company’s talent pipeline and members of this Committee was 94%. During the first meeting, the Committee received an update the succession tables for the brand presidents as well as the associate engagement survey. The status on the Sustainable Retailing 2018 results and targets for 2019, as well as an update on the latest of the Company’s diversity ambitions and plans was discussed, as well as the expected impact of developments on digital in Europe and the United States. During its second meeting, the Committee technological and digital developments on our workforce. The Committee evaluated the performance focused on how the Company can help customers and associates to make healthier choices. of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee. The Committee led the search process for a Conclusion successor for Jeff Carr, resulting in the nomination of Natalie Knight as new member of the Management The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that during the year 2019, its composition, mix and depth Board. The Committee proposed to the Supervisory Board to nominate Kevin Holt for reappointment as of available expertise, working processes, level and frequency of engagement across all prominent member of the Management Board. The Committee was also involved in key organizational and Company activities, and access to all necessary and relevant information and the Company’s management changes, as well as other governance matters. management and staff were satisfactory and enabled it to carry out its duties towards all of the The Committee led the search for new Supervisory Board members. At the upcoming annual General Company’s stakeholders. Meeting of Shareholders in April, two new members, Helen Weir and Frank van Zanten, will be The Supervisory Board would like to thank Rob van den Bergh and Mark McGrath for their outstanding proposed to the Supervisory Board for approval by shareholders. contributions to the Supervisory Board and to the Company. Remuneration Committee The Supervisory Board would also like to thank Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders for their continued In 2019, the Remuneration Committee held four meetings in person and one by means of a conference support and trust in the Company, its strategy and its management team. Finally, the Board would like call, all of which the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief HR Officer were invited to attend. The to express its gratitude for the continued hard work and commitment of the Management Board and all attendance rate of the Board members of this Committee was 93%. The Committee’s main area of focus associates during 2019. was the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive and the remuneration packages for Natalie Knight and Kevin Holt. As a result of the Shareholder Rights Directive, the Committee prepared a Supervisory Board proposal for the Supervisory Board for a Supervisory Board Remuneration Policy and a supplement Zaandam, the Netherlands to the Remuneration Policy for the Management Board. Lastly, the Committee reviewed options to February 25, 2020 increase the level of transparency with respect to the disclosure of our performance measures in the shortand long-term incentive programs. See Remuneration for more information on our remuneration policy, which aims to help us attract, motivate and retain the best-qualified workforce, in a cost-effective way. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 91 How we manage risk Ahold Delhaize has a diverse portfolio of brands, geographic footprint and business structure. Because Operational of this, it is critically important that we manage risks in a proactive and responsible way to ensure we Operational risks include unforeseen incidents that could result from failures in internal processes or can deliver on our Leading Together strategy. systems, human error or adverse external events and could negatively impact the day-to-day operation of our business. Our risk appetite related to the disruption of our day-to-day business is generally low, Governance, Risk Management and Compliance as we seek to minimize the downside impact of operational failures. Our Governance, Risk Management and Compliance (GRC) Framework is tailored to respond to our structure and the dynamic needs of our brand-centric business. It is structured to give our management Financial a transparent view of the risks we take, face and manage and that have a strategic impact on our great Ahold Delhaize has a prudent financial strategy focused on maintaining our solid investment-grade local brands and our global organization. credit rating. We are averse to any risks that could jeopardize the integrity of our financial reporting. Our financial risk management, risk appetite and sensitivities are further detailed in Note 31 of the The GRC Framework consists of global policies and controls as well as a GRC Committee structure consolidated financial statements. at global and brand levels that serves as a forum for identifying, addressing and monitoring relevant risks in all corners of our business. Compliance At Ahold Delhaize, an essential part of our strategic framework is our values. We strive to behave The global GRC Committee is responsible for reviewing Ahold Delhaize’s governance, risk according to our values as we go about our daily work. One of our values is “integrity,” which means management and compliance processes. The GRC Committee is chaired by the Chief Legal Officer that the Company and all its associates do the right thing to earn customers’ trust. We strive for full and (i) advises the Management Board and Executive Committee on matters concerning the GRC compliance with laws and regulations and with our policies and procedures everywhere we do Framework, including an overall GRC vision and strategy, (ii) oversees activities to develop and business. Consequently, our risk appetite for non-compliance is very low. maintain a fit-for-purpose GRC Framework and (iii) engages with Ahold Delhaize’s senior management on important developments in the context of governance, risk and compliance. Enterprise Risk Management Governance, Risk Management & Compliance Framework Through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program, which is embedded in the execution of our strategy, the leadership of each of our brands and global functions review their strategic, operational, Values, Strategy financial and regulatory risks and mitigating actions twice a year. Our Executive Committee performs a & Objectives semi-annual review of all the risks reported by the brands and the outcome is aggregated into an ERM report that is presented to the Management Board and Supervisory Board, as required by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Ahold Delhaize’s ERM program drives the formation of policies, procedures and controls, the scope of internal audit activities, and the business planning and Leadership & Monitoring & Assurance Identify & Manage risk performance process. Risk culture Risk appetite Our risk appetite is defined by our Supervisory Board and Management Board and is integrated into the businesses through our strategy, global policies, procedures, controls and budgets. Our appetite Policies & Procedures for each risk is determined by considering key opportunities and potential threats to achieving our strategic objectives and can be categorized as follows: Strategic We use fact-based analysis that derives insights from our different markets and brands to support our strategic decision-making process in a way that considers the financial, economic, social and political developments that may impact our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. Generally, the Company’s strategic risk appetite is between average and above average. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 92 How we manage risk During 2019, we enhanced our Enterprise Risk Management program, combining the following within the principal risks facing our organization in the short term, as well as topics that may evolve approaches to help us better identify our core principal risks and uncertainties: and present risks to our organization in the future. Based on input from investors, associates and non-governmental organizations and a review of topics covered by the media, we have updated the 1. We performed a materiality assessment of environment, social and economic topics to identify risk material topics for Ahold Delhaize. Despite the fact that we applied a stricter threshold for identifying drivers within the principal risks facing our organization in the future. them, the overall material topics have not changed significantly. 2. We performed a risk assessment of the Company’s key strategic and business risks as part of our ERM program. An overview of our material topics is shown in the following table, which lists our material topics, our approach to managing them and how each is related to the five growth drivers of our Leading Together Materiality assessment strategy and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The table also shows the links between Through our materiality assessment, we ask our stakeholders for feedback on the scale of Ahold certain of our material topics and our principal business risks. We track these issues according to their Delhaize’s impact on relevant topics and how much these topics influence their decision-making on potential impact on our Company’s objectives and reputation. environmental, social and economic concerns. We use their feedback to determine our material topics. Since these issues that concern our stakeholders are equally potent risks for Ahold Delhaize, they are All target dates included in the table refer to achievement by the end of the stated year. included in our ERM process. We apply the results of this assessment to help us identify risk drivers Material sustainability topics Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Product safety and quality Our product integrity policies and procedures set high standards for Product safety Page 24: Value creation The safety and quality both safety and quality with our own-brand suppliers. Our operations Page 45: Group of products we sell policies ensure strong safety and quality management from our Healthy and non-financial review distribution centers to our stores, including regular facility audits by sustainable Boundary: third parties to confirm compliance. We require our suppliers to go Page 91: How we • Production beyond what is legally required for food safety practices, and work manage risk • Retail directly with Smalland Medium-Sized Enterprises to help them achieve an acceptable level of assurance and identify areas for improvement. • Consumption Target: • 100% of own-brand food production sites certified against GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative), or in compliance with an acceptable level of assurance standard by 2020 For more information on our approach to material topics, see the following table with material topics or visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com/en/sustainable-retailing Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 93 How we manage risk Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Associate safety, health We integrate safe working conditions into workplace designs and People Page 24: Value creation and well-being operational procedures and measure and monitor accidents, Page 29: Creating value The safety of our associates occupational illness and related absenteeism. Annual targets are set for our stakeholders at work, and how our actions to further increase safety measures and support associates’ health Best talent – Associates impact associate health and and well-being through brand-level programs. well-being Page 45: Group Target: non-financial review Boundary: • Score of 75% on index of healthy workplace questions in associate engagement survey by 2020 Page 91: How we • Retail manage risk Additional KPIs: • Rate of lost days due to accidents • Rate of occupational illnesses per million hours worked Healthy and sustainable diets We can make a big difference in our customers’ awareness of what Competitive Page 6: Group The impact of our products, they eat and provide healthier food in our stores. environment highlights services and the information that That’s why our brands not only continue to educate customers Legislative Healthy and Page 20: Our growth we provide on facilitating healthier sustainable generally by promoting nutritional navigation systems, they also environment drivers – Healthy and and more sustainable diets for our develop personalized diet advice for customers via loyalty cards sustainable customers and associates and apps to support them in adapting their personal shopping habits Page 24: Value creation Boundary: to achieve healthier diets. Page 27: Creating value • Retail We play an active role in our industry to help speed the global shift for our stakeholders • Consumption to more sustainable consumption. The areas we are active in include – Customers reducing food waste, reducing plastic waste, and sourcing more sustainably-produced products. Our brands often work directly with Page 45: Group suppliers, such as through partnerships with fruit and vegetable non-financial review suppliers, to encourage the use of practices that protect biodiversity. Page 91: How we Targets: manage risk • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products by 2020 • 51% of own-brand food sales from healthy products by 2022 • 100% sustainable sourcing for seven commodities in our own-brand products by 2020 Additional KPIs: • Percentage of total food sales from certified organic products • Sales from “free-from” or organic own-brand product lines Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 94 How we manage risk Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Human rights We are committed to respecting the human rights of our associates, Product safety Page 20: Our growth How human rights are respected our customers, our communities and the people who work throughout drivers – Healthy and in our own operations and along our supply chains. This commitment is based on our own collective sustainable our supply chain belief that all people should be treated with dignity and respect and Best talent Page 24: Value creation is derived from international principles, such as the UN Universal Boundary: Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Page 31: Creating value • Production Business and Human Rights. Healthy and for our stakeholders – • Retail sustainable Communities We have conducted a human rights due diligence. The report will be published in the first half of 2020. Page 91: How we manage risk Target: • 80% of own-brand production units in high-risk countries meeting social compliance standards by 2020 Food waste We are working hard to reduce food waste, both inside our own Competitive Page 20: Our growth Food that goes to waste (not eaten operations and beyond. We will eliminate waste across our supply environment drivers – Healthy and by people) along the value chain: chain, together with customers and suppliers. Within our own sustainable Healthy and in the supply chain, distribution, operations, we will reduce food waste by 50% by 2030 from our 2016 sustainable Page 24: Value creation stores and customers’ homes baseline. We will accomplish this objective by making replenishment systems more effective and by applying innovative methods, such as Page 45: Group Boundary: dynamic pricing based on sell-by date. We are a founding member non-financial review • Production of the World Resources Institute’s “10x20x30” initiative, which brings Page 91: How we • Retail together 10 global food retailers that will each engage with 20 of their manage risk priority suppliers to halve their rates of food loss and waste by 2030. Targets: • 20% food waste reduction against 2016 baseline (tonnes / € million food sales) by end 2020, 32% reduction by 2025, 50% reduction by 2030 • 90% food waste recycled by 2020 Additional KPIs: • Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales • Percentage of unsold food donated to feed people Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 95 How we manage risk Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Product transparency Ahold Delhaize aims to improve transparency throughout its business Product safety Page 20: Our growth The degree to which we operations and its communications with stakeholders. For example, drivers – Healthy and Competitive are transparent to customers the Ahold Delhaize brands make product information available to sustainable environment Healthy and about products, their supply consumers through on-pack, online and digital communications. sustainable Page 24: Value creation chains and their health and We aim to provide clear nutritional information, as well as sustainability sustainability impacts certifications, supplier information and other relevant communications. Page 27: Creating value for our stakeholders Boundary: Targets: – Customers • 100% of Ahold Delhaize brands to have customer-facing nutritional • Production navigation by 2025 Page 45: Group • Retail non-financial review • 100% of U.S. own-brand products free of artificial ingredients • Consumption by 2025 Page 91: How we manage risk Personal data / privacy Customers, associates and business partners entrust our businesses Business continuity Page 19: Our growth The protection of personal data with their personal data and we must safeguard this information at all drivers – Technology Information security from consumers and associates times. At Ahold Delhaize and its brands, we always strive to use and data privacy Page 24: Value creation customer data to benefit customers, whether it is by checking their Technology Boundary: home address for grocery deliveries, accessing their shopping history Page 91: How we • Retail to provide personalized benefits or confirming account details for manage risk • Consumption online orders. We have established five principles that guide how Ahold Delhaize and its brands manage personal data: 1. We are committed to protecting the personal data of customers, associates, business partners and service providers. 2. We maintain personal data for legitimate business purposes only and are transparent about when and how personal data is collected, used or shared. 3. We provide customers with reasonable notice and control over their data. 4. We strive to use customer data to benefit customers. 5. We are committed to complying with legal and regulatory obligations everywhere we do business. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 96 How we manage risk Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Diversity of our workforce We want to cultivate our talent so that we have the right people and People Page 23: Our growth The diversity of our associates leaders for the future. By building robust, diverse talent pipelines we drivers – Best talent (including age, gender, ethnicity will ensure we have the best talent – people who can help us drive the Page 24: Value creation and sexual orientation) and how growth of our business. We’re putting a much stronger focus on Best talent it reflects the diversity of the diversity and inclusion by making sure we have balanced slates of Page 29: Creating value communities where we operate candidates for open roles, developing associates from all for our stakeholders backgrounds, building more diverse succession pools and creating – Associates Boundary: a more inclusive environment, overall. Page 45: Group • Retail KPIs: non-financial review • Index of inclusive workplace and associate development questions Page 91: How we in the associate engagement survey manage risk • Percentage of females on the Executive Committee and Supervisory Board • Percentage of associates by generation Plastics Plastic waste is another major challenge, particularly for life in our Legislative Page 20: Our growth The life-cycle impact of our oceans, lakes and rivers. That’s why, as a global retailer, we have environment drivers – Healthy and use of plastics in products, signed up to the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment – to work sustainable Healthy and packaging and shopping bags on ways to significantly reduce plastic in our overall supply chain. sustainable Page 31: Creating value Boundary: Concretely, brands across Ahold Delhaize are working towards for our stakeholders – zero plastic waste from own-brand packaging by 2025. Communities • Production • Retail Ahold Delhaize brands are also reducing the use of single-use plastic Page 45: Group bags. Two more European brands (Alfa Beta and Mega Image) stopped non-financial review • Consumption using these in 2019, and reductions will continue at other brands in 2020. Page 91: How we In some markets, this work has extended to reducing or eliminating manage risk single-use plastic bags for the purchase of bulk fruits and vegetables. Target: • 100% of our own-brand plastic product packaging is reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 97 How we manage risk Material topic Our approach Relevant principal risks Growth driver Link to SDG Reference in the report Climate impact / We committed in 2019 to setting long-term, science-based climate Competitive Page 6: Group Carbon emissions targets. The brands worked on defining future pathways for reducing environment highlights Impact of our supply chain emissions as well as mapping the emissions from our supply chain. Healthy and Page 20: Our growth and own operations (stores, We will submit a proposal to the Science Based Targets initiative by sustainable drivers – Healthy and distribution centers and logistics) February 2021. In addition, we are working to better understand the sustainable on climate change business and financial impacts from climate change. Page 24: Value creation Boundary: During 2019, our brands improved energy efficiency, reduced refrigerant emissions, increased the use of natural refrigerants and Page 31: Creating value • Production improved transport efficiencies. They also progressed toward targets for our stakeholders – • Retail to source certified sustainable commodities and reduce food waste, Communities • Consumption both of which support reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. Page 45: Group Targets: non-financial review • 30% reduction in CO2 -equivalent emissions (compared to 2008) Page 91: How we from our own operations by 2020 manage risk • 100% certified sustainable palm oil, soy and wood fibers in own-brand products by 2020 • 20% food waste reduction compared to 2016 baseline by 2020, 32% reduction by 2025 and 50% reduction by 2030 Associate wages Our businesses are committed to the principles of equal employment Labor Page 6: Group The adequacy and equality of opportunities, freedom of association and respecting the legal right to highlights People wages our brands pay to their collective bargaining and they offer associate wages that are in line Page 24: Value creation associates and that are paid to with market practice. Best talent associates in our supply chains Page 29: Creating value Compensation and benefits levels are set by our brands in line with and the impact that it has on the for our stakeholder associates’ job levels and local market practices. The remuneration communities we and our suppliers – Associates practices in their local markets are regularly reviewed to take into operate in account market dynamics and economic conditions. Page 45: Group Boundary: non-financial review Social audits in our supply chains check on the proper payment of local • Production minimum wages. Page 91: How we • Retail manage risk Target: • 80% of own-brand production units in high-risk countries meeting social compliance standards by 2020 KPI: • Associate engagement survey score Boundary refers to where the material topic has an impact in the value chain. For more information on the value chain, see Value creation on page 23. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 98 How we manage risk Risk assessment The following overview of risks relating to Ahold Delhaize should be read carefully when evaluating The principal risks and uncertainties included in the following table represent the most significant risks the Company’s business, its prospects and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual identified that may impede the achievement of Ahold Delhaize’s objectives in relation to strategy, Report. The following risks are not the only risks that the Company faces, which may or may not operations, financial and compliance matters. Our principal risks categories remain substantially materialize and have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of unchanged from 2018. operations and liquidity or cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See the Cautionary notice for In April 2019, the disclosed risk related to labor materialized when negotiations with local unions additional information. representing Stop & Shop associates did not reach an agreement and led to an 11-day strike. The resolution and financial impact of the strike was disclosed in a press release dated April 23, 2019, and in the Ahold Delhaize Q2 2019 results. Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Business continuity (O) • Diverse IT landscape with dependence on legacy systems and • Global business continuity strategy, governance structure and framework Disruption of critical business processes, due to a long-term various third-party service providers • Insurance programs or permanent loss of key personnel, facilities, utilities, IT • Business and IT systems disruption due to events of an exceptional • Regular training (including simulations) provided to senior management infrastructure or key suppliers, may result in non-availability nature (e.g., cyber attacks or breach of personal data, climate on crisis management and response to high-impact events of products for customers and have a significant adverse change-induced extreme weather events) impact on commercial operations, revenues, reputation and • Network protection (firewall, intrusion, detection and prevention systems, • Dependence on logistics service providers and suppliers of and email filtering) customer perception. strategic own-brand products and services • Cyber-defense monitoring • Monitoring of vendors and third-party service providers Competitive environment (S) • Aggressiveness of competing business models and entrance of Annual reassessment and implementation of our strategy. The Leading Changes to the competitive landscape relating to nonnon-traditional competition leading to drastic price reductions and Together strategy is based on five growth drivers: traditional competition, rapid expansion of omnichannel rapid omnichannel expansion (e.g., discounters and same-day • Omnichannel growth product offerings, and innovation in the market without an delivery of fresh, healthy products at affordable prices) appropriate and distinctive response by Ahold Delhaize • Technology • Non-traditional acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances could result in a loss of competitive advantage, decrease with eCommerce, data analytics and robotics companies • Healthy and sustainable of sales, erosion of margins and an inability to deliver on • Portfolio and scale efficiencies • Changing consumer trends relating to: healthy eating, product strategic objectives or performance targets. labeling and transparency of product origin, more online shopping, • Best talent and consumption of prepared foods For more details on our Leading Together strategy and growth drivers, • Increased focus on reduction of food waste see Our business. • Impact of climate change on food retail operations and food supply chains • Consolidation of U.S. pharmacy market 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 99 How we manage risk Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Information security and data privacy (O)(C) • Global security threats • Implementation of global Information Security organization, policy and A lack of security around, or non-compliance with, privacy • Growth of our online sales leading to increased availability control framework requirements relating to the capture, usage, processing and of consumer data • Performance of “data breach” simulations across the organization (with retention of customer and associate data may lead to the various levels of management) • Rapidly changing privacy regulations in our different markets exposure, misuse or misappropriation of data which could regarding use, storage, and protection of personal data • Payment Card Industry (PCI) and privacy compliant control framework have a significant legal, financial, or reputational impact. • Utilization of third parties to process and store customer • Cyber insurance coverage and associate data • Training and monitoring established through the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) initiative • Rollout of personal data protection policy and awareness program and principles for the responsible use of data • Establishment of safeguards across data value streams Labor (O) • Expiration and re-negotiation of collective bargaining agreements • Contract negotiation process with labor unions Our brands may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms with trade unions • Human Resource function’s partnering relationship with unions for extensions and replacements of contracts as a result of • Key business initiatives within the Ahold Delhaize strategy and associates unfavorable demands and / or expectations from unions. (e.g., efficiency through innovation, robotics and automation) • Development of resource contingency plans • Regulatory and competitive increases in minimum wage • Monitoring and alignment of market practices • Labor shortages in distribution center and logistics functions Legislative environment (C) • Increased focus on compliance and enforcement • Real-time knowledge and awareness of regulatory developments attained Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations • Changing political climate through our global legal, compliance and tax functions could impact the operations and reduce the profitability of • Implementation of global policies, operational procedures and internal • Proposed regional and national tax reforms Ahold Delhaize or its businesses and, thus, could affect its control framework financial condition, reputation or results of operations. • Lack of clarity on application of new regulations • Risk monitoring and assurance program • Implementation of sugar taxes and other trade restrictions Ahold Delhaize and its businesses are subject to a variety • Education of regulators and public policymakers (e.g., through industry of antitrust and similar laws and regulations in the • Public opinion and pressure from governments, regulatory entities associations; participation in lobbying industry bodies) jurisdictions in which they operate, which may impact and NGOs on sustainability actions to promote healthy eating, reduce the use of plastics, and discourage tobacco sales • Transparent communications approach towards tax authorities about or limit the Company’s ability to realize certain acquisitions, our legal structure divestments, partnerships or mergers. • Based on the prevailing regulatory environment or economic conditions in the markets where we operate, litigations, • Continuing review of options from a tax-planning perspective investigations and inquiries may increase in frequency • Estimation of the exposure to legal and regulatory proceedings and and materiality establishment of provisions for the estimated liabilities where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where the potential realization of a loss contingency is more likely than not. For further information, see Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 100 How we manage risk Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Pension and other post-employment benefits (F) • Pension and healthcare funding is impacted by low interest rates, • Our governance structure, with a pension committee responsible for Pension and healthcare funding in the U.S. and the stock market performance, changing pension laws, longevity of monitoring pension plan funding as well as Multi-Employer Plans. Netherlands. Ahold Delhaize is exposed to the financial participants and increased costs in specific markets. consequences of a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a large number of associates in the Netherlands and the United States. Multi-employer plans A significant number of union employees in the United • The Company’s contributions to an MEP in which it participates • Management of each MEP by a board of trustees appointed by the States are covered by Multi-Employer Plans (MEPs) may be used to fund benefits of employees of other management of the participating employers (plan sponsors) and the based on obligations arising from collective bargaining participating employers. participating unions. Ahold Delhaize has been appointed as board of trustee agreements. Ahold Delhaize’s brands participate in • If the Company seeks to withdraw from some of its MEPs, it must member on several MEP boards and, through these positions, manages and 11 MEPs and some of these have a critical (Red Zone) obtain the agreement of the applicable unions and, in connection monitors the MEPs’ funding. funding deficiency. with this, may be required to pay those plans an amount based • The MEPs’ contribution levels (funding) are set for each participating Under normal circumstances, when an MEP reaches on its allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits of the plan, employer and are based on the benefit level as agreed in the collective insolvency, it must reduce all accrued benefits to the referred to as a withdrawal liability. bargaining agreement (CBA) and the agreed-upon funding. The rate of maximum level guaranteed by the United States’ Pension • If another participating employer stops contributing to an MEP pension contributions is one of the terms of the CBA and considered to be Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). MEPs pay annual in which the Company participates (e.g., due to bankruptcy), the a part of the overall agreed-upon benefit package. After the expiration of a insurance premiums to the PBGC for such benefit insurance. Company and other remaining participating employers may have CBA, all provisions within it are subject to negotiation and could be changed to increase their contributions to fund the unfunded obligations of going forward, including, among others, pension and healthcare benefit For more information on the financial risks related to our levels and funding for the agreed benefit level. the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer. MEPs see Multi-employer plans in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. • An MEP in which the Company participates may become insolvent and the Company may be required, in certain circumstances, More details on this risk, its related risk drivers and to increase its contributions to fund the payment of benefits by current mitigating actions can be found in Note 24 the MEP. to the financial statements. • PBGC currently projects that its multi-employer insurance program will become insolvent by the end of the PBGC’s 2025 fiscal year. If the PBGC’s multi-employer insurance program becomes insolvent, it may become unable to fund the PBGC-guaranteed benefits owed by insolvent multi-employer plans, which might impact our future contributions. Various legislative initiatives to assist the PBGC and / or the multi-employer pension system in the United States are under consideration by the United States Congress, but it is unclear whether any of these initiatives will be enacted. 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 101 How we manage risk Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation People (O) (S) • Availability of top talent in key locations • Embedding of associate value propositions within each brand to attract The brands may not be able to attract, develop and retain • Shift in skillset for elements of our evolving business model top talent top talent in support of current and long-term needs and (data analytics, omnichannel, modernized DCs, robotics, etc.) • Identification and building of workforce based on strategic capability plans capabilities. and needs • More mobile workforce with people being more eager to change jobs • Associate engagement survey distribution and results, and the execution • Ability to ensure the safety, health, and well-being of of action plans our associates • Performance and talent management cycle and development conversations • Further embedding of our leadership journey, shared values, capabilities and behaviors • Diversity initiatives to drive a workforce that is representative of the markets we serve Product safety (O)(C) • Internationalization of the supply chain and poor agricultural • Product safety policies, control framework and standard There is a risk that customers may become injured or ill from practices lead to product integrity and sustainability incidents operating procedures the use or consumption of food and non-food products sold occurring across the world (e.g., related to foodborne illness and • Ahold Delhaize’s Standards of Engagement for third parties by Ahold Delhaize brands, whether they are contaminated manufacturers’ labor conditions) • Monitoring of performance and training of food safety procedures or defective, intentionally tampered with, or impacted by • Increased speed of communications and amplification of incidents in the business food fraud in the supply chain. via NGOs and social media (e.g., product recalls or human rights • Tracing of product origins and conditions of production Additionally, negative impacts on human rights or the in the supply chain) • Pilot of blockchain technology for tracing products in the supply chain environment during the production of our products • Retailers being held accountable and scrutinized for incidents (e.g., human rights violations by suppliers) may negatively occurring at any point in the supply chain • Insurance programs impact the reputation or results of Ahold Delhaize and / or • Overall increase in demand by customers for accuracy and its brands. transparency in the food supply chain • Increased number of own-brand products being developed, carried and sold by Ahold Delhaize brands 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 102 How we manage risk Additional risks and uncertainties Scenario Associated principal risks Description In addition to the principal risks identified, the following risks were identified and considered in Competitive • Competitive A sustained failure to effectively design and conjunction with our annual ERM assessment: pressure environment execute our strategic promises could lead to an Insurance risks inability to adapt to new market dynamics driven Ahold Delhaize manages its insurable risks through a combination of self-insurance and commercial by consumer behaviors and competition and insurance coverage for workers’ compensation, general liability, property, vehicle accident and certain result in a loss of market share to new market healthcare-related claims. Our self-insurance liabilities are estimated based on actuarial valuations. entrants or new shopping channels. While we believe that the actuarial estimates are reasonable, they are subject to changes caused These factors may have a material adverse by claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, regulatory economic conditions and adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, litigation results. Our process enables us to monitor claim and settlement patterns and evaluate results of operations and liquidity. third-party risk. Other financial risks Other financial risks include foreign currency translation risk, credit risk, interest risk, liquidity risk, income tax-related risks, liabilities to third parties relating to lease guarantees, contingent liabilities Information security • Business continuity In the event of a successful data breach, the and risks related to the legislative and regulatory environment, including litigation. For information and / or data breach • Information security Company could be subject to material monetary relating to these financial risks, see Notes 25, 31 and 35 to the consolidated financial statements. and business disruption and data privacy penalties, loss of customers and damage to our Sensitivity analysis corporate reputation; it could also lead to At Ahold Delhaize, we follow closely the impact of different internal and external risk factors on our potential litigation. operations. The purpose of our sensitivity analysis is to assess these risks on the Company’s current A serious breach could also impact the strategy to determine their impact on our business and the viability of our business model, as well as operation of significant business processes our ability to meet our financial liabilities and other obligations. and result in non-availability of products for Our strategy is based on assumptions relating to: the global economic climate, changes in consumer customers and the inability to operate our behavior, competitor actions, market dynamics and our current and planned structure, among other day-to-day business at the stores and factors. distribution centers and at brand level. The following are two extreme risk scenarios related to our strategy that, according to our sensitivity analysis, are considered severe but possible. Neither of these scenarios individually threaten the viability of the Company, however, the compound impact of these scenarios has been evaluated as the most severe stress scenario. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 103 How we manage risk Control framework Reporting The Ahold Delhaize control framework incorporates risk assessment, control activities and monitoring All our businesses are required to maintain and manage a sound internal control environment with into our business practices at entity-wide and functional levels. A three lines of defense model (see robust policies, procedures and controls and a strong financial discipline. The control framework is below) has been adopted to provide reasonable assurance that risks to achieving important objectives monitored by our second line of defense via testing activities on a regular basis and the results are are identified and mitigated. reported to brand and global GRC committees as well as to the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee. During 2019, and at the direction of the global GRC Committee, the GSO Ethics and Compliance team Three lines of defense model and the GSO Risk and Controls team implemented an annual review of the key global policies to ensure we identify and address the most relevant risks to our business, and adapt as necessary the related Audit, Finance and standards and the required control objectives that are applicable to all our brands and provide a robust Management Board — Executive Committee — Senior Management Risk Committee / level of assurance. Supervisory Board Both our Risk & Controls and Internal Audit functions help to ensure that we maintain and improve the integrity and effectiveness of our system of risk management and internal control. Internal Audit First line of defense: Second line of defense: Third line of defense: undertakes regular risk-based, objective and critical audits. These functions also monitor the Group and Brand Risk Management, Control, Internal Audit effectiveness of corrective actions undertaken by management. Management Compliance and other specialized functions Compliance and integrity Role Role Role Compliance and ethics Own and manage Facilitate, support and challenge Provide At Ahold Delhaize, our shared values support an ethical culture and are the foundation of our the risk business in implementing independent commitment to conduct our business by doing what’s right, every day. Our Code of Ethics is based effective risk management assurance on four ethical principles: • We respect each other: People are our most valuable assets. We are committed to providing a safe, secure and inclusive environment where all associates and customers are respected and appreciated. Monitoring and assurance A key element of our GRC framework is monitoring and assurance. We use a comprehensive business • We follow the law: We comply with applicable laws and regulations everywhere we do business planning and performance review process to monitor the Company’s performance. This process and do not tolerate violations of the law. covers the adoption of strategy, budgeting and the reporting of current and projected results. We • We act ethically in all our relationships and avoid conflicts of interest. assess business performance according to both financial and non-financial (including sustainability) • We have the courage to speak up when misconduct or ethical violations are observed, or when targets. In order to meet business needs and the requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance there are questions regarding the interpretation or application of our Code or other external laws Code, we have a Group-wide management certification process in place, which requires that the and regulations and internal policies and standards. executive management team members at each of our reporting entities send letters of representation to the Financial Disclosure Committee on a quarterly basis. These letters confirm whether the reporting Applying our values and ethical principles enables associates to make good choices and protect our entities follow Ahold Delhaize’s Code of Ethics, policies on fraud prevention and detection, accounting relationships with our colleagues, our customers and our communities. The Code of Ethics is intended and internal control standards, and disclosure requirements. to help each associate comply with relevant legal and regulatory obligations and make ethical choices as it relates to our business. The Code of Ethics also provides guidance on when and where to ask for advice or report a compliance or ethics breach, including by means of whistleblower lines available to associates in each of our locations. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 104 How we manage risk The principles in the Code apply to all associates of Ahold Delhaize and its businesses. Associates of certain defined grade levels are trained in compliance with the Code on an annual basis. The full Code is available in the corporate governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com. In addition to our Code of Ethics, we have a global policy and control framework that addresses and monitors key risks to our business. These policies and controls relate to internal processes (e.g., financial reporting, capital investments, purchasing and tax) as well as to legal and regulatory risks (e.g., data privacy, competition and antitrust, and corruption and bribery). Whistleblower reporting Ahold Delhaize and its brands provide reporting options for associates, including the Speak Up line, a global reporting line that is monitored by Navex, a third-party provider. The Speak Up line is available to report potential misconduct or to seek guidance regarding ethical issues, and is accessible either by telephone or internet, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In 2019, our whistleblower lines received 6,653 reports, over 86% of which were related to routine HR issues. The remaining reports relate primarily to misconduct or inappropriate behavior; unfair treatment; and bullying or threats of violence. Approximately 40.5% of the reports were made anonymously. On average, reports were investigated and resolved within 19 days. In 2019, there were no substantiated reports of significant financial reporting, accounting, fraud or ethical violations. Additionally, the Ahold Delhaize Compliance and Ethics team maintains and monitors an email box (ethics@aholddelhaize.com) that can be used to report potential ethical or compliance concerns and to seek guidance regarding ethical dilemmas. Corruption and bribery Ahold Delhaize and its brands are committed to conducting business in an ethically responsible manner and complying with the law in all countries and jurisdictions in which we operate. This commitment specifically includes compliance with laws relating to anti-corruption and bribery. The Ahold Delhaize Code of Ethics and our Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy prohibit any form of corruption or bribery, including facilitation payments. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 105 Declarations Introduction With respect to financial reporting based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial This 2019 Ahold Delhaize Annual Report dated February 25, 2020, (the Annual Report) comprises reporting is prepared on a going concern basis and management has assessed whether the risk regulated information within the meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the Dutch Act on Financial management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that the 2019 financial statements do Supervision “Wet op het financieel toezicht.” not contain any material misstatements. This assessment was based on the criteria set out in COSO: Internal Control – Integrated Framework 2013 and our internal control framework. It included tests of the For the consolidated and the parent company’s 2019 financial statements “jaarrekening” within the design and operating effectiveness of entity-level controls, transactional controls at significant locations meaning of section 2:361 of the Dutch Civil Code, see Financial performance: Financial statements. and relevant general computer controls. Any control weaknesses not fully remediated at year-end were The members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board have signed the 2019 financial evaluated. Based on this assessment, the Management Board determined that the Company’s financial statements pursuant to their obligation under section 2:101, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The reporting systems are adequately designed, operated effectively in 2019 and provide reasonable following sections of this Annual Report together form the management report, or the “bestuursverslag” assurance that the financial statements are free of material misstatement. within the meaning of section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code: Strategic report, Our Management Board and Executive Committee, Our Supervisory Board, Corporate governance, How we manage risk, Management Board Remuneration and the subsection Remuneration included in the Supervisory Board report. Frans Muller President and Chief Executive Officer For other information, or “overige gegevens” within the meaning of section 2:392 of the Dutch Civil Code, see section Other information under Financial performance. Jeff Carr Chief Financial Officer Declarations Kevin Holt The members of the Management Board, as required by section 5:25c, paragraph 2, under c of the Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA Dutch Act on Financial Supervision, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Wouter Kolk • The 2019 financial statements included in this Annual Report give a true and fair view of the assets, Chief Executive Officer Europe and Indonesia liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole. This Annual Report, including the 2019 financial statements, which are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., has been presented to the Supervisory Board. • The management report included in this Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as of December 29, The 2019 financial statements and the independent auditor’s report relating to the audit of the 2019 2019, and of the development and performance of the business for the financial year then ended. financial statements were discussed with the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in the presence of the • The management report includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Management Board and the external independent auditor. The Supervisory Board recommends that Company faces. the General Meeting of Shareholders adopt the 2019 financial statements included in this Annual Report and recommends the proposal to pay a cash dividend for the financial year 2019 of €0.76 per Annual declaration on internal risk management and control systems common share. An amount of €0.30 per common share was paid as interim dividend on August 22, The Management Board, as required by section 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, 2019. The remaining amount of €0.46 per common share shall be payable on April 23, 2020. makes the following declaration: Supervisory Board The Management Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal risk Jan Hommen (Chairman) management and control systems. Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) of failure to achieve important business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) assurance against material misstatement or loss. This report provides sufficient insights into any René Hooft Graafland significant deficiencies in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems. Ben Noteboom Management is not aware of any critical failings of these systems during 2019. Mary Anne Citrino This report includes those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the Dominique Leroy Company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the report. Katie Doyle Peter Agnefjäll Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 106 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Looking forward Dear shareholder, In 2017, the European Parliament adopted the Shareholder Rights Directive II, which is now being Bill McEwan I am pleased to present our 2019 implemented in national legislation in EU member states and aims to increase long-term shareholder Chairman of the Remuneration engagement in listed companies seated in the European Union. In light of the new legislation, Committee of the Supervisory Board Remuneration report. This year, the Remuneration Committee conducted an analysis of our remuneration policies and disclosures. we redesigned the structure and Based on this, we will propose to the 2020 General Meeting of Shareholders that the current presentation of our report to Remuneration Policy for the Management Board is supplemented with our Principles and Procedures, be more complete, transparent which articulate our existing remuneration principles and provide more details regarding our remuneration governance and how we seek alignment with our stakeholders. and reader-friendly. It now provides additional detailed information The principles we apply to the remuneration of key management personnel are the same as those we apply to the remuneration of all our associates. As one of the world’s leading food retail groups, regarding the remuneration of the Ahold Delhaize and its brands employ over 380,000 associates, who are engaged, experienced and members of the Management Board passionate about serving our customers and communities. Our great local brands are dedicated to and Supervisory Board. being good employers and will continue to improve their working conditions with an engaged, inclusive, balanced and healthy workplace for all associates. We believe this will enable us to attract, develop and retain the best talent and capabilities that will allow us to stay in the lead. The Remuneration Committee will also propose to the General Meeting of Shareholders a new Remuneration Policy for the Supervisory Board that continues existing practice while updating In the sections below, I will look back on the Remuneration Committee’s activities in 2019, including the remuneration structure and levels to the current circumstances following our successful merger remuneration outcomes, and discuss our remuneration approach for 2020 and beyond. and integration. The aforementioned Principles and Procedures will also be an integral part of this new policy. 2019 in review We aim to disclose clear and understandable information on individual Management Board member In 2019, the Remuneration Committee performed a thorough review of the Remuneration Policy remuneration. This year’s Remuneration report introduces new tables that provide additional insight into for the Management Board to ensure it was still aligned to support our Leading Together strategy and the total remuneration received by each member of the Management Board, as well as the performance the long-term growth of the Company. Following this, the Supervisory Board proposed an amended realized and the payout of our incentive plans. I trust that you will find these additions to the report valuable. Remuneration Policy that reflected even stronger alignment with the interests of all our stakeholders. The introduction of key annual strategic imperatives to our short-term incentive plan and an earnings In 2019, we announced that our CFO Jeff Carr will not stand for another term as member of the per share growth measure to our long-term incentive plan, tied our Remuneration Policy even more Management Board after his current term expires. We also announced the appointment of Natalie closely to performance on our strategy. The amended Policy was adopted by the General Meeting of Knight as Ahold Delhaize’s Executive Vice President Finance and member of the Executive Committee, Shareholders on April 10, 2019, by a vote of 92.09% in favor. effective March 1, 2020. Natalie will be nominated by the Supervisory Board to be appointed as a member of the Management Board at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020, Throughout the year, we continued to closely monitor and take into account developments in the global, officially succeeding Jeff as CFO. At this same meeting, we will also propose the reappointment of regional, and local labor markets when making recommendations to the Supervisory Board about Kevin Holt as a member of the Management Board in the capacity of CEO of Ahold Delhaize USA. Management Board remuneration. We also engaged with our stakeholders to discuss the feedback The individual remuneration packages for Natalie and Kevin are detailed in the AGM circular released we received during the 2019 General Meeting of Shareholders and our approach to the remuneration alongside this annual report. of key management personnel going forward. I look forward to presenting our proposals and this Remuneration report at our annual General Meeting With respect to Company performance, we faced some challenges, such as the strike at Stop & Shop, of Shareholders on April 8, 2020. while at the same time, we outperformed on the online sales growth target for the short-term incentive and the Sustainable Retailing target for the long-term incentive. All in all, this resulted in a bonus payout On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, level that is slightly below target and a relatively low vesting percentage for our equity-based incentive Bill McEwan plan in 2020. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 107 Remuneration policy Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy for the Management Board was prepared in accordance with the Market competitive pay Dutch Corporate Governance Code. It was adapted by the General Meeting of Shareholders on April The competitiveness of the Management Board remuneration is benchmarked annually. The 10, 2019. The remuneration policy became effective retroactively as of January 1, 2019. benchmark peer group consists of a total of 18 peer companies in Europe and the United States as well as AEX and BEL20 listed companies. This labor market peer group reflects the Company’s Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy aims at attracting, motivating and retaining the best qualified geographic operating areas and the markets most relevant in relation to the recruitment and retention talent. The Supervisory Board designed the Management Board Remuneration Policy to align with the of top management. Company’s strategy and to support the pay-for-performance culture, with an effective and transparent European peers U.S. peers AEX and BEL20 remuneration policy. Tesco Kroger Unilever The policy contemplates the various risks and scenarios associated with variable compensation elements. Carrefour Costco Philips Remuneration philosophy Metro Cash & Carry Target Heineken The basic elements of the Total Direct Compensation provided to Management Board members are Casino Guichard Perrachon Walgreens Boots Randstad (1) a base salary, (2) an annual cash incentive, and (3) a long-term equity-based program. In addition Alliance to the Total Direct Compensation, members of the Management Board are offered pensions and J Sainsbury Best Buy Akzo Nobel additional arrangements in line with local practices. W M Morrison Lowe’s Companies AB InBev In support of the Company’s strategy and performance culture, the Total Direct Compensation for the Management Board is structured with variable shortand long-term incentives tied to the realization of To accommodate potential changes in the labor market peer group due to delistings, mergers or other financial and non-financial performance criteria. These performance criteria are cornerstone elements extraordinary circumstances, the Supervisory Board may exercise discretion to substitute comparable of the Company’s strategy. companies. In general, geographical composition leads replacement determination. For example, if a U.S.-based company drops out, it is generally replaced by a U.S.-based company. The short-term incentive is focused on the fundamental key financial metrics of a retail organization: sales growth, underlying operating margin and operating cash flow. Our Company’s goal is to expand The composition (risk profile) of the Total Direct Compensation levels is considered when benchmarking market share, while focusing on margins to increase profitability and prudently managing capital base salary levels. The target Total Direct Compensation level is typically at or near the median, while spending and expenses to secure strong and sustainable cash flow. In addition to these financial consideration is given to the size of Ahold Delhaize relative to the peer group, with a fixed to variable metrics, the short-term incentive includes specific goals for key strategic imperatives that reflect and pay ratio that supports the pay for performance culture and a long-term strategic focus. support the Company’s vision and strategic goals. An individual exception to the Management Board Remuneration Policy has been applied for the CEO The long-term incentive is measured against (i) an internal measure on Return on Capital (“RoC”), Ahold Delhaize USA (Kevin Holt). The Supervisory Board has and will determine the remuneration for (ii) an internal measure of the Company’s growth in profitability (earnings per share growth or “EPS”), the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA on the basis of a local reference market, the U.S. retail labor market (iii) an external measure of the Company’s share performance relative to that of its peers (Total reference group. Shareholder Return or “TSR”) and (iv) the Company’s contribution to society through sustainability Base salary objectives. Performance for long-term incentives is calculated over a revolving three-year period. The level of the base salary of the members of the Management Board is derived, as one component, The structure of the Management Board Remuneration Policy aligns the focus of the Management from the benchmarking of Total Direct Compensation. Adjustment of individual base salaries is at the Board with the interests of the Company’s shareholders, the Company’s stakeholders and society at discretion of the Supervisory Board. large. Compensation and awards are tied to and dependent on the delivery of the Company’s strategy in a socially responsible and sustainable manner. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 108 Remuneration policy Annual cash incentive plan: Executive Committee Incentive Plan TSR position Payout The Management Board members participate in the Executive Committee (ExCo) Incentive Plan (EIP). Ranking 1 150% The EIP annual cash incentive plan employs three financial measures: sales growth (30%), underlying Ranking 2 125% operating margin (30%) and operating cash flow (20%). In addition, key strategic imperatives (20%) are Ranking 3 110% included. In support of the pay-for-performance culture and in recognition of the Company’s focus on Ranking 4 100% margins, the underlying operating margin measure will serve as a threshold. Ranking 5 75% The at-target pay-out as a percentage of base salary is 100%, contingent on full achievement of the Ranking 6 50% objectives, with a cap at 150% of the at-target value in the event of above-target performance. Ranking 7-12 —% Long-term equity-based program: Global Reward Opportunity TSR performance peer group The Management Board members participate in the Company’s long-term incentive program: Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Under the GRO program, shares are granted with a three-year vesting Tesco Kroger period. The vesting of these performance share units is subject to Company performance over the Carrefour Costco period of these three years. The GRO program employs three financial measures: RoC (35%), EPS Metro Cash & Carry Target growth (35%) and TSR (15%). In addition, a non-financial performance measure (15%) is included Casino Guichard Perrachon Walgreens Boots Alliance related to Sustainable Retailing targets. J Sainsbury Walmart In line with market practice, the target value of long-term incentives granted varies per role. For the W M Morrison CEO, the target value is 235% of base salary; for the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA, the target value is 200% of base salary; for the CFO, the target value is 175% of base salary; and for the CEO Ahold To accommodate potential changes in the performance peer group due to delisting, mergers or other Delhaize Europe and Indonesia, the target value is 150% of base salary. extraordinary circumstances, the Supervisory Board may exercise discretion to substitute comparable companies. Linked to Return on Capital Of the total GRO award, 35% is linked to a three-year RoC target. As determined by performance, Linked to Sustainable Retailing the number of share units that vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number Of the total GRO award, 15% is determined based on the achievement of targets related to the of performance share units granted. Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic ambitions. Dependent on performance, the number of share units that vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. Linked to earnings per share growth Of the total GRO award, 35% is linked to a three-year EPS growth target. As determined by Shareholding requirements and ownership guidelines performance, the number of performance share units that vest may range between zero and a Management Board members must retain the shares awarded under the GRO program for a minimum maximum of 150% of the number of share units granted. of five years from the grant date. The sale of a portion of the shares is permissible to finance tax due at the date of vesting. The CEO is required to acquire and hold shares in the Company with a value equal Linked to Total Shareholder Return to at least 300% of his or her annual base salary. All other members of the Management Board are Of the total GRO award, 15% is determined based on TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over required to hold shares in the Company with a value at least equal to 200% of their respective base the performance period) benchmarked against a TSR performance peer group. The number of share salaries. The holding may be built up by retaining all after-tax shares from the GRO program and does units that vest is determined based on the Company’s relative ranking within the peer group. An not require personal share purchases. independent external advisor determines the ranking based on TSR performance. No share units will vest to Management Board members if the Company ranks below the sixth position in the performance Claw-back peer group. The table below indicates the percentage of performance share units that may vest based A claw-back provision is in place and may be applied to the Management Board members’ annual cash on the Company’s ranking. incentive plan (EIP) as well as the long-term equity incentive program (GRO). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 109 Remuneration policy Pensions and other contract terms Loans Pension The Company does not provide loans to members of the Management Board, nor does the Company All existing pension arrangements in the Netherlands are in line with the applicable fiscal pension issue guarantees to the benefit of members of the Management Board. regulations. The pension plan for Management Board members is calculated in a way that is consistent Additional arrangements with plans for all other associates of the Company in the Netherlands and is referred to as a defined In addition to the remuneration of the Management Board members, a number of additional benefit plan, based on career average salary. The (current) retirement age is 68. The pensionable arrangements apply. These include expense allowances, insurance, use of company cars and, where salary is capped at or near €100,000 (2019: €102,487). Each Management Board member working applicable, expatriate allowances, which apply to other senior associates and are in line with practice under a Dutch contract pays a pension premium contribution identical to that of all other associates in the relevant market. In addition, third-party tax services are provided to ensure compliance with the of the Company in the Netherlands. relevant legislative requirements. In addition, Management Board members working under a Dutch contract receive a gross (Service) Agreements (age-dependent) pension allowance and can choose to participate in a Net Pension Arrangement by The term of appointment for all Management Board members is four years. If the Company terminates investing the net (after tax) amount of the pension allowance. The Net Pension Arrangement is identical the (service) agreement of any member of the Management Board, the severance payment is limited to that of all other associates of the Company in the Netherlands whose pensionable salary exceeds the to one year’s base salary. The agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period cap. Participation in this Net Pension Arrangement is voluntary. of twelve months and by the Management Board member with a notice period of six months. Members of the Management Board working under a non-Dutch contract are offered pensions in line with local practices. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 110 2019 Remuneration 2019 Management Board remuneration The actual remuneration of the members of the Management Board in 2019 was determined by the Performance realized Supervisory Board in accordance with the Remuneration Policy for the Management Board as adopted Performance measure Weight Performance multiplier by the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019. The existing individual exception for Kevin 2019 2018 Holt, as accepted by the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, 2017, remained in force in 2019. Sales growth (ex. gasoline) 30% 56% 97% Base salary Underlying operating margin 30% 84% 94% Effective from January 2019, the base salaries of the members of the Management Board were adjusted Operating cash flow 20%1 96% 146% at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. The adjustments amounted to 3% for Frans Muller, Jeff Carr Strategic imperatives 20%2 139% 100% and Wouter Kolk and 6% for Kevin Holt. In determining the base salaries, the Remuneration Committee Total (%) 100% 89% 111% took into consideration developments in the market, as well as individual and Company performance. 1 In 2018, 30% of the EIP performance was based on operating cash flow. Base salaries per Management Board member 2 In 2018, 10% of the EIP performance was based on personal objectives. € thousand 2019 2018 Actual EIP payout Frans Muller1 1,085 1,040 2019 2018 Chief Executive Officer Base Performance Actual Actual Jeff Carr 769 747 € thousand salary Target bonus multiplier bonus1 bonus4 Chief Financial Officer Frans Muller 100% of base Kevin Holt2 955 856 Chief Executive Officer 1,085 salary: €1,085 89% 965 1,196 CEO Ahold Delhaize USA Jeff Carr 100% of base Wouter Kolk3 649 457 Chief Financial Officer 769 salary: €769 89% 685 830 CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia Kevin Holt2 100% of base CEO Ahold Delhaize USA 955 salary: €955 89% 851 972 1 The 2018 remuneration comprises the remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as Deputy CEO (€1,027 thousand Wouter Kolk3 per annum) and from July 1, 2018, in his capacity as CEO (€1,053 thousand per annum). 2 The 2018 and 2019 salaries have been converted from U.S. dollars into euros, for 2019 using the 2019 year-to-date average CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe 100% of base dollar-euro exchange rate of 0.8934, for 2018 using the 2018 year-to-date average dollar-euro exchange rate of 0.8476. and Indonesia 649 salary: €649 89% 578 508 3 The 2018 remuneration reflects the remuneration for the period from his appointment to the Management Board on April 11, 2018 (€630 thousand per annum). 1 The 2019 EIP represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in 2020, subject to shareholder approval of the financial statements. Annual cash incentive plan: EIP 2 The 2018 and 2019 figures have been converted from U.S. dollars into euros, for 2019 using the 2019 year-to-date average The members of the Management Board participated in the annual cash-based Executive Committee dollar-euro exchange rate of 0.8934, for 2018 using the 2018 year-to-date average dollar-euro exchange rate of 0.8476. Incentive Plan (EIP). The 2019 EIP employed three financial measures: sales growth (30%), underlying 3 The 2018 remuneration reflects the remuneration for the period from his appointment to the Management Board on April 11, 2018. operating margin (30%), and operating cash flow (20%). In addition, key strategic imperatives (20%) 4 The 2018 EIP represents the actual amount paid in 2019. were included. For 2019, the single strategic imperative was consumer online sales growth. Performance targets are revised annually to ensure they are challenging but realistic. Ahold Delhaize does not disclose the actual targets per performance measure, as this would require the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. The on-target payout as a percentage of base salary was 100%, contingent on the full achievement of the objectives, with a cap at 150% of the target in the event of above-target performance. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 111 2019 Remuneration Definitions of EIP performance measures Long-term equity-based program: GRO Performance measure Definition Relevance to our strategy The members of the Management Board participated in Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based Sales growth Sales growth (excluding gasoline) incentive program, the Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Under the GRO program, performance (ex. gasoline) quantifies how much sales grew shares were granted with a three-year vesting period. The vesting of these shares is subject to year-over-year, excluding gasoline Company performance over the period of these three years. Our goal is to expand market share, sales, expressed as a percentage of while at the same time focusing Performance targets are determined for the three-year performance period based on the Company’s last year’s sales (excluding gasoline). on margins to increase profitability strategy and long-term planning. Ahold Delhaize does not disclose the actual targets per performance Underlying operating Underlying operating margin is and managing capital spending and measure, as this would require the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. margin the result of dividing underlying expenses prudently in order to secure Award of new grants operating profit (excluding gasoline a strong and sustainable cash flow The 2019 GRO share grant was made the day after the 2019 annual General Meeting of operating profit) by third-party sales that allows us to cover financial Shareholders (April 11, 2019). The vesting of the 2019 GRO performance shares in 2022 will be (excluding gasoline sales). obligations, make investments in the subject to performance on three financial measures: RoC (35%), EPS (35%) and TSR (15%). In addition, Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is defined as business and remunerate existing a non-financial performance measure (15%) is included that relates to sustainability targets. For the the cash flows generated by the core shareholders. purpose of the 2019 share grant, Sustainable Retailing is measured on the basis of the percentage operations of the Company, adjusted of healthy own-brand food sales as a proportion of total own-brand food sales. We use this measure for net lease payments and after tax. to drive performance in pursuit of our company objective to facilitate healthier eating. Strategic imperatives Strategic imperatives are one or more variable performance measures that are defined annually by the Supervisory Board and that Net consumer online sales growth highlight specific strategic and key reflects our focus on omnichannel business priorities of the Company. growth. For 2019, net consumer online sales growth was the single strategic imperative. This will also be the case for 2020. For incentive purposes, performance is calculated using constant rates to ensure individuals are not rewarded nor penalized for foreign exchange rate developments, but only for true business performance. For incentive purposes, we look at operating cash flow in order to reflect the true business performance of our operations. In case of unforeseen or unusual circumstances occurring during the performance period that have an impact on the performance of the incentive plan as assessed at the end of the performance period, the Supervisory Board may consider an adjustment, in accordance with the principles of reasonableness and fairness. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 112 2019 Remuneration On-target 2019 GRO share grant and maximum vesting Vesting of previous grants Performance shares The vesting of the 2016 and 2017 GRO grants was subject to performance on two financial RoC EPS TSR Sustainability Total at-target Total maximum performance measures: RoC (40%) and TSR (40%). In addition, Sustainable Retailing (20%) targets (35%) (35%) (15%) (15%) grant vesting were included. For the purposes of the 2016 and 2017 share grant, Sustainable Retailing was measured Frans Muller 82% 82% 35% 35% 235% 353% on the basis of an equally weighted external and internal target. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index Chief Executive Officer (the external target) measured how the Company performed on sustainability against peers in the Jeff Carr 61% 61% 26% 26% 175% 263% sector. The percentage of own-brand food sales from healthy products (the internal target) is the Chief Financial Officer measure we used to drive performance in pursuit of our company objective to facilitate healthier eating. Kevin Holt 70% 70% 30% 30% 200% 300% Performance realized CEO Ahold Delhaize Performance measure Weight Performance multiplier USA 2017 grant 2016 grant Wouter Kolk 53% 53% 23% 23% 150% 225% (to vest in 2020) (vested in 2019) CEO Ahold Delhaize Total shareholder return 40% 50% 50% Europe and Indonesia Return on capital 40% 65% 91% All percentages constitute a percentage of base salary. Sustainable Retailing1 20% 110% 121% 2019 GRO share grant calculation – Example: Frans Muller, Chief Executive Officer Total (%) 100% 68% 81% Number of shares 1 For the 2017 grant, the overall Sustainable Retailing performance multiplier is based on a 70% achievement against our Dow At-target Award value granted (award value Jones Sustainability Index target, and a 150% achievement against our own-brand food sales from healthy products target. share grant (base salary divided by six-month (% of base salary) at-target grant %) average share price) RoC performance shares 82% €892,210 40,374 EPS performance shares 82% €892,210 40,374 TSR performance shares 35% €382,376 17,304 Sustainability performance shares 35% €382,376 17,304 Total 235% €2,549,172 115,356 Table assumes a base salary of €1,084,754 and a six-month average share price of €22.0988. 2019 GRO share grant calculation – Example: Jeff Carr, Chief Financial Officer Number of shares At-target Award value granted (award value share grant (base salary divided by six-month (% of base salary) at-target grant %) average share price) RoC performance shares 61% €471,200 21,323 EPS performance shares 61% €471,200 21,323 TSR performance shares 26% €201,943 9,139 Sustainability performance shares 26% €201,943 9,139 Total 175% €1,346,286 60,924 Table assumes a base salary of €769,306 and a six-month average share price of €22.0988. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 113 2019 Remuneration 2017 GRO share grant (to vest in 2020)1 2016 GRO share grant (vested in 2019)1 Total number of Total number of Total number of Total number of shares granted shares to vest Estimated value shares granted shares vested Total value in 2017 Multiplier in 2020 Share price2 in € thousand2 in 2016 Multiplier in 2019 Share price in € thousand Frans Muller Frans Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer 2017 TSR grant 41,152 50% 20,576 2016 Performance (TSR) 30,162 50% 15,081 2017 RoC grant 41,152 65% 26,748 2016 Performance (RoC) 30,162 91% 27,447 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,576 110% 22,633 2016 Performance (Sustainability) 15,082 121% 18,249 Total vesting April 9, 2020 102,880 69,957 €22.75 1,592 Total vesting March 15, 2019 75,406 60,777 €22.66 1,377 Jeff Carr 2016 TSR grant 41,035 50% 20,517 Chief Financial Officer 2016 RoC grant 41,035 91% 37,341 2017 TSR grant 25,662 50% 12,831 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,518 121% 24,826 2017 RoC grant 25,662 65% 16,680 Total vesting April 11, 2019 102,588 82,684 €23.06 1,907 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,831 110% 14,114 Jeff Carr Total vesting April 9, 2020 64,155 43,625 €22.75 992 Chief Financial Officer Kevin Holt 2016 TSR grant 24,168 50% 12,084 CEO Ahold Delhaize USA 2016 RoC grant 24,168 91% 21,992 2017 TSR grant 34,563 50% 17,281 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,084 121% 14,621 2017 RoC grant 34,563 65% 22,465 Total vesting April 11, 2019 60,420 48,697 €23.06 1,123 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 17,282 110% 19,010 Kevin Holt Total vesting April 9, 2020 86,408 58,756 €22.75 1,337 CEO Ahold Delhaize USA Wouter Kolk 2016 TSR grant 27,416 50% 13,708 CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe 2016 RoC grant 27,416 91% 24,948 and Indonesia 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 13,708 121% 16,586 2017 TSR grant 15,020 50% 7,510 Total vesting April 11, 2019 68,540 55,242 €23.06 1,274 2017 RoC grant 15,020 65% 9,763 Wouter Kolk 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 7,510 110% 8,261 CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Total vesting April 9, 2020 37,550 25,534 €22.75 581 Indonesia 2016 TSR grant 17,059 50% 8,529 1 The 2017 GRO grant was awarded on April 13, 2017. 2 The estimated value is based on the closing share price as of December 29, 2019, of €22.75. The actual value will be determined 2016 RoC grant 17,059 91% 15,523 at vesting on April 9, 2020. 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 8,530 121% 10,321 Total vesting April 11, 2019 42,648 34,373 €23.06 793 1 The 2016 GRO grant was awarded on September 1, 2016, except for the 2016 performance grant for Frans Muller, which was awarded on March 15, 2016. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 114 2019 Remuneration Definitions of GRO performance measures Performance measure Definition Relevance to our strategy Total Shareholder Return (TSR) TSR is share price growth and dividends paid over the performance period. TSR is used to compare the performance of different companies and stocks over time. The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance of the Company relative to a reference group. Earnings per share growth (EPS) Underlying EPS is the underlying income from continuing operations EPS reflects our focus on growth, measured through revenue growth. of the Company divided by the weighted average number of shares for the year. The growth is measured by dividing the EPS at the start of the performance period versus the end of the performance period. Return on Capital (RoC) RoC is calculated as underlying operating income before depreciation RoC is used as a measure of how effective we are at turning our investments and amortization divided by the annual rolling average of the sum of into profit. company-owned property, plant and equipment at purchase price, intangible assets (excluding goodwill) at purchase price, operating working capital components, and repayment of lease liabilities divided by 8%. Sustainable Retailing Sustainable Retailing comprises different performance measures that reflect Our businesses flourish when our communities are healthy and resilient. our long-standing commitment to sustainability. For the 2019 GRO grant, When we make it easy and fun for associates and customers to eat healthier, Sustainable Retailing is measured on the basis of the percentage of healthy we grow sales, while at the same time potentially helping to bring down own-brand food sales as a proportion of total own-brand food sales. We use disease rates and enable future generations to thrive. this measure to drive performance in pursuit of our company objective to facilitate healthier eating. In 2020, we will introduce additional Sustainable Retailing performance criteria for our long-term, equity-based incentive program, including targets for healthy sales, food waste reduction, plastic waste reduction, and carbon-equivalent emissions. For incentive purposes, performance is calculated using constant rates to ensure individuals are not rewarded nor penalized for foreign exchange rate developments, but only for true business performance. In case of unforeseen or unusual circumstances occurring during the performance period that have an impact on the performance of the incentive plan as assessed at the end of the performance period, the Supervisory Board may consider an adjustment, in accordance with the principles of reasonableness and fairness. With respect to EPS growth specifically, planned or anticipated corporate events occurring during the performance period, including share buybacks, transactions and M&A activity, that may, positively or negatively, affect EPS performance, are always factored into the performance targets. In case of a significant unplanned share buyback that was not taken into the budget, an adjustment will be made to ensure that EPS performance for incentive purposes is not positively affected. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 115 2019 Remuneration Total remuneration The following table provides an overview of the remuneration costs expensed in 2019 and 2018 per Management Board member. The costs reported here are not, in all cases, equal to the compensation that was actually received by the individual Management Board member. Share-based compensation expense represents the non-cash cost for Ahold Delhaize of performance shares awarded to members of the Management Board. These costs are recognized over the three-year vesting period of the performance shares in accordance with IFRS 2, “Share-based Payment.” The actual value of the 2016 GRO share grant as received in 2019 by each individual Management Board member is detailed in the table 2016 GRO share grant (vested in 2019). The actual value of the 2017 GRO share grant that will vest in 2020 is contingent on the share price at the vesting date of April 9, 2020. The number of shares that are expected to vest is detailed in the table 2017 GRO share grant (to vest in 2020). Total remuneration in 2019 and 2018 per Management Board member Annual cash incentive Long-term equity-based Base salary Other2 Pension4 Total remuneration Fixed vs. variable remuneration5 plan: EIP1 program: GRO3 € thousand 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Frans Muller Costs (IFRS) 1,971 2,324 4,356 4,989 27%-73% 23%-77% 1,085 1,040 965 1,196 248 220 87 209 Entitlement8 1,592 3,284 3,977 5,949 30%-70% 19%-81% Jeff Carr6 Costs (IFRS) 1,732 976 3,463 2,857 24%-76% 29%-71% 769 747 685 830 244 268 33 36 Entitlement8 992 1,123 2,723 3,004 31%-69% 28%-72% Kevin Holt Costs (IFRS) 1,270 1,211 3,714 3,598 31%-69% 28%-72% 955 856 851 972 429 363 209 196 Entitlement8 1,337 1,274 3,781 3,661 30%-70% 28%-72% Wouter Kolk7 Costs (IFRS) 400 215 1,827 1,323 40%-60% 39%-61% 649 457 578 508 168 119 32 24 Entitlement8 581 793 2,008 1,901 36%-64% 26%-74% 1 The 2019 EIP represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in 2020 and subject to shareholder approval of the financial statements. The individual 2018 EIP amounts also include the component linked to individual performance. 2 “Other” mainly includes gross allowances for net pension, tax compensation (tax equalization charges or refunds for expatriates), allowances for housing expenses, relocation costs, international school fees, employer’s contributions to social security plans, benefits in kind such as company cars, tax advice, medical expenses and the associated tax gross up. 3 The fair value of each year’s grant is determined on the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The expense for 2019 reflects this year’s portion of the share grants over the previous four years (plans 2016 to 2019). 4 Pension costs are the total net periodic pension costs of the applicable pension plans. 5 Fixed pay comprises the base salary. Variable pay comprises the annual cash incentive plan and the long-term equity-based program. 6 Jeff Carr’s employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 9, 2020, without any severance payment due. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest at the regular vesting dates. An estimate of these costs in the amount of €921 thousand was recognized in 2019. 7 Wouter Kolk was appointed as member of the Management Board effective April 11, 2018. His 2018 remuneration reported as member of the Management Board reflects a partial year. 8 The 2019 entitlement value for the long-term equity-based program is the estimated value based on the closing share price as of December 29, 2019, of €22.75 and as presented in the table 2017 GRO share grant (to vest in 2020). The actual value will be determined at vesting on April 9, 2020. The 2018 entitlement value for the long-term equity-based program is the value of the 2016 grant which vested in 2019. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 116 2019 Remuneration Management Board remuneration in context The following table shows the pay ratio of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, This section places the remuneration of the members of the Management Board and its development Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA and Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize Europe and over time in the broader context of the average remuneration of our associates and the Company’s Indonesia compared to the average remuneration of all Ahold Delhaize associates. performance, and, with respect to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, external peers. Pay ratio 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 The following table sets out the total remuneration for the members of the Management Board, the Chief Executive Officer1 105 124 114 119 98 average remuneration of all associates across the group, and the overall annual performance multiplier Chief Financial Officer 83 71 71 71 62 and long-term incentive vesting rates for 2015 through 2019. To ensure consistency with our standing CEO Ahold Delhaize USA 2 89 90 74 — — disclosure practice and to allow for external comparison, the Management Board remuneration detailed CEO Ahold Delhaize below reflects the remuneration costs expensed per Management Board member for the respective Europe and Indonesia3 44 — — — — year. Likewise, the average remuneration of all associates is calculated as the total (IFRS-based) labor 1 For 2018 and 2019, CEO refers to Frans Muller. In order to reflect a full-year remuneration, the 2018 remuneration comprises the costs divided by the number of associates on an FTE basis. remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as Deputy CEO, and from July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as CEO. For 2015, 2016, and 2017, CEO refers to Dick Boer. Management Board remuneration and Company performance 2 Since the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA joined the Company on July 24, 2016, full-year numbers for 2015 and 2016 are not available. % % % % 3 Since the CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia was appointed on April 11, 2018, full-year numbers for 2015, 2016, 2017, € thousand 2019 change 2018 change 2017 change 2016 change 2015 and 2018 are not available. Management Board remuneration Chief Executive Officer 4,356 (13)% 4,989 9% 4,577 (3)% 4,714 9% 4,329 Chief Financial Officer 3,463 21% 2,857 1% 2,841 1% 2,802 2% 2,736 CEO Ahold Delhaize USA 3,714 3% 3,598 20% 2,994 CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia 1,827 Average associate remuneration Average FTE remuneration 42 5% 40 –% 40 –% 40 (10)% 44 Company performance Annual cash incentive plan (EIP) overall performance multiplier 89% 111% 93% 108%1 135% Long-term equity-based program (GRO) overall performance multiplier2 68% 81% 108% 146%3 80%4 1 The overall performance multiplier for the 2016 EIP was determined pro-rata for the period up to the merger and after the merger became effective. 2 The GRO overall performance multiplier reflects the total performance in the three-year performance period. 3 The overall performance multiplier reflects post-merger performance. 4 The overall performance multiplier reflects performance on TSR and RoC (equally weighted), and excludes any conditional shares granted. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 117 2019 Remuneration As set out in the Remuneration Policy for the Management Board, the total compensation of our The graph illustrates Ahold Delhaize’s position versus the benchmarked peer group as defined in the Management Board members is positioned around the median level of the peer group we’ve selected Remuneration Policy for the Management Board. for benchmarking. The table on the next page illustrates the pay ratio of our CEO compared to the pay ratios of other CEOs in the peer group. AEX and BEL20 European peers It is important to note that pay ratios across industries are impacted by the different mix of functions U.S. peers from one industry to another. Even within the same industry, comparing pay ratios is challenging due to different market conditions (a mix of highand low-paying countries). Therefore, to put Ahold Delhaize’s CEO pay ratio into perspective, the graph illustrates Ahold Delhaize’s position compared to the companies in the benchmark peer group. The ratios mentioned in the table and the graph are derived from the publicly disclosed 2018 annual reports of the respective companies. For comparison purposes, the ratios have been calculated using the same methodology 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 as used for Ahold Delhaize’s pay ratio. Average AEX and Average Average Average The Supervisory Board will continue to monitor the development of pay ratios both within the Company Ahold Delhaize BEL20 peers European peers U.S. peers full peer group and in comparison with the peer group. 124 128 170 353 217 96.9% 72.9% 35.1% 57.1% Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 118 2019 Remuneration Supervisory Board remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for the members of the Supervisory Board for 2015 through 2019. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board in 2019 was in accordance with the remuneration levels for the Supervisory Board as adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on March 14, 2016. Given the nature of the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, remuneration is not tied to the performance of the Company and therefore only comprises fixed remuneration, delivered in cash. In addition to a base fee, members of the Supervisory Board are offered committee fees and travel compensation contingent upon their activities and responsibilities. The following table details the total remuneration received by each Supervisory Board member in the last five years. Total remuneration per Supervisory Board member1, 2 € thousand 2019 2018 2017 20164 20154 Jan Hommen (reappointed in 2017) 243 249 223 177 122 Bill McEwan (appointed in 2016) 208 209 150 71 — Jacques de Vaucleroy (appointed in 2016) 120 144 170 80 — René Hooft Graafland (reappointed in 2018) 143 145 136 127 114 Ben Noteboom (reappointed in 2017) 125 135 145 133 103 Rob van den Bergh (resigned in 2019) 39 148 148 132 127 Mark McGrath (resigned in 2019) 44 136 143 160 131 Mary Anne Citrino (appointed in 2016) 130 130 133 136 — Dominique Leroy (appointed in 2016) 118 123 125 58 — Katie Doyle (appointed in 2019) 104 — — — — Peter Agnefjäll (appointed in 2019) 104 — — — — Mats Jansson (retired in 2018) — 68 255 115 — Johnny Thijs (resigned in 2018) — 31 128 55 — Patrick De Maeseneire (resigned in 2018) — 32 123 59 — Jack Stahl (resigned in August 2017) — — 111 76 — Stephanie Shern (resigned in April 2017) — — 37 140 127 Derk Doijer (resigned in July 2016) — — — 56 116 Judith Sprieser (resigned in July 2015) — — — — 63 Total remuneration Supervisory Board 1,378 1,550 2,027 1,575 903 Number of Supervisory Board members3 11 12 14 15 8 1 In the execution of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members, the Company has given consideration to the composition and the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board and its related committees, as well as the responsibilities of its individual members. 2 For the members who were appointed or resigned during a year, the remuneration for that respective year reflects a partial year. 3 These numbers include members who were appointed or resigned during the respective years. 4 Up to the date of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, the Ahold remuneration policy applied. This policy was adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 16, 2014. Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy, adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 19, 2016, applies as of July 24, 2016 – the first calendar day after the merger of Ahold and Delhaize was finalized – and reflects the size and complexity of the merged company. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 119 Financial performance Financial statements 181 34 Leases 120 Consolidated income statement 184 35 Commitments and contingencies 121 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 187 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption 192 37 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 122 Consolidated balance sheet 192 38 Subsequent events 123 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 193 Parent company financial statements 124 Consolidated statement of cash flows 193 Income statement 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 194 Balance sheet 125 1 The Company and its operations 195 Notes to the parent company financial statements 125 2 Basis of preparation 195 1 Significant accounting policies 127 3 Significant accounting policies 196 2 Expenses by nature 137 4 Acquisitions 196 3 Employees 137 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations 197 4 Auditor fees 138 6 Segment reporting 197 5 Income taxes 139 7 Net sales 198 6 Intangible assets 140 8 Expenses by nature 199 7 Financial assets 140 9 Net financial expenses 199 8 Receivables 141 10 Income taxes 199 9 Other current financial assets 144 11 Property, plant and equipment 200 10 Shareholders’ equity 145 12 Right-of-use asset 201 11 Provisions 146 13 Investment property 201 12 Loans 147 14 Intangible assets 201 13 Current liabilities 149 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 202 14 Derivatives 151 16 Other non-current financial assets 202 15 Related party transactions 151 17 Inventories 202 16 Commitments and contingencies 151 18 Receivables 202 17 Distribution of profit 152 19 Other current financial assets 203 18 Subsequent events 152 20 Cash and cash equivalents 153 21 Equity attributable to common shareholders Other information 155 22 Loans and credit facilities 156 23 Other non-current financial liabilities 204 Assurance report on the financial statements 156 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 213 Assurance report on non-financial information 164 25 Provisions 165 26 Other non-current liabilities 215 Distribution of profit 165 27 Other current financial liabilities 215 Details of special shareholder rights 165 28 Other current liabilities 165 29 Cash flow 215 Details of shares without profit rights and non-voting shares 167 30 Earnings per share 167 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments 172 32 Related party transactions 176 33 Share-based compensation Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 120 Consolidated € million, except per share data Net sales Note 7 2019 66,260 2018 restated 62,791 income statement Cost of sales 8 (48,200) (45,838) Gross profit 18,060 16,953 Selling expenses (13,021) (12,030) General and administrative expenses (2,377) (2,300) Total operating expenses 8 (15,397) (14,330) Operating income 2,662 2,623 Interest income 65 85 Interest expense (175) (211) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans 24 (18) (19) Interest accretion to lease liability 34 (366) (355) Other financial income (expense) (35) 13 Net financial expenses 9 (528) (487) Income before income taxes 2,134 2,136 Income taxes 10 (417) (373) Share in income of joint ventures 15 50 34 Income from continuing operations 1,767 1,797 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 5 (1) (17) Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,766 1,780 Earnings per share 30 Net income per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.60 1.51 Diluted 1.59 1.49 Income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.60 1.53 Diluted 1.59 1.51 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. See Note 36 for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 121 Consolidated € million Net income Note 2019 1,766 2018 restated 1,780 statement of Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans comprehensive Remeasurements before taxes – income (loss) 24 (76) 66 income Income taxes Other comprehensive income (loss) that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 10 18 (58) (18) 48 Currency translation differences in foreign interests: Continuing operations 241 475 Income taxes 10 (2) — Cash flow hedges: Fair value result for the year (5) 1 Transfers to net income 3 1 Income taxes 10 1 — Non-realized gains (losses) on debt and equity instruments: Fair value result for the period — — Income taxes — — Other comprehensive income of joint ventures – net of income taxes: Share of other comprehensive income from continuing operations 15 — — Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassifiable to profit or loss 238 477 Total other comprehensive income (loss) 180 525 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 1,945 2,305 Attributable to: Continuing operations 1,946 2,322 Discontinued operations (1) (17) Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 1,945 2,305 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. See Note 36 for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 122 Consolidated € million Note December 29, 2019 December 30, 2018 restated January 1, 2018 restated balance sheet Assets Property, plant and equipment 11 10,519 10,046 9,557 Right-of-use asset 12 7,308 7,027 6,970 Investment property 13 883 963 1,016 Intangible assets 14 12,060 11,813 11,410 Investments in joint ventures and associates 15 229 213 205 Other non-current financial assets 16 661 636 596 Deferred tax assets 10 213 166 467 Other non-current assets 49 48 44 Total non-current assets 31,920 30,912 30,265 Assets held for sale 5 67 23 14 Inventories 17 3,347 3,196 3,077 Receivables 18 1,905 1,748 1,605 Other current financial assets 19 317 559 316 Income taxes receivable 39 53 154 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 178 217 257 Cash and cash equivalents 20 3,717 3,122 4,581 Total current assets 9,570 8,918 10,004 Total assets 41,490 39,830 40,269 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to common shareholders 21 14,083 14,205 14,591 Loans 22 3,841 3,683 3,289 Other non-current financial liabilities 23 8,716 8,946 8,921 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 24 677 532 567 Deferred tax liabilities 10 786 682 943 Provisions 25 724 751 748 Other non-current liabilities 26 74 88 57 Total non-current liabilities 14,818 14,682 14,525 Accounts payable 6,311 5,815 5,276 Other current financial liabilities 27 3,257 2,227 3,132 Income taxes payable 82 110 136 Provisions 25 349 312 337 Other current liabilities 28 2,591 2,479 2,272 Total current liabilities 12,590 10,943 11,153 Total equity and liabilities 41,490 39,830 40,269 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. See Note 36 for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 123 Consolidated Share Additional paid-in Currency translation Cash flow hedging Other reserves including retained Equity attributable to common statement of € million Balance as of January 1, 2018, as previously reported Note capital 12 capital 15,175 reserve (555) reserve (4) earnings1 541 shareholders 15,169 changes in equity Effect of change in accounting policy – IFRS 16 — — — — (578) (578) Balance as of January 1, 2018, restated 12 15,175 (555) (4) (37) 14,591 Net income attributable to common shareholders – restated — — — — 1,780 1,780 Other comprehensive income – restated — — 475 2 48 525 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders – restated — — 475 2 1,828 2,305 Dividends — — — — (757) (757) Share buyback — — — — (1,997) (1,997) Cancellation of treasury shares — (1,176) — — 1,176 — Share-based payments — — — — 63 63 Balance as of December 30, 2018, restated 21 12 13,999 (80) (2) 276 14,205 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 1,766 1,766 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 239 (1) (58) 180 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — 239 (1) 1,708 1,945 Dividends — — — — (1,114) (1,114) Share buyback — — — — (1,002) (1,002) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (1,753) — — 1,753 — Share-based payments — — — — 47 47 Other items — — — — 1 1 Balance as of December 29, 2019 21 11 12,246 159 (3) 1,670 14,083 1 Other reserves include the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. See Note 36 for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 124 Consolidated € million Income from continuing operations Note 2019 1,767 2018 restated 1,797 statement of Adjustments for: Net financial expenses 9 528 487 cash flows Income taxes Share in income of joint ventures 10 15 417 (50) 373 (34) Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 2,848 2,660 (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets / disposal groups held for sale (53) (28) Share-based compensation expenses 33 51 60 Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets and liabilities 5,508 5,315 Changes in working capital: Changes in inventories (104) (35) Changes in receivables and other current assets (107) (42) Changes in payables and other current liabilities 535 528 Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities and provisions (25) (126) Cash generated from operations 5,807 5,640 Income taxes paid – net (358) (280) Operating cash flows from continuing operations 5,449 5,360 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations — (2) Net cash from operating activities 5,449 5,358 Purchase of non-current assets (2,218) (1,780) Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 144 27 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 29 (43) (30) Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested 29 (11) (3) Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments 253 (242) Dividends received from joint ventures 15 36 17 Interest received 56 74 Lease payments received on lease receivables 94 86 Other 1 38 Investing cash flows from continuing operations (1,687) (1,813) Investing cash flows from discontinued operations — 1 Net cash from investing activities (1,687) (1,812) Proceeds from long-term debt 29 596 798 Interest paid (189) (227) Repayments of loans 29 (656) (783) Changes in short-term loans 29 689 (733) Repayment of lease liabilities 29 (1,530) (1,392) Dividends paid on common shares 21 (1,114) (757) Share buyback 21 (1,002) (2,003) Other cash flows from derivatives 29 (5) (29) Other (17) (3) Financing cash flows from continuing operations (3,227) (5,129) The accompanying notes are an integral part Financing cash flows from discontinued operations — (4) of these consolidated financial statements. Net cash from financing activities (3,227) (5,133) Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 535 (1,587) See Note 36 for details about the restatement Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (excluding restricted cash) 3,110 4,542 of the 2018 figures due to changes in Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 56 155 accounting policies. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (excluding restricted cash) 29 3,701 3,110 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 125 Notes to the consolidated 1 The Company and its operations The principal activity of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“Ahold Delhaize” or the “Company” or “Group” financial statements or “Ahold Delhaize Group”), a public limited liability company with its registered seat and head office in Zaandam, the Netherlands, is the operation of retail food stores and eCommerce primarily in the United States and Europe. The Company is registered with the Dutch Trade Register under number 35000363. On February 25, 2020, the Management Board authorized the financial statements. The Company has the ability to amend and reissue the financial statements up to the moment the financial statements have been adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The financial statements, as presented in this Annual Report, are subject to adoption by the Ahold Delhaize General Meeting of Shareholders. Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed in Note 37. 2 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Historical cost is used as the measurement basis unless otherwise indicated. Due to the implementation of IFRS 16 and the application of the full retrospective approach, the 2018 comparative figures have been restated. See Note 36 for more details. Also, for more detailed information on the IFRS 16 implementation and the restatement of the 2018 figures, including a quarterly split and explanations, see our IFRS 16 restatement booklet issued on March 25, 2019, and available on our website. Ahold Delhaize’s financial year is a 52or 53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Financial year 2019 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 29, 2019. The comparative financial year 2018 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 30, 2018. These consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of euros (€), unless otherwise stated. Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals provided. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 126 2 Basis of preparation continued The following exchange rates of the euro against the U.S. dollar ($), the Czech crown (CZK), the Management is required to make judgments in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable Romanian leu (RON), and the Serbian dinar (RSD) have been used in the preparation of these and, therefore, recognized in the balance sheet. The Company assesses and weighs all positive and financial statements: negative evidence to support this determination. 2019 2018 Intangible assets (Notes 3, 4 and 14) U.S. dollar Intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are stated at fair value, as determined at the Average exchange rate 0.8934 0.8476 date of the acquisition. To determine the fair value at the acquisition date, judgments and estimates Year-end closing exchange rate 0.8947 0.8738 are required. Czech crown Leases and sale and leaseback transactions (Notes 3, 12 and 34) Average exchange rate 0.0390 0.0390 Where the Company is the lessee, management is required to make judgments about whether an Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0393 0.0388 arrangement contains a lease, the lease term and the appropriate discount rate to calculate the present Romanian leu value of the lease payments. Average exchange rate 0.2108 0.2149 The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be Year-end closing exchange rate 0.2090 0.2146 readily determined, which is generally the case for leases entered into by the Company as lessee, Serbian dinar management uses the incremental borrowing rate, being the rate that the Company would have to pay Average exchange rate 0.0085 0.0085 to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0085 0.0085 economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions. Significant estimates, assumptions and judgments To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company uses a build-up approach that starts with The preparation of financial statements requires management to make a number of estimates and a risk-free interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held by the Company and makes adjustments assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the specific to the lease, for example related to term, country, currency and security. On a quarterly basis, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities which, by definition, will seldom equal the actual results. the Company calculates incremental borrowing rates for each country, broken down into buckets of All assumptions, expectations and forecasts used as a basis for certain estimates within these financial duration and underlying asset leased. statements represent good faith assessments of Ahold Delhaize’s current and future performance In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create for which management believes there is a reasonable basis. They involve risks, uncertainties and an economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. other factors that could cause the Company’s actual future results, performance and achievements to Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if it is differ materially from those forecasted. The estimates, assumptions and judgments that management reasonably certain that the lease will be extended (or not terminated) and, as such, included within considers most critical relate to: lease liabilities. Vendor allowances (Notes 3, 17 and 18) For leases of stores, distribution centers and warehouses, the following factors are normally the When vendor allowances cannot specifically be identified in the purchase price of products, the most relevant: Company must estimate the allowances that are earned based on the fulfillment of its related obligations. These estimates may require management to estimate the volume of purchases that will be • If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Company is made during a period of time. The Company must also estimate the amount of related product that has typically reasonably certain to extend (or not terminate). been sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories and allocate the allowance to cost of sales • If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the Company is typically reasonably or inventories accordingly. certain to extend (or not terminate). Income taxes (Notes 3, 10 and 35) • Otherwise, the Company considers other factors, including historical lease durations and the costs The ultimate tax effects of transactions may be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring and business disruption required to replace the leased asset. management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional tax will be due or recognizes The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Company assets for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that the benefit will flow to the Company and becomes obliged to exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised the benefit can be reliably measured. Probability is estimated using the Company’s interpretation of if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, legislation and relevant case law and the Company assumes that the taxation authorities have full and is within the lessee’s control, for example, when significant investment in the store is made which knowledge of all facts and circumstances. has a useful life beyond the current lease term. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 127 2 Basis of preparation continued Where the Company is the lessor, the classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases • Onerous contracts: mainly relate to unfavorable contracts and include the excess of the unavoidable requires judgments about the fair value of the leased asset, the economic life of the asset, whether or costs of meeting the contractual obligations over the benefits expected to be received under not to include renewal or termination options in the lease term and the appropriate discount rate to use such contracts. to calculate the present value of the lease payments to be received. Fair value measurements Revenue recognition with respect to sale and leaseback transactions is dependent on management’s For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3, based on judgment of whether the Company has satisfied all of its performance obligations and control of the the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of asset is transferred to the buyer, and the determination of the fair value of the asset. the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: Impairments (Notes 3, 6, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 14) • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that Judgments and estimates are required, not only to determine whether there is an indication that an the Company can access at the measurement date. asset may be impaired, but also whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the may no longer exist or may have decreased (impairment reversal). After indications of impairment have asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). been identified, judgments and estimates are also involved in the determination of the recoverable amount of a non-current asset. These involve estimates of expected future cash flows (based on future • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. growth rates and remaining useful life) and residual value assumptions, as well as discount rates to calculate the present value of the future cash flows. 3 Significant accounting policies Company and multi-employer pension obligations (Notes 3 and 24) Consolidation The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of assumptions that are determined The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial figures of the Company and its on an actuarial basis. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an the discount rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. Other key assumptions include longevity and the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated future salary and pension increases. Additional information is disclosed in Note 24. from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated upon consolidation. Unrealized losses on intraProvisions and contingencies (Notes 3, 25 and 35) group transactions are eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the The recognition of provisions requires estimates and judgment regarding the timing and the amount of assets transferred. outflow of resources. The main estimates are as follows: Non-controlling interests are recorded, as appropriate, on the consolidated balance sheet, in the • Self-insurance program: estimates and assumptions include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet consolidated income statement, and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the reported, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors, estimated changes in claim non-controlling shareholders’ share in the net assets and the income or loss of subsidiaries. Nonreporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions and legislation. It is possible that the controlling shareholders’ interest in an acquired subsidiary is initially measured at the non-controlling final resolution of claims may result in significant expenditures in excess of existing reserves. interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. • Loyalty programs: estimating the cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty Ahold Delhaize does not have subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material to the Group. program are entitled includes assumptions on redemption rates. These estimates and assumptions Business combinations apply to all loyalty programs, irrespective of whether they are accounted for as sales deferrals or The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is provisions for future payments made at redemption. transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at • Claims and legal disputes: management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Transaction costs appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent • Severance and termination benefits: the provisions relate to separation plans and agreements and consideration are recognized in profit or loss. use the best estimate, based on information available to management, of the cash flows that will likely occur. The amounts that are ultimately incurred may change as the plans are executed. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 128 3 Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation Segmentation The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared in their functional Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments are its retail operating companies that engage in business currencies, which are determined based on the primary economic environment in which they operate. activities from which they earn revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee to make decisions about resources to be allocated prevailing on the transaction dates. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in to the segments and to assess their performance. In establishing the reportable segments, certain foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the then prevailing rates. operating segments with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated. As Ahold Delhaize’s Exchange differences arising on the settlement and translation of monetary items are included in net operating segments offer similar products using complementary business models, and there is income for the period. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity no discernible difference in customer bases, Ahold Delhaize’s policy on aggregating its operating are considered as assets and liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity. segments into reportable segments is based on geography, macro-economic environment and management oversight. Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the euro are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. The segments’ performance is evaluated against several measures, of which operating income is the Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the respective periods. most important. Intersegment sales are executed under normal commercial terms and conditions that Exchange rate differences arising during consolidation and on the translation of investments in would also be available to unrelated third parties. subsidiaries are included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation Net sales reserve. Intercompany loans to and from foreign entities for which settlement is neither planned nor Ahold Delhaize generates and recognizes net sales to retail customers as it satisfies its performance likely to occur in the foreseeable future are considered to increase or decrease the net investment in obligation at the point of sale in its stores and upon delivery of goods through its online channel. that foreign entity; therefore the exchange rate differences relating to these loans are also included in The Company also generates revenues from the sale of products to retail franchisees and affiliates that other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. are recognized upon delivery. Ahold Delhaize recognizes fees to franchisees and affiliates as revenue On the disposal of a foreign operation resulting in loss of control, loss of joint control or loss of as services are performed or the granted rights are used. Revenue from the sale of gift cards and significant influence, the related cumulative exchange rate difference that was included in equity is gift certificates is recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed by the retail customer. transferred to the consolidated income statement. Future discounts earned by customers in connection with bonus or loyalty cards and other Companysponsored programs are deferred on the balance sheet at the time of the sale and subsequently Statement of cash flows recognized in the income statement when redeemed. When the Company expects that gift cards and The Company has chosen to prepare the statement of cash flows using the indirect method, which future discounts under bonus and loyalty programs will not be redeemed, the breakage that is able to presents cash flows from operating activities as the income from continuing operations adjusted for be estimated is recognized proportionately as revenue at the time that the Company’s performance non-cash transactions, deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and obligations are satisfied (e.g., as customers redeem their award credits or purchase goods using gift items of income or expense associated with investing or financing cash flows. Cash flows in foreign cards or vouchers). currencies have been translated using weighted average periodic exchange rates. Interest paid on loans is presented as a financing activity, while interest received is presented as an investing activity. The sales activities of Ahold Delhaize do not result in a material amount of unperformed obligations Acquisitions and divestments of businesses are presented net of cash and cash equivalents acquired of the Company and, therefore, no contract assets are recognized separately from receivables. or disposed of, respectively. The Company has chosen to present dividends paid to its shareholders as The Company does enter into transactions with customers where contract liabilities result from a financing activity cash flow. consideration being received from the customer prior to the Company satisfying its performance obligations. These contract liabilities are presented on the balance sheet and in the notes as deferred In the cash flow statement, the Company has classified the principal portion of lease payments, as well income and gift card liabilities. as the interest portion, within financing activities. Lease payments are not split between interest and principal portions but are shown as one line, “Repayment of lease liabilities,” in the cash flow statement. Generally, net sales and cost of sales are recorded based on the gross amount received from the Lease payments for short-term leases, lease payments for leases of low-value assets and variable customer for products sold and the amount paid to the vendor for products purchased, excluding lease payments not included in the measurement of the lease liability are classified as cash flows from sales taxes and value-added taxes. However, for certain products or services, such as sales through operating activities. bol.com’s seller platform and the sale of lottery tickets, third-party prepaid phone cards, stamps and public transportation tickets, Ahold Delhaize acts as an agent and, consequently, records the amount The Company has classified cash flows from operating leases as operating activities. Cash flows of commission income in its net sales. Net sales also reflects the value of products sold to customers representing the collection of principal and interest payments for finance lease receivables are for which the Company anticipates returns from customers, when such returns are considered to be classified as investing activities and disclosed using a single line in the cash flow statement, “Lease material. Currently, customer returns are only considered material with regards to Ahold Delhaize’s payments received on lease receivables.” online general merchandise sales. Past customer return practices provide the basis for determining the anticipated returns that the Company is exposed to at the balance sheet date. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 129 3 Significant accounting policies continued Cost of sales No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting Cost of sales includes the purchase price of the products sold and other costs incurred in bringing is conditional upon a market condition (e.g., total shareholder return). Those are treated as vested the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. These costs include costs of purchasing; irrespective of whether or not the market condition is ultimately satisfied, provided that all non-market storing; rent; depreciation of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets; salaries; and conditions (e.g., continued employment) are satisfied. transporting products to the extent that it relates to bringing the inventories to the location and condition Income taxes ready for sale. Income tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the Vendor allowances income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity or other Ahold Delhaize receives various types of vendor allowances. The most common allowances vendors comprehensive income. Current tax expense is based on the best estimate of taxable income for the offer are (i) volume allowances, which are off-invoice or amounts billed back to vendors based on the year, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and quantity of products sold to customers or purchased from the vendor and (ii) promotional allowances, adjustments for current taxes payable (receivable) for prior years. Deferred tax is the tax expected which relate to cooperative advertising and market development efforts. Volume allowances are to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products as they are sold. Promotional allowances and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable income. Deferred tax assets and are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products when the Company has performed liabilities are generally recognized for all temporary differences. However, deferred tax liabilities are not the activities specified in the contract with the vendor. If the contract does not specify any performance recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted criteria, the allowance is recognized over the term of the contract. for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Vendor allowances are generally deducted from cost of sales, unless there is clear evidence that they Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially should be classified as revenue resulting from the Company providing a distinct good or service to enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred the vendor. Ahold Delhaize recognizes vendor allowances only where there is evidence of a binding income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. arrangement with the vendor, the amount can be estimated reliably and receipt is probable. Deferred tax assets, including deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforward positions and tax credit The accounting for vendor allowances requires management to apply judgments and assumptions, carryforward positions, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be mainly surrounding the timing of when performance obligations have been met, the volume of available against which temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilized. purchases that will be made during a period of time, the product remaining in ending inventory, and The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the the probability that funds can be collected from vendors. Using these judgments and assumptions, extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable income will be available to allow all or part of management’s practice is to allocate earned vendor allowances between cost of sales and inventory the assets to be recovered. based upon the amount of related product that was sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories. This practice is based upon the turnover of the inventories. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against Selling expenses current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same Selling expenses relate to our store and online operations and consist of employees’ salaries and fiscal authority. Current income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is wages, store expenses, depreciation related to owned and leased stores, advertising costs and other a legally enforceable right to offset and when the Company intends either to settle on a net basis or to selling expenses. Other revenue derived from operational activities that does not qualify as net sales to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. retail customers is included as an offset to selling expenses. The ultimate tax effects of some transactions can be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring General and administrative expenses management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities General and administrative expenses consist of support office employees’ salaries and wages, rent for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional taxes will be due or recognizes assets for and depreciation of support offices, impairment losses and reversals, gains and losses on the sale uncertain tax positions when it is probable that the benefit will flow to the Company and the benefit can be of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, restructuring costs, and other general and reliably measured. To measure the liability for the uncertain tax position, management determines whether administrative expenses. Revenue from contracts that do not qualify as net sales to retail customers uncertainties need to be considered separately or together based on which approach better predicts the from operational activities is included as an offset to general and administrative expenses. resolution of the uncertainty. The Company also recognizes the liability for either the most likely amount or Share-based compensation the expected value (probability weighted average), depending on which method it expects to better predict The grant date fair value of equity-settled share-based compensation plans is expensed, with a the resolution. corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the grants. The cumulative expense recognized at each balance sheet date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 130 3 Significant accounting policies continued These liabilities are presented as current income taxes payable, except in jurisdictions where prior tax Property, plant and equipment losses are being carried forward to be used to offset future taxes that will be due; in these instances, Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and the liabilities are presented as a reduction of deferred tax assets. Interest accrued on uncertain tax impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition or positions is considered to be a financial expense of the Company. Any other adjustments to uncertain construction of an asset and borrowing costs incurred during construction. Where applicable, tax position liabilities are recognized within income tax expense. estimated asset retirement costs are added to the cost of an asset. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to Earnings per share the Company and the costs can be measured reliably. All other subsequent expenditures represent Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders repairs and maintenance and are expensed as incurred. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Basic income from continuing operations per share is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding items of property, plant and equipment, taking into account the estimated residual value. Where an item during the year. of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, each such part is depreciated separately. Diluted income per share is calculated by dividing the diluted net income / diluted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders by the diluted weighted average number of The ranges of estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are: common shares outstanding. To determine the diluted income, net income and income from continuing Land indefinite operations are adjusted by the expense for preferred dividends on the cumulative preferred financing Buildings 30–40 years shares. This preferred dividend is reversed when the cumulative preferred financing shares have a Certain structural components of buildings 10–20 years dilutive effect on the earnings per share calculation. To determine the diluted weighted average number Finish components of buildings 5–10 years of common shares outstanding, the weighted average number of shares outstanding is adjusted for (i) Machinery and equipment 3–15 years the effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares and (ii) the conditional shares from the sharebased compensation programs. The effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares is determined Other 5–10 years by calculating the number of common shares that would be issued upon conversion. However, the The useful lives, depreciation method and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date and effect is only adjusted for if it has a dilutive effect on the income per share. Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative adjusted, if appropriate. preferred financing shares are dilutive whenever their interest per common share obtainable on conversion is lower than basic income per share. Depreciation of leasehold improvements is calculated on a straight-line basis over either the lease term (including renewal periods when renewal is reasonably assured) or the estimated useful life of the Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations asset, whichever is shorter. Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the Right-of-use assets asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must See paragraph New accounting policies effective for 2019 – IFRS 16, “Leases” below. be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured Investment property at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount or the fair value less costs of disposal. Depreciation or Investment property consists of land and buildings held by Ahold Delhaize to earn rental income or for amortization of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for capital appreciation, or both. These properties are not used by the Company in the ordinary course of an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale; instead, dividends business. The Company often owns (or leases) shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize received are recognized in the consolidated income statement. and third-party retail units. In these cases, the third-party retail units generate rental income, but are A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that either has been disposed of or is primarily of strategic importance for operating purposes to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of The Company recognizes the part of an owned (or leased) shopping center that is leased to third-party operations or is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or retailers as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. Land and geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable buildings leased to franchisees are not considered to be investment property as they contribute directly as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognized subsequent to the disposal are to Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations. Investment property is measured on the same basis as property, presented separately as a single amount in the consolidated income statement. Results and cash flows plant and equipment. from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements See paragraph New accounting policies effective for 2019 – IFRS 16, “Leases” below for the accounting so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been policy on right-of-use asset investment property. discontinued as of the balance sheet date for the latest period presented. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 131 3 Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets The useful lives, amortization method and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date Goodwill and impairment of goodwill and adjusted, if appropriate. Brand names, intangible assets under development and other intangible Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration assets with indefinite lives are assessed for impairment annually, or whenever there is an indication that transferred over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities the asset may be impaired. and assumed contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. It is carried at cost less accumulated Investments in joint arrangements and associates impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending amount of the investment. on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (or arrangement. Joint operations arise where Ahold Delhaize has both rights to the assets and obligations groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination. for the liabilities relating to the arrangement and, therefore, the Company accounts for its share of Goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) representing the lowest assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where Ahold Delhaize has rights to the net level within the Company at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is assets of the arrangement and, therefore, the Company equity accounts for its interest. never larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Cash-generating units to which goodwill Associates are entities over which Ahold Delhaize has significant influence but not control, generally has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is that the cash-generating unit may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but not is assessed for impairment as part of the investment whenever there is an indication that the investment control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of a Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use. See Note 14 for explanations cost and subsequently adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Ahold Delhaize’s share of the net of how the Company determines fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. An impairment loss assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then to the other assets of the cashWhere necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates to generating unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset. An impairment loss recognized ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Company. for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. Unrealized gains on transactions between Ahold Delhaize and its joint ventures and associates are On the partial or complete disposal of an operation, the goodwill attributable to that operation is eliminated to the extent of the Company’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal. eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Other intangible assets Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill Separately acquired intangible assets and internally developed software are carried at cost Ahold Delhaize assesses on a quarterly basis whether there is any indication that non-current assets less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired in a business may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of combination are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition (which is regarded as their cost). the asset. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. Individual stores Brand names and customer, franchise and affiliate relationships acquired in business acquisitions are are considered separate cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes. The carrying value stated at fair value determined using an income approach. Direct costs related to the development of the store includes mainly its property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets (if held under a of software for internal use are capitalized only if the costs can be measured reliably, technological lease arrangement). feasibility has been established, future economic benefits are probable, and the Company intends to complete development and use the software. All other costs, including all overhead, general and The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or the asset’s value administrative, and training costs, are expensed as incurred. in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Amortization is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives, which are the risks specific to the asset. The estimated future cash flows exclude lease payments if the cashas follows: generating unit is held under a lease arrangement, but include a replacement capex if needed to Software 3–10 years maintain the ongoing operation during the forecast period. Customer relationships 7–25 years An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying Retail brands indefinite amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Own brands 10–15 years Franchise and affiliate relationships 14–40 years Other 5–indefinite Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 132 3 Significant accounting policies continued In subsequent years, Ahold Delhaize assesses whether indications exist that impairment losses Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below. At each balance previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, of financial assets is impaired and recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses for financial if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is assets measured at either amortized costs or at fair value through other comprehensive income. If, at recognized in operating income as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. recognition, the Company measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated to 12 months of expected credit losses. If, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Company measures the loss allowance for the financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. The Company Inventories always measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for trade Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost consists of all costs of purchase, receivables, contract assets and lease receivables. cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition ready for sale, net of vendor allowances attributable to inventories. For certain inventories, cost is Financial assets at amortized cost approximated using the retail method, in which the sales value of the inventories is reduced by the Financial assets are measured at amortized cost if both i) the financial asset is held within a business appropriate percentage of gross margin. The cost of inventories is determined using either the firstmodel whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and ii) in, first-out (FIFO) method or the weighted average cost method, depending on their nature or use. the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. marketing, distribution and selling expenses. A financial asset measured at amortized cost is initially recognized at fair value plus transaction Included in the value of inventory is an amount representing the estimated value of inventories that have cost directly attributable to the asset. After initial recognition, the carrying amount of the financial already been sold that the Company expects to be returned for a refund by customers. asset measured at amortized cost is determined using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. Financial instruments Financial assets The Company’s financial assets measured at amortized cost comprise loans receivable, net investment Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a in leases, trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the and similar instruments. financial assets expire, or if the Company transfers the financial asset to another party and does not Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) retain control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. Purchases and sales of financial assets A financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both i) the financial in the normal course of business are accounted for at settlement date (i.e., the date that the asset is asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual delivered to or by the Company). cash flows and selling financial assets; and ii) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise At initial recognition, the Company measures its financial assets at its fair value plus, in the case of a on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to amount outstanding. the acquisition or issue of the financial asset. Investments in debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are After initial recognition, the Company classifies its financial assets as subsequently measured at either recognized initially at fair value plus transaction cost directly attributable to the asset. After initial i) amortized cost, ii) fair value through other comprehensive income or iii) fair value through profit or loss recognition, the asset is measured at fair value with changes in fair value included in other on the basis of both: comprehensive income. Accumulated gains or losses recognized through other comprehensive income are directly transferred to profit or loss when debt instrument is derecognized. • The Company’s business model for managing the financial assets There is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss following the • The contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset derecognition of the investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading and for which the Company made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 133 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash When any of the above-mentioned conditions for classification of financial assets are not met, a flow hedges is recognized initially in the cash flow hedging reserve, a separate component of equity. financial asset is classified as “at fair value through profit or loss” and measured at fair value with The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period in which the related exposure impacts the income statement. When a cash flow hedge no longer meets A financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value and the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains its transaction cost is recognized in profit or loss when incurred. A gain or loss on a financial asset in equity and is recognized when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognized in the income measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income for statement. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss the reporting period in which it arises. existing in equity is immediately recognized in the income statement. The Company may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial asset as measured at fair Fair value changes of derivative instruments that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment are value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition recognized in the income statement in the periods in which they arise, together with any changes in fair inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognizing the gains value of the hedged asset or liability. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge and losses on them on different bases. accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized in the income The Company’s financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss comprise reinsurance statement over the hedged item’s remaining period to maturity. assets, derivatives and certain investments in debt instruments. Reinsurance assets and liabilities Financial liabilities Under Ahold Delhaize’s self-insurance program, part of the insurance risk is ceded under a reinsurance Financial liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. In accordance with the a financial instrument. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the Company’s obligations specified pooling arrangement, the Company assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. in relation to the percentage of Ahold Delhaize’s participation in the treaty. Reinsurance assets include estimated receivable balances related to reinsurance contracts purchased by the Company. All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of Reinsurance liabilities represent the expected insurance risks related to reinsurance contracts sold by directly attributable transaction costs. the Company. Reinsurance assets and liabilities are measured on a discounted basis using accepted The Company classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for actuarial methods. derivatives and reinsurance liabilities. Any difference between the proceeds and redemption value is Financial guarantees recognized in the income statement over the period of the loans and short-term borrowings using the Financial guarantees made by Ahold Delhaize to third parties that may require the Company to incur effective interest method. future cash outflows if called upon to satisfy are recognized at inception as liabilities at fair value. Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to Fair value is measured as the premium received, if any, or calculated using a scenario analysis. defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation or the amount initially recognized less cumulative amortization corresponding to the Derivative financial instruments expiration or repayment of the underlying amount guaranteed. All derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each Equity reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the fair value remeasurement are recognized in the Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of proceeds received. Own equity income statement as fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments, unless the derivative qualifies instruments that are bought back (treasury shares) are deducted from equity. When reissued or and is effective as a hedging instrument in a designated hedging relationship. In order for a derivative cancelled, shares are removed from the treasury shares on a first-in, first-out basis. Incremental costs financial instrument to qualify as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes, the Company must that are directly attributable to issuing or buying back own equity instruments are recognized directly document (i) at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between the hedging instrument in equity, net of the related tax. No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various sale, issuance or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. hedging transactions and (ii) its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative that is used in the hedging transaction is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 134 3 Significant accounting policies continued Cumulative preferred financing shares Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense when employees have Cumulative preferred financing shares, for which dividend payments are not at the discretion of rendered service entitling them to the contributions. Post-employment benefits provided through the Company, are classified as non-current financial liabilities and are stated at amortized cost. industry multi-employer plans, managed by third parties, are generally accounted for under defined The dividends on these cumulative preferred financing shares are recognized as interest expense contribution criteria. in the income statement, using the effective interest method. From the date on which Ahold Delhaize For other long-term employee benefits, such as long-service awards, provisions are recognized on receives irrevocable notification from a holder of cumulative preferred financing shares to convert these the basis of estimates that are consistent with the estimates used for the defined benefit obligations, shares into common shares, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate but discounted using Ahold Delhaize’s cost of debt rate. For these, all actuarial gains and losses are class of equity. recognized in the income statement immediately. Pension and other post-employment benefits Provisions The net assets and net liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for defined benefit Provisions are recognized when (i) the Company has a present (legal or constructive) obligation plans represent the actual surplus or deficit in Ahold Delhaize’s defined benefit plans measured as as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets. Any surplus obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount recognized is the best estimate resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. Provisions are discounted whenever the effect of the contributions to the plan. time value of money is significant. Defined benefit obligations are actuarially calculated on the balance sheet date using the projected unit The provision for the Company’s self-insurance program is recorded based on claims filed and an credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The provision includes expenses incurred in the claim estimated future cash outflows using market yields on high-quality corporate bonds (i.e., bonds rated settlement process that can be directly associated with specific claims. Other expenses incurred in the AA or higher), denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have an average claim settlement process are expensed when incurred. The Company’s estimate of the required liability duration similar to the expected duration of the related pension liabilities. of such claims is recorded on a discounted basis, utilizing an actuarial method based upon various Defined benefit costs are split into three categories: assumptions that include, but are not limited to, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors and actual payroll costs. • Service cost, past service cost, gains and losses on curtailment and settlements Restructuring-related provisions for severance and termination benefits are recognized when • Net interest expense or income the Company has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either • Remeasurement commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. Onerous contract provisions are measured at the amount by which the unavoidable costs to fulfill agreements exceeds the expected benefits from The first category is presented as labor costs within operating earnings. Past-service costs are such agreements. recognized in the income statement in the period of plan amendment. Results from curtailments or settlements are recognized immediately. New accounting policies effective for 2019 IFRS 16, “Leases” Past service years within the Dutch pension plan are calculated based upon a methodology that uses Definition of a lease the maximum past service years based on accrued benefits or a participant’s actual date of hire. Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. At inception, or on reassessment of presented within net financial expenses. a contract that contains a lease component, the Company allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on the basis of its relative stand-alone price. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable), and the return on plan assets (excluding interest) are recognized immediately in the balance The Company applies the recognition exemptions for short-term leases (less than 12 months) and sheet with a charge or credit to other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. leases of low-value items, defined by the Company to be below $5,000 per item (on acquisition). Remeasurements recorded in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement. The payments for these exempted leases are recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 135 3 Significant accounting policies continued As a lessee The lease liability is included in “Other current financial liabilities” and “Other non-current The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing its right to use the underlying asset, and a financial liabilities.” lease liability, representing its obligation to make lease payments, at the lease commencement date. The Company applies judgment to determine the lease term for the lease contracts in which it is a The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease lessee that include renewal and termination options. The assessment of whether the Company is liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial reasonably certain to exercise such options impacts the lease term, which significantly affects the direct costs incurred (for example, key money and lease contract commissions), less any incentives amount of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets recognized. See Note 2 for more information on received. The right-of-use asset for acquired leases is adjusted for any favorable or unfavorable lease judgments relating to leases. rights recognized as part of the purchase price allocation. The right-of-use asset is subsequently As a lessor depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the Lessor accounting remains similar to the previous standard and the Company continues to classify underlying asset. In addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any, and leases as finance or operating leases at lease inception based upon whether the lease transfers adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. As part of this Right-of-use assets are separately disclosed as a line in the balance sheet, but right-of-use assets assessment, the Company considers certain indicators, such as whether the lease is for the majority of that meet the definition of investment property are included in “Investment property” and separately the economic life of the asset. disclosed in the notes. Leases classified as finance leases result in the recognition of a net investment in a lease representing The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the Company’s right to receive rent payments. The value of the net investment in a lease is the value of the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot the future rent payments to be received and the unguaranteed residual value of the underlying asset be readily determined, the Company’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Company uses its discounted using the rate implicit in the lease. incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the The Company has elected to separate lease and non-lease components included in lease payments for sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to the right-ofall leases. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following: use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the • Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments sublease as an operating lease. • Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, which are initially measured using the If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company applies IFRS 15 to allocate index or rate at the commencement date the consideration in the contract. • Amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee The Company recognizes lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line • The exercise price of a purchase option that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise basis over the lease term as part of “Rent income.” • Lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise an The adoption of IFRS 16 has resulted in restatements of Ahold Delhaize’s 2018 comparative amounts; extension option, and penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Company is reasonably see Note 36 for more information. certain not to terminate early. Sale and leaseback The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. The lease Sale and leaseback transactions are defined as transactions that lead to a sale according to IFRS liability is subsequently increased by the interest cost on the lease liability and decreased by lease 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” Under IFRS 15, the seller-lessee must determine if the payments made. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a transaction qualifies as a sale for which revenue is recognized (i.e., if the transaction is a genuine sale, change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of the amount expected to be where all performance obligations are satisfied and control has transferred to the buyer-lessor), or payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Company changes its assessment of whether it will whether the transaction is a collateralized borrowing. More specifically, a sale is considered as such if exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. there is no repurchase option on the asset at the end of the lease term. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying If the sale by the Company as seller-lessee qualifies as a sale, the Company derecognizes the asset amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in the income statement if the carrying amount of the and recognizes a gain (or loss) that is limited to the proportion of the total gain (or loss) relating to the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. rights transferred to the buyer-lessor. In addition, the Company recognizes a right-of-use asset arising from the leaseback and measures it at the proportion of the previous carrying amount of the asset relating to the right of use retained. In addition, the Company recognizes the lease liability. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 136 3 Significant accounting policies continued If the fair value of the consideration for the sale does not equal the fair value of the asset, or if the New accounting policies not yet effective for 2019 payments for the lease are not at market rates, adjustments are made to measure the sales proceeds at The IASB issued several standards, or revisions to standards, that are not yet effective for 2019, but will fair value as follows: become effective in coming years. a. Any below-market terms should be accounted for as a prepayment of lease payments. IFRS 17, “Insurance Contracts” IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4, “Insurance Contracts.” It requires a current measurement model where b. Any above-market terms should be accounted for as additional financing provided by the estimates are remeasured each reporting period. The standard allows a choice between recognizing buyer‑lessor. changes in discount rates either in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income. If the sale by the Company does not qualify as a sale, the Company keeps the asset transferred on its IFRS 17 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021; however the IASB, in balance sheet and recognizes a financing obligation (financing) equal to the transferred proceeds or November 2018, tentatively decided to defer the effective date to annual periods beginning on or after cash received. January 1, 2022. The Company has yet to assess the standard’s full impact. Amendments to IAS 19, “Plan Amendments, Curtailment or Settlement” Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8, “Definition of Material” The amendments to IAS 19 clarify the accounting for defined benefit plan amendments, curtailments The amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 clarify the definition of material and how it should be applied by and settlements. They confirm that entities must (i) calculate the current service cost and net interest for stating that information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected the remainder of the reporting period after a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement by using the to influence the decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on updated assumptions from the date of the change; (ii) recognize any reduction in a surplus immediately the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific reporting in profit or loss either as part of past service cost, or as a gain or loss on settlement; and (iii) separately entity. The amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after recognize any changes in the asset ceiling through other comprehensive income. These amendments January 1, 2020. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 28, “Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures” Amendments to IFRS 3, “Definition of a Business” The amendments to IAS 28 were made to clarify that IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” applies to longThe amended definition of a business requires an acquisition to include an input and a substantive term interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the net investment in the associate or process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. The definition of the term joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied. These amendments have no impact on the “outputs” is amended to focus on goods and services provided to customers, generating investment consolidated financial statements. income and other income, and it excludes returns in the form of lower costs and other economic benefits. The amendments to IFRS 3 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after Amendments to IFRS 3, “Business Combinations” January 1, 2020. The Company anticipates that the amendments could result in more acquisitions The amendments to IFRS 3 clarify that when an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint being accounted for as asset acquisitions. operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that business. The amendments to IFRS 3 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. These amendments have no Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7, “Interest Rate Benchmark Reform” impact on the consolidated financial statements. The IASB has issued amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 that provide certain reliefs in connection with interest rate benchmark reform. The reliefs relate to hedge accounting and have IFRIC 23, “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” the effect that IBOR reform should not generally cause hedge accounting to terminate. However, IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for income tax treatments that have yet to be accepted by tax any hedge ineffectiveness should continue to be recorded in the income statement. The amendments authorities, while also aiming to enhance transparency. IFRIC 23 became effective on January 1, 2019. apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020. The Company does The interpretation does not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have an effect on the future consolidated Annual improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 financial statements. A number of amendments were made to various IFRSs that do not have a significant effect on the There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective that consolidated financial statements. are expected to have a material effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 137 4 Acquisitions 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Ahold Delhaize completed various store acquisitions for a total purchase consideration of €43 million. Assets and liabilities held for sale The allocation of the fair values of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and the goodwill December 29, December 30, arising from the acquisitions during 2019 is as follows: € million 2019 2018 restated Central and Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 67 23 The United Southeastern Total assets held for sale 67 23 € million States Europe Other Total Goodwill 19 10 3 32 Assets held for sale at December 29, 2019, is comprised primarily of non-current assets of retail Other intangible assets — — 5 5 locations (The United States: €5 million (December 30, 2018: nil), The Netherlands: €6 million Property, plant and equipment 6 1 1 8 (December 30, 2018: €4 million), Delhaize Belgium €16 million (December 30, 2018: nil), Central and Right-of-use asset 35 12 — 47 Southeastern Europe: €40 million (December 30, 2018: €19 million)). Other current assets — — 1 1 Discontinued operations Lease liabilities (33) (12) — (45) € million 2019 2018 restated Current liabilities — — (1) (1) Operating results from discontinued operations — (1) Fair value of assets and liabilities recognized 27 11 9 47 Gain on bargain purchase (negative goodwill) (4) — — (4) Tops Markets (1) (17) Total purchase consideration 23 11 9 43 Other1 — 1 Cash acquired — — — — Results on divestments (1) (16) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash 23 11 9 43 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (1) (17) Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired businesses and the synergies that are 1 Includes adjustments to the results on various other discontinued operations and past divestments. expected to result. The goodwill resulting from the acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes except for €10 million within Central and Southeastern Europe. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2018 included a charge of €17 million related to Tops Markets, a former subsidiary of Ahold Delhaize. In 2018, Tops Markets filed for bankruptcy protection The gain on bargain purchases was the result of favorable purchase terms on stores that competitors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As part of the bankruptcy proceedings, Tops Markets were selling at discounts as they exited local markets. The gain has been reported as (gains) losses on rejected leases for four stores of which the lease was contingently guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. the sale of assets within general and administrative expenses. In addition, the Company reached an agreement with Tops Markets to take over partial rent payments On January 4, 2019, Ahold Delhaize announced that Stop & Shop agreed to acquire King for nine locations for 72 months. These actions resulted in Ahold Delhaize recognizing €24 million partly Kullen Grocery Co., based in Long Island, New York. The acquisition includes King Kullen’s 29 as a financial liability and as an onerous contract provision (see Notes 23 and 25), which are presented supermarkets, five Wild by Nature stores and the use of its corporate offices located in Bethpage, New as an after-tax loss within results on divestments of €17 million. For a description of contingencies York. The transaction is currently expected to close during the first half of 2020, subject to customary related to our issued lease guarantees in connection with the divestment of Tops Markets, see Note 35. closing conditions. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 138 6 Segment reporting Reportable segments Operating income Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations are presented in four reportable segments. In addition, Other retail, € million 2019 2018 restated consisting of Ahold Delhaize’s unconsolidated joint ventures JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, The United States 1,668 1,633 SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”) and P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”), as well as Ahold Delhaize’s Global Support The Netherlands 765 731 Office, is presented separately. Belgium 128 130 As of 2020, we will combine the three reportable segments, The Netherlands, Belgium and Central and Central and Southeastern Europe 246 262 Southeastern Europe, into one reportable segment, Europe. Global Support Office (146) (133) The accounting policies used for the segments are the same as the accounting policies used for the Ahold Delhaize Group 2,662 2,623 consolidated financial statements as described in Note 3. Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, All reportable segments sell a wide range of perishable and non-perishable food and non-food investment property, and intangible assets consumer products. € million 2019 2018 restated Reportable segment Operating segments included in the Reportable segment The United States 1,671 1,579 The United States Stop & Shop, Food Lion, Giant/Martin’s, Hannaford, Giant Food The Netherlands 565 531 and Peapod Belgium 176 169 The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands and Belgium), Etos, Gall Central and Southeastern Europe 325 294 & Gall and bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) Global Support Office 21 34 Belgium Delhaize Le Lion (including Belgium and Luxembourg) Ahold Delhaize Group 2,758 2,607 Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic), Alfa Beta (Greece), Mega Image (Romania) and Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) Net impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property, right-of-use assets, and intangible assets € million 2019 2018 restated Other Included in Other The United States 67 26 Other retail Unconsolidated joint ventures JMR (49%) and Super Indo (51%) The Netherlands 2 13 Global Support Office Global Support Office staff (the Netherlands, Belgium, Belgium 2 — Switzerland and the United States) Central and Southeastern Europe 18 14 Net sales Ahold Delhaize Group 89 53 € million 2019 2018 restated Share-based compensation expenses The United States 40,066 37,460 € million 2019 2018 restated The Netherlands 14,810 14,218 Belgium 5,096 5,095 The United States 29 31 Central and Southeastern Europe 6,288 6,018 The Netherlands 7 9 Belgium 2 2 Ahold Delhaize Group 66,260 62,791 Central and Southeastern Europe 2 2 Global Support Office 12 16 Ahold Delhaize Group 51 60 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 139 6 Segment reporting continued 7 Net sales Additions to property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, investment property, and € million 2019 2018 restated intangible assets (including assets acquired through business combinations as well as net Sales from owned stores 56,562 53,953 reassessments and modifications of right-of-use assets) Sales to and fees from franchisees and affiliates 5,837 5,675 € million 2019 2018 restated Online sales 3,493 2,817 The United States 2,080 1,658 Wholesale sales 197 185 The Netherlands 890 583 Other sales 170 161 Belgium 177 173 Net sales 66,260 62,791 Central and Southeastern Europe 420 373 Global Support Office 36 51 Sales by segment for 2019 are as follows: Ahold Delhaize Group 3,604 2,838 Central and The United Southeastern Ahold Delhaize € million States The Netherlands Belgium Europe Group Non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, investment property Sales from owned stores 38,803 9,263 2,432 6,064 56,562 and intangible assets) Sales to and fees from franchisees December 29, December 30, and affiliates — 3,087 2,580 169 5,837 € million 2019 2018 restated Online sales 985 2,432 57 19 3,493 The United States 18,958 18,262 Wholesale sales 149 — 13 35 197 The Netherlands 5,144 4,899 Other sales 128 27 13 2 170 Belgium 3,192 3,155 Net sales 40,066 14,810 5,096 6,288 66,260 Central and Southeastern Europe 3,423 3,394 Global Support Office 53 139 Sales by segment for 2018 are as follows: Ahold Delhaize Group 30,770 29,849 Central and The United Southeastern Ahold Delhaize Additional segment information € million States The Netherlands Belgium Europe Group Segment results do not include significant non-cash items other than depreciation, amortization, Sales from owned stores 36,459 9,204 2,478 5,812 53,953 reassessments, modifications and additions of right-of-use assets, impairment losses and reversals Sales to and fees from franchisees and share-based compensation expenses. and affiliates — 2,983 2,539 153 5,675 Online sales 751 1,999 51 16 2,817 Segment information joint ventures – Other retail (JMR and Super Indo) Wholesale sales 135 — 15 35 185 The information with respect to JMR and Super Indo is presented in Note 15. Other sales 115 32 12 2 161 Net sales 37,460 14,218 5,095 6,018 62,791 Net sales by product category are as follows: Percentage of net sales 2019 2018 restated Food: perishable 45% 45% Food: non-perishable 38% 38% Non-food 12% 12% Pharmacy 3% 3% Gasoline 1% 2% Net sales 100% 100% Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 140 8 Expenses by nature The aggregate of cost of sales and operating expenses is specified by nature as follows: Interest income primarily relates to interest earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term cash € million 2019 2018 restated deposits and similar instruments. Cost of product 46,014 43,846 Interest expense primarily relates to financial liabilities (which include notes and financing obligations), Labor costs 9,665 9,014 interest accretions to provisions, and amortization of the purchase price allocation on the debt brought Other operational expenses 5,244 4,796 in through acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization 2,758 2,607 For more information on leases and the interest accretion thereon, see Note 34. Rent expenses 66 64 Rent income (187) (189) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans is related to the Company’s pension plans being Impairment losses and reversals – net 89 53 in a net liability position over 2019 and 2018. (Gains) losses on leases and the sale of assets – net (53) (23) Gains (losses) on foreign exchange on financial assets and liabilities are presented as part of net Total expenses by nature 63,598 60,168 financial expenses. The net gains in 2019 primarily resulted from the translation of foreign currency denominated debt, unhedged leases and derivatives. For more information on rent expenses and rent income, see Note 34. Included in fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments are fair value changes on investments in 9 Net financial expenses U.S. Treasury bond funds, which are measured at fair value through profit or loss, and derivatives. € million 2019 2018 restated Other gains (losses) mainly include transaction results from the redemption of the cumulative preferred Interest income 65 85 shares, which resulted in a one-off cost of €22 million and a cancellation of mortgages payable in Interest expense (175) (211) the Czech Republic, which resulted in a one-off cost of €13 million. In 2018, the other gains (losses) Interest accretion to lease liability (366) (355) included the result of the repurchase and cancellation of $350 million of the USD 827 million 5.70% Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans (18) (19) notes, due in 2040. The carrying value of the repurchased notes was $423 million, resulting in a one-off gain of $34 million (see Note 22). The other gains (losses) in 2018 also included the recognition of a Gains (losses) on foreign exchange 4 19 financial liability for lease guarantees related to BI-LO II and its parent, Southeastern Grocers, Inc., Fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments 4 (15) which filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 (see Note 35). Other gains (losses) (43) 9 Foreign exchange results arising from the purchase of goods for sale or goods and services consumed Other financial income (expense) (35) 13 in Ahold Delhaize’s operations are included in cost of sales or in the appropriate element of operating Net financial expenses (528) (487) expenses, respectively. In 2019, the Company recorded a net exchange loss of nil in operating income (2018: gain of €1 million). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 141 10 Income taxes Income taxes on continuing operations 2018 restated The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes on continuing € million Tax rate operations in the income statement: Income before income taxes 2,136 € million 2019 2018 restated Current income taxes Income tax expense at statutory tax rate (534) 25.0% Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) (132) (135) Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Foreign taxes Rate differential (local rates versus the statutory rate of the Netherlands) 66 (3.1)% United States (146) (150) Deferred tax income (expense) related to recognition of deferred tax Europe – Other (68) (75) assets – net 3 (0.1)% Total current tax expense (345) (360) Non-taxable income (expense) 16 (0.7)% Other 57 (2.7)% Deferred income taxes Subtotal income taxes1 (392) 18.4% Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) (20) 45 Tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms 19 (0.9)% Foreign taxes Total income taxes (373) 17.5% United States (47) (64) 1 Excluding the impact of tax rate changes due to local tax reforms. Europe – Other (5) 6 Rate differential indicates the effect of Ahold Delhaize’s taxable income being generated and taxed in Total deferred tax expense (72) (13) jurisdictions where tax rates differ from the statutory tax rate in the Netherlands. Other includes discrete Total income taxes on continuing operations (417) (373) items and one-time transactions. For 2019, it includes €26 million tax income related to releases of uncertain tax positions in several jurisdictions for which tax audits were finalized or the statute of Effective income tax rate on continuing operations limitations expired. For 2018, it includes €41 million deferred tax income related to restructuring. Ahold Delhaize’s effective tax rate in its consolidated income statement differed from the Netherlands’ statutory income tax rate of 25.0%. The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the In 2019, new statutory corporate income tax rates were (substantively) enacted for the Netherlands effective income tax rate in the consolidated income statement: (25% in 2020 and 21.7% as of 2021), Greece (24% as of 2019), Switzerland (13.99% as of 2020) 2019 and Luxembourg (24.94% or 27.19%, depending on the municipality, as of 2019). These new € million Tax rate statutory corporate income tax rates affected Ahold Delhaize’s deferred and current (for Greece and Income before income taxes 2,134 Luxembourg only) income tax positions as of December 29, 2019. The tax rate changes show the effect of applying the new statutory corporate income tax rates to the calculation of Ahold Delhaize’s Dutch, Greek, Swiss and Luxembourgish deferred income tax positions, as well as the 2019 effect related Income tax expense at statutory tax rate (534) 25.0% to the Belgian statutory corporate income tax rate change of 2017. The total impact for 2019 is a tax Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: expense of €5 million. The effects of tax law changes are included in the reported tax balances based Rate differential (local rates versus the statutory rate of the Netherlands) 63 (3.0)% on the information available per reporting date. The Company keeps following any developments and Deferred tax income (expense) related to recognition of deferred tax further clarifications of changes in tax laws and will make adjustments to the tax balances accordingly. assets – net 15 (0.7)% In 2018, the reduction of statutory corporate income tax rates in the Netherlands, Greece and Belgium Non-taxable income (expense) (6) 0.3% resulted in a tax benefit of €19 million. Other 50 (2.3)% Income taxes on discontinued operations Subtotal income taxes1 (412) 19.3% Current and deferred income tax related to discontinued operations amounted to nil in 2019 Tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms (5) 0.2% (2018: €7 million). Total income taxes (417) 19.6% Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 142 10 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, are as follows: Recognized in December 30, Recognized in January 1, 2018 income 2018 income December 29, € million restated statement Other restated statement Other 2019 Leases and financings 444 (14) 23 453 (23) 8 439 Pensions and other (post-)employment benefits 246 1 (10) 237 29 22 288 Provisions 84 (2) 11 93 (9) 5 89 Derivatives 3 (2) (1) — — (1) — Interest 78 5 5 88 — 2 90 Other 15 59 (3) 71 (2) (50) 19 Total gross deductible temporary differences 870 47 25 942 (5) (14) 925 Unrecognized deductible temporary differences (1) (52) (1) (54) (2) (1) (57) Total recognized deductible temporary differences 869 (5) 24 888 (7) (15) 868 Tax losses and tax credits 590 (84) (16) 490 (80) 4 414 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (356) 59 3 (294) 42 — (253) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 234 (25) (13) 196 (39) 4 161 Total net deferred tax asset position 1,103 (30) 11 1,084 (46) (11) 1,029 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (1,423) 30 (25) (1,418) 42 (23) (1,398) Inventories (147) (15) (8) (170) (10) (4) (184) Other (9) 2 (5) (12) (58) 51 (19) Total deferred tax liabilities (1,579) 17 (38) (1,600) (26) 24 (1,601) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) (476) (13) (27) (516) (72) 13 (573) The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity, divestments and exchange Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally rate differences, as well as reclassifications between deferred tax components and the application of enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax losses and tax credits against current year income tax payables. taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non-current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet as follows: For 2019, the column “Recognized in income statement” in the table above includes a deferred tax December 29, December 30, expense of €5 million as a result of the Dutch, Greek, Swiss, Luxembourgish and Belgian statutory € million 2019 2018 restated corporate income tax rate changes (2018: tax benefit of €19 million related to Dutch, Greek and Belgian Deferred tax assets 213 166 statutory corporate income tax rate changes). Deferred tax liabilities (786) (682) Net deferred tax liabilities (573) (516) Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 143 10 Income taxes continued As of December 29, 2019, Ahold Delhaize had operating and capital loss carryforwards of a total nominal amount of €2,805 million, mainly expiring between 2020 and 2034 (December 30, 2018: €3,210 million). The following table specifies the years in which Ahold Delhaize’s operating and capital loss carryforwards and tax credits are scheduled to expire: Does not € million 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025–2029 2030–2034 After 2034 expire Total Operating and capital losses (nominal value) 123 9 18 105 177 384 813 80 1,095 2,805 Operating and capital losses (tax value) 13 1 — 7 11 25 50 5 286 398 Tax credits 1 2 1 2 2 — — — 9 16 Tax losses and tax credits 15 2 1 8 13 25 50 5 295 414 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (15) (2) (1) (1) (2) (1) (6) — (226) (253) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits — — — 8 11 24 44 5 69 161 Operating and capital loss carryforwards related to one jurisdiction may not be used to offset income Income taxes paid taxes in other jurisdictions. Of the loss carryforwards, €1,633 million relates to U.S. state taxes, for which The following table specifies the income taxes paid per country: a weighted average tax rate of 6.2% applies. € million 2019 2018 restated The majority of the above-mentioned deferred tax assets relate to tax jurisdictions in which Ahold The United States (138) (25) Delhaize has suffered a tax loss in the current or a preceding period. Significant judgment is required The Netherlands (124) (175) in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable. Ahold Delhaize determines this on the Belgium (4) (28) basis of expected taxable profits arising from the reversal of recognized deferred tax liabilities and on Greece (14) (21) the basis of budgets, cash flow forecasts and impairment models. Where utilization is not considered Czech Republic (3) — probable, deferred tax assets are not recognized. Serbia (10) (3) No deferred income taxes are recognized on undistributed earnings of Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries Romania (6) (11) and joint ventures, as the undistributed earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. Other (59) (17) The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings on which the Group has not recognized deferred Total income taxes paid (358) (280) income taxes was approximately €114 million at December 29, 2019 (December 30, 2018: €66 million). For Belgium and the Czech Republic, the income tax paid is impacted by available operating losses Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income carryforward which are (partly) offset by taxable income. In 2018, tax payments in the United States Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive were impacted by U.S. tax reform and by a prepayment in 2017. Other includes a tax payment in income are as follows: 2019 of €36 million, related to a tax claim. This claim is being disputed by Ahold Delhaize and we will € million 2019 2018 restated continue to defend our tax position in this matter. Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 18 (18) Currency translation differences on loans (2) — Cash flow hedges 1 — Share-based compensation 3 1 Total 20 (17) Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 144 11 Property, plant and equipment Buildings Under € million and land Other construction Total Buildings and land includes stores, distribution centers, warehouses and improvements to these As of January 1, 2018, restated assets. “Other” property, plant and equipment mainly consists of furnishings, machinery and equipment, trucks, trailers and other vehicles. Assets under construction mainly consists of stores At cost 10,811 7,038 334 18,183 and improvements to stores and furnishings, machinery and equipment. Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (4,331) (4,295) — (8,626) Carrying amount 6,480 2,743 334 9,557 From 2019, leased assets are presented as a separate line item in the balance sheet and the 2018 figures have been restated; see Notes 12 and 36. Year ended December 30, 2018, restated The higher of the value in use or fair value less cost of disposal represents an asset’s recoverable Additions 195 598 833 1,626 amount. The value-in-use method involves estimating future cash flows. The present value of estimated Transfers from under construction 375 302 (677) — future cash flows has been calculated using pre-tax discount rates ranging between 5.8% and 12.8% Acquisitions through business combinations 1 3 — 4 (2018: 6.1%-15.7%). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly Depreciation (587) (750) — (1,337) transaction between market participants and is generally measured by using an income approach or a Impairment losses (28) (16) — (44) market approach. The income approach is generally applied by using discounted cash flow projections Impairment reversals 1 2 — 3 based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective. The market Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold (23) (6) (2) (31) approach requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets Exchange rate differences 178 84 6 268 by using inputs such as bid or ask prices or market multiples. Closing carrying amount 6,592 2,960 494 10,046 In 2019, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €63 million for property, plant and As of December 30, 2018, restated equipment (2018: €41 million). These were mainly related to The United States (2019: €46 million, At cost 11,663 8,024 494 20,181 2018: €15 million), The Netherlands (2019: €2 million, 2018: €12 million) and Central and Southeastern Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,071) (5,064) — (10,135) Europe (2019: €13 million, 2018: €14 million) and were recognized mainly for underperforming Carrying amount 6,592 2,960 494 10,046 and closed stores. In 2019, the fair value less cost of disposal was the recoverable amount in the determination of €9 million of the net impairment losses (2018: €7 million). Year ended December 29, 2019 The additions to property, plant and equipment include capitalized borrowing costs of €3 million Additions 267 533 1,073 1,873 (2018: €1 million). Generally, the capitalization rate used to determine the amount of capitalized Transfers from under construction 569 566 (1,135) — borrowing costs is a weighted average of the interest rate applicable to the respective operating Acquisitions through business combinations 5 2 1 8 companies. This rate ranged between 2.2% and 7.6% (2018: 2.1%-9.4%). Depreciation (613) (782) — (1,396) Other movements mainly includes transfers between asset classes and transfers to Impairment losses (38) (30) — (68) investment property. Impairment reversals 3 1 — 5 Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold (75) (8) (3) (86) The carrying amount of buildings and land includes amounts related to assets held under financings of Other movements (5) — (4) (9) €138 million (December 30, 2018: €146 million). Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Exchange rate differences 94 47 3 144 Company-owned property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of €103 million (December 30, Closing carrying amount 6,801 3,289 429 10,519 2018: €127 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. As of December 29, 2019 At cost 12,476 8,941 429 21,846 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,675) (5,653) — (11,327) Carrying amount 6,801 3,289 429 10,519 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 145 12 Right-of-use asset Buildings € million and land Other Total In previous years, the Company only recognized lease assets and lease liabilities in relation to leases Carrying amount as of January 1, 2018, restated 6,870 100 6,970 that were classified as “finance leases” under IAS 17 Leases. The assets were presented in property, plant and equipment and the liabilities as part of the Company’s Other current and non-current financial Year ended December 30, 2018, restated liabilities. For the restatement of balances following the adoption of IFRS 16, see Note 36. Additions 346 35 381 Buildings and land includes stores, distribution centers and warehouses. “Other” mainly consists of Reassessments and modifications to leases 421 – 421 furnishings, machinery and equipment and vehicles. Right-of-use assets that meet the criteria of an Acquisitions through business combinations 40 – 40 investment property are included in Note 13. For more information on leases, see Note 34. Depreciation (922) (35) (957) Termination of leases (10) (1) (11) Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold 4 – 4 Transfer (to) from right-of-use assets – Investment property 3 – 3 Reclassifications (to) from Net investment in leases (32) – (32) Exchange rate differences 207 1 208 Carrying amount as of December 30, 2018, restated 6,927 100 7,027 Year ended December 29, 2019 Additions 428 71 499 Reassessments and modifications to leases 765 4 769 Acquisitions through business combinations 47 – 47 Depreciation (987) (39) (1,026) Termination of leases (25) (12) (36) Impairment losses (7) (1) (8) Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold (1) – (1) Transfer (to) from right-of-use assets – Investment property 5 – 5 Reclassifications (to) from Net investment in leases (67) – (67) Exchange rate differences 100 1 100 Carrying amount as of December 29, 2019 7,184 124 7,308 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 146 13 Investment property CompanyRight-of-use owned Total A significant portion of the Company’s investment property comprises shopping centers containing asset investment investment Investment both an Ahold Delhaize store and third-party retail units. The third-party retail units generate € million property property property rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. As of January 1, 2018, restated Ahold Delhaize recognizes the part of a shopping center leased to a third-party retailer as investment At cost 910 946 1,856 property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (519) (321) (840) The net impairment losses recognized were mainly related to The United States (2019: €15 million, Carrying amount 391 625 1,016 2018: €9 million). Year ended December 30, 2018, restated The company-owned investment property includes an amount related to assets held under financings Additions 6 18 24 of €26 million (December 30, 2018: €24 million). Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these Reassessments and modifications to leases 15 — 15 assets. Company-owned investment property with a carrying amount of €72 million (December 30, Depreciation (43) (26) (69) 2018: €76 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. Impairment losses and reversals – net — (10) (10) The fair value of investment property as of December 29, 2019, amounted to approximately Termination of leases (7) — (7) €1,159 million (December 30, 2018: €1,231 million). Fair value of investment property has generally been Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold 4 (24) (20) measured using an income or market approach. Fair value for right-of-use asset investment property is Reclassifications (to) from net investment in leases (19) — (19) the fair value of the right-of-use itself, not the fair value of the property under lease. Approximately 75% Transfers (to) / from right-of-use assets, property, plant and of Ahold Delhaize’s fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2. The most significant inputs equipment and intangible assets (3) – (3) into this valuation approach are observable market retail yields and tenant rents to calculate the fair Exchange rate differences 15 21 36 value. The remaining fair value measurements that are categorized within Level 3 primarily include the Closing carrying amount 359 604 963 fair value measurements based on the Company’s own valuation methods and the fair value for certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes. For certain mixed-use properties and As at December 30, 2018, restated properties held for strategic purposes, Ahold Delhaize cannot determine the fair value of the investment At cost 869 989 1,858 property reliably. In such cases, the fair value is assumed to be equal to the carrying amount. Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (510) (385) (895) Rental income from investment property (both company-owned and right-of-use asset) included in Carrying amount 359 604 963 the income statement in 2019 amounted to €86 million (2018: €89 million). Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance but excluding depreciation expense) arising from rentalYear ended December 29, 2019 income-generating and non-rent-generating investment property in 2019 amounted to €28 million Additions 15 10 25 (2018: €30 million). Reassessments and modifications to leases 12 — 12 Depreciation (26) (25) (51) Impairment losses and reversals – net (9) (6) (15) Termination of leases (8) — (8) Assets classified (to) from held for sale or sold — (56) (56) Reclassifications (to) from net investment in leases (8) — (8) Transfers (to) from right-of-use assets, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (5) 8 3 Exchange rate differences 8 11 19 Closing carrying amount 337 546 883 Year ended December 29, 2019 At cost 881 977 1,858 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (544) (431) (975) Carrying amount 337 546 883 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 147 14 Intangible assets Customer Under € million Goodwill Brand names Software relationships Other development Total As of January 1, 2018, restated At cost 6,868 3,108 1,185 200 912 50 12,323 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (8) (4) (675) (81) (145) — (913) Carrying amount 6,860 3,104 510 119 767 50 11,410 Year ended December 30, 2018, restated Additions — — 98 — 14 192 304 Transfers from under development — — 129 — 1 (130) — Acquisitions through business combinations 22 — — 1 — — 23 Amortization — (2) (197) (13) (32) — (244) Impairments — — (2) — — — (2) Other movements — — 2 — — (2) — Exchange rate differences 212 94 8 3 4 1 322 Closing carrying amount 7,094 3,196 548 110 754 111 11,813 As of December 30, 2018, restated At cost 7,102 3,202 1,400 208 932 111 12,955 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (8) (6) (852) (98) (178) — (1,142) Carrying amount 7,094 3,196 548 110 754 111 11,813 Year ended December 29, 2019 Additions — — 103 — 13 217 334 Transfers from under development — — 140 — 5 (144) — Acquisitions through business combinations 32 — 1 — 4 — 37 Amortization — (2) (235) (13) (34) — (285) Impairments — — (1) — (1) — (3) Other movements — — — — — — 1 Exchange rate differences 108 46 4 1 2 1 163 Closing carrying amount 7,233 3,241 559 98 743 185 12,060 As of December 29, 2019 At cost 7,242 3,249 1,578 211 941 185 13,406 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (8) (8) (1,019) (113) (198) — (1,347) Carrying amount 7,233 3,241 559 98 743 185 12,060 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 148 14 Intangible assets continued Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. there are indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. Upon adoption of IFRS 16, the carrying values of the CGUs tested for impairment include their right-of-use assets but exclude the associated Brand names include retail brands as well as certain own brands referring to ranges of products. lease liabilities. Cash flow projections used in determining recoverable amounts exclude the lease Retail brands are strong and well-established brands of supermarkets, convenience stores and online payments but include replacement capex to maintain the ongoing level of operation in both the explicit stores protected by trademarks that are renewable indefinitely in their relevant markets. There are not forecast period and in terminal value. Except for Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Le Lion (including believed to be any legal, regulatory or contractual provisions that limit the useful lives. Ahold Delhaize Belgium and Luxembourg), the recoverable amounts for the CGUs have been determined based on brands play an important role in the Company’s business strategy. Ahold Delhaize believes that there value in use. is currently no foreseeable limit to the period over which the retail brands are expected to generate net cash inflows, and therefore they are assessed to have an indefinite useful life. Value in use Value in use is determined using discounted cash flow projections that generally cover a period of The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to CGUs within Ahold Delhaize’s reportable segments and five years and are based on the financial plans approved by the Company’s management. Due to the brands recognized from business acquisitions are as follows: expected continuation of high growth in the relevant online retail market, we projected cash flows for Goodwill Goodwill Brand names Brand names December 29, December 30, December 29, December 30, bol.com over a 10-year period to better reflect the growth expectations in sales, profitability and cash € million 2019 2018 2019¹ 20181 generation as this business has not yet reached a steady state. The key assumptions for the value-inReportable use calculations relate to the weighted average cost of capital (hereafter: discount rate), sales growth, segment Cash-generating unit operating margin and growth rate (terminal value). The discount rates reflect the key assumptions used The United States Stop & Shop 942 914 — — in the cash flow projections and the composition of the assets and liabilities included in the CGUs Food Lion 1,032 1,002 1,297 1,268 carrying value upon adoption of IFRS 16. The pre-tax discount rates ranged between 7.4% and 7.7% for Giant/Martin’s 575 539 — — the U.S. brands (excluding Food Lion and Hannaford), ranged between 5.5% and 5.6% for the brands Hannaford 1,813 1,766 772 756 in the Netherlands, and are 10.8% for bol.com, 6.1% for the Czech Republic, 10.2% for Greece, 9.6% for Romania and 9.6% for the Republic of Serbia. The sales growth rates and operating margins used Giant Food 338 328 — — to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and Peapod2 — 23 — — operating margins achievable in Ahold Delhaize’s main markets. The average annual compound sales The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 2.1% and 12.0% for the CGUs excluding Netherlands and Belgium) 1,425 1,422 — — bol.com. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 3.0% bol.com (including the and 5.8% for the CGUs excluding bol.com. For bol.com, the value in use has been estimated based Netherlands and Belgium) 201 201 86 86 on modest sales growth and modest positive operating margins in the second part of the projection Etos 8 8 — — period. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one Gall & Gall 1 1 — — year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.5% and Belgium Delhaize Le Lion (including 2.8% for the CGUs; no additional growth was assumed thereafter. Belgium and Luxembourg) 432 432 786 786 Central and Albert (Czech Republic) 181 180 — — Southeastern Alfa Beta (Greece) 137 137 137 137 Europe Mega Image (Romania) 135 129 86 88 Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) 12 12 76 75 Ahold Delhaize Group 7,233 7,094 3,241 3,196 1 Included own brands at Food Lion (€8 million, December 30, 2018: €9 million), Hannaford (€8 million, December 30, 2018: €9 million), Greece (€3 million, December 30, 2018: €3 million) and Romania (€2 million, December 30, 2018: €2 million). 2 In 2019, Peapod’s goodwill was reallocated to the other U.S. brands due to new brand-centric omnichannel business model reflecting a different management and reallocation of revenue generating activities and assets used in undertaking those activities. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 149 14 Intangible assets continued 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Fair value less costs of disposal In 1992, Ahold Delhaize partnered with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. in the joint venture JMR – Fair value represents the price that would be received for selling an asset in an orderly transaction Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”). Ahold Delhaize holds 49% of the shares in between market participants and is generally measured using an income approach or a market JMR and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. approach. For Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Le Lion (Belgium), we used discounted cash flow JMR operates food retail stores in Portugal under the brand name Pingo Doce. projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective; taking Ahold Delhaize holds 51% of the shares in P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”). Super Indo operates financial plans as approved by management as a base (level 3 valuation). The discounted cash supermarkets in Indonesia. Although Ahold Delhaize has a 51% investment in Super Indo, the Company flow projections cover a period of five years. Fair value less costs of disposal is based on a post-tax cannot exercise its majority voting rights mainly due to (i) a quorum requirement for the board of calculation model and included the deferred tax position in the carrying amount and a corresponding directors to decide on critical operating and financing activities and (ii) a requirement of unanimous tax-related cash flow in the recoverable amount. The key assumptions for the discounted cash flow affirmative decisions in the board of directors on significant and strategic investing and financing projections relate to discount rate, sales growth, operating margin and growth rate (terminal value). matters, such as budgets and business plans and any resolution on the allocation of profits and The discount rates reflect the key assumptions used in the cash flow projections and the composition distribution of dividends. of the assets and liabilities included in the CGUs carrying value upon adoption of IFRS 16. The post-tax rates used to discount the projected cash flows reflect specific risks relating to relevant CGUs and Therefore, JMR and Super Indo are joint ventures and are accounted for using the equity method. are 5.8% for Food Lion and Hannaford and 5.2% for Delhaize Le Lion. The average annual compound There are no quoted market prices available. sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 2.3% and 4.4% for the CGUs. Ahold Delhaize is also a partner in various smaller joint arrangements and associates that are The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 3.4% and 6.5% for individually not material to the Group. the CGUs. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.7% Changes in the carrying amount of Ahold Delhaize’s interest in joint ventures and associates are and 2.2% for the CGUs; no additional growth was assumed thereafter. as follows: Key assumptions relating to CGUs to which a significant amount of goodwill or intangible assets with JMR Super Indo Other Total € million 2019 2019 2019 2019 indefinite useful lives is allocated are as follows: Beginning of the year 142 43 28 213 Pre-tax Post-tax Growth rate discount rate discount rate (terminal value) Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 33 8 9 50 Stop & Shop 7.4% N/A 2.2% Dividend (15) — (21) (36) Food Lion N/A 5.8% 2.2% Investments classified (to) from held for sale or sold — — (2) (2) Hannaford N/A 5.8% 2.2% Exchange rate differences — 3 1 4 Albert Heijn 5.6% N/A 1.5% End of the year 160 54 14 229 Delhaize Le Lion N/A 5.2% 1.7% JMR Super Indo Other Total Customer relationships consist primarily of pharmacy scripts and customer lists recognized through € million 2018 2018 2018 2018 the acquisition of bol.com in 2012. “Other” mainly includes intangible assets related to relationships Beginning of the year as previously reported 150 41 39 230 with franchisees and affiliates recognized in connection with the Ahold Delhaize merger, location Impact of implementation of IFRS 161 (23) (2) — (25) development rights, deed restrictions and similar assets. Intangible assets under development relate Beginning of the year as restated 127 39 39 205 mainly to software development. Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 31 5 (2) 34 Dividend (16) — (1) (17) Other changes — — (9) (9) Exchange rate differences — (1) 1 — End of the year as restated 142 43 28 213 1 See Note 36 for details about restatements due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 150 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Share in income (loss) from continuing operations for Ahold Delhaize’s interests in all individually The information presented below represents a reconciliation of the summarized financial information immaterial joint ventures was an income of €9 million (2018: a loss of €2 million) and nil for individually presented above to the carrying amount of JMR and Super Indo. immaterial associates (2018: nil). JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Set out below is the summarized financial information for JMR and Super Indo (on a 100% basis). Opening net assets 290 259 67 58 JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Net income 67 64 15 10 Summarized statement of comprehensive Dividend (31) (33) — — income Exchange rate differences — — 5 (1) Net sales 4,389 4,253 486 410 Closing net assets 328 290 86 67 Depreciation and amortization (148) (132) (16) (14) Interest in joint venture 49% 49% 51% 51% Interest income — — 2 1 Closing net assets included in the carrying Interest expense (1) (2) — — value 160 142 44 34 Interest accretion to lease liability (20) (20) (3) (2) Goodwill — — 10 9 Income tax expense (19) (18) (2) (1) Carrying value 160 142 54 43 Income from continuing operations 67 64 15 10 Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint ventures and associates Net income 67 64 15 10 Our JMR joint venture is involved in several tax proceedings initiated by the Portuguese tax authorities. Other comprehensive income — — — — These tax claims are contested by our JMR joint venture. For these tax claims, JMR issued several Total comprehensive income 67 64 15 10 bank guarantees for a total amount of €69 million. Ahold Delhaize’s indirect share of these JMR-issued guarantees is €34 million, based on our ownership interest. There are no other significant contingent JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo liabilities or restrictions relating to the Company’s interest in the joint ventures and associates. December 29, December 30, December 29, December 30, The commitments are presented in Note 35. € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Summarized balance sheet Non-current assets 1,595 1,516 98 90 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 40 40 68 47 Other current assets 394 378 58 44 Total current assets 434 418 126 91 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 370 391 33 29 Other liabilities 31 26 6 5 Total non-current liabilities 401 417 39 34 Current liabilities Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) 177 132 5 4 Other current liabilities 1,124 1,095 94 76 Total current liabilities 1,300 1,227 98 80 Net assets 328 290 86 67 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 151 16 Other non-current financial assets 18 Receivables December 29, December 30, December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated € million 2019 2018 restated Net investment in leases 396 398 Trade receivables 1,072 1,027 Reinsurance assets 160 144 Vendor allowance receivables 585 503 Loans receivable 44 52 Other receivables1 329 305 Defined benefit asset 43 24 1,986 1,835 Derivative financial instruments — 1 Provision for impairment (81) (87) Other 18 17 Total receivables1 1,905 1,748 Total other non-current financial assets 661 636 1 As presented in the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, the receivables balance as previously reported in 2018 increased by €87 million from €1,759 million to €1,846 million as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16. Subsequently, the current For more information on the Net investment in leases, see Note 34. portion of the net investment in leases (2018: €81 million) and short-term loans receivables (2018: €17 million) were reclassified from Receivables (Note 18) to Other current financial assets (Note 19). Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. At the same time, Ahold Delhaize assumes a share of the The receivable balances are presented net of accounts payable and subject to an enforceable netting reinsurance treaty risks that is measured by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in the treaty. arrangement between the Company and the counterparty. The total effect of netting as of December The participation percentage is the ratio of premium paid by Ahold Delhaize to the total premium 29, 2019, is €208 million (December 30, 2018: €231 million). paid by all treaty members. In connection with this pooling arrangement, the Company recognizes At December 29, 2019, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: reinsurance assets and reinsurance liabilities (see also Notes 19, 23 and 27) on the balance sheet. Past due There were no significant gains or losses related to this pooling arrangement during 2019 or 2018. Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 € million Total due months months months months Of the non-current loans receivable, €23 million matures between one and five years and €21 million Trade receivables 1,072 674 316 12 13 58 after five years (December 30, 2018: €31 million between one and five years and €21 million after Vendor allowance five years). The current portion of loans receivable of €16 million (December 30, 2018: €17 million) is receivables 585 458 90 19 11 7 included in Other current financial assets (see Note 19). Other receivables 329 174 70 38 9 38 The defined benefit asset at December 29, 2019, represents defined benefit pension plans for which 1,986 1,306 476 69 32 103 the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligations. For more Provision for impairment (81) (6) (7) (2) (9) (56) information on defined benefit plans, see Note 24. Total receivables 1,905 1,300 469 67 23 47 For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values, see Note 31. Expected credit loss 4.1% 0.5% 1.5% 3.4% 29.4% 54.6% 17 Inventories At December 30, 2018, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: December 29, December 30, Past due € million 2019 2018 restated Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 Finished products and merchandise inventories 3,288 3,139 € million Total due months months months months Raw materials, packaging materials, technical supplies and other 59 57 Trade receivables 1,027 767 186 11 17 46 Total inventories 3,347 3,196 Vendor allowance receivables 503 391 87 17 1 7 In 2019, €1,531 million has been recognized as a write-off of inventories in the income statement Other receivables 305 175 67 28 6 29 (2018: €1,366 million). Write-offs include, among others, spoilage, damaged product and product 1,835 1,333 340 56 24 82 donated to food banks. Provision for impairment (87) (11) (10) (4) (14) (48) Total receivables 1,748 1,322 330 52 10 34 Expected credit loss 4.7% 0.8% 3.1% 6.4% 58.4% 58.0% Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 152 18 Receivables continued 20 Cash and cash equivalents The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated and vendor base are large and unrelated. The Company does not hold any significant collateral on its receivables. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the Cash in banks and cash equivalents 3,467 2,813 normal individual and collective impairment assessment, based on the aging analysis performed as of Cash on hand 250 309 December 29, 2019. For more information about credit risk, see Note 31. Total cash and cash equivalents 3,717 3,122 The changes in the provision for impairment were as follows: Cash and cash equivalents include all cash-on-hand balances, checks, debit and credit card € million 2019 2018 receivables, short-term highly liquid cash investments, and time deposits with original maturities of Beginning of the year (87) (80) three months or less. Time deposits and similar instruments with original maturities of more than three Charged to income (29) (29) months but less than 12 months are classified as other current financial assets. Bank overdrafts are Used 35 22 included in short-term borrowings. End of the year (81) (87) Of the cash and cash equivalents as of December 29, 2019, €17 million was restricted (December 30, 2018: €12 million). 19 Other current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents include €1,391 million (December 30, 2018: €695 million) held under a December 29, December 30, notional cash pooling arrangement. This cash amount was fully offset by an identical amount included € million 2019 2018 restated under Other current financial liabilities. From an operational perspective, the balances in the cash pool Net investment in leases – current portion1 78 81 are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and Investments in debt instruments (FVPL) – current portion 130 119 credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis Short-term deposits and similar instruments 15 266 on the balance sheet (see Notes 27 and 31). Reinsurance assets – current portion (see Note 16) 76 74 Short-term loans receivable1 16 17 Ahold Delhaize’s banking arrangements allow the Company to fund outstanding checks when Other 2 2 presented to the bank for payment. This cash management practice may result in a net cash book overdraft position, which occurs when the total issued checks exceed available cash balances within Total other current financial assets 317 559 the Company’s cash concentration structure. Such book overdrafts are classified in accounts payable 1 The current portion of the net investment in leases (2018: €81 million) and short-term loans receivables (2018: €17 million) were and amounted to €277 million (December 30, 2018: €292 million). No right to offset with other bank previously included in Receivables (Note 18). This reclassification resulted in an increase of the 2018 balance as previously balances exists for these book overdraft positions. reported by €98 million from €461 million to €559 million. For more information on Net investment in leases – current portion, see Note 34. The Investments in debt instruments relate primarily to investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds, which are held by one of the Company’s captive insurance companies. As of December 29, 2019, short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a maturity at acquisition of between three and 12 months. Of the short-term deposits and similar instruments as of December 29, 2019, €12 million was restricted (December 30, 2018: €11 million). The restricted investments are held for insurance purposes for U.S. workers’ compensation and general liability programs. At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized costs. In 2019, the Company recognized net impairment charges for the loans receivable in the amount of €6 million (2018: €4 million). The impairment charges were included in other gains (losses); see Note 9. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 153 21 Equity attributable to common shareholders Shares and share capital Dividends on common shares Authorized share capital comprises the following classes of shares: On April 10, 2019, the General Meeting of Shareholders approved the dividend over 2018 of €0.70 per December 29, December 30, common share, which was paid on April 25, 2019, and on August 7, 2019, the Company announced € million 2019 2018 the interim dividend for 2019 of €0.30 per common share, which was paid on August 29, 2019 Common shares (€1,114 million in the aggregate). The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, (2019 and 2018: 1,923,515,827 of €0.01 par value each) 19 19 proposes that a dividend of €0.76 per common share be paid with respect to 2019. This dividend is Cumulative preferred shares subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders. If approved, a final dividend of €0.46 per (2019 and 2018: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each) 23 23 common share will be paid on April 23, 2020. This is in addition to the interim dividend of €0.30 per Cumulative preferred financing shares common share, which was paid on August 29, 2019. The total dividend payment for the full year 2019 (2019 and 2018: 326,484,173 of €0.01 par value each) 3 3 would therefore total €0.76 per common share (2018: €0.70). Total authorized share capital 45 45 The final dividend of €0.46 per common share has not been included as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2019. The payment of this dividend will not have income tax Issued share capital consequences for the Company. As of December 29, 2019, the common shares comprise 100% of the issued share capital. As of December 30, 2018, Ahold Delhaize had common shares comprising 83.5% of the issued share Share buyback capital, and cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding comprising 16.5% of the issued share The share buyback program of €1 billion that started on January 2, 2019, was successfully completed capital. In 2019, the Company acquired and cancelled all the cumulative preferred financing shares. on December 11, 2019. In total, 45,621,384 of the Company’s own shares were repurchased at an For disclosures regarding Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 23. average price of €21.92 per share. On January 2, 2020, the Company commenced the €1 billion share buyback program that was announced on December 4, 2019. The program is expected to be Common shares and additional paid-in capital completed before the end of 2020. Changes in the number of common shares and the number of treasury shares were as follows: Number of Number of Share-based payments common Number of common Share-based payments recognized in equity in the amount of €47 million (2018: €63 million) relate to the shares issued treasury shares and fully paid shares outstanding 2019 Global Reward Opportunity (GRO) share-based compensation expenses (see Note 33) and the (x 1,000) (x 1,000) (x 1,000) associated current and deferred income taxes. Balance as of December 31, 2017 1,246,809 19,219 1,227,590 Share buyback — 101,053 (101,053) Cumulative preferred shares The Company’s Articles of Association provide for the possible issuance of cumulative preferred Cancellation of treasury shares (63,084) (63,084) — shares. The Company believes that its ability to issue this class of shares could at least delay an attempt Share-based payments — (3,662) 3,662 by a potential bidder to make a hostile takeover bid, allowing the Company and its stakeholders time Other — (1) 1 to discuss and respond to the offer in an orderly process. According to Dutch law, a response device Balance as of December 30, 2018 1,183,725 53,525 1,130,200 is limited in time and therefore cannot permanently block a take-over of the Company concerned. Share buyback — 45,621 (45,621) Instead, it aims to facilitate an orderly process in which the interests of the continuity of the Company, its Cancellation of treasury shares (83,000) (83,000) — shareholders and other stakeholders are safeguarded in the best way possible. Share-based payments — (3,377) 3,377 Moreover, outside the scope of a public offer, but also under other circumstances, the ability to issue Balance as of December 29, 2019 1,100,725 12,769 1,087,956 this class of shares may safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders and resist influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. No cumulative preferred shares were outstanding as of December 29, 2019, or during 2019 and 2018. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 154 21 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued In March 1989, the Company entered into an agreement with the Dutch foundation Stichting Continuïteit SCAD is a foundation organized under the laws of the Netherlands. Its purpose under its articles is Ahold Delhaize (SCAD, previously named Stichting Ahold Continuïteit), as amended and restated in to safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders and to resist, to the best of its ability, April 1994, March 1997, December 2001, December 2003 and May 2018 (the “Option Agreement”). influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has been granted an option to acquire cumulative preferred or identity. SCAD seeks to realize its objectives by acquiring and holding cumulative preferred shares shares from the Company from time to time for no consideration. and by exercising the rights attached to these shares, including the voting rights. The SCAD board has four members, who are appointed by the board of SCAD itself. The Option Agreement entitles SCAD, under certain circumstances, to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company up to a total par value that is equal to the total par value of all issued and If the board of SCAD considers acquiring cumulative preferred shares or exercising voting rights on outstanding shares of Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, excluding cumulative preferred shares, at the time cumulative preferred shares, it will make an independent assessment and, pursuant to Dutch law, it of exercising the option. If the authorized share capital of the Company is amended during the term must ensure that its actions are proportional and reasonable. If SCAD acquires cumulative preferred of the option, the Option Agreement provides for a corresponding change of the total par value of shares, it will only hold them for a limited period of time. These principles are in line with Dutch law, cumulative preferred shares under option. which only allows response measures that are proportionate, reasonable and limited in time. In the case of liquidation, the SCAD board will decide on the use of any remaining residual assets. The holders of the cumulative preferred shares are entitled to one vote per share and a cumulative dividend expressed as a percentage of the amount called-up and paid-in to purchase the cumulative Legal reserves preferred shares. The percentage to be applied is the sum of (1) the average basic refinancing In accordance with the Dutch Civil Code and statutory requirements in other countries, legal reserves transaction interest rate as set by the European Central Bank – measured by the number of days during have to be established in certain circumstances. Legal reserves are not available for distribution which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – plus 2.1%, and (2) the to the Company’s shareholders. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and average interest surcharge rate – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force other reserves include non-distributable amounts. Of the total equity as per December 29, 2019, in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – that would be charged by the largest credit institution of €14,083 million, an amount of €590 million is non-distributable (December 30, 2018, restated: in the Netherlands (based on the balance sheet total as of the close of the fiscal year immediately €397 million out of total equity of €14,205 million). See Note 10 to the parent company financial preceding the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid). The minimum percentage to be applied is statements for more details on the legal reserves. 5.75%. Subject to limited exceptions, any potential transfer of cumulative preferred shares requires the approval of the Management Board. Cumulative preferred shares can only be issued in a registered form. The Company may stipulate that only 25% of the par value will be paid upon subscription to cumulative preferred shares until payment in full is later required by the Company. SCAD would then only be entitled to a market-based interest return on its investment. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 155 22 Loans and credit facilities The notes in the table below were either issued by or guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize unless otherwise noted. The amortization of the purchase price allocation to the debt acquired through business combinations is allocated to the respective maturity brackets. Outstanding notional Total Total redemption amount Current Non-current December 29, Current Non-current December 30, € million, unless otherwise stated December 29, 2019 portion portion 2019 portion portion 2018 restated USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 2019 USD – — — — 114 — 114 USD 94 indebtedness 7.82%, due 2020 USD – — — — 7 — 7 EUR 400 notes 3.125%, due 2020 EUR 400 402 — 402 12 402 414 EUR 300 notes EURIBOR + 18 bps, due 2021 EUR 300 — 300 300 — 300 300 EUR 750 notes 0.875%, due 2024 EUR 750 — 750 750 — 750 750 EUR 600 notes 0.250%, due 2025 EUR 600 — 600 600 — — — USD 71 indebtedness 8.62%, due 2025 USD 71 19 44 63 — 62 62 EUR 500 notes 1.125%, due 2026 EUR 500 — 500 500 — 500 500 USD 71 notes 8.05%, due 2027 USD 71 2 78 80 2 79 81 USD 500 notes 6.875%, due 2029 USD 500 — 447 447 — 437 437 USD 271 notes 9.00%, due 2031 USD 271 6 319 325 5 317 322 USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 2040 USD 477 3 510 513 3 501 504 Deferred financing costs (3) (17) (20) (2) (13) (15) Total notes 429 3,533 3,962 141 3,335 3,476 Financing obligations1 22 241 263 20 257 277 Mortgages payable2 2 64 66 1 88 89 Other loans — 3 3 — 3 3 Total loans 453 3,841 4,294 162 3,683 3,845 1 The weighted average interest rate for the financing obligations amounted to 7.2% at the end of 2019 (2018: 7.3%). 2 Mortgages payable are collateralized by buildings and land. The weighted average interest rate for these mortgages payable amounted to 10.5% at the end of 2019 (2018: 10.3%). On March 19, 2018, Ahold Delhaize issued EUR 500 million fixed rate notes due in 2026 and EUR On June 19, 2019, Ahold Delhaize issued its first EUR 600 million Sustainability Bond with a term of six 300 million floating rate notes due in 2021. The eight-year fixed rate notes bear a coupon of 1.125% per years, maturing on June 26, 2025. The issuance was priced at 99.272% and carries an annual coupon annum and were issued at a price of 99.107% of the nominal value. The three-year floating rate notes of 0.25%. bear a coupon of 18 basis points over three-month EURIBOR per annum and were issued at a price of The fair values of financial instruments, corresponding derivatives, and the foreign exchange and 100.449% of the nominal value. interest rate risk management policies applied by Ahold Delhaize are disclosed in Note 31. On October 19, 2018, Ahold Delhaize repaid its 4.25% EUR 400 million notes on maturity. Credit facilities On December 6, 2018, Ahold Delhaize repurchased and cancelled $350 million of the USD 827 million Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion committed, unsecured, multi-currency and syndicated 5.70% senior notes, due in 2040, for a total consideration of $389 million while the carrying value was credit facility. In February 2015, the facility was amended and extended to 2020 with two one-year $423 million. This transaction resulted in a one-off cost of $39 million as premium paid and a gain of extension options. In 2017, the Company exercised its option to extend until 2022. $73 million related to the acceleration of the amortization of the fair value adjustment allocated to the The credit facility contains customary covenants and is subject to a financial covenant that requires USD 827 million notes due 2040. In 2018, the one-off result is included in Other gains (losses); see Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than Note 9. BBB / Baa2, respectively, not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. On May 3, 2019, the lenders agreed On April 10, 2019, Ahold Delhaize repaid its 4.125% USD 300 million notes on maturity for which to amend the maximum leverage ratio from 4.0:1 to 5.5:1 as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16. $130 million was outstanding. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 156 22 Loans and credit facilities continued 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits During 2019 and 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. However, it was not Defined benefit plans required to test the financial covenant as a result of its credit rating. As of December 29, 2019, there Ahold Delhaize has a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a substantial number of were no outstanding borrowings under the facility other than letters of credit to an aggregate amount of employees, former employees and retirees in the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, Greece $165 million (€148 million). and Serbia. Ahold Delhaize also has access to a total of €399 million uncommitted credit facilities to cover working Net assets relating to one plan are not offset against liabilities of another plan, resulting in the following capital requirements, issuance of guarantees and letters of credit, of which €60 million was utilized as of presentation of the pension and other post-employment benefits on the consolidated balance sheet: December 29, 2019. December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated 23 Other non-current financial liabilities Defined benefit liabilities 677 532 December 29, December 30, Defined benefit assets (43) (24) € million 2019 2018 restated Total net defined benefit plan funded status 633 508 Lease liabilities 8,484 8,270 Cumulative preferred financing shares — 455 The defined benefit assets are part of the other non-current financial assets; for more information, Reinsurance liabilities 162 149 see Note 16. Other 69 72 In the Netherlands, the Company has a career average plan covering all employees, except for bol. Total other non-current financial liabilities 8,716 8,946 com employees, over the age of 21. The plan provides benefits to participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The plan’s assets, which are made up of contributions from Ahold For more information on lease liabilities see Note 34. Delhaize and employees, are managed by Stichting Ahold Delhaize Pensioen (“Ahold Delhaize On April 10, 2019, the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Management Board to Pensioen”), an independent foundation. The contributions are established in a funding agreement acquire all cumulative preferred financing shares in the Company. On May 10, 2019, Ahold Delhaize between Ahold Delhaize, employee representatives and Ahold Delhaize Pensioen and are generally set acquired all 223,415,103 cumulative preferred financing shares at a redemption value of €477 million. every five years, or at the moment of a plan change. The contributions are determined as a percentage Net financial expenses include transaction results from the cumulative preferred shares redemption, of an employee’s pension base. resulting in a one-off cost of €22 million (see Note 9). The cumulative preferred financing shares were In the United States, the Company maintains a funded plan covering a limited population of employees. cancelled on July 16, 2019. This plan is closed to new participants. The plan provides a life annuity benefit based upon final pay to The Company recognizes reinsurance liabilities on its balance sheet in connection with a pooling participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made arrangement between unrelated companies (see Note 16). up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize, are maintained with various trustees. Contributions to the plan are required under the current funding policy if the prior year-end funding ratio falls below 100% As of December 29, 2019, “Other” mainly consists of a pre-tax liability for the discounted amount as measured using regulatory interest rates without funding relief in order to avoid variable Pension of the remaining settlement liability of $40 million (€36 million), relating to a 2013 agreement with the Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) premiums. In addition, the Company provides additional pension New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund (NETTI) to settle Stop & Shop’s pension benefits for certain Company executives and life insurance and medical care benefits for certain retired liabilities in the fund, and a $13 million (€12 million) financial liability for rent payments for nine Tops employees meeting age and service requirements at its U.S. subsidiaries, all of which the Company stores that the Company agreed to make for a period of 72 months (see Note 35). funds as claims are incurred. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 157 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In Belgium, the Company sponsors plans for substantially all of its employees. The plans are funded In Serbia, the Company has an unfunded defined benefit plan that provides a lump-sum benefit upon by fixed monthly contributions from both the Company and employees, which are adjusted annually the employee’s retirement, as prescribed by Serbian law. The benefit is based on a fixed multiple of the according to the Belgian consumer price index. Certain employees who were employed before 2005 higher of the (i) average gross salary of the employee, (ii) average gross salary in the Company or (iii) could choose not to participate in the employee contribution part of the plans. The plans assure average gross salary in the country, each determined at the time the employee retires. There is no legal employees receive a lump-sum payment at retirement based on the contributions made, and provide requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. employees with death-in-service benefits. Belgian law prescribes a variable minimum guaranteed rate The pension plans expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: longevity risk, interest rate risk, of return with Belgian 10-year government bonds as the underlying benchmark, and a collar of 1.75% currency risk, salary risk and investment risk. Longevity risk relates to the mortality assumptions used to and 3.75%. The Company substantially insures these returns with external insurance companies that value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase in participants’ life expectancies will increase a receive and manage the contributions to the plans. According to the relevant legislation, a short-fall plan’s liability. Interest rate risk relates to the discount rate used to value the defined benefit obligation, only needs to be compensated by the employer at the point in time when the employee either retires where a decrease in the discount rate will increase a plan’s liability; however, this will be partially or leaves the Company. As these plans have defined benefit features (when the return provided by offset by an increase in the return on a plan’s investments in debt instruments. The pension plans may the insurance company can be below the legally required minimum return, in which case the employer mitigate interest rate risk by entering into interest rate swap contracts. Currency risk relates to the has to cover the gap with additional contributions), the Company treats these plans as defined benefit fact that a plan holds investments that may not be denominated in the same currency as the plan’s plans. In order to avoid the gap, or reduce it to a minimum, the Company has opened a new cash obligations. The pension plans may mitigate currency risk by purchasing forward currency instruments. balance plan, under branch 23 rules in Belgium, as of July 1, 2017. All new employees who begin Salary risk relates to salary increase assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an service after this date will be included in this new plan. The level of contributions remains unchanged, increase will result in a higher plan liability. See section Plan assets for more details on the Company’s but the new plan is expected to experience higher returns in the long term than those generated under asset-liability matching strategy employed to manage its investment risk. the branch 21 rules followed by the older plans. Net defined benefit cost is comprised of several components. The net interest (income) expense Additionally in Belgium, the Company maintains a plan covering Company executives that provides is presented within net financial expenses in the income statement and plan remeasurements are lump-sum benefits to participants upon death or retirement based on a formula applied to the last presented as other comprehensive income. All other components of net defined benefit cost are annual salary of the participant before his or her retirement or death. The plan is subject to the legal presented in the income statement as cost of sales, selling expenses, and general and administrative requirement to guarantee a minimum return on contributions. The plan’s assets, which are made up of expenses, depending on the functional areas of the employees earning the benefits. contributions, are managed through a fund that is administered by an independent insurance company, € million 2019 2018 restated providing a minimum guaranteed return. The plan participant’s contributions are defined in the terms of the plan, while the annual contributions to be paid by the Company are determined based on the Service cost funding level of the plan and are calculated based on current salaries, taking into account the legal Current service cost 152 162 minimum funding requirement, which is based on the vested reserves to which employees are entitled Gain on settlement (3) — upon retirement or death. The plan mainly invests in debt securities in order to achieve the required Net interest expense 18 19 minimum return. The Company bears any risk above the minimum guarantee given by the insurance Administrative cost 11 12 company. There are no asset ceiling restrictions. In order to avoid returns being less than the minimum Termination benefits 1 2 guaranteed return, or reduce the risk to a minimum, the level of contributions at July 1, 2017, has been Components of defined benefit cost recorded in the income statement 179 195 capped and applied under the classic branch 21 rules. Any increases in contributions after July 1, 2017, will be managed in accordance with branch 23 rules, which are expected to experience higher returns Remeasurements recognized: in the long term. Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest In Greece, the Company operates an unfunded defined benefit post-employment plan. This plan (income) expense (1,162) 237 relates to retirement benefits prescribed by Greek law, consisting of lump-sum compensation payable (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions 10 (79) in case of normal retirement or termination of employment. The amount of the indemnity is based on an (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 1,251 (190) employee’s monthly earnings and a multiple depending on the length of service and the status of the Experience (gains) losses (23) (34) employee. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. Components of defined benefit cost recognized in other comprehensive Employees participate in the plan once they have completed a minimum service period, which is income 76 (66) generally one year. Total net defined benefit cost 256 129 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 158 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued The changes in the defined benefit obligations and plan assets in 2019 and 2018 were as follows: The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Defined benefit obligations Beginning of the year 4,777 4,822 1,333 1,359 281 278 6,391 6,459 Current service cost 118 125 19 22 14 15 152 162 Past service cost — — — — — — — — Gain on settlements — — (16) — — — (16) — Interest expense 94 98 60 51 5 5 158 154 Termination benefits — — — — 1 2 1 2 Contributions by plan participants 23 21 — — 1 1 24 22 Benefits paid (95) (90) (72) (63) (8) (16) (176) (169) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions (9) (73) 18 (5) — (1) 10 (79) (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 1,035 (80) 164 (104) 52 (6) 1,251 (190) Experience (gains) losses (32) (46) 4 9 5 3 (23) (34) Exchange rate differences — — 37 64 — — 37 64 End of the year 5,911 4,777 1,547 1,333 351 281 7,809 6,391 Plan assets Fair value of assets, beginning of the year 4,588 4,619 1,101 1,071 194 202 5,883 5,892 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — — — — Interest income 88 92 49 39 3 4 140 135 Company contribution 101 101 22 82 18 18 140 201 Contributions by plan participants 23 21 — — 1 1 24 22 Benefits paid (95) (90) (72) (63) (8) (16) (176) (169) Settlement payments — — (13) — — — (13) — Administrative cost (8) (9) (3) (3) — — (11) (12) Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) expense 946 (146) 175 (76) 42 (15) 1,162 (237) Exchange rate differences — — 27 51 — — 27 51 Fair value of assets, end of the year 5,642 4,588 1,285 1,101 249 194 7,177 5,883 Funded status (269) (189) (262) (232) (102) (87) (633) (508) The total defined benefit obligation of €7,809 million as of December 29, 2019, includes €214 million During 2017, Ahold Delhaize decided to transition a select population of employees participating related to plans that are wholly unfunded. These plans include pension plans in Greece and Serbia and in its defined benefit pension plan in the United States to a defined contribution plan, effective other benefits (such as life insurance and medical care) and supplemental executive retirement plans in January 1, 2020. Accrued benefits under the defined benefit plan for these employees were frozen the United States. as of December 31, 2019. In 2020, the Company will make transition contributions of €3 million to compensate affected employees for the benefit freeze. These transition contributions were already accrued for in 2017. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 159 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Cash contributions Assumptions regarding longevity are based on published statistics and mortality tables. From 2019 to 2020, Company contributions are expected to increase from €101 million to €108 million These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring at age 65: in the Netherlands, increase from $24 million (€22 million) to $25 million (€23 million) for all defined The Netherlands The United States Rest of world benefit plans in the United States, and decrease from €18 million to €17 million for all plans in the rest of Years 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated the world. Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners As of year-end 2019, the funding ratio, calculated in accordance with regulatory requirements, of the Male 21.4 21.3 20.4 19.5 N/A N/A Dutch plan was 108%. Under the financing agreement with Ahold Delhaize Pensioen, contributions Female 23.6 23.5 22.4 22.2 N/A N/A are made as a percentage of employees’ pension bases and shared between Ahold Delhaize and the Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 50 employees. The agreement also allows for a reduction in premiums if certain funding conditions are Male 23.1 23.0 21.6 20.8 N/A N/A met. In addition, Ahold Delhaize can be required to contribute a maximum amount of €150 million over Female 25.3 25.2 23.5 23.4 N/A N/A a five-year period if the funding ratio is below 105%. At year-end 2016, the funding ratio was 104% and the Company and Ahold Delhaize Pensioen agreed to an additional funding of €28 million under the The following table summarizes how the effect on the defined benefit obligations at the end of the financing agreement, which was included in the 2017 cash contributions. reporting period would have increased (decreased) as a result of a 0.5% change in the respective assumptions and a one-year increase in life expectancy. The Ahold USA pension plan’s funding ratio at year-end 2019 was 128%, measured using regulatory € million The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total interest rates allowed by the U.S. government as part of funding relief, which are higher than otherwise would be allowed. Based upon this funding ratio, under the current funding policy, we do not expect to Discount rate make a funding contribution to the Ahold USA pension plan in 2020. 0.5% increase (696) (89) (25) (810) 0.5% decrease 830 105 28 963 Actuarial assumptions Future salary increases The calculations of the defined benefit obligation and net defined benefit cost are sensitive to the 0.5% increase 94 — 12 106 assumptions set out below. These assumptions require a large degree of judgment. Actual experience may differ from the assumptions made. The assumptions required to calculate the actuarial present 0.5% decrease (89) — (11) (100) value of benefit obligations and the net defined benefit costs are determined per plan and are as Future pension increases follows (expressed as weighted averages): 0.5% increase 759 — N/A 759 The Netherlands The United States Rest of world 0.5% decrease (649) — N/A (649) % 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Life expectancy Discount rate 1.2 1.9 3.5 4.5 1.0 1.7 1 year increase at age 65 234 54 1 289 Future salary increases 2.5 3.3 4.3 4.5 3.8 3.2 Future pension increases 0.7 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in each respective assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In reality, one might expect interrelationships between the assumptions, especially between discount rate and future salary increases as both depend to a certain extent on expected inflation rates. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses did not change compared to the previous period. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 160 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Plan assets In the Netherlands, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers following investment The pension plan asset allocation differs per plan. The allocation of plan assets was as follows: strategies based on the composition of the plan liabilities. With the aid of asset liability management The Netherlands The United States Rest of world modeling, analyses are made of possible future economic scenarios and investment portfolios. € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated 2019 2018 restated Based on these analyses, investment strategies are determined to produce optimal investment Equity instruments: returns at acceptable funding ratio risk levels. Less favorable years can be part of these scenarios. Consumer goods 340 238 15 15 — — During 2019, the strategic targets for asset allocation of the Dutch pension plan were: 50% return portfolio (equity, high-yield debt, emerging-market debt, private equity and real estate) and 50% Financial services 206 279 15 17 — — matching portfolio (government bonds, interest swaps, € credits, mortgages and cash). Telecommunications and information 163 97 11 10 — — In the United States, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers and rebalanced Energy and utilities 116 90 17 18 — — periodically. The committee for the various U.S. plans establishes investment policies and strategies and Industry 381 262 7 4 — — regularly monitors the performance of the assets, including the selection of investment managers, setting Other 358 22 95 63 — — long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, Debt instruments: not limitations, subject to variation from time to time or as circumstances warrant. Occasionally, the Government 1,543 1,108 95 75 — — committees may approve allocations above or below a target range. Pension plan assets are invested in a trust intended to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, Corporate bonds and applicable fiduciary standards. The long-term investment objective for the plan’s assets is to maintain (investment grade) 429 1,297 662 564 — — an acceptable funding ratio of the plan’s assets and liabilities without undue exposure to risk. During 2019, Corporate bonds the strategic targets were: 16% equity securities and 84% debt securities. (non-investment grade) 8 8 — — — — Other — — 77 70 13 6 In 2019, the Dutch plan had €2.0 million of plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize’s financial instruments Real estate: (2018: €1.8 million). In 2019 or 2018, the U.S. plans did not have any plan assets invested in Ahold Retail 4 1 — — — — Delhaize financial instruments. Offices 2 6 — — — — The actual return on plan assets in 2019 was 22.6% for the Dutch plan (2018: (0.8)%) and 22.4% for the Residential 2 3 — — — — Ahold USA pension plan (2018: (4.1)%). Other — — 47 53 — — Benefit maturities Investment funds 1,645 1,032 152 135 8 6 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations of the plans in the Netherlands, the Insurance contracts — — — — 229 182 United States and the rest of world are 26.5, 13.3, and 15.5 years, respectively. Derivatives: Interest rate swaps 139 (46) — — — — The expected schedule of benefit payments for the plans are as follows: Forward FX contracts 6 (24) — — — — € million The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total Cash and cash equivalents 308 223 27 24 — — Amount due within one year 93 81 19 193 Other (8) (8) 65 53 — — Amount due between two and five years 372 328 37 737 Total 5,642 4,588 1,285 1,101 249 194 Amount due between six and ten years 572 440 63 1,075 Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets. Derivatives can be Defined contribution plans classified as level 2 instruments, and real estate and some investment funds as level 3 instruments The Company operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, based on the definitions in IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement.” It is the policy of Ahold Delhaize Greece and the Czech Republic. As mentioned above, the defined contribution plans in Belgium are Pensioen to use interest rate swaps to partially hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on the pension accounted for as defined benefit plans due to the guaranteed return elements of the plans. The largest liability. Foreign currency exposures are hedged by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. defined contribution plans exist in the United States, where the Company sponsors profit-sharing retirement plans that include a 401(k) feature that permits participating employees to make elective deferrals of their compensation and requires the Company to make matching contributions. During 2019 and 2018, the Company contributed €107 million and €100 million, respectively, to its defined contribution plans. These contributions were recognized as an expense in the income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2019 and 2018. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 161 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Multi-employer plans Defined benefit plans A significant number of union employees in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans Ahold Delhaize participates in 11 multi-employer pension plans that are defined benefit plans on the based on obligations arising from collective bargaining agreements. These plans provide retirement basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The Company’s participation in these multi-employer plans and other benefits to participants generally based on their service to contributing employers. is outlined in the following tables. The benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose. Trustees are appointed in equal number Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage is an indication based on the relevant amount of its by employers and unions and they are typically responsible for oversight of the investment of the assets contributions during the year in relation to the total amount of contributions made to the plan. and administration of the plan. Contribution rates and, in some instances, benefit levels are generally determined through the collective bargaining process between the participating employers and unions. The estimate of the Company’s net proportionate share of the plans’ deficits is based on the latest With the exception of the Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund as explained available information received from these plans, such as the plans’ measurement of plan assets and the below, none of the Company’s collective bargaining agreements require an increase in the Company’s use of discount rates between 6.5% and 8.5%. The estimate does not represent Ahold Delhaize’s direct total pension contributions to meet minimum funding requirements. obligation. While it is our best estimate, based upon information available to us, it is imprecise and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made. Most of these plans are defined contribution plans. All plans that are defined benefit plans, on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided, are accounted for as defined contribution plans because, The EIN / Pension Plan Number column provides the Employer Identification Number (EIN) and the among other things, there is insufficient information available to account for these plans as defined three-digit pension plan number. As with all pension plans, multi-employer pension plans in the U.S. benefit plans. These plans are generally flat dollar benefit plans. Ahold Delhaize is generally one of are regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended; the several employers participating in most of these plans and, in the event that Ahold Delhaize withdraws Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA); and the Multi-employer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (MPRA), from a plan, its allocable share of the plan’s obligations (with certain exceptions) would be based among other legislation. upon unfunded vested benefits in the plan at the time of such withdrawal. Ahold Delhaize’s obligation Under the PPA, plans are categorized as “endangered” (Yellow Zone), “seriously endangered” (Orange to pay for its allocable share of a plan’s unfunded vested benefits is called a withdrawal liability. Zone), “critical” (Red Zone), or neither endangered nor critical (Green Zone). This categorization is The withdrawal liability payable by Ahold Delhaize at such time as it experiences a withdrawal from primarily based on three measures: the plan’s funded percentage, the number of years before the plan a plan is based upon the applicable statutory formula, plan computation methods and actuarial is projected to have a minimum funding deficiency under ERISA and the number of years before the assumptions, and the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits. Ahold Delhaize does not have sufficient plan is projected to become insolvent. information to accurately determine its ratable share of plan obligations and assets following defined benefit accounting principles and the financial statements of the multi-employer plans are drawn up on A plan is in the “Yellow Zone” if the funded percentage is less than 80% or a minimum funding the basis of other accounting policies than those applied by Ahold Delhaize. Consequently, these multideficiency is projected within seven years. If both of these triggers are reached, the plan is in the employer plans are not included in the Company’s balance sheet. “Orange Zone.” Generally, a plan is in the “Red Zone” if a funding deficiency is projected at any time in the next four years (or five years if the funded percentage is less than 65%). Plans with a funding ratio The risks of participating in multi-employer plans are different from the risks of single employer plans. above 80% are generally designated as being in the “Green Zone.” A plan in the “Red Zone” may be Ahold Delhaize’s contributions are pooled with the contributions of other contributing employers, and further categorized as “critical and declining” if the plan is projected to become insolvent within the are therefore used to provide benefits to employees of these other participating employers. If other current year or within either the next 14 years or the next 19 years, depending on the plan’s ratio of participating employers cease to participate in the plan without paying their allocable portion of the inactive participants to active participants and the plan’s specific funding percentage. Multi-employer plan’s unfunded obligations, this could result in increases in the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits plans in endangered or critical status are required by U.S. law to develop either a funding improvement and, thus, Ahold Delhaize’s future contributions. Similarly, if a number of employers cease to have plan (FIP) or a rehabilitation plan (RP) to enhance funding through reductions in benefits, increases in employees participating in the plan, Ahold Delhaize could be responsible for an increased share of contributions, or both. the plan’s deficit. If Ahold Delhaize seeks to withdraw from a multi-employer plan, it generally must obtain the agreement of the applicable unions and will likely be required to pay withdrawal liability in The FIP / RP Status Pending / Implemented column in the table below indicates plans for which an FIP connection with this. If a multi-employer plan in which Ahold Delhaize participates becomes insolvent, or an RP is pending or has been implemented. Additional information regarding the multi-employer Ahold Delhaize may be required to increase its contributions, in certain circumstances, to fund the plans listed in the following tables can be found on the website of the U.S. Department of Labor payment of benefits by the multi-employer plan. (www.efast.dol.gov). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 162 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued December 29, 2019 Ahold Delhaize’s FIP / RP status Expiration date Plan proportionate EIN / Pension pending / Year of of collective Annual deficit / Ahold Delhaize’s share of deficit € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentages plan number ERISA zone status implemented Form 55001 bargaining agreement contributions (surplus)2 participation (surplus)3 Red FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2018 October 26, 20194 23 1,335 56.6% 756 Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund 46-1000515/001 Green No 2018 October 26, 20194 10 (18) 62.0% (11) Red New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension 04-6372430/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2018 March 29, 2025 6 — 2.6% — October 23, 2023 UFCW Local 1262 & Employers Pension Fund 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2018 – February 10, 2024 5 85 43.4% 37 United Food & Commercial Workers International Union – February 23, 2019 Industry Pension Fund 51-6055922/001 Green No 2018 – October 31, 2020 23 (270) 23.8% (64) December 26, 2020 UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2018 12 182 39.9% 73 Red Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 730 Pension Trust Fund 52-6124754/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2018 March 14, 2022 3 99 86.0% 85 Other plans 6 5,882 0.9% (15) Total 88 7,295 861 December 30, 2018 restated Ahold Delhaize’s FIP / RP status Expiration date of Plan proportionate EIN / Pension pending / Year of collective bargaining Annual deficit / Ahold Delhaize’s share of deficit € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentages plan number ERISA zone status implemented Form 55001 agreement contributions (surplus)2 participation (surplus)3 Red FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2017 October 26, 2019 23 1,286 55.7% 716 Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund 46-1000515/001 Green No 2017 October 26, 2019 9 (2) 58.8% (1) Red New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension 04-6372430/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2017 March 30, 2019 5 – 2.7% – October 23, 2023 UFCW Local 1262 & Employers Pension Fund 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2017 – February 10, 2024 5 180 28.9% 52 United Food & Commercial Workers International Union – February 23, 2019 Industry Pension Fund 51-6055922/001 Green No 2017 – October 31, 2020 19 466 23.5% 110 UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2017 February 3, 2018 10 208 38.4% 80 Red Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 730 Pension Trust Fund 52-6124754/001 (Critical and declining) Implemented 2017 March 14, 2022 3 119 83.1% 97 Other plans 6 7,712 0.9% 19 Total 80 9,969 1,073 1 Form 5500 is part of ERISA’s overall reporting and disclosure framework and includes the financial statements of a 3 Ahold Delhaize’s proportionate share of deficit (surplus) is calculated by multiplying the deficit / (surplus) of each plan that the multi‑employer plan. Company participates in by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in that plan. This proportional share of deficit / (surplus) is 2 The deficit / (surplus) of the plans is heavily influenced by the discount rate applied by the plans, which ranges between 6.5% and an indication of our share of deficit / (surplus) based on the best available information. The deficit is calculated in accordance with 8.5%. Multi-employer plans discount the liabilities at the plan’s expected rate of return on assets. As a plan nearing insolvency the accounting policies and funding assumptions applied by the relevant plan and does not represent any obligation or liability reduces liquidity risk and expected volatility, its expected rate of return on assets declines and, as such, the discount rate will Ahold Delhaize may have in respect of the plan, which would be accounted for and measured in accordance with Ahold Delhaize’s decline, resulting in an increase of the deficit within the plan. accounting policies. 4 The current collective bargaining agreements were scheduled to expire on October 26, 2019. However, Giant Food and the local unions have agreed to indefinitely extend the existing collective agreements, provided that either side may cancel the extension at any time upon 72 hours’ advance notice. The negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement are ongoing. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 163 24 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued If the underfunded liabilities of the multi-employer pension plans are not reduced, either by improved FELRA reported in its 2018 Form 5500 that it projects it will become insolvent in approximately the market conditions, reductions in benefits and / or collective bargaining changes, increased future first quarter of 2021 and reported in its Form 5500 a year-end funding ratio of 20.8%. Its Board payments by the Company and the other participating employers may result. However, all future of Trustees adopted an ERISA “all reasonable measures” rehabilitation plan intended to forestall increases generally will be subject to the collective bargaining process. In 2020, the Company expects insolvency. This specific ERISA rehabilitation plan allows FELRA to satisfy the applicable minimum its contributions to increase to €94 million, which includes rehabilitation plan contribution increases funding standards. The current collective bargaining agreements were scheduled to expire on where applicable. Ahold Delhaize has a risk of increased contributions and withdrawal liability (upon a October 26, 2019. However, Giant Food and the union locals have agreed to indefinitely extend the withdrawal) if any of the participating employers in an underfunded multi-employer plan withdraw from existing collective agreements, provided that either side may cancel the extension at any time upon the plan or become insolvent and are no longer able to meet their contribution requirements or if the 72 hours’ advance notice. The negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement are ongoing. multi-employer plan itself no longer has sufficient assets available to fund its short-term obligations to Retirement benefits and funding are just one aspect of these negotiations, which concern all of the the participants in the plan. If and when a withdrawal liability is assessed, it may be substantially higher terms and conditions of employment for the relevant bargaining units. If FELRA becomes insolvent than the proportionate share disclosed above. Any adjustment for a withdrawal liability will be recorded before new collective bargaining agreements are negotiated, Ahold Delhaize may be required to when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount can be reliably estimated. Ahold Delhaize increase its contributions or, in certain circumstances to fund the payment of benefits that go unpaid by does not have a contractual agreement with any multi-employer plan that determines how a deficit FELRA. A wide variety of potential scenarios could unfold, all of which are conditional and dependent will be funded. No withdrawal payments were incurred or included in the 2019 and 2018 contributions on uncertain future events, and the outcome of which cannot be reasonably predicted but which could disclosed above. have a material impact on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. In 2012, a restructuring took place regarding the FELRA & UFCW Pension Fund (“FELRA”). Under the Defined contribution plans restructuring, the Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund (“MAP”) was created for Ahold Delhaize also participates in 39 multi-employer plans that are defined contribution plans on future service accruals of Giant Food (a controlled subsidiary of Ahold Delhaize) employees and one the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The majority of these plans provide health and welfare other participating employer. Giant Food is currently the largest contributing employer in the FELRA benefits. The Company contributed €299 million and €280 million to multi-employer defined contribution plan, followed by one other large contributing employer and a small contributing employer affiliated with plans during 2019 and 2018, respectively. These contributions are recognized as an expense in the other employer. MAP is funded by Giant Food and one other large participating employer. The MAP the consolidated income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2019 and 2018. and the current collective bargaining agreements include a provision (“benefit backstop provision”) that These plans vary significantly in size, with contributions to the three largest plans representing 50% of will become effective, for all participating employers in MAP, if and when FELRA becomes insolvent total contributions. and benefits are reduced in accordance with the rules established by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Under normal circumstances, when a multi-employer plan reaches insolvency it must reduce all accrued benefits to the maximum level guaranteed by the PBGC. The PBGC will continue to fund these minimum guaranteed benefits for the participants. FELRA and all other similar funds paid annual insurance premiums to the PBGC for such benefit insurance. Upon the insolvency of FELRA, the collective bargaining agreements to which Giant Food is a party may require Giant Food to pay certain supplemental contributions to FELRA and / or MAP that are attributable to certain of the benefits reduced by FELRA as a result of its insolvency. The specific amount of any such contributions remains subject to a number of variables, including the actions of third parties, and cannot be precisely estimated at this time. In addition, as noted below, this supplemental contribution obligation may be modified through the collective bargaining process. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 164 25 Provisions The table below specifies the changes in total provisions (current and non-current): Self-insurance program Severance Ahold Delhaize is self-insured for certain potential losses, mainly relating to general liability, vehicle SelfClaims and liability, workers’ compensation and property losses incurred by its subsidiaries. Some of Ahold insurance and legal termination Onerous € million program disputes benefits contracts Other Total Delhaize’s self-insured losses are retained at its captive insurance companies. The maximum selfAs of December 30, 2018, restated insurance retention per occurrence, including defense costs, is $2 million (€2 million) for general liability, Current portion 221 36 36 7 12 312 $10 million (€9 million) for commercial vehicle liability, $5 million (€4 million) for workers’ compensation Non-current portion 589 44 18 45 55 751 and $5 million (€4 million) for property losses in Europe. Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies; see Note 16. Carrying amount 810 80 54 52 67 1,063 The measurement of the self-insurance provisions involves estimates and judgments to be made Year ended December 29, 2019 regarding future claim patterns, which include estimates on the number of future claims, timing and Additions charged to income 188 9 51 11 20 279 amount of payment of damages and costs associated with the settlement of future claims. Used during the year (185) (9) (48) (21) (19) (282) Claims and legal disputes Released to income (15) (28) (7) (3) (4) (57) The Company is party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of its business operations. Interest accretion 21 — — 1 1 23 Such legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties. Management, supported by internal Effect of changes in discount rates 28 — — — — 29 and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of Other movements — — — (1) — (1) resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of Exchange rate differences 19 1 — 1 — 22 resources is recognized. Closing carrying amount 866 52 51 40 65 1,074 Severance and termination benefits This provision relates to payments to employees whose employment with the Company has ended, As of December 29, 2019 either as part of a restructuring or a voluntary separation plan. The measurement of the provision Current portion 267 23 39 8 13 349 involves estimates and judgments about the population and number of employees that will ultimately be Non-current portion 599 29 12 32 52 724 affected by the plans, estimates of salary ranges used to measure future cash flows, and assumptions Carrying amount 866 52 51 40 65 1,074 of periods of service, if relevant. Onerous contracts Maturities of total provisions as of December 29, 2019, are as follows: Onerous contract provisions relate to unfavorable contracts where the unavoidable costs of meeting Severance SelfClaims and the obligations under the contracts exceed the benefits expected to be received. The judgments and insurance and legal termination Onerous estimates made in the measurement of onerous contracts relate to unavoidable future costs anticipated € million program disputes benefits contracts Other Total to be incurred. Amount due within one year 267 23 39 8 13 349 Amount due between one and five Other years 364 25 12 15 20 437 Other provisions include loyalty programs, long-term incentives, jubilee payments, asset retirement Amount due after five years 235 4 — 16 32 288 obligations, provisions for environmental risks and supplemental medical benefits. The judgments and estimates made in the measurement of these provisions relate to the estimated costs to be incurred at Total 866 52 51 40 65 1,074 an unknown future date. The loyalty program provision of €15 million as of December 29, 2019 (December 30, 2018: €14 million) relates to a third-party customer loyalty program in the Netherlands and reflects the estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled. When measuring the provision for loyalty programs, management estimates the expected timing of the redemptions by customers and the expected breakage (benefits granted but never redeemed). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 165 26 Other non-current liabilities 29 Cash flow December 29, December 30, The following table presents the reconciliation between the cash and cash equivalents as presented in € million 2019 2018 restated the statement of cash flows and on the balance sheet: Deferred income 63 78 December 29, December 30, Other 11 10 € million 2019 2018 restated Total other non-current liabilities 74 88 Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows 3,701 3,110 Restricted cash 17 12 27 Other current financial liabilities Cash and cash equivalents as presented on the balance sheet 3,717 3,122 December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated The following tables present additional cash flow information: Lease liabilities – current portion1 1,211 1,162 € million 2019 2018 restated Interest payable 37 38 Non-cash investing activities Short-term borrowings 60 58 Accounts payable at year-end related to purchased non-current assets 321 309 Bank overdrafts 1,395 695 Assets acquired under leases1 481 387 Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares — 17 Reassessments and modifications to leases 781 436 Reinsurance liabilities – current portion (see Notes 16 and 23) 76 74 Assets acquired under mortgages payable net of financing obligations Loans – current portion (see Note 22) 453 162 terminated — 53 Deposit liablities1 15 12 Derivative financial instruments 1 — Acquisition of businesses (see Note 4) Other1 8 9 Total purchase consideration (43) (31) Total other current financial liabilities 3,257 2,227 Cash acquired — 1 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (43) (30) 1 As presented in the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16, the other current financial liabilities balance as previously reported in 2018 increased by €983 million from €1,232 million to €2,215 million. Subsequently, the deposit liabilities (2018: €12 million) were reclassified from Other current liabilities (Note 28) to Other current financial liabilities (Note 27) to properly reflect the nature of the underlying item. Divestments of businesses Net cash flows related to Tops Markets (11) — Bank overdrafts includes an amount of €1,391 million (December 30, 2018: €695 million) which relates Net cash flows related to BI-LO / Bruno’s — (3) to the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling arrangement. This bank overdraft is fully offset by an Divestment of businesses (11) (3) identical amount included under Cash and cash equivalents (see Notes 20 and 31). Cash divested — — For more information on lease liabilities see Note 34. Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (11) (3) 28 Other current liabilities Reconciliation between results on divestments of discontinued December 29, December 30, operations and cash (paid) received € million 2019 2018 restated Accrued expenses 1,342 1,261 Result on divestments of discontinued operations before income taxes (1) (23) Compensated absences 493 477 Changes in provisions and other financial liabilities – net (10) 20 Payroll taxes, social security and VAT 503 508 Divestment of businesses (11) (3) Deferred income 74 77 Cash divested — — Gift card liabilities 172 146 Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (11) (3) Other 6 10 1 In 2019, the additions to right-of-use assets (see Notes 12 and 13) include €33 million of additions through sale and leaseback Total other current liabilities1 2,591 2,479 transactions and initial direct costs, which are excluded from the amount of non-cash investing activities. 1 As presented in the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16 the other current liabilities balance as previously reported in 2018 decreased by €46 million from €2,537 million to €2,491 million. Subsequently, the deposit liabilities (2018: €12 million) were reclassified from Other current liabilities (Note 28) to Other current financial liabilities (Note 27) to properly reflect the nature of the underlying item. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 166 29 Cash flow continued Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities for the years ended December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018: Cumulative Short-term Lease preferred borrowings and Derivative Derivative € million Loans liabilities financing shares bank overdrafts assets liabilities Total As of December 30, 2018, restated 3,845 9,432 455 753 (1) — 14,484 Proceeds from long-term debt1 593 — — — — — 593 Acquisitions through business combinations — 45 — — — — 45 Repayments of loans, lease liabilities and cumulative preferred financing shares2,3 (166) (1,535) (455) — — — (2,156) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — 689 — — 689 Other cash flows from derivatives — — — — — (5) (5) Fair value changes — — — — 1 6 7 Additions to lease liabilities — 513 — — — — 513 Reassessments and modifications to leases — 781 — — — — 781 Termination of leases — (60) — — — — (60) Amortization of fair value adjustments and interest accretion to lease liability (19) 366 — — — — 347 Exchange rate differences 41 153 — 13 — — 207 As of December 29, 2019 4,294 9,695 — 1,455 — 1 15,445 1 The amount is net of deferred financing costs of €7 million, of which €3 million is included in “Other” within financing cash flows 3 Repayment of lease liabilities as presented in the statement of cash flows excludes €4 million of lease payments classified as from continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. divestment of business, net of cash divested. 2 Repayments of loans and cumulative preferred financing shares as presented in the statement of cash flows include €35 million premium paid for the settlement of part of the mortgage payables and cumulative preferred financing shares (see Note 23). Cumulative Short-term Lease preferred borrowings and Derivative Derivative € million Loans liabilities financing shares bank overdrafts assets liabilities Total As of January 1, 2018, as previously reported 3,757 1,607 455 1,432 — 18 7,269 Impact of implementation of IFRS 16 — 7,735 — — — — 7,735 As of January 1, 2018, restated 3,757 9,342 455 1,432 — 18 15,004 Proceeds from long-term debt1 793 — — — — — 793 Acquisitions through business combinations — 36 — — — — 36 Repayments of loans and lease liabilities2,3 (749) (1,398) — — — — (2,147) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — (733) — — (733) Other cash flows from derivatives — — — — — (29) (29) Fair value changes — — — — (1) 11 10 Additions to mortgages payable net of financing obligations terminated 53 — — — — — 53 Additions to lease liabilities — 387 — — — — 387 Reassessments and modifications to leases — 438 — — — — 438 Termination of leases — (34) — — — — (34) Amortization of fair value adjustments and interest accretion to lease liability4 (100) 355 — — — — 255 Other non-cash movements (15) 10 — — — — (5) Exchange rate differences 106 296 — 54 — — 456 As of December 30, 2018, restated 3,845 9,432 455 753 (1) — 14,484 1 The amount is net of deferred financing costs of €7 million, of which €5 million is included in “Other” within financing cash flows 3 Repayment of lease liabilities as presented in the statement of cash flows excludes €4 million of lease payments classified from continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. as financing cash flows from discontinued operations. 2 Repayments of loans as presented in the statement of cash flows include a €34 million premium paid for the settlement of a part 4 The amount related to loans includes €64 million accelerated amortization of the fair value adjustment allocated to the of the USD 827 million notes (see Note 22). USD 827 million notes due to settlement of a part of the notes (see Note 22). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 167 30 Earnings per share 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments The calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to common shareholders is Financial risk management based on the following data: Ahold Delhaize is exposed to a variety of financial risks, including currency, interest rate, funding, 2019 2018 restated liquidity and counterparty risks. The Company’s financial risk management is centralized through its Earnings (€ million) Treasury function, which operates within a regularly reviewed framework of policies and procedures. Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic the Treasury risk management framework. Ahold Delhaize’s management reviews material changes earnings per share 1,766 1,780 to Treasury policies and receives information related to Treasury activities. The Treasury function Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend — 17 does not operate as a profit center and manages the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of business needs. diluted earnings per share 1,766 1,797 In accordance with its Treasury policies, Ahold Delhaize uses derivative instruments solely for the Number of shares (in millions) purpose of hedging exposures. These exposures are mainly the result of interest rate and currency risks arising from the Company’s operations and its sources of financing. Ahold Delhaize does not enter Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of basic into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The transaction of derivative instruments earnings per share 1,107 1,176 is restricted to Treasury personnel only and Ahold Delhaize’s Internal Control department reviews the Effect of dilutive potential common shares: Treasury internal control environment regularly. Conditional shares from share-based compensation programs 5 6 Cumulative preferred financing shares — 21 Relationships with credit rating agencies and monitoring of key credit ratios are also managed by the Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of Treasury department. diluted earnings per share 1,112 1,203 Currency risk Ahold Delhaize operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency In 2019, the Company acquired and cancelled all the cumulative preferred financing shares. exposures, primarily with respect to the U.S. dollar. Since Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries primarily For disclosures regarding Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 23. purchase and sell in local currencies, the Company’s exposure to exchange rate movements in its The calculation of the basic and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to commercial operations is limited. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to common shareholders is based on the same number of shares as detailed above and the following exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries’ income, assets earnings data: and liabilities into euros for inclusion in its consolidated financial statements. Translation risk related to € million 2019 2018 restated Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is not actively hedged; however, the Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders Company aims to minimize this exposure by funding its foreign operations in their functional currency for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,767 1,797 wherever feasible. Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend — 17 To protect the value of future foreign currency cash flows, including loan and interest payments, Income from continuing operations, attributable to common lease payments, dividends and firm purchase commitments, and the value of assets and liabilities shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,767 1,814 denominated in foreign currency, Ahold Delhaize seeks to mitigate its foreign currency exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency and entering into various financial instruments, including Both basic and diluted income per share from discontinued operations attributable to common forward contracts and currency swaps. It is Ahold Delhaize’s policy to cover foreign exchange shareholders amounted to €0.00 (2018: €(0.02)). They are based on the loss from discontinued transaction exposure in relation to existing assets, liabilities and firm purchase commitments. operations attributable to common shareholders of €1 million (2018: €17 million) and the denominators Foreign currency sensitivity analysis detailed above. As of December 29, 2019, Ahold Delhaize carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates to revalue dollar-denominated cash, cash equivalents and debt in its balance sheet at year-end. Assuming the euro had strengthened (weakened) by 10% against the U.S. dollar compared to the actual 2019 rate, with all other variables held constant, the hypothetical result on income before income taxes would have been a decrease (increase) of €2 million (2018 restated: a decrease (increase) of €1 million), as a result of foreign exchange revaluation of U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 168 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued The loss on foreign exchange recognized in the 2019 income statement related to the revaluation of Credit risk unhedged leases reported in the balance sheet as a result of the implementation of IFRS16 amounted Ahold Delhaize has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The concentration of credit risk to €8 million. The strengthening (weakening) of the euro by 10% against the other currencies, with all with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and other variables held constant, would result in a loss (gain) of €63 million. unrelated. The Company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit Interest rate risk losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days Ahold Delhaize’s outstanding debt and investment position is exposed to changes in interest rates. past due. The expected loss rate is calculated based on delinquency status and actual historical credit To manage interest rate risk, Ahold Delhaize has an interest rate management policy aimed at reducing loss experience. As a result, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed-rate instruments. over the normal individual and collective impairment, based on an aging analysis performed as of As of December 29, 2019, 92% of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term bonds was at fixed rates of interest (2018 December 29, 2019. For further discussion on Ahold Delhaize’s receivables, see Notes 16 and 18. restated: 91%). Financial transactions are predominantly entered into with investment grade financial institutions. Interest rate sensitivity analysis The Company requires a minimum short-term rating of A1/P1 and a minimum long-term rating of A3/AThe total interest expense recognized in the 2019 income statement related to the variable rates of for its deposit and investment products. The Company may deviate from this requirement from time to short and long-term debt amounted to nil (2018: nil). An increase (decrease) in market interest rates by time for operational reasons. Regarding credit risk, derivative contracts with counterparties are entered 25 basis points, with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, would have into primarily under the standard terms and conditions of the International Swaps and Derivatives resulted in a loss (gain) of €1 million (2018: nil). Association (ISDA). With certain counterparties, Ahold Delhaize has credit support annexes in place The total interest income recognized in the 2019 income statement amounted to €65 million that materially reduce the counterparty risk exposure because of a contractual exchange of cash (2018: €85 million), mainly related to variable rate money market fund investments and deposits. collateral. Ahold Delhaize has policies that limit the amount of counterparty credit exposure to any The Company estimates that with a possible increase (decrease) of euro and U.S. dollar market interest single financial institution or investment vehicle and actively monitors these exposures. rates of 25 basis points with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, this Counterparty risk is measured by adding the nominal value of cash, short-term deposits and would have resulted in a gain of €5 million or a loss of €5 million, respectively (2018: gain of €7 million or marketable securities, and the mark-to-market of derivative instruments, netted with the collateral a loss of €7 million). posted, if any. As a result, the highest exposure to a single financial counterparty, excluding AAAThe above sensitivity analyses are for illustrative purposes only as, in practice, market rates rarely rated money market funds, on December 29, 2019, amounted to €240 million (December 30, change in isolation from other factors that also affect Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. 2018: €418 million). Supply chain financing Offsetting of financial instruments Our accounting policy for amounts due under supply chain finance arrangements with banks is to Ahold Delhaize has several financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offsetting or classify these arrangements as trade payables. In accordance with our accounting policy, trade enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. payables are presented as operating activities within our cash flow statements. Suppliers choose Cash pool to enter into these arrangements, which provide them with the option of access to earlier payment The Company has implemented a cash pool system, allowing a more efficient management of the daily at favorable interest rates from our bank based on Ahold Delhaize’s investment grade credit rating. working capital needs of the participating operating entities. The settlement mechanism of the cash If suppliers do not choose early payment under these arrangements, their invoices are settled by our pool is provided by an external financial counterparty. The cash pool system exposes the Company bank under the originally agreed payment terms. The arrangements do not expose Ahold Delhaize to a single net amount with that financial counterparty rather than the gross amount of several current to additional credit risk nor provide Ahold Delhaize with a significant benefit of additional financing accounts and bank overdraft balances with multiple financial counterparties. From an operational and accordingly it is Ahold Delhaize’s policy to classify the amounts due under supply chain finance perspective, the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, under the guidance of IAS 32 arrangements with banks as trade payables. The amounts due under the supply chain finance regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances arrangements classified as trade payables as of December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, were have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 20 and 27). not significant compared to the total outstanding trade payables. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 169 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued ISDA master agreements for derivatives Based on the current operating performance and liquidity position, the Company believes that cash The Company has entered into several ISDA master agreements in connection with its derivative provided by operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient for working capital, transactions. In general, under such agreements, the amounts owed by each counterparty to another capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends, the announced €1 billion share buyback program on the same day in respect of the same transaction payable in the same currency are aggregated into a and scheduled debt repayments for the next 12 months. In addition, the Company has access to the single net amount payable by one party to the other. amount available on its revolving credit facility and to the debt capital markets based on its current credit ratings. Under certain circumstances, if all transactions under the ISDA master agreement are terminated, e.g., when a credit event such as payment default occurs, the termination value is assessed and The following tables summarize the expected maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities only a single net amount is payable in the settlement of all transactions governed by the ISDA (including derivatives) as of December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, respectively, based on master agreement. contractual undiscounted payments. The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet. This is because the All financial liabilities held at the reporting date, for which payments are already contractually agreed, Company does not currently have a legally enforceable right to offset recognized amounts, because have been included. Amounts in foreign currency have been translated using the reporting date closing the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of a future event such as a default. ISDAs are rate. Cash flows arising from financial instruments carrying variable interest payments have been considered to be master netting arrangements for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes. calculated using the forward curve interest rates as of December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, respectively. See Note 35 for the liquidity risk related to guarantees. The following table shows the maximum exposure of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offset or enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Year ended December 29, 2019 for the year ended December 29, 2019. Contractual cash flows Gross and net Cash collateral Between amounts in the received / Net carrying Within 1 and 5 After € million balance sheet pledged1 Net exposure € million amount 1 year years 5 years Total Assets Non-derivative financial liabilities1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,486 1,391 95 Notes (3,962) (533) (1,486) (2,976) (4,995) Total 1,486 1,391 95 Other loans (3) — — (3) (3) Financing obligations (263) (40) (136) (68) (244) Liabilities Mortgages payable (66) (7) (73) — (80) Derivative financial liabilities 1 — 1 Accounts payable (6,311) (6,311) — — (6,311) Bank overdrafts 1,391 1,391 — Short-term borrowings (1,455) (1,455) — — (1,455) Total 1,392 1,391 1 Reinsurance liabilities (238) (81) (108) (65) (254) Other (92) (21) (20) (49) (90) 1 Amounts not offset in the balance sheet but subject to master netting arrangements (or similar). Liquidity risk Derivative financial liabilities Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances and funds from operating activities as its primary Cross-currency swaps and sources of liquidity, complemented with access to external sources of funds when deemed to be foreign currency derivatives (1) (1) — — (1) required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of December 1 The maturity analysis for lease liabilities is included in Note 34 Leases. 29, 2019, the Company’s liquidity position primarily comprised of €2,472 million of cash (including short-term deposits and similar instruments and the current portion of investments in debt instruments, adjusted for cash held under a notional cash pooling arrangement), and the €1 billion revolving credit facility of which €148 million is drawn. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 170 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended December 30, 2018, restated Capital risk management Contractual cash flows The Company’s primary objective to manage capital is the optimization of its debt and equity balances Between to sustain the future development of the business, maintain its investment grade credit rating and Net carrying Within 1 and 5 After € million amount 1 year years 5 years Total maximize shareholder value. Non-derivative financial liabilities1 Ahold Delhaize may balance its capital structure in several ways, including through the payment of Notes (3,476) (234) (1,143) (3,189) (4,566) dividends, capital repayment, new share issues, share buybacks and the issuance or redemption Other loans (3) — — (3) (3) of debt. Financing obligations (277) (39) (144) (93) (276) Financial instruments Mortgages payable (89) (11) (114) — (125) Accounting classification and fair values of financial instruments Cumulative preferred financing The following table presents the fair value of financial instruments, based on Ahold Delhaize’s shares2 (455) (17) (35) (8) (60) categories of financial instruments, including current portions, compared to the carrying amount at Accounts payable (5,815) (5,815) — — (5,815) which these instruments are included on the balance sheet: Short-term borrowings (753) (753) — — (753) December 29, 2019 December 30, 2018 restated Reinsurance liabilities (223) (78) (134) (24) (236) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair € million amount value amount value Other (93) (18) (20) (52) (90) Financial assets at amortized cost Derivative financial liabilities Loans receivable 59 65 69 72 Cross-currency swaps and Trade and other (non-)current receivables 1,914 1,914 1,756 1,756 foreign currency derivatives — — — — — Lease receivable 444 473 453 454 Cash and cash equivalents 3,717 3,717 3,122 3,122 1 The maturity analysis for lease liabilities is included in Note 34 Leases. 2 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purposes of the table above, the future dividend cash flows Short-term deposits and similar instruments 15 15 266 266 were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four share-series (2020, 2023, 2026 and 2028). No liability redemption 6,150 6,185 5,666 5,670 was assumed. Financial assets at fair value Credit ratings through profit or loss (FVPL) Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s financial strategy Reinsurance assets 236 236 218 218 because such ratings lower the cost of funds and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and markets. Investments in debt instruments 141 141 128 128 Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies are: 377 377 346 346 • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous rating Derivative financial instruments BBBassigned in 2007). Derivatives — — 1 1 Total financial assets 6,527 6,562 6,014 6,017 • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable outlook as of February 2018 (previous rating Baa2 assigned in August 2015). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 171 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued December 29, 2019 December 30, 2018 restated Of Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, only derivatives, investments in debt Carrying Fair Carrying Fair € million amount value amount value instruments and reinsurance assets (liabilities) are measured and recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. These fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Financial liabilities at amortized cost The Company uses inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). The fair value of derivative instruments Notes (3,962) (4,246) (3,476) (3,500) is measured by using either a market or income approach (mainly present value techniques). Other loans (3) (3) (3) (3) Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield Financing obligations (263) (216) (277) (235) curves derived from quoted interest rates that match the maturity of the contracts. Interest rate swaps Mortgages payable (66) (65) (89) (103) are measured at the present value of expected future cash flows. Expected future cash flows are Cumulative preferred financing shares — — (455) (481) discounted by using the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares — — (17) (17) Accounts payable (6,311) (6,311) (5,815) (5,815) To the extent that no cash collateral is contractually required, the valuation of Ahold Delhaize’s derivative instruments is adjusted for the credit risk of the counterparty, called Credit Valuation Short-term borrowings (1,455) (1,455) (753) (753) Adjustment (CVA), and adjusted for Ahold Delhaize’s own credit risk, called Debit Valuation Adjustment Interest payable (37) (37) (38) (38) (DVA). The valuation technique for the CVA / DVA calculation is based on relevant observable Other (92) (97) (93) (95) market inputs. (12,190) (12,430) (11,016) (11,040) No CVA / DVA adjustments are made to the valuation of certain derivative instruments, for which both Financial liabilities at fair value Ahold Delhaize and its counterparties are required to post or redeem cash collaterals if the value of a through profit or loss derivative exceeds a threshold defined in the contractual provisions. Such cash collaterals materially reduce the impact of both the counterparty and Ahold Delhaize’s own non-performance risk on the Reinsurance liabilities (238) (238) (223) (223) value of the instrument. The portion of outstanding derivatives that was collateralized as of December 29, 2019, is nil (December 30, 2018: nil). Derivative financial instruments Derivatives (1) (1) — — The carrying amount of trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable, short-term deposits and similar instruments, and other current financial assets and liabilities Total financial liabilities excluding approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments and, for receivables, lease liabilities (12,429) (12,669) (11,239) (11,263) because any expected recoverability loss is reflected in an impairment loss. The fair values of quoted borrowings for which an active market exists are based on year-end quoted prices. The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market is estimated Lease liabilities (9,696) N/A (9,432) N/A using discounted cash flow analyses based on market rates prevailing at year-end. Total financial liabilities (22,125) N/A (20,671) N/A As of December 29, 2019, short-term deposits and similar instruments (€15 million) contain short-term liquid investments that are considered part of Ahold Delhaize’s cash management financial assets. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 172 31 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued 32 Related party transactions Derivatives Compensation of key management personnel Fair values, notional amounts, maturities and the qualification of derivative financial instruments for Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, accounting purposes are presented in the table below: directing and controlling the activities of the Company as a whole. The Company considers all December 29, 2019 members of the Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Supervisory Board to be key management Fair value Notional personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures.” At the end of 2019, the ExCo consisted € million Maturity Assets Liabilities amount of the Management Board and four other members. Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 9 The total compensation of key management personnel in 2019 amounted to €25,077 thousand Total cash flow hedges — — 9 (2018: €35,209 thousand). This includes an estimate of additional wage tax relating to key management personnel leaving the Company due in accordance with Dutch tax laws of €1.0 million (2018: nil). Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 6 Total fair value hedges — — 6 (Service) Agreements with individual Management Board members Frans Muller In 2019, the Company provided Frans Muller with an annual base salary, participation in the annual Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — (1) 310 cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO Total derivatives – no hedge – see Note 33). The annual base salary of €1,053 thousand was increased by 3% to €1,085 thousand, accounting treatment — (1) 310 effective January 1, 2019. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base Total derivative financial instruments — (1) 325 salary and is capped at 150% in the event of above-target performance. The at-target award under the equity-based long-term incentive plan is 235% of base salary. Unless Frans’ service agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of December 30, 2018 restated Shareholders in April 2023. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than Fair value Notional cause, Frans is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary or retirement treatment € million Maturity Assets Liabilities amount on his unvested shares in case of termination in 2019 through 2023. His service agreement may be Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 12 terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Frans with a notice period of six Total cash flow hedges — — 12 months. Frans participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Jeff Carr Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 4 In 2019, the Company provided Jeff Carr with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash Total fair value hedges — — 4 incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 33). The annual base salary of €747 thousand was increased by 3% to €769 thousand, effective Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 139 January 1, 2019. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary Forward foreign currency contracts Between 1 and is capped at 150% in the event of above-target performance. The at-target award under the and 5 years 1 — 27 equity-based long-term incentive plan is 175% of base salary. Furthermore, Jeff receives a housing Total derivatives – no hedge allowance. Effective July 23, 2019, the housing allowance of €3,500 net per month was reduced to accounting treatment 1 — 166 €1,750. Jeff participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. On September 9, 2019, the Company Total derivative financial instruments 1 — 182 announced that Jeff will step down from the Management Board after his current term expires per the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 9, 2020, without any severance payment due. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest at the regular vesting dates. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 173 32 Related party transactions continued Kevin Holt Remuneration of the Management Board by member In 2019, the Company provided Kevin Holt with an annual base salary, participation in the annual Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO Total direct Share-based Total – see Note 33). The annual base salary of $1,010 thousand was increased by 6% to $1,070 thousand, € thousand Base salary EIP1 Other2 remuneration compensation5 Pensions6 remuneration effective January 1, 2019. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base Frans Muller salary and is capped at 150% in the event of above-target performance. The at-target award under the 2019 1,085 965 248 2,298 1,971 87 4,356 equity-based long-term incentive plan is 200% of base salary. Furthermore, Kevin receives a housing 2018 1,040 1,196 220 2,456 2,324 209 4,989 allowance of up to $7,500 net per month. The Company intends to reappoint Kevin as a member of the Jeff Carr7 Management Board for a term ending on the day of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be 2019 769 685 244 1,698 1,732 33 3,463 held in 2024. This reappointment will be brought forward for shareholder approval at the annual General 2018 747 830 268 1,845 976 36 2,857 Meeting of Shareholders on April 8, 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for Kevin Holt reasons other than cause, Kevin is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary, 2019 955 851 429 2,235 1,270 209 3,714 unless he is eligible for retirement. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with 2018 856 972 363 2,191 1,211 196 3,598 a notice period of 12 months and by Kevin with a notice period of six months. Kevin participates in the Company’s U.S. pension plan. Wouter Kolk8 2019 649 578 168 1,395 400 32 1,827 Wouter Kolk 2018 457 508 119 1,084 215 24 1,323 In 2019, the Company provided Wouter Kolk with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash Total 2019 3,458 3,079 1,089 7,626 5,373 361 13,360 incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Total 2018 3,100 3,506 970 7,576 4,726 465 12,767 Note 33). The annual base salary of €630 thousand was increased by 3% to €649 thousand, effective January 1, 2019. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and Remuneration of the former members of the Management Board is capped at 150% in the event of above-target performance. The at-target award under the equitybased long-term incentive plan is 150% of base salary. Unless Wouter’s service agreement is otherwise Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration Total direct Share-based Total terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April € thousand Base salary EIP1 Other2 remuneration compensation5 Pensions6 remuneration 2022. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than cause, Wouter is entitled Dick Boer3 to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His service agreement may be terminated 2019 — — 28 28 2,311 27 2,366 by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Wouter with a notice period of six months. 2018 519 576 2,559 3,654 4,910 13 8,577 Wouter participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Pierre Bouchut4 Dick Boer 2019 — — – — 79 — 79 Dick Boer, CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, 2018 356 363 698 1,417 1,739 130 3,286 stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018, and his James Mc Cann employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of July 1, 2019, at which time he retired. 2019 — — – — – — – Until mid-2019, he remained available to provide specific services as an advisor to the Company. 2018 – – (287) (287) – – (287) In 2019, the Company provided Dick with an annual base salary of €1,037 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive Total 2019 — — 28 28 2,390 27 2,445 plan (GRO – see Note 33). Dick participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. His employment Total 2018 875 939 2,970 4,784 6,649 143 11,576 relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of July 1, 2019, without any severance payment due. The shares awarded under the GRO plan were settled on an accelerated basis upon the termination of his employment relationship in 2019. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 174 32 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board The table below specifies the remuneration of the ExCo, comprising the Management Board members The table below specifies the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board. The annual and the former members of the Management Board as listed above, and the additional ExCo members remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board was determined by the extraordinary General who were not part of the Management Board. Meeting of Shareholders on March 14, 2016. Remuneration is subject to annual review by the € thousand 2019 2018 Supervisory Board. Base salary 5,328 5,872 € thousand 2019 2018 EIP1 4,744 6,508 Jan Hommen (reappointed in 2017)1 243 249 Other2,3,4 2,461 7,181 Jacques de Vaucleroy (appointed in 2016)2 120 144 Share-based compensation5 9,681 13,227 René Hooft Graafland (reappointed in 2018) 143 145 Pensions6 506 856 Ben Noteboom (reappointed in 2017) 125 135 Total remuneration7,8 22,720 33,644 Bill McEwan (appointed in 2016)3 208 209 Mary Anne Citrino (appointed in 2016) 130 130 1 The ExCo Incentive Plan (EIP) represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in the following year based on an overall weighted EIP performance. For an explanation of the Company’s remuneration policy, see Remuneration under the Governance Dominique Leroy (appointed in 2016) 118 123 section of this report. The overall 2019 financial performance multiplier was 89% (2018: 111%). The individual 2018 EIP amounts Katie Doyle (appointed in 2019) 104 — also include the component linked to individual performance. 2 “Other” mainly includes gross allowances for net pension, tax compensation (tax equalization charges or refunds for expatriates), Peter Agnefjäll (appointed in 2019) 104 — allowances for housing expenses, relocation costs, international school fees, employer’s contributions to social security plans, benefits in kind such as company cars, tax advice, medical expenses and the associated tax gross up. Rob van den Bergh (resigned in 2019) 39 148 3 Dick Boer, President and CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down Mark McGrath (resigned in 2019) 44 136 from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018, and remained available as an advisor to the Company until mid-2019. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of July 1, 2019, after which he retired. The shares Mats Jansson (retired in 2018) — 68 awarded under the GRO plan were settled on an accelerated basis upon the termination of his employment relationship in 2019. Johnny Thijs (resigned in 2018) — 31 Adjustments to the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of actual payments were included in “Other” and the expenses related to the equity-based long-term incentive were included in “Share-based compensation.” Patrick De Maeseneire (resigned in 2018) — 32 4 Pierre Bouchut, Chief Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, Total4,5 1,378 1,550 stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018, and remained available as an advisor and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of August 31, 2018, after which he retired. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest at the regular vesting dates. In 2018, adjustments to the 1 Jan Hommen was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board effective April 11, 2018. He also became Chairman of the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of the actual payments were included in “Other.” Governance and Nomination Committee as of July 1, 2018 and refrained from any remuneration for this role. 5 The fair value of each year’s grant is determined on the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 2 As of July 1, 2018, Jacques de Vaucleroy refrained from any additional remuneration for his role as Vice Chairman. The expense for 2019 reflects this year’s portion of the share grants over the previous four years (plans 2016 to 2019). For more 3 Bill McEwan succeeded Jan Hommen as Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board effective April 11, 2018 and received the Vice information on the share-based compensation expenses see Note 33. Chairman remuneration (formerly referred to as Vice Chairman and member of the presidium) from that date. He refrained from 6 Pension costs are the total net periodic pension costs of the applicable pension plans. any remuneration for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as per July 1, 2018. 7 Jeff Carr’s employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 9, 2020, without any severance payment due. 4 All members of the Supervisory Board were members of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee as of July 1, 2018, and Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest at the regular vesting dates. An estimate of these costs in the amount of €921 refrained from any remuneration for this membership, except for the Chairman of the Committee, who is entitled to remuneration thousand was recognized in 2019. The total remuneration as presented in the tables above excludes the 2019 accrual of €979 or this role. Rob van den Bergh was Chairman of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee until April 10. He was succeeded thousand for estimated additional wage tax payable by the Company in accordance with Dutch tax laws. by Katie Doyle and Peter Agnefjäll, who co-chair the Committee and each receive half of the remuneration for this role. 8 Wouter Kolk was appointed as member of the Management Board effective April 11, 2018. His 2018 remuneration reported 5 For the members who were appointed or resigned in 2018 or 2019, the remuneration for the respective year reflects a partial year. as member of the Management Board reflects a partial year. The table “Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board” reflects the full year 2018, including the period that he was a member of the Executive Committee, but not a member of the Management Board. Marc Croonen, Chief Sustainability, Transformation and Communications Officer and member of the Executive Committee, stepped down from the Executive Committee as of November 1, 2018, and remained available as an advisor until October 31, 2019. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of October 31, 2019. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period from November 1, 2018, until October 31, 2019, is recognized in 2018 in “Other.” In 2019, adjustments to the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of actual payments were included in “Other”. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 175 32 Related party transactions continued Shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize Trading transactions As of December 29, 2019, Management Board members (excluding the former Management Board Ahold Delhaize has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated members) held the following shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize: companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and Common shares Other Total financing agreements. Transactions were conducted at market prices. During 2019 and 2018, the subject to additional common common Company entered into the following transactions with unconsolidated related parties: Number of shares holding requirement1 shares shares Frans Muller2 42,422 165,359 207,781 For the year ended December 29, 2019 Jeff Carr 70,591 53,576 124,167 Purchases Amounts Amounts Sales to from receivable from payable to Commitments to Kevin Holt 30,644 — 30,644 € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties Wouter Kolk — 28,557 28,557 JMR 2 — 2 — — Total 143,657 247,492 391,149 Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 24 1 In line with best practice 3.1.2 VI of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2016 and the Management Board remuneration policy, Other — 3 3 3 12 shares granted and vested under the GRO program to Management Board members should be retained for a period of at least five Total 2 4 5 3 36 years after grant, except to finance tax payable at the vesting date, or at least until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. 2 Additionally, 9,579 shares are held by Frans Muller in the form of American Depository Receipts. For the year ended December 30, 2018 Amounts Amounts As of December 29, 2019, Jan Hommen held 15,000 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Jacques de Sales to Purchases from receivable from payable to Commitments to Vaucleroy held 429,023 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Ben Noteboom held 15,637 Ahold Delhaize € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties common shares, Bill McEwan held 7,125 Ahold Delhaize American Depository Receipts, and Peter Stationsdrogisterijen 5 — — — — Agnefjäll held 7,200 Ahold Delhaize common shares. None of the other Supervisory Board members JMR 2 — 2 — — held Ahold Delhaize shares. Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 21 Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or advances to members of the Management Board or the Other 1 2 4 — 13 Supervisory Board. There are no loans or advances outstanding. Ahold Delhaize does not issue Total 8 3 6 — 34 guarantees to the benefit of members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. No such guarantees are outstanding. These unconsolidated related parties consist of: • Stationsdrogisterijen C.V. was a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the health and beauty care retail business. Stationsdrogisterijen C.V. was dissolved on April 2, 2018. • JMR, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 15). • Cathedral Commons Partners, LLC, a real estate joint venture of Ahold Delhaize. • Super Indo, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 15), included in “Other.” • “Other,” which includes mainly real estate joint ventures in which Ahold Delhaize has an interest and holding properties operated by Ahold Delhaize and Loyalty Management Nederland B.V., an associate of Ahold Delhaize that renders services relating to the management of customer loyalty programs to certain Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries in the Netherlands. • Ahold Delhaize participates in Coopernic and AMS, which are cooperative European purchase alliances towards third-party vendors. Receivable and payable positions occur with these buying alliances. These transactions are considered to reflect the results of the negotiated purchasing terms with the third-party vendors. As such, these transactions are not shown in the table above of related party transactions. Furthermore, the Company’s post-employment benefit plans in the Netherlands and the United States are considered related parties. For more information on these plans, see Note 24. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 176 33 Share-based compensation In 2019, Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation program consisted of a share grant program Main characteristics of shares granted in 2016 through 2018 called Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Total 2019 GRO share-based compensation expenses were The performance shares granted in 2016, 2017 and 2018 under the GRO program introduced in 2016 €51 million (2018: €60 million). Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation programs are equity-settled. vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year after the grant, subject to certain performance conditions being met. The 2016 GRO program employs two financial The fair value of the shares granted under the GRO program in 2019 at grant date was €49 million, of measures: RoC and TSR, as well as non-financial performance measures related to Sustainable which €8 million related to current and former Management Board members. The fair value is expensed Retailing targets. over the vesting period of the grants, adjusted for expected annual forfeitures of 5% (2018: 6%) excluding Management Board members. For the share-based compensation expenses allocable to the The total GRO award is comprised of three portions of shares. The first 40% is linked to a three-year individual Management Board members, see Note 32. RoC target. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. GRO program Main characteristics of shares granted in 2019 Another 40% is linked to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over the performance period), A revised GRO program was introduced in 2019. The performance shares granted under this program with performance at vesting benchmarked against the TSR performance of a peer group comprised of vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year after the grant, 14 companies (see table below for the composition of the TSR peer group). The number of shares that subject to certain performance conditions being met. The revised GRO program employs three financial vest depends on the Company’s relative ranking in the peer group and may range between zero and a measures: Return on Capital (RoC), underlying Earnings Per Share growth (EPS) and Total Shareholder maximum of 175% of the number of shares granted (see table below for the vesting percentages based Return (TSR), as well as non-financial performance measures related to Sustainable Retailing targets. on Ahold Delhaize’s ranking within the peer group). The total GRO award is comprised of four portions of shares. The first 35% is linked to a three-year RoC For the remaining 20% of the total GRO share award, the performance at vesting is measured using target. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest may range between zero Sustainable Retailing targets. This measure relates to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. ambitions. The targets set under this non-financial performance measure are both qualitative and quantitative. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest can range between Of the total GRO award, 35% is linked to a three-year EPS growth target. The number of shares that zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted, depending on the performance. The table below shows the composition of the TSR peer group for the shares granted between 2016 and 2018: Another 15% of the total GRO award is linked to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over the TSR performance peer group for shares granted in 2016 through 2018 performance period), with performance at vesting benchmarked against the TSR performance of a peer group comprised of 12 companies (see the Remuneration section for the composition of the peer Tesco Costco group). The number of shares that vest depends on the Company’s relative ranking in the peer group Carrefour Target and may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted (see table Metro Cash & Carry Walgreens Boots Alliance below for the vesting percentages based on Ahold Delhaize’s ranking within the peer group). Casino Guichard Perrachon Best Buy For the remaining 15% of the total GRO share award, the performance at vesting is measured using J Sainsbury Lowe’s Companies Sustainable Retailing targets. This measure relates to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic W M Morrison Walmart ambitions. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest can range between Kroger zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ranking within the peer group, for the shares granted between 2016 and 2018: ranking within the peer group, for the shares granted in 2019: 2016–2018 GRO program rank All participants 2019 GRO program rank All participants 1 175% 1 150% 2 150% 2 125% 3 125% 3 110% 4 110% 4 100% 5 100% 5 75% 6 80% 6 50% 7 50% 7-12 0% 8-14 0% Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 177 33 Share-based compensation continued Shares vesting in 2020 On April 9, 2020, a maximum of 0.3 million shares granted in 2017 to current and former members of the In 2020, the GRO shares granted in 2017 will vest. The GRO shares vesting will comprise performance Management Board under the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan are expected to vest. Except to finance taxes shares based on the Company’s TSR, RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance. As of the end of and social security charges due on the vesting date, members of the Management Board cannot sell 2019, Ahold Delhaize ranked seventh in the TSR peer group with respect to the 2017 grant. Based on shares for a period of at least five years following the grant date, or until their date of resignation from this TSR ranking, the vesting percentage for the portion of the 2017 shares dependent on Ahold the Management Board, if this period is shorter. Delhaize’s TSR performance was 50%. On April 9, 2020, a maximum of 2.7 million shares granted in 2017 to Ahold Delhaize employees under At the end of each reporting period, Ahold Delhaize revises its estimates of the number of shares that the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan are expected to vest. As of the vesting date, participants are allowed to are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions (RoC, EPS and Sustainable Retailing sell all or part of the shares vested, subject to insider trading restrictions as applicable from time to time. performance). Ahold Delhaize recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the The Company will use treasury shares for the delivery of the vested shares. income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The final vesting percentage for the portion of the 2017 shares dependent on Ahold Delhaize’s RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance is 65% and 110% respectively. The following table summarizes the status of the GRO program during 2019 for the individual Management Board members and for all other employees in the aggregate. End of Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at Maximum number Fair value per share Grant date Vesting date retention period beginning of 2019 Granted adjustment1 Vested2 Forfeited the end of 2019 of shares3 at the grant date (€) Frans Muller 2016 Performance (TSR) 30,162 — (15,081) 15,081 — — — 20.44 March 15, March 15, 2016 Performance (RoC) 2016 2019 N/A 30,162 — (2,715) 27,447 — — — 20.21 2016 Performance (Sustainability) 15,082 — 3,167 18,249 — — — 20.21 2016 TSR grant 41,035 — (20,518) 20,517 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, September 1, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 2021 41,035 — (3,694) 37,341 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,518 — 4,308 24,826 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 41,152 — — — — 41,152 72,016 9.57 April 13, April 9, April 13, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 2022 41,152 — — — — 41,152 61,728 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,576 — — — — 20,576 30,864 17.07 2018 TSR grant 51,408 — — — — 51,408 89,963 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + April 12, 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day 2023 51,408 — — — — 51,408 77,112 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 25,704 — — — — 25,704 38,555 17.89 2019 TSR grant — 17,304 — — — 17,304 25,956 14.47 2019 RoC grant April 11, 2022 AGM + April 11, — 40,374 — — — 40,374 60,561 20.01 2019 EPS grant 2019 1 day 2024 — 40,374 — — — 40,374 60,561 20.01 2019 Sustainable Retailing grant — 17,304 — — — 17,304 25,956 20.01 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 178 33 Share-based compensation continued End of Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at Maximum number Fair value per share Grant date Vesting date retention period beginning of 2019 Granted adjustment1 Vested2 Forfeited the end of 2019 of shares3 at the grant date (€) Jeff Carr 2016 TSR grant 24,168 — (12,084) 12,084 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, September 1, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 2021 24,168 — (2,176) 21,992 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,084 — 2,537 14,621 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 25,662 — — — — 25,662 44,908 9.57 April 13, April 9, April 13, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 2022 25,662 — — — — 25,662 38,493 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,831 — — — — 12,831 19,246 17.07 2018 TSR grant 29,644 — — — — 29,644 51,877 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + April 12, 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day 2023 29,644 — — — — 29,644 44,466 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 14,822 — — — — 14,822 22,233 17.89 2019 TSR grant — 9,139 — — — 9,139 13,708 14.47 2019 RoC grant April 11, 2022 AGM + April 11, — 21,323 — — — 21,323 31,984 20.01 2019 EPS grant 2019 1 day 2024 — 21,323 — — — 21,323 31,984 20.01 2019 Sustainable Retailing grant — 9,139 — — — 9,139 13,708 20.01 Kevin Holt 2016 TSR grant 27,416 — (13,708) 13,708 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, September 1, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 2021 27,416 — (2,468) 24,948 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 13,708 — 2,878 16,586 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 34,563 — — — — 34,563 60,485 9.57 April 13, April 9, April 13, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 2022 34,563 — — — — 34,563 51,844 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 17,282 — — — — 17,282 25,923 17.07 2018 TSR grant 38,066 — — — — 38,066 66,615 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + April 12, 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day 2023 38,066 — — — — 38,066 57,099 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 19,033 — — — — 19,033 28,549 17.89 2019 TSR grant — 12,766 — — — 12,766 19,149 14.47 2019 RoC grant April 11, 2022 AGM + April 11, — 29,787 — — — 29,787 44,680 20.01 2019 EPS grant 2019 1 day 2024 — 29,787 — — — 29,787 44,680 20.01 2019 Sustainable Retailing grant — 12,766 — — — 12,766 19,149 20.01 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 179 33 Share-based compensation continued End of Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at Maximum number Fair value per share Grant date Vesting date retention period beginning of 2019 Granted adjustment1 Vested2 Forfeited the end of 2019 of shares3 at the grant date (€) Wouter Kolk4 2016 TSR grant 17,059 — (8,530) 8,529 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 N/A 17,059 — (1,536) 15,523 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 8,530 — 1,791 10,321 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 15,020 — — — — 15,020 26,285 9.57 April 13, April 9, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 N/A 15,020 — — — — 15,020 22,530 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 7,510 — — — — 7,510 11,265 17.07 2018 TSR grant 21,433 — — — — 21,433 37,507 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + April 12, 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day 2023 21,433 — — — — 21,433 32,149 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 10,717 — — — — 10,717 16,075 17.89 2019 TSR grant — 6,607 — — — 6,607 9,910 14.47 2019 RoC grant April 11, 2022 AGM + April 11, — 15,416 — — — 15,416 23,124 20.01 2019 EPS grant 2019 1 day 2024 — 15,416 — — — 15,416 23,124 20.01 2019 Sustainable Retailing grant — 6,607 — — — 6,607 9,910 20.01 Dick Boer5 2016 TSR grant 48,680 — (24,340) 24,340 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 N/A 48,680 — (4,382) 44,298 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 24,340 — 5,111 29,451 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 48,819 — (26,865) 21,954 — — — 9.57 April 13, April 9, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 N/A 48,819 — (13,903) 34,916 — — — 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 24,410 — — 24,410 — — — 17.07 2018 TSR grant 55,289 — (4,478) 50,811 — — — 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day N/A 55,289 — (6,142) 49,147 — — — 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 27,645 — — 27,645 — — — 17.89 2019 TSR grant — 16,548 (6,222) 10,326 — — — 14.47 2019 RoC grant April 11, 2022 AGM + — 38,610 128 38,738 — — — 20.01 N/A 2019 EPS grant 2019 1 day — 38,610 (6,382) 32,228 — — — 20.01 2019 Sustainable Retailing grant — 16,548 — 16,548 — — — 20.01 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 180 33 Share-based compensation continued End of Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at Maximum number Fair value per share Grant date Vesting date retention period beginning of 2019 Granted adjustment1 Vested2 Forfeited the end of 2019 of shares3 at the grant date (€) Pierre Bouchut6 2016 TSR grant 19,585 — (9,793) 9,792 — — — 20.46 September 1, April 11, 2016 RoC grant 2016 2019 N/A 19,585 — (1,763) 17,822 — — — 20.15 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 9,793 — 2,056 11,849 — — — 20.15 2017 TSR grant 19,641 — — — — 19,641 34,371 9.57 April 13, April 9, 2017 RoC grant 2017 2020 N/A 19,641 — — — — 19,641 29,461 17.07 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 9,821 — — — — 9,821 14,731 17.07 2018 TSR grant 22,244 — — — — 22,244 38,927 16.58 April 12, 2021 AGM + 2018 RoC grant 2018 1 day N/A 22,244 — — — — 22,244 33,366 17.89 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant 11,122 — — — — 11,122 16,683 17.89 Subtotal Management Board members 1,527,620 415,748 (164,804) 726,048 — 1,052,516 1,653,470 1 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR, RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance. 4 Wouter Kolk, Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia has been a member of the Management Board since 2 The vesting date of the 2016 grant was March 15, 2019, for a former Delhaize board member. The share price was €22.66 on March April 11, 2018. 15, 2019. The vesting date of the 2016 grant was April 11, 2019. The share price was €23.06 on April 11, 2019. The 2017 – 2019 5 Dick Boer, CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the awards granted to Dick Boer were settled on an accelerated basis upon the termination of his employment relationship in 2019 Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize was terminated (see Note 32). The share price on the settlement date was €20.10. as of July 1, 2019, after which he retired. The shares awarded under the GRO plan were settled on an accelerated basis upon the 3 For the TSR performance grants, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 175% of outstanding shares, termination of his employment relationship in 2019 (see Note 32). for the awards granted in 2017 and 2018, if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking is one. For the TSR performance grant awarded in 2019, the 6 Pierre Bouchut, Chief Operating Officer of Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 150% of the outstanding shares if the Company’s ranking is one. Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018. His employment For the RoC performance grants, the EPS performance grants and the Sustainable Retailing performance grants the maximum relationship with Ahold Delhaize was terminated as of August 31, 2018, after which he retired. Shares awarded under the GRO plan number of shares that could potentially vest equals 150% of outstanding shares (as explained in the sections Main characteristics will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. of shares granted in 2019 and Main characteristics of shares granted in 2016 through 2018 above). The minimum number of shares that could potentially vest would be nil (as explained in the sections Main characteristics of shares granted in 2019 and Main characteristics of shares granted in 2016 through 2018 above). Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at beginning of 2019 Granted adjustment1 Vested2 Forfeited the end of 2019 Other employees 2016 grant 3,712,470 — (718,954) 2,946,520 46,996 — 2017 grant 3,518,140 39,710 — 6,062 180,219 3,371,569 2018 grant 2,334,206 78,462 — 4,398 208,722 2,199,548 2019 grant — 2,148,126 – 538 138,468 2,009,120 Subtotal Management Board members 1,527,620 415,748 (164,804) 726,048 — 1,052,516 Total number of shares 11,092,436 2,682,046 (883,758) 3,683,566 574,405 8,632,753 1 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR, RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance. 2 The vesting date of the 2016 grant was April 11, 2019. The share price was €23.06 on April 11, 2019. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 181 33 Share-based compensation continued Valuation model and input variables Lease liabilities The weighted average fair value of the shares granted in 2019, for all eligible participants including The following table summarizes the expected maturity profile of the Company’s lease liabilities as Management Board members, amounted to €14.43 per share for TSR performance shares and presented in Note 23 (non-current portion) and Note 27 (current portion) as of December 29, 2019, and €19.96 per share for RoC performance shares, EPS performance shares and Sustainable Retailing December 30, 2018, respectively, based on the undiscounted payments. performance shares, respectively (2018: €16.59 per share for TSR performance shares and €17.90 December 29, December 30, per share for RoC performance shares and Sustainable Retailing performance shares, respectively). € million 2019 2018 restated The fair values of the RoC, EPS and Sustainable Retailing performance shares are based on the BlackLess than one year 1,541 1,491 Scholes model. The fair values of the TSR performance shares are determined using a Monte Carlo One to five years 5,029 4,827 simulation model, which considers the likelihood of Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ending at various ranks as Five to ten years 3,272 3,159 well as the expected share price at each rank. The most important assumptions used in the valuations Ten to fifteen years 1,422 1,401 of the fair values were as follows: More than fifteen years 1,115 1,189 2019 2018 Total undiscounted lease payments 12,379 12,067 Closing share price at grant date (€) 22.94 19.72 Risk-free interest rate (0.6)% (0.3)% Lease liabilities included in the Balance sheet 9,695 9,432 Volatility 19.7% 22.9% Current portion (Note 27) 1,211 1,162 Assumed dividend yield 4.2% 3.3% Non-current portion (Note 23) 8,484 8,270 Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of three years. General Leases are managed by local management and, accordingly, lease terms are negotiated on an 34 Leases individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The terms and conditions Ahold Delhaize as lessee of real estate leases include, among others, extension and termination options as well as (additional) Ahold Delhaize leases a significant number of its stores, as well as distribution centers, warehouses, variable payments. A large part of the real estate leases also provide for lease payment increases that offices and other assets, under lease arrangements. Leases of retail stores typically run for periods of are based on changes in local price indices, which are generally determined annually. Lease liabilities 10 to 20 years, and warehouses and distribution centers for 10 years. are remeasured to reflect those revised lease payments only when there is a change in the cash flows. The Company also leases equipment, mainly IT equipment, with average contract terms of four years. The Company does not have leases with significant guaranteed residual values or purchase options. The majority of these are short-term leases and / or leases of low-value assets and the Company has None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to pay dividends, incur elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases. The Company expects additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. the amount of expenses incurred for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets to remain broadly consistent in future years. Extension and termination options Extension and termination options are included in a large number of real estate leases across the Until the 2018 financial year, leases of property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance Company. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Company leases or operating leases. From December 31, 2018, each lease is recognized as a right-of-use asset and not by the respective lessor. and a corresponding liability at the date on which the leased asset is available for use by the Company. See Note 36 for further information on the change in accounting policy for leases. As at December 29, 2019, potential uncommitted future cash outflows of an estimated €35 billion (undiscounted) (2018: €35 billion) have not been included in the lease liability (and right-of-use asset) Right-of-use assets because it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended (or not terminated). See Note 12 for more information on the right-of-use assets. During the current financial year, an amount of €781 million (2018: €436 million) has been recorded as a net increase in the right-of-use assets due to reassessments and modifications of leases, which include, among others, the effect of exercising extension and termination options and changes in lease payments due to inflation-related increases. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 182 34 Leases continued The table below summarizes the rate of exercise of termination options. Amounts recognized in the income statement Number of contracts with Number of contracts with € million 2019 2018 restated termination options not exercised terminations options exercised Number of contracts with or not considered reasonably or considered reasonably Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities (21) (26) termination options exercisable certain to be exercised as of certain to be exercised as of Expenses related to short-term leases (26) (20) as of December 29, 2019 December 29, 2019 December 29, 2019 Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets that are not shown Number of leases Number of leases Number of leases above as short-term leases (18) (16) Total Ahold Delhaize 2,240 1,990 250 Total rent expense (66) (64) In countries like Greece, Romania and Serbia, it is general practice to be able to terminate contracts, subject to a notice period. A large portion of the termination options listed above relates to vehicle Depreciation charge for right-of-use assets (1,052) (1,000) leases in Greece, Romania and Serbia. Interest accretion to lease liability (366) (355) Gains (losses) on sale and leaseback transactions 1 – In Belgium, real estate leases normally have an initial term of 27 years, but the lessee has the right, by Income from subleasing right-of-use assets 102 116 law, to terminate the lease every three years. In practice, contracts are therefore recorded in the real estate system as having a 27-year term with termination options every three years. These termination During 2019, impairments of €8 million (2018: nil) on right-of-use assets (excluding investment options are then assessed as part of the determination of the lease term, which is normally established properties) and €9 million (2018: nil) on investment property right-of-use assets were recorded. as nine to 12 years. In other countries, limited to no termination options are in place. These impairments mainly relate to buildings leased. In other countries, limited to no termination options are in place. Amounts recognized in the cash flow statement Variable payments € million 2019 2018 restated Variable payment terms are used for a variety of reasons, including minimizing the fixed cost base Total cash outflow for leases (1,600) (1,460) for newly established stores or for reasons of margin control and operational flexibility. Variable lease payment terms vary widely across the Company: The total cash outflow for leases consists of repayment of lease liabilities (both the principal and interest portion of lease payments) and the cash outflows from short-term and low-value leases and variable • The majority of variable payment terms are based on a range of percentages of store sales. lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities. Percentages vary per contract and range between 1% and 6% of net sales of the applicable store. Ahold Delhaize as lessor • Some variable payment terms include minimum rent clauses. Ahold Delhaize rents out its investment properties (mainly retail units in shopping centers containing an Variable lease payments that depend on sales are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the Ahold Delhaize store) and also (partially) subleases various other properties that are leased by Ahold condition that triggers those payments occurs. The overall financial effect of using variable payment Delhaize. Ahold Delhaize classifies these leases as operating or finance leases. terms is that higher rental costs are incurred by stores with higher sales. Operating leases The Company expects the amount of variable rental payments to remain broadly consistent in The following table sets out the maturity analysis of lease payments, showing the undiscounted lease future years. payments to be received after the reporting date: December 29, December 30, Commitment for leases not yet commenced € million 2019 2018 restated In addition to the leases included on the balance sheet, Ahold Delhaize has signed lease agreements Less than one year 154 151 for properties under development of which it has not yet taken possession. The future undiscounted One to two years 135 135 lease payments for these agreements amount to approximately €294 million (2018: €320 million). Two to three years 95 114 The 2018 figure included a lease for a meat facility in the United States that commenced in January Three to four years 64 76 2019. The 2019 figure mainly relates to signed leases related to stores under development. Four to five years 43 48 Sale and leaseback transactions More than five years 105 115 There have been no significant sale and leaseback transactions in 2019 or 2018. Total undiscounted lease payments 596 640 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 183 34 Leases continued Finance leases Lease receivables are principally for real estate. Terms range primarily from five to 12 years. Net investment in leases There are no significant changes in the provision for impairment. € million 2019 2018 restated As of the beginning of the year The Company, as lessor, manages risks associated with rights retained in the underlying assets mainly Current portion 81 74 by screening of lessees for credit worthiness prior to entering into the lease agreement and following up Non-current portion 398 404 on outstanding lease payments as part of debtor management. In addition, lease contracts generally include terms about rights in case of delinquency and default. Lease contracts rarely include residual Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 479 479 value guarantees. Additions – 1 Amounts recognized in the income statement Interest accretion 14 15 € million 2019 2018 restated Repayments (95) (87) Operating leases Terminations (7) (3) Rent income relating to fixed payments on operating leases 183 182 Reassessments and modifications 6 8 Rent income relating to variable payments on operating leases 4 6 Reclassifications (to) from right-of-use assets 72 57 Exchange rate differences 5 10 Finance leases Closing carrying amount 474 479 Rent income relating to variable payments not included in the measurement of the net investment in leases – 2 As of the end of the year Total rent income 187 189 Current portion 78 81 Non-current portion 396 398 Interest income on net investment in leases 14 15 Carrying amount at the end of the year 474 479 The following table sets out the maturity analysis of lease receivables, showing the undiscounted lease payments to be received after the reporting date: December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated Less than one year 93 98 One to two years 81 79 Two to three years 75 69 Three to four years 65 63 Four to five years 54 53 More than five years 132 151 Total undiscounted lease payments receivable 500 513 Unearned finance income (53) (57) Total discounted lease payments receivable 447 456 Cumulative impairment losses (3) (3) Lease receivable 444 453 Unguaranteed residual value 30 26 Net investment in leases 474 479 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 184 35 Commitments and contingencies Capital investment commitments Lease guarantees As of December 29, 2019, Ahold Delhaize had outstanding capital investment commitments for Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable for leases that have been assigned and / or transferred property, plant and equipment and investment property, and for intangible assets of approximately to third parties in connection with facility closings and disposals. Ahold Delhaize could be required €593 million and €11 million, respectively (December 30, 2018: €447 million and €7 million, respectively). to assume the financial obligations under these leases if any of the third parties are unable to fulfill Ahold Delhaize’s share in the capital investment commitments of its unconsolidated joint ventures JMR their lease obligations. The lease guarantees are based on the nominal value of future minimum lease and Super Indo amounted to €1 million as of December 29, 2019 (December 30, 2018: €1 million). payments of the relevant leases, which extend through 2041 and are based on the committed lease terms as communicated to Ahold Delhaize. The amounts of the lease guarantees exclude the cost of On December 10, 2019, Ahold Delhaize announced that it is investing $480 million to transform and common area maintenance and real estate taxes; such amounts may vary in time, per region and per expand its supply chain operations on the U.S. East Coast. This investment supports the new three-year property. Certain amounts related to these leases are recognized as a provision or a financial liability; strategy to move the U.S. supply chain to a fully integrated, self-distribution model. The $480 million for more information see Notes 23 and 25. capital outlay will cover a three-year transition period, which will support the acquisition of three distribution facilities by Ahold Delhaize USA from C&S Wholesale Grocers and leases on two additional Lease guarantees related to divestments facilities. It also includes investment in two new fully automated Ahold Delhaize USA frozen facilities to As of December 29, 2019, the €833 million in the undiscounted lease guarantees as presented in the be constructed in the U.S. Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. This transaction will be accounted for as table above completely relates to divestments. Of this amount, €342 million relates to the various Tops asset acquisition. divestments, €127 million to the BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment, €109 million to the Sweetbay, Harveys, and Reid’s divestment, €105 million to the Bottom Dollar Food divestment and €150 million to other, including On February 12, 2020, Ahold Delhaize USA closed the acquisition of the three C&S Wholesale Grocers the divestment of remedy stores in the U.S. and the divestment of Bradlees. distribution centers in York, Pennsylvania, and Chester, New York. On a discounted basis, these lease guarantees amount to €674 million and €742 million as of December Purchase commitments 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, respectively. If Ahold Delhaize is called upon to satisfy its Ahold Delhaize enters into purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. obligations under the outstanding lease guarantees, it has several options to reduce the Company’s The Company has purchase contracts with some vendors for varying terms that require Ahold Delhaize gross exposure. Further details on the guarantees related to divestments are discussed below. to buy services and predetermined volumes of goods and goods not-for-resale at fixed prices. As of December 29, 2019, the Company’s purchase commitments were approximately €1,194 million Lease guarantees related to the Tops Markets divestments (December 30, 2018: €1,000 million). Not included in the purchase commitments are those purchase In connection with the divestment of Tops Markets in 2007, Ahold Delhaize retained a contingent liability contracts for which Ahold Delhaize has received advance vendor allowances, such as upfront signing for 45 leases that carry Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Additionally, Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities payments in consideration of its purchase commitments. These contracts generally may be terminated related to stores previously divested, including guarantees on five Tops stores in eastern New York without satisfying the purchase commitments upon the repayment of the unearned portions of the state, as well as liabilities related to the Tops convenience stores and the stores in northeast Ohio as advance vendor allowances. The unearned portion of these advance vendor allowances is recorded as outlined under Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Tops convenience stores: Wilson Farms a liability on the balance sheet. and Sugarcreek. Contingent liabilities On February 21, 2018, Tops Markets filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Guarantees Bankruptcy Code. These actions resulted in Ahold Delhaize recognizing €24 million partly as a financial Guarantees to third parties issued by Ahold Delhaize can be summarized as follows: liability and partly as an onerous contract provision (see Notes 23 and 25), which was presented as an December 29, December 30, after-tax loss from discontinued operations of €17 million in 2018. € million 2019 2018 Lease guarantees 833 911 Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Tops convenience stores: Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek Tops may be contingently liable to landlords under 186 leases assigned in connection with the Lease guarantees backed by letters of credit 33 40 divestment of the Tops’ Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek convenience stores in 2005, in the event of a Corporate and buyback guarantees 24 32 future default by the tenant under such leases. In addition, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to Total 891 983 landlords under the guarantees of 77 of these leases in the same event. The amounts included in the table above are the maximum undiscounted amounts the Group could be Lease guarantees related to divestment of the Tops northeast Ohio stores forced to settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount, if that amount is claimed by the Prior to Ahold Delhaize’s divestment of Tops in 2007, Tops closed all of its locations in northeast Ohio counterparty to the guarantee. For lease guarantees, this is based on the committed lease terms as before year-end 2006. As of December 29, 2019, 32 of the total 55 closed locations in northeast Ohio communicated to Ahold Delhaize. Specifics to the guarantees are discussed below. have been divested or are now subleased or partially subleased. An additional 19 leases have been terminated. Four stores continue to be marketed. Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of 13 of these leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under the leases. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 185 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Lease guarantees related to BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment Lease guarantees related to Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food divestments In 2005, Ahold Delhaize divested its U.S. retail subsidiaries BI-LO and Bruno’s. On February 5, 2009, Ahold Delhaize divested its U.S. retail subsidiaries Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s to BI-LO II in and March 23, 2009, Bruno’s Supermarkets, LLC and BI-LO, LLC, respectively, filed for protection 2014 and its U.S. retail subsidiary Bottom Dollar Food to Aldi in 2015. Ahold Delhaize had provided under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “2009 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing”). As a result of the guarantees for a number of existing lease contracts, which extend through 2037. Ahold Delhaize has 2009 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing, Ahold Delhaize made an assessment of its potential obligations under made an assessment of its potential obligations under lease guarantees, considering: (i) the remaining existing lease guarantees. Consequently, in 2009, Ahold Delhaize recognized provisions of €109 million term of each lease, (ii) the re-let potential of the property if the acquirer were to default on the lease and (see Note 25) and related tax benefit offsets of €47 million within results on divestments. (iii) the credit position of the counterparty. At the end of 2019, the undiscounted lease guarantees were €109 million for Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and €105 million for Bottom Dollar Food. As of December During the 2009 BI-LO bankruptcy, BI-LO rejected a total of 16 leases that were guaranteed by Ahold 29, 2019, the on-balance sheet financial liability representing the fair value of the lease guarantees was Delhaize and Ahold Delhaize took assignment of 12 other BI-LO leases with Ahold Delhaize guarantees. €10 million (2018: €12 million); see Note 23. On May 12, 2010, the then reorganized BI-LO (“BI-LO II”) exited bankruptcy protection and BI-LO II assumed 149 operating locations that were guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. Based on the foregoing In connection with the 2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy filing described above, BI-LO II has rejected a number developments, Ahold Delhaize recognized a reduction of €23 million in its provision, after tax, within of leases for which Ahold Delhaize recognized a provision for lease guarantees in the amount of results on divestments in the first half of 2010. Since the end of the second quarter of 2010, Ahold €22 million in 2018. As of December 29, 2019, the remaining provision for these lease guarantees was Delhaize has entered into settlements with a number of landlords relating to leases of former BI-LO or €11 million (2018: €15 million); see Note 25. Bruno’s stores that were guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. Lease guarantees related to the divestment of U.S. remedy stores On March 27, 2018, BI-LO II and its parent, Southeastern Grocers, Inc., filed for bankruptcy protection In July 2016, as a condition of receiving regulatory clearance for their merger from the United States under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing”). As a result of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Ahold and Delhaize entered into a consent agreement (“Consent 2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing, Ahold Delhaize has reassessed its potential obligations under the lease Agreement”) with the FTC that required Ahold and Delhaize to divest certain stores in seven states guarantees based upon: (i) the remaining initial term of each lease, (ii) an assessment of the possibility in order to prevent the merger from being anti-competitive. Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries may be that Ahold Delhaize would have to pay under a guarantee and (iii) any potential remedies that Ahold contingently liable for 73 divested locations. Delhaize may have to limit future lease payments. Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Bradlees At the end of 2019, the undiscounted lease guarantees relating to BI-LO and Bruno’s totaled In 1992, Stop & Shop spun-off Bradlees Stores, Inc. (“Bradlees”) as a public company (the “Bradlees €127 million. As of December 29, 2019, the remaining provision was €2 million (December 30, 2018 Spin-off”). In connection with the Bradlees Spin-off, Stop & Shop assigned to Bradlees certain restated: €2 million) with a related tax benefit offset of €1 million (2018 restated: €1 million); see Note 25. commercial real property leases. Pursuant to a 1995 reorganization of Bradlees and a subsequent This amount represents Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate of the discounted aggregate amount of the wind-down and liquidation of Bradlees following a bankruptcy protection filing in 2000 (collectively, remaining lease obligations and associated charges, net of known mitigation offsets, which could result the “Bradlees Bankruptcies”), a number of such real property leases were assumed and assigned to in cash outflows for Ahold Delhaize under the various lease guarantees. Ahold Delhaize continues third parties. Pursuant to applicable law, Stop & Shop may be contingently liable, subject to applicable to monitor any developments and pursues its mitigation efforts with respect to these potential lease defenses, to landlords under certain of the leases assigned in connection with the Bradlees Spin-off guarantee liabilities. and subsequently assumed and assigned to third parties in connection with the Bradlees Bankruptcies. Lease guarantees backed up by letters of credit As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $37 million (€33 million) as of December 29, 2019 (2018: $46 million (€40 million)). Corporate and buyback guarantees Ahold Delhaize has provided corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of its franchisees or nonconsolidated entities. Ahold Delhaize would be required to perform under the guarantee if the franchisee or non-consolidated entity failed to meet its financial obligations, as described in the guarantee. Buyback guarantees relate to Ahold Delhaize’s commitment to repurchase stores or inventory from certain franchisees at predetermined prices. The buyback guarantees reflect the maximum committed repurchase value under the guarantees. The last of the corporate and buyback guarantees expire in 2022. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 186 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Indemnifications as part of divestments of Ahold Delhaize’s operations Legal proceedings In the relevant sales agreements, Ahold Delhaize has provided customary indemnifications, including Ahold Delhaize and certain of its former or current subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal for potential breach of representations and warranties, that often include, but are not limited to, proceedings, which include litigation as a result of divestments, tax and employment, as well as other completeness of books and records, title to assets, schedule of material contracts and arrangements, litigation and inquiries. The legal proceedings discussed below, whether pending, threatened or litigation, permits, labor matters, and employee benefits and taxes. These representations and unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may result in liability material to Ahold Delhaize’s financial warranties will generally terminate, depending on their specific features, a number of years after the condition, results of operations or cash flows. Ahold Delhaize may enter into discussions regarding date of the relevant transaction completion date. the settlement of these and other proceedings, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interest of Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders. In accordance with IAS 37 The most significant divestments of operations are, to the extent not already covered in the guarantee “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets,” Ahold Delhaize has recognized provisions section above, described below. In addition, specific, limited indemnifications exist for a number with respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. of Ahold Delhaize’s smaller divestments. The aggregate impact of claims, if any, under such indemnification provisions is not expected to be material. Albert Heijn Franchising In 2014, the Vereniging Albert Heijn Franchisenemers (an association of Albert Heijn franchisees or Disco divestment “VAHFR”) has asserted claims against Albert Heijn Franchising BV (an Ahold Delhaize subsidiary or As part of the divestment of Disco S.A. (“Disco”) in 2004, Ahold Delhaize is required to indemnify Disco “AHF”), for the years 2008 through 2012, the alleged value of which exceeds €200 million in aggregate. and its buyers for the outcome of the Uruguayan litigation described in the Legal proceedings section AHF and the VAHFR have had ongoing discussions for a number of years about the resolution of of this Note. Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to this litigation is not capped at a certain cost items under individual franchise agreements. On December 24, 2014, AHF and other certain amount nor restricted to a certain time period. legal entities within the Ahold Delhaize group of companies received a writ in which VAHFR and 242 Tom & Co divestment individual claimants would initiate proceedings as of April 15, 2015, before the District Court of Haarlem In 2016, Ahold Delhaize divested the pet specialist shop chain Tom & Co. As part of the transaction, with respect to these discussions. On November 16, 2016, the court issued a judgment rejecting all Ahold Delhaize granted indemnities to the purchaser of all divested stores, which Ahold Delhaize claims of the VAHFR and the claimants. On February 13, 2017, VAHFR and 240 individual claimants believes are customary for transactions of this nature. filed a formal appeal against the judgment. Income tax In September 2017, the claimants filed their grounds for appeal in which they asserted unquantified Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number of countries, its income is subject to taxation in differing claims for the years 2008 until 2016. jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated On July 23, 2019, the Court of Appeal issued a judgment rejecting, except for one, all the claims of income tax position. We seek to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, taking into account VAHFR and the claimants. On October 23, 2019, the VAHFR and the claimants filed an appeal in the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of Ahold Delhaize’s cassation to the Supreme Court. Albert Heijn Franchising BV and its affiliates will continue to vigorously multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks including, but not limited defend their interest in the legal proceedings. to, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws. The authorities in the jurisdictions where Ahold Delhaize operates may review the Company’s tax returns and may disagree with the positions Uruguayan litigation taken in those returns. While the ultimate outcome of such reviews is not certain, Ahold Delhaize has Ahold Delhaize, together with Disco and Disco Ahold International Holdings N.V. (“DAIH”), is party to considered the merits of its filing positions in its overall evaluation of potential tax liabilities and believes one lawsuit in Uruguay related to Ahold Delhaize’s 2002 acquisition of Velox Retail Holdings’ shares it has adequate liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements for exposures on these in the capital of DAIH. The two other related lawsuits in Uruguay were decided in favor of Ahold matters. Based on its evaluation of the potential tax liabilities and the merits of Ahold Delhaize’s filing Delhaize without any further right to appeal of the plaintiffs in 2013. The damages alleged by the positions, it is unlikely that potential tax exposures over and above the amounts currently recorded as plaintiffs, alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other banks, amount to approximately $62 million liabilities in its consolidated financial statements will be material to its financial condition or future results (€55 million) plus interest and costs. As part of the divestment of Disco to Cencosud in 2004, Ahold of operations. Delhaize indemnified Cencosud and Disco against the outcome of these legal proceedings. The one remaining lawsuit is ongoing. Ahold Delhaize continues to believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and will continue to vigorously oppose such claims. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 187 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Greek litigation Other legal proceedings In a shareholders’ matter related to Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A. (“Alfa Beta”), Ahold Delhaize’s whollyIn addition to the legal proceedings described previously in this Note, Ahold Delhaize and its former owned subsidiary in Greece, Ahold Delhaize was notified in 2011 that five former shareholders of Alfa or current subsidiaries are parties to a number of other legal proceedings arising out of their business Beta, who together held 7% of Alfa Beta’s shares, filed a claim with the Court of First Instance of Athens operations. Ahold Delhaize believes that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings will not, in the challenging the price paid by Ahold Delhaize during the squeeze-out process that was approved by aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of operations or the Hellenic Capital Markets Commission. Claimants had filed a separate claim for compound interest cash flows. Such other legal proceedings, however, are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcome as well, which they withdrew in 2018. On January 11, 2019, the Court of First Instance delivered a of individual matters is unpredictable. It is possible that Ahold Delhaize could be required to make decision on the merits pursuant to which Ahold Delhaize was held to pay an additional consideration expenditures, in excess of established provisions, in amounts that cannot reasonably be estimated. of approximately €11.9 million plus interest and costs. On April 3, 2019, claimants re-filed their separate claim for compound interest. A provision was taken for this matter by Ahold Delhaize. At the end of 2019 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption and beginning of 2020, Ahold Delhaize fully and finally settled this Greek litigation with four of the five A new accounting standard, IFRS 16 “Leases” (“IFRS 16”) has been published by the International plaintiffs, representing 66.5% of the total plaintiff base, within the amount of the provision, while all five Accounting Standards Board. IFRS 16 replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17, “Leases”; plaintiffs have withdrawn from their claim for compound interest. For the remainder, Ahold Delhaize IFRIC 4, “Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease”; SIC-15, “Operating Leases – expects to reach a full and final settlement as well, within the amount of the provision, and otherwise Incentives”; and SIC-27, “Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease” has the right to launch an appeal against the Court of First Instance decision, on the basis that the (“the former lease accounting standard”). squeeze-out transaction had been executed and completed in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements and against a fair price. The IFRS 16 standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company adopted IFRS 16 on December 31, 2018, and applied the full retrospective transition National prescription opiate litigation approach, and, therefore, the comparative figures for the 2018 financial year have been restated, as Several U.S. brands and subsidiaries of Ahold Delhaize have been sued in a number of lawsuits presented below. included in In re: National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804), a multi-district litigation (MDL) matter pending in the United States District Court in the Northern District of Ohio. The MDL contains IFRS 16 introduced a single, on-balance-sheet lease accounting model for lessees. As a result, the cases filed against hundreds of defendants by counties, cities, hospitals and others concerning the Company, as a lessee, has recognized right-of-use assets, representing its rights to use the underlying impact of opioid abuse. The suits name Ahold Delhaize as a defendant, as well as various subsidiaries, assets, and lease liabilities, representing its obligation to make lease payments. including American Sales Company, LLC, which ceased operations prior to being named as a On the income statement, there are changes to the nature of expenses related to leases in which the defendant in any MDL-related case. All of the matters in which Ahold Delhaize or its subsidiaries have Company leases an asset (lessee), because IFRS 16 replaces the operating lease expense with a been named have been stayed by the court and, therefore, are not being actively litigated at this depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities. time. Ahold Delhaize and its affected subsidiaries believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and we will defend ourselves against the claims in all these matters, if and when the stay is lifted. At the time of the transition to IFRS 16, the Company determined whether an arrangement contains Ahold Delhaize is not currently able to predict the outcome of these claims. a lease. When performing this assessment, the Company could choose whether to apply the IFRS 16 definition of a lease to all its contracts or apply the practical expedient allowed under IFRS 16 and Pharmacy regulatory investigation not reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. The Company chose to apply the practical The Ahold Delhaize USA brands are responding to a civil investigative demand (CID) from the U.S. expedient to grandfather the definition of a lease upon transition. This means that it applied IFRS 16 to Department of Justice (DOJ), working together with several state Attorneys General, concerning all contracts entered into before December 31, 2018, and identified as leases in accordance with IAS pharmacy customer-retention programs. The brands are cooperating with this investigation and 17 and IFRIC 4. communicating with the DOJ regarding the CID. Ahold Delhaize is not currently able to predict the timing or outcome of the investigation. The accounting policies applicable to the Company as a lessor in the comparative period were not different from IFRS 16. However, subleases under IFRS 16 are classified with reference to the right-ofuse asset, not with reference to the underlying asset, as per IAS 17. As a result, more leases have been classified as finance leases. See Note 3 for the accounting policy selected for lease accounting. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 188 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption continued Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2018 Effect of 2018 2018 Effect of 2018 € million, except per share data as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated Net sales 62,791 — 62,791 Cost of sales (45,839) 1 (45,838) Gross profit 16,952 1 16,953 Net income 1,793 (13) 1,780 Selling expenses (12,236) 206 (12,030) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans General and administrative expenses (2,321) 21 (2,300) Remeasurements before taxes – income (loss) 66 — 66 Income taxes (18) — (18) Total operating expenses (14,557) 227 (14,330) Other comprehensive income (loss) that will not be Operating income 2,395 228 2,623 reclassified to profit or loss 48 — 48 Interest income 70 15 85 Currency translation differences in foreign interests: Interest expense (310) 99 (211) Currency translation differences before taxes from Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans (19) — (19) continuing operations 495 (20) 475 Interest accretion to lease liability — (355) (355) Cash flow hedges: Other financial income (expense) 13 — 13 Fair value result for the period 1 — 1 Net financial expenses (246) (241) (487) Transfers to net income 1 — 1 Income before income taxes 2,149 (13) 2,136 Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassifiable to profit or loss 497 (20) 477 Income taxes (372) (1) (373) Share in income of joint ventures 32 2 34 Total other comprehensive income (loss) 545 (20) 525 Income from continuing operations 1,809 (12) 1,797 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 2,338 (33) 2,305 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (16) (1) (17) Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,793 (13) 1,780 Attributable to: Continuing operations 2,354 (32) 2,322 Net income per share attributable to common shareholders Discontinued operations (16) (1) (17) Basic 1.52 (0.01) 1.51 Total comprehensive income attributable to common Diluted 1.50 (0.01) 1.49 shareholders 2,338 (33) 2,305 Income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.54 (0.01) 1.53 Diluted 1.52 (0.01) 1.51 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions) Basic 1,176 1,176 Diluted 1,203 1,203 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 189 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption continued Consolidated balance sheet December 30, 2018, Effect of December 30, 1 Compared to the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, the restated amounts include the reclassification of the € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption 2018, restated current portion of the net investment in leases of €81 million and short-term loans receivables of €17 million from Receivables (see Note 18) to Other current financial assets (see Note 19). Assets 2 Compared to the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, the restated amounts include the reclassification of deposit Property, plant and equipment 11,147 (1,101) 10,046 liabilities of €12 million from Other current liabilities (see Note 28) to Other current financial liabilities (see Note 27), to properly reflect the nature of the underlying item. Right-of-use asset — 7,027 7,027 Investment property 629 334 963 Intangible assets 12,013 (200) 11,813 Investments in joint ventures and associates 236 (23) 213 Other non-current financial assets 238 398 636 Deferred tax assets 149 17 166 Other non-current assets 77 (29) 48 Total non-current assets 24,489 6,423 30,912 Assets held for sale 23 — 23 Inventories 3,196 — 3,196 Receivables1 1,759 (11) 1,748 Other current financial assets1 461 98 559 Income taxes receivable 53 — 53 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 228 (11) 217 Cash and cash equivalents 3,122 — 3,122 Total current assets 8,842 76 8,918 Total assets 33,331 6,499 39,830 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to common shareholders 14,816 (611) 14,205 Loans 3,683 — 3,683 Other non-current financial liabilities 2,055 6,891 8,946 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 532 — 532 Deferred tax liabilities 864 (182) 682 Provisions 794 (43) 751 Other non-current liabilities 566 (478) 88 Total non-current liabilities 8,494 6,188 14,682 Accounts payable 5,816 (1) 5,815 Other current financial liabilities2 1,232 995 2,227 Income taxes payable 110 — 110 Provisions 326 (14) 312 Other current liabilities2 2,537 (58) 2,479 Total current liabilities 10,021 922 10,943 Total equity and liabilities 33,331 6,499 39,830 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 190 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption continued Consolidated balance sheet on transition (Opening balance sheet) January 1, 2018, Effect of January 1, 2018, 1 Compared to the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, the restated amounts include the reclassification of the € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption as restated current portion of the net investment in leases of €74 million and short-term loans receivables of €4 million from Receivables to Other current financial assets. Assets 2 Compared to the IFRS 16 Restatement booklet dated March 25, 2019, the restated amounts include the reclassification of Property, plant and equipment 10,689 (1,132) 9,557 deposit liabilities of €10 million from Other current liabilities to Other current financial liabilities, to properly reflect the nature of the underlying item. Right-of-use asset — 6,970 6,970 Investment property 650 366 1,016 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Intangible assets 11,634 (224) 11,410 Other reserves Equity Investments in joint ventures and associates 230 (25) 205 Additional Currency Cash flow including attributable to Other non-current financial assets 192 404 596 Share paid-in translation hedging retained common € million capital capital reserve reserve earnings shareholders Deferred tax assets 436 31 467 Balance as of January 1, 2018, Other non-current assets 70 (26) 44 as previously reported 12 15,175 (555) (4) 541 15,169 Total non-current assets 23,901 6,364 30,265 Effect of change in accounting Assets held for sale 14 — 14 policy – IFRS 16 — — — — (578) (578) Inventories 3,077 — 3,077 Balance as of January 1, 2018, Receivables1 1,605 — 1,605 restated 12 15,175 (555) (4) (37) 14,591 Other current financial assets1 238 78 316 Net income attributable to common Income taxes receivable 154 — 154 shareholders – restated — — — — 1,780 1,780 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 300 (43) 257 Other comprehensive income – restated — — 475 2 48 525 Cash and cash equivalents 4,581 — 4,581 Total comprehensive income Total current assets 9,969 35 10,004 attributable to common shareholders Total assets 33,870 6,399 40,269 – restated — — 475 2 1,828 2,305 Equity and liabilities Dividends — — — — (757) (757) Equity attributable to common shareholders 15,169 (578) 14,591 Share buyback — — — — (1,997) (1,997) Cancellation of treasury shares — (1,176) — — 1,176 — Loans 3,289 — 3,289 Share-based payments — — — — 63 63 Other non-current financial liabilities 2,098 6,823 8,921 Balance as of December 30, 2018, Pensions and other post-employment benefits 567 — 567 restated 12 13,999 (80) (2) 276 14,205 Deferred tax liabilities 1,105 (162) 943 Provisions 808 (60) 748 Other non-current liabilities 529 (472) 57 Total non-current liabilities 8,396 6,129 14,525 Accounts payable 5,277 (1) 5,276 Other current financial liabilities2 2,210 922 3,132 Income taxes payable 136 — 136 Provisions 355 (18) 337 Other current liabilities2 2,327 (55) 2,272 Total current liabilities 10,305 848 11,153 Total equity and liabilities 33,870 6,399 40,269 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 191 36 Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption continued Consolidated statement of cash flow 2018 Effect of 2018 2018 Effect of 2018 € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated Income from continuing operations 1,809 (12) 1,797 Proceeds from long-term debt 798 — 798 Adjustments for: Interest paid (324) 97 (227) Net financial expenses 246 241 487 Repayments of loans (783) — (783) Income taxes 372 1 373 Changes in short-term loans (733) — (733) Share in income of joint ventures (32) (2) (34) Repayment of lease liabilities (177) (1,215) (1,392) Depreciation, amortization and impairments 1,816 844 2,660 Dividends paid on common shares (757) — (757) Gains (losses) on leases and the sale of assets / disposal Share buyback (2,003) — (2,003) groups held for sale (11) (17) (28) Other cash flows from derivatives (29) — (29) Share-based compensation expenses 60 — 60 Other (3) — (3) Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets Financing cash flows from continuing operations (4,011) (1,118) (5,129) and liabilities 4,260 1,055 5,315 Financing cash flows from discontinued operations — (4) (4) Changes in working capital: Net cash from financing activities (4,011) (1,122) (5,133) Changes in inventories (35) — (35) Net cash from operating, investing and financing Changes in receivables and other current assets (6) (36) (42) activities (1,587) — (1,587) Changes in payables and other current liabilities 525 3 528 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current (excluding restricted cash) 4,542 — 4,542 liabilities and provisions (136) 10 (126) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 155 — 155 Cash generated from operations 4,608 1,032 5,640 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Income taxes paid – net (280) — (280) (excluding restricted cash) 3,110 — 3,110 Operating cash flows from continuing operations 4,328 1,032 5,360 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (5) 3 (2) Net cash from operating activities 4,323 1,035 5,358 Purchase of non-current assets (1,780) — (1,780) Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 27 — 27 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (30) — (30) Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (3) — (3) Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments (242) — (242) Dividends received from joint ventures 17 — 17 Interest received 74 — 74 Lease payments received on lease receivables — 86 86 Other 38 — 38 Investing cash flows from continuing operations (1,899) 86 (1,813) Investing cash flows from discontinued operations — 1 1 Net cash from investing activities (1,899) 87 (1,812) Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 192 37 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates The following are Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as of Delhaize US Holding Inc., Salisbury, North Carolina, United States December 29, 2019: DZA Brands LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States Lion Lux Finance Sàrl, Pommerloch, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Consolidated significant subsidiaries Lion Retail Holding Sàrl, Pommerloch, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg The following subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by Ahold Delhaize. Subsidiaries not MAC Risk Management Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States important to providing an insight into the Ahold Delhaize Group as required under Dutch law are The MollyAnna Company, Montpelier, Vermont, United States omitted from this list. Retail Business Services LLC, Delaware, United States Retail trade Europe With respect to the separate financial statements of the Dutch legal entities included in the Albert Heijn B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* consolidation, a number of subsidiaries availed themselves of the exemption laid down in section Albert Heijn Franchising B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* 403, subsection 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Pursuant to section 403, Ahold Delhaize has Gall & Gall B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* assumed joint and several liability for the debts arising out of the legal acts of these subsidiaries. Etos B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* The determination of which Dutch subsidiaries of Ahold Delhaize, whether significant in the context of bol.com B.V., Utrecht, the Netherlands* this Note or not, make use of the 403 exemption follows from the Dutch trade register. Each of these Alfa-Beta Vassilopoulos S.A., Athens, Greece subsidiaries has filed Ahold Delhaize’s 403 declaration with the Dutch trade register. The above Delhaize Le Lion / De Leeuw Comm. VA, Brussels, Belgium significant subsidiaries that make use of the 403 exemption are marked by *. Delhaize Serbia d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade, Serbia Mega Image S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania Significant joint ventures and associates (unconsolidated) Albert Česká republika, s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s Albert Heijn België NV / SA, Antwerp, Belgium subsidiary Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl) Delhaize Luxembourg S.A., Pommerloch, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg P.T. Lion Super Indo, Jakarta, Indonesia (51% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Delhaize “The Retail trade United States Lion” Nederland B.V.) The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company LLC, Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Food Lion LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States 38 Subsequent events Giant Food Stores LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, United States Closure of Midwest online grocery sales operations Giant of Maryland LLC, Landover, Maryland, United States On February 11, 2020, Ahold Delhaize USA announced plans to close the Midwest division of its Hannaford Bros. Co., LLC, Scarborough, Maine, United States Peapod online grocery sales business. The Company expects no significant impact to reported Peapod LLC, Skokie, Illinois, United States operating profits from the closure. Other Tentative collective bargaining agreement Giant Food Ahold Delhaize Coffee Company B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Giant Food announced on February 19, 2020 that it reached a tentative agreement with UFCW Locals Ahold Europe Real Estate & Construction B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* 27 and 400 (the “Union Locals”) on new four-year collective bargaining agreements. The current Ahold Delhaize Finance Company N.V., Zug, Switzerland collective bargaining agreements were originally scheduled to expire on October 26, 2019. However, Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC, Zaandam, the Netherlands* Giant Food and the Union Locals agreed to indefinitely extend the existing collective agreements, Ahold Insurance N.V., Willemstad, Curaçao provided that either side may cancel the extension at any time upon 72 hours’ advance notice. The Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl, Zug, Switzerland applicable bargaining unit members are scheduled to vote on whether to ratify the new collective Ahold Information Services Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, United States bargaining agreements on March 5, 2020. Ahold Lease U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Ahold Delhaize Licensing Sàrl, Geneva, Switzerland Giant Food’s negotiations with the Union Locals covered all terms and conditions of employment for the Ahold Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* applicable bargaining unit members. Retirement benefits were one aspect of the negotiations. Giant Ahold U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Food and the Union Locals also reached a general agreement on Giant’s funding obligations with American Sales Company LLC, Lancaster, New York, United States respect to the FELRA and UFCW Pension Plan and the Mid-Atlantic UFCW and Participating Employers CUW B.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Pension Plan (the “Plans”). The implementation of the tentative agreement with respect to the Plans Delhaize America LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States remains also subject to further discussions with various stakeholders, including the U.S. Pension Benefit Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Guaranty Corporation and the other significant contributing employer to the Plans. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Plans. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 193 Parent company € million Intercompany head office and other recharges Note 2019 75 2018 restated 77 financial statements General and administrative expenses (65) (77) Income statement Total operating expenses 2 (65) (77) Operating income 10 — Interest expense (47) (34) Other financial income (expense) (59) (24) Net financial expenses (106) (58) Loss before income taxes (96) (58) Income taxes 5 26 44 Income from subsidiaries and investments in joint ventures after income taxes 7 1,835 1,794 Net result after tax 1,766 1,780 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. See Note 1 to the parent company financial statements for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 194 Parent company Before appropriation of current year result December 29, December 30, January 1, financial statements € million Assets Note 2019 2018 restated 2018 restated Balance sheet Property, plant and equipment Right-of-use asset — 1 1 — 1 1 Intangible assets 6 49 37 21 Deferred tax assets 5 11 14 2 Financial assets 7 21,009 25,854 20,437 Total non-current assets 21,071 25,906 20,461 Receivables 8 41 57 28 Other current financial assets 9 12 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 157 110 318 Total current assets 210 168 347 Total assets 21,281 26,074 20,808 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Issued and paid-in share capital 11 12 12 Additional paid-in capital 12,246 13,999 15,175 Currency translation reserve 159 (80) (555) Cash flow hedging reserve (3) (2) (4) Reserve participations 420 385 310 Accumulated deficit (516) (1,889) (347) Net income 1,766 1,780 — Shareholders’ equity 10 14,083 14,205 14,591 Provisions 11 1 3 7 Loans 12 5,440 3,744 2,188 Cumulative preferred financing shares — 455 455 Other non-current liabilities 1 2 — Total non-current liabilities 5,441 4,201 2,643 Current liabilities 13 1,756 7,665 3,566 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 21,281 26,074 20,808 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. See Note 1 to the parent company financial statements for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 195 Notes to the parent company 1 Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation financial statements Ahold Delhaize’s parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are measured at net asset value (equity method of accounting). Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities, and determination of profit as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for investments in joint arrangements and associates. Goodwill is subsumed in the carrying amount of the net asset value if an investment in a subsidiary is acquired through the Company’s intermediate subsidiary. Changes in accounting policies – effect of IFRS 16 adoption The Company adopted IFRS 16 on December 31, 2018, and applied the full retrospective transition approach, and, therefore, the comparative figures for the 2018 financial year have been restated, as presented below. Income statement 2018 Effect of 2018 € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated Income from subsidiaries and investments in joint ventures after income taxes 1,807 (13) 1,794 Net result after tax 1,793 (13) 1,780 Balance sheet 2018 Effect of 2018 € million as reported IFRS 16 adoption restated Financial assets 26,465 (611) 25,854 Total assets 26,685 (611) 26,074 Currency translation reserve (60) (20) (80) Reserve participations 407 (22) 385 Accumulated deficit (1,333) (556) (1,889) Net income 1,793 (13) 1,780 Shareholders’ equity 14,816 (611) 14,205 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 26,685 (611) 26,074 Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 196 1 Significant accounting policies continued 3 Employees Balance sheet on transition The average number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in full-time equivalents during 2019 was eight (2018: seven), of whom none were employed outside of the Netherlands. Effect of January 1, € million, except per share data January 1, 2018 IFRS 16 adoption 2018 restated One Management Board member serves as board member outside of the Netherlands via an Financial assets 21,015 (578) 20,437 assignment agreement, but is not employed by Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. The current number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. consists primarily of members Total assets 21,386 (578) 20,808 of the Executive Committee, including the Management Board. Salaries, social security charges and pension expenses amounted to €20 million, €3 million and €0.1 million, respectively, for 2019 (2018: Reserve participations 334 (24) 310 expenses of €23 million, €0.1 million and €0.4 million, respectively). Accumulated deficit 207 (554) (347) For information on the parent company’s defined benefit pension plan, the remuneration of the Shareholders’ equity 15,169 (578) 14,591 Management Board and the Supervisory Board and the parent company’s share-based compensation plans, see Notes 24, 32 and 33, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 21,386 (578) 20,808 The net pension liability and the net pension expense are calculated on the basis of the parent See Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. company’s active employees only. 2 Expenses by nature The operating expenses are specified by nature as follows: € million 2019 2018 restated Labor costs (27) (31) Other operational expenses (31) (42) Depreciation and amortization (7) (4) Total expenses by nature (65) (77) Labor costs consists of employee expenses of €20 million (2018: €23 million), other related employee costs of €5 million (2018: €1 million) and other contracted personnel expenses of €2 million (2018: €7 million). Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 197 4 Auditor fees 5 Income taxes Expenses for services provided by the parent company’s independent auditor, The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes in the PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (PwC) and its member firms and affiliates to Ahold Delhaize income statement: and its subsidiaries in 2019 and in 2018, are specified as follows: € million 2019 2018 restated 2019 Current income taxes – the Netherlands 28 32 Member firms / Deferred income taxes – the Netherlands (2) 12 € thousand PwC affiliates Total 2019 Total income taxes 26 44 Audit fees 2,250 4,147 6,397 Audit-related fees 399 159 558 Effective income tax rate Tax advisory fees — — — The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the Total 2,649 4,306 6,955 income statement: 2019 2018 € million Tax rate Member firms / Loss before income taxes (96) € thousand PwC affiliates Total 2018 Audit fees 2,722 4,310 7,032 Income tax (expense) benefit at statutory tax rate 24 25.0% Audit-related fees 431 167 598 Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Tax advisory fees — — — Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items 2 2.1% Total 3,153 4,477 7,630 Total income taxes (expense) benefit 26 27.1% The audit fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the Company and its consolidated group entities by accounting firms and external independent auditors as referred to in Section 1, subsection 1 2018 restated of the Audit Firms Supervision Act (“Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties – Wta”) as well as by Dutch € million Tax rate and foreign-based accounting firms, including their tax services and advisory groups. These audit fees Loss before income taxes (58) relate to the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the work was performed during the financial year. Income tax (expense) benefit at statutory tax rate 15 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Audit fees primarily relate to the audit of the consolidated financial statements as included in Financial performance: Financial statements as set out in this Annual Report, certain procedures on our quarterly Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items 29 50.9% results and services related to the statutory and regulatory filings of our subsidiaries. Other audit-related Total income taxes (expense) benefit 44 75.9% fees mainly relate to assurance services on non-financial information and other assurance services. The line “Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items” includes one-time deferred tax movements related to the change of the Dutch corporate income tax rate. In 2018, this line also included tax impact related to restructuring. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 198 5 Income taxes continued 6 Intangible assets Deferred income tax € million Software The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of As of December 30, 2018, restated December 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, are as follows: At cost 51 January 1, Recognized in Recognized in Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (14) 2018 income December 30, income December 29, € million restated statement Other 2018 restated statement Other 2019 Carrying amount 37 Derivatives and loans 1 11 — 12 (1) — 11 Blended rate deferred tax Year ended December 29, 2019 fiscal unity 1 1 — 2 (2) — — Additions 19 Total gross deductible Amortization (6) temporary differences 2 12 — 14 (3) — 11 Closing carrying amount 49 Tax losses and tax credits — — — — — — — Total net deferred tax asset As of December 29, 2019 position 2 12 — 14 (3) (1) 11 At cost 70 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (20) Total deferred tax liabilities — — — — — — — Carrying amount 49 Net deferred tax assets 2 12 — 14 (2) (1) 11 The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity. Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: € million 2019 2018 restated Cash flow hedges 1 — Total 1 — Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 199 7 Financial assets 8 Receivables December 29, December 30, December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated € million 2019 2018 restated Investments in subsidiaries 19,943 24,620 Receivables from subsidiaries 19 28 Loans receivable from subsidiaries 1,066 1,232 Receivables from joint ventures 1 2 Other derivatives external — 1 Prepaid expenses 13 12 Deferred financing cost 1 1 Income tax receivable 7 13 Total financial assets 21,009 25,854 Other receivables 1 2 Total receivables 41 57 The changes in the Investment in subsidiaries were as follows: € million 2019 2018 restated 9 Other current financial assets Beginning of year 24,620 20,074 December 29, December 30, Share in income 1,835 1,794 € million 2019 2018 restated Dividends (6,657) (6,525) Other derivatives external 12 — Intercompany transfers — 7,196 Other 1 1 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) and other changes in equity (96) 1,618 Total other current financial assets 12 1 Transfers (to) / from loans receivable — (6) Transfers (to) / from provisions — (6) For more information on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. Exchange rate differences 241 475 End of year 19,943 24,620 Intercompany transfers include capital contributions and capital repayments. In 2018, the dividends and intercompany transfers were mainly related to an internal restructuring. For a list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, see Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. Loans receivable € million 2019 2018 restated Beginning of year 1,232 360 Intercompany transfers (165) 866 Transfers from / (to) investments — 6 End of year 1,066 1,232 Current portion — — Non-current portion of loans 1,066 1,232 The loans receivable are related to loans with subsidiaries. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 200 10 Shareholders’ equity The shareholders’ equity in the parent company financial statements equals the equity attributable to If the currency translation reserve or the cash flow hedging reserve has a negative balance, common shareholders presented in the consolidated financial statements, except that legal reserve distributions to the Company’s shareholders are restricted to the extent of the negative balance. Of the participations and accumulated earnings (deficit) are presented separately. total equity as of December 29, 2019, €14,083 million, an amount of €590 million is non-distributable (December 30, 2018, restated: €397 million out of total equity of €14,205 million). For more information The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and reserve participations are legal on the dividends on common shares, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. reserves that are required by Dutch law. The reserve participations include the increases in net asset value of joint ventures and associates since their first inclusion, less any amounts that can be distributed without legal or other restrictions. The movements in equity can be specified as follows: Legal reserves Other reserves Equity Additional Currency Cash flow including attributable Share paid-in translation hedging Reserve retained to common € million capital capital reserve reserve participations earnings1 shareholders Balance as of January 1, 2018 12 15,175 (555) (4) 334 207 15,169 Effect of change in accounting policy – IFRS 162 — — — — (24) (554) (578) Balance as of January 1, 2018, restated 12 15,175 (555) (4) 310 (347) 14,591 Net income attributable to common shareholders – restated — — — — — 1,780 1,780 Other comprehensive income – restated — — 475 2 — 48 525 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders – restated — — 475 2 — 1,828 2,305 Dividends — — — — — (757) (757) Share buyback — — — — — (1,997) (1,997) Cancellation of treasury shares — (1,176) — — — 1,176 — Share-based payments — — — — — 63 63 Other changes in reserves — — — — 75 (75) — Balance as of December 30, 2018, restated 12 13,999 (80) (2) 385 (109) 14,205 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 1,766 1,766 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 239 (1) — (58) 180 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — 239 (1) — 1,708 1,945 Dividends — — — — — (1,114) (1,114) Share buyback — — — — — (1,002) (1,002) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (1,753) — — — 1,753 — Share-based payments — — — — — 47 47 Other items — — — — — 1 1 Other changes in reserves — — — — 35 (35) — Balance as of December 29, 2019 11 12,246 159 (3) 420 1,250 14,083 1 Other reserves includes the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. 2 See Note 1 for details about the restatement of the 2018 figures due to changes in accounting policies. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 201 11 Provisions 13 Current liabilities December 29, December 30, December 29, December 30, € million 2019 2018 restated € million 2019 2018 restated Provision for negative equity subsidiaries — — Short-term borrowings from subsidiaries 1,493 5,431 Other provisions 1 3 Loans – current portion — 1,756 Total provisions 1 3 Bank debt and lines of credit 186 398 Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares — 17 As of December 29, 2019, no provisions are expected to be utilized within one year (December 30, Payables to subsidiaries 17 10 2018: €1.8 million). Interest payable 13 14 Other current liabilities 47 39 12 Loans Total current liabilities 1,756 7,665 December 29, 2019 Non-current Current € million portion portion The current liabilities are liabilities that mature within one year. EUR 300 notes EURIBOR + 18 bps, due 2021 300 — For more information on the cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 23 to the consolidated EUR 750 notes 0.875%, due 2024 750 — financial statements and on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. EUR 600 notes 0.250%, due 2025 600 — EUR 500 notes 1.125%, due 2026 500 — USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 20401 510 3 Long-term loans from subsidiaries 2,794 — Deferred financing costs (14) (3) Total loans 5,440 — December 30, 2018 restated Non-current Current € million portion portion USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 20191 — 114 EUR 300 notes EURIBOR + 18 bps, due 2021 300 — EUR 750 notes 0.875%, due 2024 750 — EUR 500 notes 1.125%, due 2026 500 — USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 20401 501 3 Long-term loans from subsidiaries 1,704 1,641 Deferred financing costs (11) (2) Total loans 3,744 1,756 1 In 2018, the USD 827 notes and USD 300 notes were transferred internally to the parent company. The long-term loans from subsidiaries mature in 2021 (€650 million), 2022 (€596 million), 2026 (€391 million), 2028 (€700 million) and 2029 (€458 million). For more information on the external loans, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 202 14 Derivatives 15 Related party transactions The parent company regularly enters into derivative contracts with banks to hedge foreign currency and Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and interest exposures of the parent company or its subsidiaries. Derivative contracts that are entered into affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions to hedge exposures of subsidiaries are generally mirrored with intercompany derivative contracts with and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices. the subsidiaries that are exposed to the hedged risks on substantially identical terms as the external derivative contracts. In these parent company financial statements, the external derivative contracts 16 Commitments and contingencies and the intercompany derivative contracts are presented separately on the balance sheet. In situations Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., as the parent company, is party to a cross-guarantee agreement dated where the external derivative contract qualifies for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated May 21, 2007, as amended from time to time, with Delhaize Le Lion/De Leeuw Comm. VA, Delhaize financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are US Holding, Inc. and certain of the subsidiaries of Delhaize US Holding, Inc., under which each party presented as “Hedging derivatives external” and “Hedging derivatives intercompany,” respectively. guarantees fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, the financial indebtedness of the other parties In situations where the external derivative contract does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment to the agreement. in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Other derivatives external” and “Other derivatives intercompany,” Notes and loans issued by certain subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, as disclosed in respectively. Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. Fair value movements of external derivative contracts that were entered into to hedge the exposures The parent company also guarantees certain lease obligations and other obligations of subsidiaries. of subsidiaries are recorded directly in income, where they effectively offset the fair value movements Guarantees issued by the parent company regarding the financial obligations of third parties and nonof the mirroring intercompany derivatives that are also recorded directly in income. Details of these consolidated entities, other than under the cross guarantee mentioned above, amount to €603 million as derivative contracts, other financial instruments and the parent company’s risk management strategies of December 29, 2019, (December 30, 2018 restated: €673 million). are included in Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements and in the tables presented below. In addition, the Company has provided a guarantee as of July 30, 2010, for Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC’s Non-current derivatives – assets outstanding current obligations to third parties. € million 2019 2018 restated As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby Beginning of year 1 — letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $37 million (€33 million) as of Fair value changes (1) 1 December 29, 2019 (2018: $46 million (€40 million)). End of year — 1 The parent company has provided customary indemnifications, including for potential breach of representations and warranties made in agreements of asset disposals. Guarantees and legal Current derivatives – assets proceedings are further disclosed in Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. Under its € million 2019 2018 restated financing agreement with Stichting Ahold Delhaize Pensioen, Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is liable Beginning of year — 1 for the pension contributions. The parent company forms a fiscal unity with Ahold Delhaize’s major Unwinding of cross-currency swap — (1) Dutch subsidiaries for Dutch corporate income tax and Dutch VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is Fair value changes 12 — jointly and severally liable for the Dutch corporate income tax liabilities and Dutch VAT liabilities of the End of year 12 — whole fiscal unity. Assumptions of liability pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code are disclosed in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. Non-current derivatives – liabilities € million 2019 2018 restated 17 Distribution of profit Beginning of year 2 — If approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, a final dividend of €0.46 per common share will be Fair value changes (2) 2 paid on April 23, 2020. This is in addition to the interim dividend of €0.30 per share, which was paid on End of year — 2 August 29, 2019. The total dividend payment for the full year 2019 would therefore total €0.76 per share (2018: €0.70). Current derivatives – liabilities There were no current derivative liabilities in 2019 and 2018. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 203 18 Subsequent events For information regarding subsequent events, see Note 38 to the consolidated financial statements. Zaandam, the Netherlands February 25, 2020 Management Board Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt Wouter Kolk Supervisory Board Jan Hommen (Chairman) Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) René Hooft Graafland Ben Noteboom Mary Anne Citrino Dominique Leroy Katie Doyle Peter Agnefjäll Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 204 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Report on the financial statements for the period December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019 We have further described our responsibilities under those standards in the section “Our Our opinion responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” of our report. In our opinion: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis • Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.’s consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the for our opinion. financial position of the Group as at December 29, 2019 and of its result and cash flows for the period from December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Independence Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch We are independent of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in accordance with the European Union Civil Code; Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities, the “Wet • Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.’s parent company financial statements give a true and fair view toezicht accountantsorganisaties” (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the “Verordening inzake de of the financial position of the Company as at December 29, 2019 and of its result for the period onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional from December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence Civil Code. requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). What we have audited We have audited the accompanying financial statements for the period December 31, 2018 to Our audit approach December 29, 2019 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam, The Netherlands. The financial Overview and context statements include the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. together Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is an international food retail group operating supermarkets and with its subsidiaries (“the Group”) and the parent company financial statements. e-commerce platforms in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania, Serbia and the United States and through participating in joint ventures in Indonesia and The consolidated financial statements comprise: Portugal. The Group is comprised of several components and therefore we considered our group audit • the consolidated balance sheet as at December 29, 2019; scope and approach as set out in the section “The scope of our group audit”. We paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the operations of the Group, as set out below. • the following statements for the period from December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material equity and cash flows; and misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Management Board • the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. made important judgments, for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In Note 2 of the The parent company financial statements comprise: financial statements, the company describes the areas of judgment in applying accounting policies and • the parent company balance sheet as at December 29, 2019; the key sources of estimation uncertainty. • the parent company income statement for the period from December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019; As in 2018, we considered the impairment testing of goodwill and brand names, and the recognition of • the notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies applied and other explanatory information. vendor allowance income as key audit matters, in view of the significant estimation uncertainty and the related higher inherent risks of material misstatement. Furthermore, we continue to consider the The financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures as a key audit matter because of the complexity the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial and judgment required in auditing the defined benefit obligation estimates as well as the extensive statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the parent company financial statements. disclosures required, specifically in the area of the group’s participation in US multi-employer plans. In addition, we continue to consider the recognition of leases as a key audit matter, however as for this year this matter relates to the recognition of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability as part of first-year adoption of the leasing standard (IFRS 16). We considered this a key audit matter in view of the magnitude of the amounts involved, the implementation process required to identify and process all Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 205 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report relevant data associated with these leases and management’s judgment applied in estimating matters Materiality such as discount rates and lease terms. Each of these key audit matters have been set out in the The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality, which is further explained in the section “Key audit matters” of this report. section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. Another area of focus, that was not considered a key audit matter, was the risk of fraud in revenue Based on our professional judgment we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, recognition. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Management Board that may These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component levels included the appropriate skills a whole and on our opinion. and competences which are needed for the audit of a retail company. The Group’s operations utilize a wide range of different IT systems. The adequacy and effective operation of controls over these Overall group materiality €106 million (2018: €107 million). systems is an important element of the integrity of financial reporting within the Group. We utilized IT We used our professional judgment to determine the overall materiality. As a basis specialists in our audit to evaluate the adequacy and effective operation of these controls considered for our judgment, we used 5% of income before income taxes. relevant to our audit. Furthermore, we included specialists in areas requiring financial instruments, tax We used income before income taxes as the primary benchmark, a generally and actuarial (including pension accounting) expertise and experts in the area of valuation. accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis, we believe that income The outline of our audit approach was as follows: before income taxes is an important metric for the financial performance of Materiality the Company. Overall materiality: €106 million Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgment, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality Audit scope allocated across components was between €10 and €100 million. We conducted audit work at eight components. Site visits were conducted to five components operating in the United We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgment, are States, the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece and Switzerland. material for qualitative reasons. Audit coverage: 87% of consolidated net sales, 86% of consolidated We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements identified during assets and 92% of consolidated income before income taxes. our audit above €5.3 million (2018: €5.3 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Key audit matters Impairment testing of goodwill and brand names The scope of our group audit Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information Recognition of vendor allowance income of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures Recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability as part We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we, in aggregate, provide sufficient coverage of the of first-year adoption of the lease standard (IFRS 16) financial statements for us to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the management structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets in which the components of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required to be performed at component level by the Group engagement team and by each component auditor. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 206 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report The group audit primarily focused on the significant components; these components include the retail Where component auditors performed the work, we determined the level of involvement we needed operations in the Unites States and the Netherlands as well as the Global Support Office activities in to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether we had obtained sufficient and appropriate the Netherlands (which includes financing activities in Switzerland). audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. We subjected five components to audits of their complete financial information, of which three We issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit scope. These instructions included components are individually financially significant to the Group, as described in the paragraph above. amongst others our risk analysis, materiality and scope of the work. We explained to the component The other two components, the Belgian and Greek retail operations, are selected to achieve audit teams the structure of the Group, the main developments that are relevant for the component appropriate audit coverage over the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we selected three auditors, the risks identified, the materiality levels to be applied and our global audit approach. We had components for audit procedures to achieve appropriate coverage on financial line items in the individual calls with each of the in-scope component audit teams during the year and upon conclusion consolidated financial statements or to build an element of unpredictability in our audit. of their work. During these calls, we discussed the significant accounting and audit issues identified by the component auditors, their reports, the findings of their procedures and other matters, which could In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the financial line items: be of relevance for the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated net sales 87% In the current year, the group audit team visited the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece Consolidated total assets 86% and Switzerland component audit teams and local management. For each of these components we Consolidated income before income taxes 92% reviewed relevant parts of the component auditor’s audit files. None of the remaining components represented more than 4% of consolidated net sales, consolidated By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at group income before income taxes nor consolidated total assets. For those remaining components, we level, we have been able to obtain, in aggregate, sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the attended internal quarterly closing meetings with local and Group management and performed, among Group’s financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements. other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of Key audit matters material misstatements within those components. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in The group engagement team performed the audit work on the Global Support Office activities in the the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Netherlands, which includes financing activities in Switzerland, the Group consolidation, the financial Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters identified by our audit statement disclosures and a number of complex items. This included procedures performed over and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and included a summary financial instruments such as loans and derivatives, goodwill impairment testing, Board remuneration of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. including share-based payments and compliance of accounting positions taken by the Group in We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, accordance with EU IFRS. and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or on For all other components we used component auditors who are familiar with the local laws and specific elements of the financial statements. Any comment or observation we made on the results regulations to perform the audit work. of our procedures should be read in this context. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 207 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Impairment testing of goodwill and brand names Note 14 As at December 29, 2019, the Group’s goodwill and brand names are valued at €10.5 billion. We evaluated management’s process and design effectiveness of controls over the impairment The majority of this balance (€6.7 billion) relates to the former Delhaize business acquired in 2016. assessment including the appropriateness of management’s identification of the Group’s CGUs, indicators of impairment, discount rates and forecasts. As disclosed in Note 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group tests its CGUs containing goodwill and brand names for impairment annually and if there is a triggering event at an We have challenged management, primarily on their assumptions applied to which the outcome of earlier or later reporting date. This is done by comparing the recoverable amounts of the individual the impairment test is the most sensitive, in particular, the projected revenue growth, operating margin CGUs, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal, to the carrying amounts. developments, discount rates and (terminal) growth rates. The Management Board performed its annual goodwill and brand names impairment test in We benchmarked key market related assumptions (as disclosed in Note 14) against external data and accordance with IAS36 – Impairment of Assets and concluded that no impairment of goodwill or brand challenged management by comparing the assumptions to historic performance of the company and names was necessary. local economic developments, taking into account the sensitivity test of the goodwill balances for any We considered this to be a key audit matter because the assessment process is complex, especially changes in the respective assumptions. with the effects on the impairment model of the inclusion of the right-of-use assets in the carrying We involved our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the appropriateness of the impairment amounts as a result of the implementation of IFRS16, involves significant management judgments and model (including the changes as a result of the implementation of IFRS16), the discount rates applied is based on key assumptions on expected future market and economic conditions, revenue growth, and to assess the overall reasonableness of the assumptions. We compared the sum of the future cash margin developments, the discount rates and (terminal) growth rates. flow forecasts of all CGUs to the market capitalization. We also verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s valuation models and agreed relevant data, including assumptions on timing of future capital and operating expenditures to the five-year plan as approved by the Management Board. Based on our procedures we did not identify material exceptions and we found management’s assumptions to be supported by available evidence. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 208 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Recognition of vendor allowance income Note 2 and 3 The Group receives various types of vendor allowances from its suppliers, as further disclosed in Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating effectiveness of Note 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements. These allowances are a significant component management’s controls around the completeness and accuracy of the contractual agreements of cost of sales. The vendor allowance receivable at December 29, 2019, amounts to €585 million recognized in the accounting system. (Note 18). Furthermore, we challenged management’s assumptions used in determining the recognized The vendor allowance agreements with suppliers contain volume-related allowances, promotional and vendor allowances through discussions with management and performing specific substantive audit marketing allowances and various other fees and discounts received in connection with the purchase procedures. For example, on a sample basis we agreed the recorded amounts to the vendor contracts of goods for resale from those suppliers. and confirmed the related positions and terms with the vendors. The Group recognizes vendor allowances as a reduction in cost of sales when the performance To determine the quality of the estimates made by management we performed a retrospective review obligations associated with the allowances have been met, for example when the product has been of management judgments by testing subsequent collections on prior period vendor allowance sold, placed or when the marketing campaign has been held. receivables. These procedures showed us that the vendor allowances collected versus management’s estimates were reasonable. We also tested material write-offs and evaluated the nature to identify We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude of amounts involved and the possible management bias. judgment required from management to determine the nature and level of fulfilment of the Company’s obligations under the vendor agreements and to recognize the amounts in the correct period. Finally we tested whether the allowances were recorded in the correct period through assessing the This requires a detailed understanding of the contractual arrangements in addition to complete and obligation fulfilment of vendor allowances recorded during a period before and after year-end. accurate data to estimate purchase and sales volumes and fulfilment of promotional programs. Based on our procedures we did not identify material exceptions and we found management’s recognition of vendor allowances to be supported by available evidence. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 209 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures Note 24 The Group has defined benefit plans, primarily in the Netherlands and in the United States, giving rise Our procedures included understanding and evaluating the design and testing the operating to defined benefit obligations of €5.9 billion and €1.5 billion, respectively. effectiveness of controls related to key inputs (such as payroll data) and key outputs of the Group’s pension process. The Group also has a significant number of union employees in the United States whose pension benefits are covered by multi-employer plans (we also refer to the risk factor on pension plan We tested the actuarial and demographic assumptions and valuation methodologies used by funding on page 100 of the Annual Report). A number of these plans are accounted for as defined management to determine the Group’s various defined benefit pension obligations. We evaluated contribution plans as there is insufficient information to account for these plans as defined benefit plans. whether the key actuarial assumptions are reasonable (for example by comparing to the published In Note 24 management has disclosed certain facts and a calculation, which is based on assumptions, actuarial tables) and consistently applied. We tested payroll data, through a combination of controls and leads to an estimate of the Group’s participation in these plans, including, for certain plans, the testing and test of details and reconciled the membership census data used in the actuarial models possible proportionate share of the total net deficit. As disclosed, this estimate does not necessarily to the payroll data. reflect the Company’s liability, in case of withdrawal or insolvency of such plans. With the support from our valuation experts, we also tested the valuation of the pension assets. We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude of the amounts involved, Depending on the type of asset, we either reconciled the value to publicly available information management’s significant judgment applied in estimating the actuarial and demographic assumptions or challenged the assumptions used in determining the value by benchmarking assumptions to (the most relevant being around salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality rates) and the own expectations. technical expertise required to measure the resulting defined benefit pension obligation for the Group. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of disclosures related to the employee defined benefit plans. In addition, the US multi-employer plan rules are complex and certain plans are in endangered or We evaluated management’s disclosures and calculations in relation to the US multi-employer plans. critical status for which relevant material facts require adequate disclosure in the financial statements. For this purpose, we reconciled the disclosed facts and the related inputs used by management for the calculation to supporting documentation such as the latest available plan information and actuarial calculations. Our procedures did not identify material exceptions, we considered management’s key assumptions to be within a reasonable range of our own expectations and we did not identify material exceptions in management’s disclosures or accounting conclusions. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 210 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability as part of first-year adoption of the lease standard (IFRS 16) Note 12, 34 and 36 IFRS 16, Leases, became effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating effectiveness of The company applied the full retrospective approach. The application of this new standard as management’s controls around the completeness and accuracy of the contractual lease agreements disclosed in Note 36 gave rise to an increase in total consolidated assets of €6.5 billion, an increase recognized in the lease accounting system. in total consolidated liabilities of €7.1 billion and a corresponding offset in total consolidated equity of We have reviewed accounting position papers prepared by the Group to determine whether this has approximately €0.6 billion. been set up in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 16. We challenged management on their We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude of the amounts involved, judgments and obtained evidence supporting their judgments. management’s judgment required in estimating matters such as discount rates (incremental borrowing We involved our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the discount rates applied. On a sample rates) and lease terms as well as the separation of lease and non-lease components. basis, we have agreed key inputs to supporting documentation such as lease agreements. Additionally, we have tested on a sample basis the movements during the year. We have also recalculated the right-of-use asset and lease liability calculated by the system for each material type lease contract. We challenged management assumptions, specifically on the assessment of renewal options and adequate disclosure of the assumptions made. Based on our procedures performed, we did not identify material exceptions in the accounting for leases, management’s estimates and disclosure on Leases in Note 12 and 34 and the implementation in Note 36 to the financial statements. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 211 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Report on the other information included in the annual report Services rendered The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the company and its controlled entities, In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in Note 4 of the notes to the parent other information that consists of: company financial statements. • The Management Report as defined on page 105 of the Annual Report; Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit • The other information included in Strategic report and Governance sections and; Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements • The other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Management Board is responsible for: Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information: • the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; • Such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation • Contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting material misstatements. frameworks mentioned, the Management Board should prepare the financial statements using the By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil going-concern basis of accounting unless the Management Board either intends to liquidate the Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Management Board scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Management Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the Management Report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Civil Code. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain Our appointment sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our objectives are to We were appointed as auditors of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. on April 16, 2013 by the Supervisory obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material Board following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on April 16, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 2013. Our appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance, which makes it possible that we uninterrupted engagement appointment of seven years. may not detect all material misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to No prohibited non-audit services influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect public-interest entities. of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, February 25, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. S. Laurie de Hernandez RA Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 212 Assurance report on the financial statements Independent auditor’s report Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements for the period December 31, 2018 Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, we are to December 29, 2019 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we have further set out in this appendix our determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the Group to ensure that responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the Group, the significance and/or risk profile of The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence or specific balances was considered necessary. requirements. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining that we identify during our audit. In this respect, we also issue an additional report to the Audit, Finance audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not and Risk Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. override of internal control. • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management Board. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of • Concluding on the appropriateness of the Management Board’s use of the going-concern basis of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to matter is in the public interest. draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 213 Assurance report on non-financial information Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Independence and quality control We are independent of Ahold Delhaize in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de Assurance report on the non-financial information 2019 onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other for the engagement relevant Our conclusion independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA – “Dutch Code of Ethics”). the non-financial information included in the Annual Report 2019 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. does not present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of: We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS – “Regulations for quality systems”) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies • the policy and business operations with regard to sustainability; and and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other • the thereto related events and achievements for the period from December 31, 2018 to applicable legal and regulatory requirements. December 29, 2019 Reporting criteria in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The non-financial information needs to be read and understood in conjunction with the reporting and the internally applied reporting criteria as included in the section “reporting criteria”. criteria. The Management Board of Ahold Delhaize is solely responsible for selecting and applying What we have reviewed these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. We have reviewed the non-financial information as included in the Annual Report for the period from The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the non-financial information are the Sustainability December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019, as included in the following sections in the Annual Report Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally applied reporting criteria, (hereafter: “the non-financial information”): as disclosed in paragraphs “How we manage sustainable retailing” and “Global Reporting Initiative” of • Our business; section “Group non-financial review” and section “Definitions: Performance measures” of the Annual Report. The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non• Group non-financial review; financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect • Paragraph “Materiality Assessment” of section How we manage risk. comparability between entities and over time. This review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Limitations to the scope of our review The non-financial information comprises a representation of the policy and business operations of The non-financial information includes prospective information such as expectations on ambitions, Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands (hereafter: “Ahold Delhaize”) with regard strategy, plans, estimates and risk assessments. Inherently, the actual results are likely to differ from to sustainability and the thereto related business operations, events and achievements for the period these expectations and these differences may be material. We do not provide any assurance on the from December 31, 2018 to December 29, 2019. assumptions and the achievability of prospective information in the non-financial information. The basis for our conclusion The links to external sources or websites in the non-financial information are not part of the We have performed our review in accordance with Dutch law, which includes the Dutch Standard non-financial information reviewed by us. We do not provide assurance over information outside 3810N “Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen” (“Assurance engagements on of the Annual Report. corporate social responsibility reports”), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section “Our responsibilities for the review of the non-financial information” of this assurance report. We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 214 Assurance report on non-financial information Assurance report of the independent auditor Responsibilities for the non-financial information and the review • Identifying areas of the non-financial information with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board information or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing The Management Board of Ahold Delhaize is responsible for the preparation of reliable and adequate further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the non-financial information non-financial information in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in section “reporting responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of: criteria”, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices ·· Interviewing management (and/or relevant staff) at corporate and local level responsible for the made by the Management Board regarding the scope of the non-financial information and the reporting sustainability strategy, policy and results; policy are summarized in paragraphs “How we manage sustainable retailing” and “Global Reporting ·· Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control Initiative” of section “Group non-financial review” and section “Definitions: Performance measures” of procedures on, and consolidating the data in the non-financial information. the Annual Report. The Management Board is responsible for determining that the applicable reporting criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. ·· Determining the nature and extent of the review procedures for the group components and locations. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of these components are decisive. The Management Board is also responsible for such internal control as the Management Board Based thereon we selected the components and locations to visit. The visits to entities in Belgium, determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the non-financial information that is free from the United States of America and Greece are aimed at, on a local level, validating source data and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. evaluating the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures; The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process on the non·· Obtaining assurance evidence that the non-financial information reconciles with underlying records financial information. of the company; Our responsibilities for the review of the non-financial information ·· Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation; Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain ·· Performing an analytical review of the data and trends in the information submitted for consolidation sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence to provide a basis for our conclusion. at corporate level. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of • Reconciling the financial information, as included in the sections we reviewed, with the information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance financial statements. engagement. The level of assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less • Evaluating the consistency of the non-financial information with the information in the Annual Report, than the assurance obtained in audit engagements. which is not included in the scope of our review. Procedures performed • Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the non-financial information. We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout • To consider whether the non-financial information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence purpose of the reporting criteria used. requirements. We communicate with the Supervisory Board on the planned scope and timing of the engagement and Our procedures included amongst others: on the significant findings that result from our procedures. • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining insight into relevant social themes Amsterdam, February 25, 2020 and issues and the characteristics of the Company. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and S. Laurie de Hernandez RA related disclosures in the non-financial information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the Management Board. • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the non-financial information, including obtaining a general understanding of the internal control environment relevant to our review. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 215 Other Distribution of profit Articles of Association provisions governing the distribution of profit The holders of common shares are entitled to one vote per share and to participate in the distribution of dividends and liquidation proceeds. Pursuant to section 39 of the Articles of Association, a dividend will first be declared out of net income on cumulative preferred shares and cumulative preferred financing shares. Any net income remaining after reservations deemed necessary by the Supervisory Board, in consultation with the Management Board, will then be at the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders, who may resolve to distribute it among the common shareholders. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may propose that the General Meeting of Shareholders make distributions wholly or partly in the form of common shares. Amounts of net income not paid in the form of dividends will be added to the accumulated deficit. In the financial statements, the dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares is included in the income statement. Consequently, net income according to the parent company income statement is fully attributable to common shareholders. See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements and Note 17 to the parent company financial statements for more information on the dividend on common shares. Details of special shareholder rights Ahold Delhaize shareholders have no special rights, see Governance section for more information about voting rights. Details of shares without profit rights and non-voting shares Ahold Delhaize has no common shares without profit rights and no non-voting shares. Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 216 Contact information Shareholder engagement How to get in touch General information Ahold Delhaize proactively maintains an open, constructive and ongoing dialogue with its shareholders. Investor Relations Ahold Delhaize Group Communications We are committed to keeping shareholders updated by informing them transparently and accurately investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com Provincialeweg 11 about Ahold Delhaize’s strategy, performance and other Company matters and developments that +31 88 659 52 13 1506 MA Zaandam could be relevant to investors’ decisions. We disclose information through both financial and nonThe Netherlands financial performance briefings, such as during our quarterly results releases, the annual General Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 Meeting of Shareholders and Capital Markets days. We also participate in investor conferences and Email: communications@aholddelhaize.com organize roadshows. All disclosed information is accessible via our website. www.aholddelhaize.com Corporate website On the Company’s website you can find recent and archived press releases, financial reports, annual Shareholder information reports, presentations, the financial calendar and other relevant shareholder information. To receive Alvin Concepcion Cornell Burnette Ahold Delhaize Investor Relations press releases and other Ahold Delhaize news, please subscribe to our email service through our VP and Head of Director Investor Provincialeweg 11 website at www.aholddelhaize.com Investor Relations Relations 1506 MA Zaandam The Netherlands Media Relations Telephone: +31 88 659 5213 communications@aholddelhaize.com Email: investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com +31 88 659 51 34 Visiting address Ahold Delhaize Global Support Office Provincialeweg 11 1506 MA Zaandam The Netherlands Maarten van Tartwijk Manager External ADR information Communications J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. P.O. Box 64504 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Overnight mail: J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. 1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101 Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 Tel: +1 800 990 1135 (U.S. only) Tel: +1 651 453 2128 (International) Email: jpmorgan.adr@equiniti.com Website: www.adr.com/shareholder Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 217 Key dates Date Annual General Meeting of Shareholders April 8 Final dividend 2019 Ex-dividend date April 14 Dividend record date April 15 Payment date April 23 Interim dividend 2020 Ex-dividend date August 7 Dividend record date August 10 Payment date August 27 Publication Q1 2020 results May 7 Publication Q2 2020 results August 5 Publication Q3 2020 results November 4 AGM 2020 This year’s annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Muziekgebouw aan ‘t IJ in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, on April 8, 2020. The meeting will start at 2.00 pm (CET). The agenda and explanatory notes to the agenda can be found on our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Strategic Report Our business Performance review Governance Governance Remuneration Financial performance Financial statements Other information Appendix Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2019 218 Cautionary notice This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of Forward-looking statements reflect the current views of the Company’s management and assumptions historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Words such as focus, future, drive, ambition, based on information currently available to the Company’s management. Forward-looking statements strategy, will, believe, can, outlook, 2020, 2021, 2023, 2025, 2030, years to come, target, expect, to be, speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not assume any obligation to update are, is, trends, ongoing, potential, likely, opportunities, could, purpose, plans, promise, strive, aim, every such statements, except as required by law. day, always, on track, support, goal, policy, ensure, objective, may, might, estimate, foreseeable, intend, Outside the Netherlands, Ahold Delhaize presents itself under the name “Royal Ahold Delhaize” or prospects, forward-looking, forecast, possible, anticipate, probable, contingent, going, make it happen, “Ahold Delhaize.” For the reader’s convenience, “Ahold Delhaize,” the “Company,” the “company,” count on, enable, innovative, growth, committed, commitment, longterm, continue, continuous, staying, “Ahold Delhaize Group,” “Ahold Delhaize group” or the “Group” are also used throughout this Annual remain, create, expectations, invest, seek, keep or other similar words or expressions are typically used Report. The Company’s registered name is “Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.” to identify forward-looking statements. Nielsen’s information as included in this Annual Report does not constitute a reliable independent basis Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to for investment advice or Nielsen’s opinion as to the value of any security or the advisability of investing predict and that may cause actual results of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (the “Company”) to differ in, purchasing or selling any security. materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the Company’s inability to successfully implement its strategy, manage the growth of its business or realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions; risks relating to competition and pressure on profit margins in the food retail industry; the impact of economic conditions on consumer spending; turbulence in the global capital markets; natural disasters and geopolitical events; climate change, raw material scarcity and human rights developments in the supply chain; disruption of operations and other factors negatively affecting the Company’s suppliers; the unsuccessful operation of the Company’s franchised and affiliated stores; changes in supplier terms and inability to pass on costs to prices; risks related to corporate responsibility and sustainable retailing; food safety issues resulting in product liability claims and adverse publicity; environmental liabilities associated with the properties that the Company owns or leases; competitive labor markets, changes in labor conditions and labor disruptions; increases in costs associated with the Company’s defined benefit pension plans; the failure or breach of security of IT systems; the Company’s inability to successfully complete divestitures and the effect of contingent liabilities arising from completed divestitures; antitrust and similar legislation; unexpected outcomes in the Company’s legal proceedings; additional expenses or capital expenditures associated with compliance with federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations; unexpected outcomes with respect to tax audits; the impact of the Company’s outstanding financial debt; the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows; fluctuation in interest rates; the change in reference interest rate; the impact of downgrades of the Company’s credit ratings and the associated increase in the Company’s cost of borrowing; exchange rate fluctuations; inherent limitations in the Company’s control systems; changes in accounting standards; adverse results arising from the Company’s claims against its self-insurance program; the Company’s inability to locate appropriate real estate or enter into real estate leases on commercially acceptable terms and other factors discussed in the Company’s public filings and other disclosures.
