Re-Engineering for Tomorrow Annual Report 2019/20 Semi dispatchable wind farm in Mannar Island ﻿ Re-Engineering for Tomorrow The current climate of unprecedented chaos and upheaval is challenging the business plans and models of virtually every enterprise across the world. It has forced them to relook at how differently “doing business” will look in the future. It has forced them, without exception, to undertake Business Process Re-engineering across all parameters and functions towards evolving successful business management strategies to fit the times. This is true of Access Engineering as well and as one of Sri Lanka’s premier engineering entities, we have got a head start on the process! Contents Contents 03-16 182-282 THIS IS ACCESS FINANCIAL REPORTS ENGINEERING 182 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of 03 About Us the Company 04 About this Report 188 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 05 Milestones 189 Directors’ Statement on 06 Our Group Structure Internal Control 08 Highlights 190 Independent Auditors’ Report 10 A Message from the Chairman 196 Statement of Profit or Loss and 13 Joint Statement from the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer Other Comprehensive Income 197 Statement of Financial Position 198 Statement of Changes in Equity 18-70 199 201 Statement of Cash Flows Index to the Financial Statements OUR STRATEGY 202 Notes to the Financial Statements 18 Operating Environment 284-292 25 Stakeholder Engagement 33 Materiality 37 Strategic Direction ANNEXES 39 Capital Trade-offs 40 Our Value Creation Model 284 Operating Structure 42 Our Business Portfolio 285 Nine Year Summary 286 Our Story 288 Awards and Accolades 289 Abbreviations 291 Directors of Subsidiary Companies 292 Notice of Meeting 72-130 Enclosed... Form of Proxy Inner Back Cover... Corporate Information MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION 72 Financial Capital 83 Manufactured Capital 84 Intellectual Capital 88 Human Capital 96 Social and Relationship Capital 116 Natural Capital 125 GRI Content Index 129 Independent Assurance Report to AEL 132-180 STEWARDSHIP 132 Board of Directors 136 Corporate Management Team 141 Corporate Governance 171 Enterprise Risk Management THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-2, 102-6 About Us Vision Access Engineering PLC (AEL), established ARL Elevate (Private) Limited, and WUS in 2001, is the premier civil engineering Logistics (Private) Limited, which was To be the foremost firm in the Sri Lankan construction sector. acquired in September 2019. Since our inception, we have extensively Sri Lankan business contributed to the construction landscape Other subsidiaries are Sathosa Motors PLC, enterprise in value in Sri Lanka through numerous completed which is 84% owned by AEL, Access Projects construction projects. We collaborate across (Private) Limited (80% owned), and Harbour engineering. disciplines and industries like energy and Village (Private) Limited (60.83% owned). resource, environmental and water to AEL has 50% joint ventures in Blue Star bring highly diversified projects to life. Realties (Private) Limited. Our associate Our project portfolio over the years include company, ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Mission bridges and flyovers, roads and highways, Limited, in which we have a 30% stake is harbours, water treatment plants and water a joint venture with Shanghai, Zhenhua To meet the challenges supply projects, land drainage and irrigation Heavy Industries Company Limited (ZPMC) schemes, telecommunication infrastructure of China, the world’s largest container in the development projects, and more. handling equipment manufacturer. of multi-sector civil We have set ourselves apart from engineering projects, the competition by way of innovative, providing innovative one-of-a-kind solutions combined with solutions whilst developing our end-to-end project and engineering know-how. Our workforce consists of long-term progressive staff and labour amounting to over 2,500. relationships with all Managerial and professional staff account for over 150 and technical staff for about our stakeholders. 500. We also possess an island-wide network of quarries, crusher plants, asphalt plants, and concrete batching plants along with the latest machinery. Our local strength, knowledge, and relationships, coupled with our world-class expertise, have allowed us to provide advanced, yet personalised engineering solutions to our stakeholders. The “Access Engineering Promise” is to maintain the highest professional standards from planning and design to execution. Access Engineering has been bestowed with recognition as a “Major and Specialist contractor” by the National Construction Association of Sri Lanka. It also has the highest CIDA grading across most number of disciplines of civil engineering. It is compliant to ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 accreditations for its quality, environmental, and health and safety management systems, and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. AEL is also a TRACE member in good standing. AEL has the following wholly-owned subsidiaries: Access Realties (Private) Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 03 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 About this Report (referred to as AEL or Company) and its COMPLIANCE subsidiaries as listed out on page 06 (collectively referred to as the “Group”). This Report presents financial aspects as Financial aspects cover the entire Group well as the wider social and environmental while other aspects cover only Access impact of the Company’s activities. This Engineering PLC. Access Engineering PLC’s Report is prepared in accordance with the Integrated Annual Report 2019/20 covers the core criteria of GRI Sustainability Reporting period from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. Guidelines GRI Standards. There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope EXTERNAL ASSURANCE and aspect boundaries. The Financial Statements were audited by The most recent Annual Report covered the Messrs. KPMG Chartered Accountants while 12-month period ended 31 March 2019. assurance on the sustainability reporting was also provided by Messrs. KPMG. KEY FRAMEWORKS AND COMPLIANCE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE What you have before you is the seventh This integrated Annual Report draws on consecutive Integrated Annual Report of concepts, principles, and guidance given The Company applies the precautionary Access Engineering PLC. The Report provides in the following, where applicable: principle in relation to social and an overview of the financial highlights, environmental sustainability. The Company ´´Companies Act No. 07 of 2007; key functions, strategic investments, and is mindful of the impacts caused to the performance of the main business ´´Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) society and environment by its operations segments of the Company. The Report Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI and have taken necessary measures to includes information regarding the value Standards (www.globalreporting.org); mitigate any negative impacts and risks creation process of AEL and outlines the in operational planning and activities. ´´The International Integrated Reporting Company’s short and long-term strategies, Framework (IIRC) (www.theiirc.org); governance, performance, and the QUERIES Company’s efforts towards sustainability. ´´A Preparer’s Guide to Integrated Corporate Reporting” issued by The Further queries regarding the Report or its Institute of Chartered Accountants content should be addressed to the Chief REPORT CONTENT of Sri Lanka; Operating Officer, Access Engineering PLC We have disclosed only the key material ´´Code of Best Practice on Corporate at rohana@accessengsl.com aspects in the Annual Report 2019/20 Governance issued by The Institute of to ensure the Report is comprehensive Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Address: 12th Floor, yet concise. These topics are selected the Securities and Exchange Commission Access Engineering PLC, Access Tower, based on the reporting principles of of Sri Lanka; Union Place, Colombo 2. materiality, sustainability context, balance, ´´The Ten Principles of UNGC; completeness, and stakeholder inclusion. Phone: +94 11 760 6606 The value creation process is described ´´Sri Lanka Accounting Standards under the six capitals of financial, (SLFRS and LKAS) The Report is available in both print manufactured, intellectual, human, social ´´Securities and Exchange Commission and online versions. The latter may be and relationship, and natural capitals. Regulations downloaded from the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com ´´Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock REPORT BOUNDARY AND Exchange REPORTING PERIOD ´´Smart Integrated The overall boundary of this Report Reporting MethodologyTM includes both Access Engineering PLC (www.SmartAnnualReport.com). 04 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Milestones MAR. 2020 Ranked among top 10 Corporate Citizens in Sri Lanka at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2019 Completion of the Recipient of the “Gold Award” in the Construction proposed hostel category at the CA Sri Lanka 2019 Annual Report Awards building for SLTC at Padukka DEC. 2019 Completion of excavation and shoring works of the proposed Mixed Development; Marina Square Colombo Commencement of Dialog Optical Fibre Backbone Network (Phase VIII) NOV. 2019 Completion of the rehabilitation and improvements to Colombo-Kandy Road section from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa OCT. Acquired 100% of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited 2019 Completion of Recipient of the Best Integrated Report in the category of the Towns East of “Trade and Commerce” at the CMA Excellence in Integrated Colombo District Reporting Awards 2019 Water Supply Project SEP. 2019 Commencement of construction of the proposed new warehouse building Completion of for Camso Loadstar the ISUZU workshop for at Katunayake Sathosa Motors PLC at Peliyagoda Commencement of construction of the proposed Research Centre JUN. 2019 AUG. for SLTC at Padukka 2019 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 05 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-6, 102-45 Our Group Structure Business segment Operating entities Effective ownership Access Engineering PLC Parent CONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIALS Access Projects (Private) Limited 80% 100% Access Realties (Private) Limited Access Realties II (Private) Limited 100% Harbor Village (Private) Limited 60.83% PROPERTY Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited 50% W U S Logistics (Private) Limited 100% ARL Elevate (Private) Limited 100% Sathosa Motors PLC 84.42% AUTOMOBILE Access Motors (Private) Limited 42.21%* MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited 30% *Effective Holding 06 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-4 Our Group Structure Principle activity Primary brands Country of operation In 2019/20 Construction and supply of construction-related services and materials Sri Lanka Construction and supply of construction-related services and materials Sri Lanka Commercial property development for lease and rental Sri Lanka Commercial property development for lease and rental Sri Lanka Residential and commercial property development (In partnership with China Harbour Engineering Company Limited Sri Lanka and Mustafa’s Pte. Ltd.) Residential property development Sri Lanka Commercial property development for lease and rental Sri Lanka Provision of conference, restaurant, and support facilities for Access Towers Sri Lanka Authorised distributor for ISUZU in Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Authorised distributor for Jaguar and Land Rover in Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Commission, repair, and maintenance of port machinery Sri Lanka and Pakistan ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 07 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-7 Highlights 2019/20 2018/19 Change (%) Group Company Group Company Group Company Earnings highlights and ratios Revenue LKR Mn. 24,027 17,917 32,277 19,356 -25.56 -7.43 Gross profit LKR Mn. 3,808 2,294 5,184 3,173 -26.54 -27.70 EBITDA LKR Mn. 3,414 3,681 4,891 3,912 -30.20 -5.90 EBIT LKR Mn. 2,678 3,018 4,173 3,184 -35.83 –5.21 Earnings before tax LKR Mn. 1,747 2,495 3,129 2,545 -44.17 -1.96 Profit attributable to equity holders LKR Mn. 979 1,927 2,150 1,962 -54.47 -1.78 Dividend LKR Mn. 500 500 500 500 0.00 0.00 Earnings per share LKR 0.98 1.93 2.15 1.96 -54.42 -1.53 Dividend per share LKR 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.00 0.00 Dividend payout % 51 26 23 25 121.74 4 Statement of financial position Highlights and ratios Total assets LKR Mn. 50,078 36,949 48,062 34,621 4.19 6.72 Stated capital LKR Mn. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 0.00 0.00 Retained earnings LKR Mn. 12,365 11,323 11,936 9,932 3.59 14.01 Total equity/shareholders’ funds LKR Mn. 24,387 20,534 23,588 19,085 3.39 7.59 Total liabilities LKR Mn. 25,691 16,415 24,474 15,536 4.97 5.66 Current assets LKR Mn. 30,373 18,919 27,918 15,995 8.79 18.28 Current liabilities LKR Mn. 22,738 15,665 16,941 9,635 34.22 62.58 Net asset per share LKR 21.83 20.53 21.19 19.08 3.02 7.60 Investor highlights and ratios Price per share LKR – 13.2 – 13 – 1.54 PE ratio Times – 6.8 – 6.6 – 3.03 Gross profit margin % 15.85 12.81 16.10 16.40 -1.55 -21.89 Net profit margin % 3.86 10.76 7.00 10.10 -44.86 6.53 Return on equity % 3.80 9.38 9.50 10.30 -60.00 -8.93 Debt/Total assets % 21.90 21.93 18.17 16.10 20.53 36.21 Debt/Equity % 44.97 39.45 36.98 29.30 21.61 34.64 Interest coverage ratio Times 2.62 4.91 3.90 4.78 -32.82 2.72 Current asset ratio Times 1.3 1.2 1.7 1.7 -23.53 -29.41 Quick asset ratio Times 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.5 -23.08 -26.67 08 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Highlights MANUFACTURED CAPITAL PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS Completed a major LKR 257 Mn. Investment in property, plant, portion of Mannar Wind and equipment Power Project; largest wind power project in Sri Lanka LKR 189.7 Mn. Invested in heavy machinery and equipment fleet Completed a major portion INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL of Central Expressway Project Package – A Stage 2 from Mirigama to Riloluwa LKR 22.4 Mn. Invested to upgrade integrated information and planning systems HUMAN CAPITAL Commenced construction of largest single roof warehouse in Sri Lanka for 17,807 Total number of training hours Camso Loadstar LKR 6.56 Mn. Investment on employee training and development 2,583 Staff and labourers Completed Towns East of 1.57 Lost time injury frequency rate Colombo District Water Supply Project SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 100% Project completion ratio 15,261 Registered suppliers AWARDS 1,015 Pairs of desks and chairs, Ranked among the Top 10 Corporate Citizens in Sri Lanka distributed to 29 schools at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2019 Winner of the Construction Sector Award at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2019 NATURAL CAPITAL Recipient of the Gold Award for Construction Companies at the CA Sri Lanka’s 55th Annual Report Awards 2019 3,012 Trees planted Recipient of the Presidential Environment Awards 2019 1,408 Cubic meters Water reused and recycled “ENTITY” AND “ISSUER” RATING 121,716 Cubic meters Total water consumed Reaffirmed “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” by ICRA Lanka Limited 317,363,742 Megajoules Energy consumed ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 09 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-14 A Message from the Chairman Despite the challenges stemming from the operating context, we remain optimistic about facing the “new normal.” Our confidence is derived from the strong foundations that are in place, clear strategic direction that steers the Company, and the value of resilience that is embedded in our organisational culture. 10 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES A Message from the Chairman Dear Shareholders, climate, we are doubtful if we will be able to As a leading corporate reap the benefits of these policy changes. The year under review has been one Our focus for the future is set on steering entity in Sri Lanka, we have of the most turbulent for our company expertly through the new normal that will be a responsibility to give back owing to pressures from the external brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. environment such as the Easter attacks, to the communities that we political uncertainty stemming from the While our medium-term strategic goal are operating in. We strive presidential elections, and ad hoc changes is to improve our core business lines, in government policy. Moreover, the to create social value by our long-term goal is to strengthen our COVID-19 pandemic and its ensuing effects engaging in sustainable ventures in the automobile and real will shape the global sociopolitical and estate sectors. These diversification efforts practices that permeates economic landscape as the world prepares coupled with synergies between different to face the “new normal.” across our operations, business lines will unlock the full potential However, I am proud to say that, Access of our Group to take the next step in our and also through our corporate journey. During the year, We Engineering has faced these unprecedented have made headway in the construction community development challenges admirably and remains resilient as a leader in the industry due to our of our flagship projects Capital Heights, initiatives. Rajagiriya and Marina Square, Colombo. resourcefulness, our loyal employees, “Marina Square Colombo” commenced the We invested LKR 16.4 Mn. in CSR initiatives systems and processes, and our project construction of the super structure in the and projects in the year. While some portfolio that span beyond this financial financial year. With over LKR 2 Bn. worth of projects were a continuation from previous year. Every year since our public listing, apartments sold during 2019/20. The project years some were initiated in 2019/20. we have increased the net value of the has garnered the interest of both locals and Our “Enhance the Future” programme Company, and this year was no different foreigners alike. “Capital Heights Rajagiriya” was implemented with the objective of where the net asset value was recorded has completed 70% of the overall project. developing infrastructure among rural at LKR 21.83 Bn. and LKR 20.53 Bn. at the Our automobile arm was influenced schools. The fabrication and donation Group and Company level respectively. negatively by continuous policy changes, of school desks and chairs, which was which was expected as the automobile initiated several years ago, continued with As the most preferred partner in the sector is one of them most volatile in the a cumulative 2,590 pairs of desks and chairs industry, we completed infrastructure country. Although it will not be prudent distributed among 73 schools. Further, our projects of national importance and to make predictions for the future in the island-wide tree planting programme to continued large-scale projects both current environment, we remain agile improve green cover on earth continued independently and in joint partnership with and poised to react to whatever external with over 3,000 new trees planted. international companies. We also took steps conditions that may be thrust upon us. Moreover, our production plants located to expand our core business lines, vertical integration, and our diversification efforts. in Matugama, Mirigama and Kotadeniyawa Our performance in the year and our carried out several community development Our automobile and real estate arms ongoing and completed projects in 2019/20, projects to build beneficial relationships continue to contribute to the Group revenue outlined in the joint statement of the with the community that they operate and these ventures have broadened our Managing Director and the Chief Operating in. I am proud to say that we received scope as a leading corporate in the island. Officer, exemplifies our continuous recognition for our sustainability initiatives leadership in the sector. It also is a when we were selected to the category of In a collaborative effort with other industry testament to how we deliver value to our “10 Best Corporate Citizens in the Country leaders, we were able to successfully stakeholders embodying our principal ethos 2019” for the 3rd consecutive year by the lobby against the severe tax policies that of value engineering in all our operations. Ceylon Chamber of Commerce at their were implemented for the industry. Our We have also been at the forefront of using annual Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability efforts were successful as the Government the latest technology in our operations Awards 2019. A detailed description of our introduced a reduction in corporate tax, which has yielded positive outcomes such community development and sustainability abolishing of the NBT, and a reduction in VAT as the increase of efficiency. initiatives can be found on page 113. from 15% to 8%, though due to the present ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 11 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES A Message from the Chairman While its largely uncertain about the Our confidence is derived from the strong specific impacts the COVID-19 pandemic foundations that are in place, clear strategic will have on Sri Lankan economy and the direction that steers the Company, and the business environment, we are hopeful value of resilience that is embedded in our that the resilience we have shown in the organisational culture. face of this global crisis and other crises in the past have prepared us to face the In conclusion, I extend my appreciation to aftershocks. my colleagues on the Board of Directors for their exemplary governance, guidance, It is evident that the future of infrastructure and support. I also would like to thank the development in Sri Lanka has significant Corporate Management team led by the MD growth potential across all engineering and the COO, along with our highly-skilled, disciplines we operate. Major infrastructure committed employees who continue to projects of national importance such as the exemplify the Access Engineering ethos of development of the Colombo International value engineering. I would also like to thank Port City, the Central Expressway, BIA all our stakeholders including shareholders Expansion and other such projects offer and investors, customers, and business opportunities to all players in the industry. partners for their continued trust and Our reputation as the most preferred loyalty in Access Engineering PLC. partner occupying a leadership in the sector will position us to benefit from these future projects. In the coming years, the construction arm of the Group will remain its dominating business line. The construction material Sumal Perera segment too is expected to have a growth. Chairman Further, we have taken 31 July 2020 tangible steps to build our future as a diversified, vertically-integrated, corporate citizen. We will follow our strategies to become the most innovative construction company in the sector with a diversified customer proposition and portfolio. Thus, despite economic headwinds, we remain optimistic about the immediate future. 12 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Joint Statement from the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer “One of our key strengths is vertical integration which has led to increasing market share, self-reliance, and strengthening our leadership position within the industry.” ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 13 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Joint Statement from the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer Access Engineering’s resilience and our and highway construction contributed year. Sathosa Motors PLC recorded a loss mission of meeting all challenges in 21%, the contribution of construction of LKR 79.9 Mn. and LKR 81 Mn. respectively the sector were tested in 2019/20, which material segment was 17%. Water and at the Group and the Company level. This brought forth one of the most volatile drainage projects contributed 13%. 2019/20 is due to the finance costs incurred during macroeconomic environments in the history revenue was a year on year (YoY) drop of the year, on the bank borrowings used of Sri Lanka. Similar to every corporate 7% compared to 2018/19 mainly due to the for business expansion initiatives, with in Sri Lanka, the Easter Sunday bombing Easter Sunday bombing and the COVID-19 investments in land, buildings, workshops which took place during the first quarter pandemic which broke out in March 2020, and subsidiaries amounting to over of the financial year under review and which resulted in the temporary halt of LKR 1.3 Bn. The business was also negatively the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic projects and production plants during impacted by the recent import restrictions towards the end of the last quarter of the lockdown periods. Profit after tax was imposed and frequent changes made financial year, influenced our operations LKR 0.93 Bn. and LKR 1.93 Bn. at the Group to the luxury tax. While the changes to and all business activities. Despite the and at the Company levels. We also paid management structure and the cost cutting unprecedented challenges arising from the dividends amounting to LKR 500 Mn. during initiatives yielded positive results during operating environment, our infrastructure the year. Our net asset value per share the year, the businesses are projected to development activities that commenced in continued its growth momentum recording be profitable through the expansions in the the previous years, in the private sector and increases of 3% and 7.6% respectively at the after sales service and spare parts areas in the public sector, persisted. Group and the Company levels. the coming years. Access Tower I and II continued to enjoy Our flagship venture, VERTICAL INTEGRATION AND 100% occupancy throughout the year while DIVERSIFICATION AT THE CORE OF AEL the Mannar Wind Power generating a healthy after tax profit. They We understand that one of our key also contributed LKR 861.7 Mn. in dividend project, the largest of its income. Our joint venture with ZPMC to strengths is vertical integration which has kind in the country, made led to increasing market share, self-reliance, maintain port machinery continued during the year with the joint venture continuing significant progress and strengthening our leadership position to make contributions to the Group’s in the industry. Our integrated supply chain during the year. with engineering designs, piling operations, bottom line. production plants, workshops ensure timely Further, our other projects such as the delivery of projects with little disruption AEL’S KEY DRIVERS OF PERFORMANCE CAMSO integrated greenfield logistics, the of operations. Central Expressway project, and our real In the construction sector, we have estate ventures made headway during the pioneered several innovative construction We are happy to report that the development year. We also made significant progress on methods in our operations, which is one of initiatives instituted in the previous years the Kadawatha-Nittambuwa Road project our key differentiators. We continue to be at are yielding positive benefits. All our during the reporting year. the forefront of state-of-the-art technology production plants run at full capacity and using unconventional techniques such we are one of Sri Lanka’s largest asphalt Commendable financial performance of as post tensioning, diaphragm wall, HDD, concrete and ready-mix concrete suppliers. Access Engineering PLC, remained resilient micro trenching, and others. To further Further, we commissioned a new M-Sand the use of latest methodologies in our during a volatile operating environment (Manufactured Sand) plant in Matugama, sector, we partnered with the University of to achieve a Group and Company revenue further complementing our position Moratuwa (UoM) to carry out research and of LKR 24 Bn. and LKR 17.9 Bn. This was as one of Sri Lanka’s most integrated development (R and D). achieved due to the robust systems and construction companies with capacity built processes that are in place that could in all fields of construction from integrated Our highly-skilled, loyal employees form absorb external shocks, mitigate and production plants, to engineering designs, the backbone of AEL and we can boast of minimise adverse impacts, our dedicated sub-structure and major works. possessing the best human capital in the team of employees, and the loyalty and industry and our position as the preferred trust of our stakeholders. Diversification is another key area of our employer. The benefits and incentives we business expansion which has yielded offer our employees are unmatched in the The Company’s core construction and positive results. The automobile sector industry. As of 31 March, we provided direct construction related material segment contributed to 17% of the Group’s revenue. employment to over 2,500 persons and recorded a revenue of LKR 17.9 Bn. The The performance of both Isuzu and Jaguar indirect employment to thousands of others highest contribution of 49% was made by Land Rover was behind target with 320+ and our cadre is one of the largest among our ongoing building projects. While road units and 39 units sold respectively for the all local contractors. 14 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Joint Statement from the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer We have also won the confidence Island. By the end of the year we have development will include warehousing of our extensive supply chain which completed 100% of piling, 24 Wind facilities, cold room facilities, in-house includes over 15,000 suppliers. While our Turbine Generator (WTG) foundations, value addition and multi-country procurement policy outlines the rigorous 11 kms of road and approximately 20% consolidation services, yard and storage standards required to be a supplier for of the building. facilities, and a logistic education and AEL, we have enjoyed mutually beneficial, research and development centre. 20% ´´We completed the Kadawatha-Nittambuwa interdependent relationships with our of the work was completed in 2019/20 Road project with funding from local suppliers and partners. In our efforts to and the project is well on course to be banks. The 23 km road was completed give our clients the best price, we continue completed on time. and handed over to RDA. Moreover, to look for new suppliers whose price is East of Colombo Water Supply project ´´As a trusted partner in telecommunication competitive. In 2019/20 over 1,900 new was also completed during the year infrastructure works, we continued to suppliers were added to our base. providing pipe-borne water to provide services to Dialog Axiata PLC in approximately 373,000 people in rolling out their optical fibre backbone Our status as a “preferred partner” among the eastern part of Colombo. network and to SLT in providing new the international contractors continued subscriber connections. during 2019/20. The projects we have ´´Access Towers I and II with executed in joint partnership with them to approximately 325,000 sq. ft of “Grade ´´During the year, we carried out work in date is well over USD 1 Bn. All our overseas A” office space were fully-occupied a number of commercial and residential expansion efforts in future is also firmly during the year. Access Tower II is now projects which included the Urban founded in this. home to some of the world’s leading Regeneration – Public Sector Housing multinational businesses and leading project, UDA Phase II low-income local enterprises. housing project, the structural work of NOTABLE PROJECTS IN 2019/20 the Waterfront Integrated Resort project, ´´As mentioned above, our flagship New Odel Mall Development project, Through our infrastructure projects in real estate, Capital Heights, Bloemendhal Housing project, new Rajagiriya and Marina Square, Colombo development projects made substantial progress within building for the Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology, and etc. and our diversified the year. “Marina Square Colombo” commenced the construction of the operations across all super structure in the financial year. OTHER PROJECTS AND INITIATIVES sectors of civil engineering, With over LKR 2 Bn. worth of apartments IN 2019/20 sold during 2019/20, the project has we directly contribute to garnered the interest of both locals ´´All major work on the Housing project the national economy. and foreigners alike. “Capital Heights for the government servants, in Borella Rajagiriya” has completed 70% of the was completed during the year and will We are one of the highest graded overall project. Uncertainty surrounding be handed over to the UDA in 2020/21 contractors by Construction Industry the imposition of VAT on condominium ´´Work was continued on the Development Authority (CIDA) and a leading apartments was cleared during the year Anuradhapura North Water Supply construction company in the industry. where apartment sales are not liable for project – Phase I, Deduruoya Water output VAT. Supply project, Nanotechnology Building During the year, we undertook a number of ´´The Central Expressway project in Phase IB, Bloemendhal Housing project projects in the segments of transportation, which our Consortium was involved in and the SLTC Research Centre. water, urban infrastructure, and others, the construction of 9.7 km stretch under ´´Preliminary investigation and planning marking significant milestones in our Section II from Mirigama to Riloluwa is work on Kohuwela and Gatembe flyovers project portfolio. Given below is an overview nearing completion. The project will be were carried out. The projects which are of the notable projects during 2019/20: handed over to the client: RDA during bilateral funded will help ease traffic ´´We made significant progress in the the 3rd quarter of 2020. and avoid unnecessary delays, once Mannar Wind Power project in which we ´´During the year, we acquired 100% completed. have partnered with Vestas Asia Pacific of WUS Logistics Private Limited. The ´´The preliminary work with respect to our A/S, the world’s largest wind turbine Company is involved in the construction construction project in Kenya progressed manufacturer. The project includes of the largest single roof warehouse in with us completing most of the the construction of a 100 MW semi Sri Lanka in a logistics facility spanning administrative and legal works required. dispatchable wind farm in the Mannar over 42 acres. Once completed, this ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 15 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Joint Statement from the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer ´´We continued to use latest and related works for five bridges in Kenya undertaking similar projects, where some cutting-edge design software to help which has been delayed due to the break would materialise in the near future. us better manage projects. Our ERP out of the COVID-19 pandemic, is due to system was upgraded to be in with commence during the 3rd quarter of 2020 Despite the volatile external environment, the latest version and all our firewalls and we are hopeful that this will pave our the future outlook of Access Engineering were enhanced for more cybersecurity. way for business expansion in the African PLC seems to be very positive due to Preliminary work to introduce an Continent, and in East Africa in particular. all its strengths derived, from its core e-procurement system was also competencies in engineering and concluded and the new system will be Our investments in backward integration construction and the trust and confidence put in place in 2020/21. Our occupational will continue with another state-of-the-art built around all its stakeholders. health and safety management system asphalt plant due to be commissioned was upgraded to the requirements of the during the 3rd quarter of 2020, further As a firmly founded Sri Lankan business latest standard ISO 45001:2018. complementing our five asphalt plants enterprise, we will continue our quest presently fully operational island wide. to harness local talent and resources We are also in the process of evaluating and develop them in order to maximise TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT further investments in new technology their potential based on the principles of In our drive to retain our status as the most and products needed to cater for future sustainability. Our contributions will make preferred employer in the industry, we place requirements in the construction sector us stakeholders in the development drive great importance on continuous professional and hope to materialise some of them in of our nation, bringing peace, prosperity, development of our employees through the near future. and goodwill to our people. varied, useful training programmes. Our training programmes are geared towards We expect Marina Square ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS developing functional and technical expertise that is required as an AEL employee. Colombo and Capital Heights We take this opportunity to appreciate the contribution of our customers, Rajagiriya to outperform Apart from our substantial investments principals, business partners, shareholders, in indirect and on-the-job training which all similar developments and all the stakeholders for their loyalty are accounted into project cost, we also with its product superiority and confidence. We would also like to directly invested LKR 6.6 Mn. for training extend our gratitude to the Board led by during the year. Most of our training efforts and exceptional customer the Chairman for their guidance and for for the year were focused on improving offering. steering the Company in this turbulent time. technical knowledge in their respective In conclusion, we would like to thank our fields. Additionally environmental and Corporate Management Team and all our We are confident that Access Tower I and II health and safety related training was also team members. Their passion, commitment, will continue to add tax-free profits to our offered. Over 17,500 hours of both internal and hard work continue to underline bottom line. Whilst we may experience and external training was offered to more our success. some volatility in the short term due to the than 2,600 participants. In addition to this impact of COVID-19, we expect both towers we have offered numerous on-the-job to have full occupancy in the medium term. and off-the-job training opportunities to While the automobile sector has growth a wide spectrum of staff. We also offered potential in the medium term we expect 316 industrial placements to interns. to face some challenges in the short-term performances. FUTURE OUTLOOK Christopher Joshua Our purpose built warehousing complex The future outlook of our core business under construction, which is the country’s Managing Director is secured with our order book of signed largest single roof warehouse, is due to be and confirmed projects amounting to completed in early 2021, and handed over approximately two years of Company’s to the client, after which our rental period future revenue. Moreover, from 1 January would take effect. 2020, the construction sector is back to a preferential corporate tax rate of 14% Our experience in participation in PPP instead of the previous rate of 28%. This projects such as the Borella Housing Rohana Fernando is expected to have a positive impact on project has proved to be successful. The Chief Operating Officer our future earnings. Our overseas contract project delivered anticipated benefits for construction of substructures and to all stakeholders and we are pursuing 31 July 2020 16 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 OUR STRATEGY 18 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 25 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 33 MATERIALITY 37 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 39 CAPITAL TRADE-OFFS 40 OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL 42 OUR BUSINESS PORTFOLIO THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment GLOBAL ECONOMY a contraction of 1% in 2019. In China, where the authorities are stepping up investment in infrastructure to prevent a continued slowdown, growth will remain positive, contributing According to the World Economic Outlook, to a slight acceleration in growth in total output in the emerging markets. global economy growth stood at 2.9%, the lowest growth rate recorded in the Prior to the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, GlobalData had predicted that there would last decade. The year was characterised be an acceleration in the pace of growth in the global construction industry, but given the by the trade war between US and severe disruption in China and other leading economies worldwide following the outbreak, China, weather-related disasters, rising the forecast for growth in 2020 has now been revised down to 0.5% (from 3.1% previously). geopolitical tensions, and stress in key The current forecast assumes that the outbreak is contained across all major markets by emerging market economies affecting the end of the second quarter. global economic output, especially in the manufacturing and trade sectors. GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION OUTPUT GROWTH (REAL, PERCENTAGE CHANGE), 2014-2023 The US, the Euro area, and China, the % world’s largest economies suffered a 7.5 marked deceleration of activity in 2019. This will have an impact on the economic 6.0 prospects in countries around the world. The trade dispute between China and 4.5 America that marred 2018 eased during 3.0 December 2019. Brexit fears also played a huge role during the year, however the 1.5 uncertainty surrounding the Brexit eased with the United Kingdom declaring that it 0 will leave the EU on 31 January 2020, after 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* 2020* 2021* 2022* 2023* which a transition period will set in. * Figures for 2019 and beyond are projections. According to the World Economic Outook Advanced economies (WEO) June update, Global growth is Emerging markets projected at – 4.9% in 2020, 1.9 percentage Global points below the April WEO forecast. This Source: GlobalData, Construction Intelligence Center downgrade is because of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world in 2020. SRI LANKAN ECONOMY AND THE Further, there was a subdued performance In 2021 global growth is projected at 5.4%. CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY of the agriculture sector due to adverse Overall, this would leave 2021 GDP some weather conditions. Inflation measured by 6.5% percentage points lower than in the Sri Lanka’s economic growth has been both the Colombo Consumer Price Index pre-COVID-19 projections of January 2020. on a downward trajectory since 2015, and (CCPI) and the National Consumer Price Given that the pandemic is ongoing, even recorded a subdued growth of 2.3% in 2019 Index (NCPI) accelerated to 4.8% and 6.2% at the time of this Report, it will have a compared to 3.3% in 2018, the lowest respectively in 2019 despite remaining profound impact on the world as a whole. since 2001. at a mid-single digit level. Sri Lanka’s sovereign credit rating was affirmed by GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY The Easter Sunday attacks major international rating agencies in 2019, despite the downward revision to the The global construction industry posted its had a severe impact on outlook for Sri Lanka, reflecting the possible slowest pace of growth in a decade in 2019, many sectors, and their weakening of fiscal position of dropping to 2.6%, according to GlobalData, the economy. data and analytics company. adverse spillover effects were felt across the economy, Industry activities have expanded by a The UK will be a key focus market in 2020, comparatively commendable growth of with uncertainty over Brexit negotiations worsening the sluggish 2.7% during the year. The growth of the continuing to constrain the pace of growth of the economy industry sector was mainly supported by investment in new construction projects. the manufacture of textiles, wearing apparel Construction output in the US will recover and further dampening and leather products, the manufacture to grow by 0.6% in 2020, following business confidence. of food, beverages and tobacco products, 18 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment and the revival of construction and mining The recent tax reforms show positive growth Another challenge in the industry is the and quarrying activities. The construction prospects for the construction sector with continuous rise in cost of raw material and mining and quarrying sub-sectors the reduction of income tax for the industry and labour. This has a direct impact on grew by 6.8% and 2.8%, respectively, in from 28% to 14%, reduction of VAT from the margins of all players. Similarly there 2019, mainly supported by the government 15% to 8%, abolishing NBT on construction, is shortage of certain raw materials such infrastructure development projects. The and exempting VAT from condominium as sand which has created an unfortunate Government’s plans to secure investment housing unit developments. Moreover, the situation for the industry though alternatives for the Port City project and implement expatriation of Sri Lankan professionals such as manufactured sand are available. the highway development projects could and skilled staff has created a scarcity of The depreciation of the rupee has a direct revive investment in the medium term. skilled labour to the local firms. This is a impact on imported raw materials such as These infrastructure projects will boost challenge that the local construction sector steel which in turn will influence costing. construction activities, enhancing value has been dealing with for more than a Being a highly regulated industry, the addition in the industry sector. decade. Yet the, rapidly falling interest rates companies are under pressure to comply are expected to have a positive impact on with all regulatory measures. working capital, especially if the projects NOTABLE ONGOING INFRASTRUCTURE are to be self funded or if money has to DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS be borrowed for working capital. ´´i-road projects ´´Mannar Wind Power project CONTRIBUTION FROM CONSTRUCTION TO SRI LANKA'S GDP ´´Towns East of Colombo District Water LKR Mn. Supply Project – Package I 200,000 ´´Extension of the Southern Expressway project 190,000 ´´Section II of the Central Expressway 180,000 project 170,000 ´´Anuradhapura North Water Supply project 160,000 ´´Uma Oya Downstream Development 150,000 project Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. ´´Construction of Housing Units for 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 Government Servants project Source: Tradingeconomics.com/Department of Census and Statistics – Sri Lanka ´´Urban Regeneration Housing project ´´New Kelani Bridge project ´´Port Access Elevated Highway project ´´Northern Road Connectivity project ´´EXIM Bank Funded Road Network Improvement project The Government continued its major infrastructure projects in 2019 including the rehabilitation of the existing road network to uplift the country’s infrastructure and to uplift the economic activity. Further, the Government has invested in large-scale road development projects. These ongoing and future infrastructure development projects have a positive impact on AEL since they generate business. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 19 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON ACCESS Impact on internal operations and to eliminate any potential spread of the ENGINEERING OPERATIONS business continuity virus. These measures include but are not limited to actively screening and monitoring The impact of the outbreak of the pandemic At the early stages of the outbreak of all employees and visitors to business was felt by all the sectors. As a result of COVID-19, the Management implemented a premises, spreading awareness among staff the island-wide curfew imposed by the business continuity plan for each business and project vicinities of the pandemic and Government in March – May 2020, several unit and project. This helped us to fast track regularly educating them based on latest of our ongoing projects were temporarily the process of resuming operations without available information, fully complying with disrupted. However, work on certain a significant delay or disruption. The all rules and regulations and guidelines laid projects continued from end April under financial reporting process too was intact down by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and strict regulations and in compliance with and the Company will release its interim Public Health Inspectors (PHI) of respective directives issued by the relevant authorities. financial statements within the time period project areas, providing sanitary products By the start of May, the remaining projects stipulated by the CSE. adequately to maintain personnel hygiene and production plants resumed work within and having limited physical interaction confined worksites. Due to the temporary Impact on supply chain management through Working From Home (WFH) disruption of operations, we expect Q1 arrangements and virtual meetings. The raw materials required for AEL’s results of 2020 to be negatively affected. operations, sand, steel, and cement are But the measures we have adapted will Effective implementation of these primarily sourced from major local suppliers greatly reduce the negative impact. measures is closely monitored and with whom we have built long-standing mutual relationships. Asphalt concrete, discussed in sufficient detail at the Funding and liquidity ready-mix concrete, quarry, and crusher weekly management meetings headed by products are produced internally and the Managing Director with the respective Since funding for our ongoing projects are operations of production plants have already business unit heads. The Board of AEL secured through local banks, bilateral and commenced to cater the internal and also effectively discharges its governance multilateral funding, we do not anticipate external market demand. However imported responsibilities through active participation a major cash flow strain on the operations raw materials required for specialised work via virtual arrangements. All Board and or our ability to meet supplier/debt will be delayed due to delays in shipments Board Subcommittee meetings were carried obligations. This funding is project-specific and limited port operations. out virtually during this period without any which means it cannot be utilised for any interruption and all information to enable other purpose. Therefore, our access to their decision-making was submitted working capital and credit facilities are less Impact on human capital without any delay. likely to be affected as a result of The Company employs approximately secured funding. 1,800 staff members and 900 labourers While we anticipate a short-term whose job security was confirmed by the downturn in financial results, we are Impact on assets and impairment Management. A limited staff working during confident that we can return to normalcy provisioning the curfew period had a significant impact without much delay. At the year end, the fair value of assets on the productivity of our operations. The Management has decided on a temporary has been determined with no significant The Company’s strong decrease in the assets value. Since restructuring of salaries at all levels as a forward-looking measure to manage the order book which comprises operations are ongoing after the relaxation of the island-wide curfew, assets are current crisis and ensure job security of confirmed and signed all employees. being utilised adequately. Thus, we do not projects for the next anticipate any major impact on assets or foreseeable future with impairment provisioning. Further, we have AEL’S RESPONSE TO THE IMPACT not identified any material impairment in OF COVID-19 secured funding, prudent goodwill, intangible assets, and right-of-use and sound financial assets. A provision for investment securities We have in place a sound business has already been made over the period continuity plan headed by the Chief management practices and credit losses have been determined as Operating Officer who is supported by in place, and the best per expected credit loss (ECL) requirements the Corporate Management and relevant line managers. Operations of projects and corporate governance which are similar to last year. production plants after resumption of practices will undoubtedly work are carried out according to this plan. help us in this endeavour to Additionally, we have implemented a sound system within our working environment face the “new normal”. 20 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment SWOT ANALYSIS STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES ´´Visionary leadership and skilled and capable top management support ´´Frequent turnover of labourers due to nature of the business (i.e. project-based staff ) ´´Know-how gained through past experience having completed numerous infrastructure development projects across the country across many disciplines ´´Goodwill created by impressive track record and high reputation. AEL is among the top three local construction companies ´´Being a public quoted company on the Colombo Stock Exchange ´´Growing net asset base ´´Commitment to value engineering resulting in high quality construction, low cost, and speedy completion ´´In-house service portfolio that complements construction projects including the designs office, piling division, production plants, workshops, etc. ´´The decentralised operating structure for project execution that results in high productivity and efficiency ´´Having the highest CIDA grading across the most number of engineering disciplines ´´Recognition as a “Top 10 Corporate Citizen” in the country for 2019 by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce ´´Long-term networking and relationship with clients, suppliers and government ´´Possessing best in class knowledge having executed a large number of projects jointly with reputed international partners ´´Possessing human capital that is best in the industry ´´Use of latest ERP systems and communication platforms for decision-making OPPORTUNITIES THREATS ´´Ability to diversify the product portfolio ´´Migration of Sri Lankan professionals and skilled staff creating a scarcity of potential employees ´´Overseas expansion with international partners ´´Possible delays in client payments resulting in cash flow difficulties ´´Further strengthening presence in office space renting ´´Competition among existing industry participants in bidding for projects ´´Significant long-term government support for ´´Cultural mismatches in overseas expansions the industry ´´Competition from foreign construction firms ´´Duty concessions for BOI approved projects ´´Frequent changes in policy decisions negatively affecting infrastructure ´´Reduced corporate tax rates on the development construction industry ´´Frequent changes in tax structures ´´Rising demand for “A” grade office spaces and ´´Rising cost and scarcity of construction material such as sand urbanised living ´´Continuous rupee devaluation resulting in increased cost of imported ´´Continuous reduction in interest rates giving more raw materials access to debt finance ´´Negative effects of COVID-19 on project implementation ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 21 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment ANALYSIS OF POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS PEST Analysis Political Factors Ecological/ Concerns on preventing environmental pollution (Air, water, and land pollution) Environmental factors Volatility pertaining to renewal of operating licenses based on the stated rules and regulations of Central Environmental Authority (CEA) and Local Authorities Special regulations, approvals and licensing from Marine Environment Protection Authority and Department of Wildlife Conservation Authority for certain projects Current legislations Laws stated by the Labour Authorities relating to working hours, minimum wage rates, leave, Employees’ Provident Fund, Employees’ Trust Fund and health and safety of employees Laws and regulations relating to obtaining construction licenses, approval of plans etc. General civil and commercial law and governing Acts (Contract law, Companies’ Act, laws pertaining to insurance etc.) International The open economy policy adapted by Sri Lanka and the encouragements to improve Foreign Direct Investments has attracted legislations the participation of international firms specially in the construction sector (Global influence) Local Companies including construction companies are bound by the international treaties that Sri Lanka has pledged to uphold Most of the construction projects executed in Sri Lanka are governed by the conditions set out by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) Foreign funded construction projects are governed by the bilateral and multilateral funding agreements between Sri Lanka and the respective countries or funding agencies Regulatory bodies All industry participants should confirm to the specifications stated by the Construction Industry Development Authority (CIDA) and processes The CIDA has specified grading for construction companies and the renewal of grading will occur by observing compliance with the established rules and regulations Specifications set out by the implementing agencies such as the Urban Development Authority (UDA), Road Development Authority (RDA) and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) All public quoted companies are bound by the Rules and regulations prescribed by the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) Government Infrastructure development is heavily dependent on the policy directions set out by the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) policies, terms, including project priorities, funding arrangements, project planning, and implementation and changes Funding, grants and The tendency to increasingly engage in multilateral and bilateral funded projects will improve the flow of foreign funds initiatives and grants to the country Payment terms negotiated by the GoSL including the grace period, interest rate, etc. will have a direct impact on construction contracts Annual government budget allocation for infrastructure development 22 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment Market lobbying The influence of market lobbying groups in determining; groups ´´The sustainable utilisation of natural resources ´´Protection of human rights ´´Prevention of environmental damages through air, water, or land pollution Wars, terrorism, and With the end of the three decade war in 2009, Sri Lanka perceived a massive growth in infrastructure development conflicts Terrorist activities such as the recent Easter Sunday attack in April 2019 could hamper the economic development and business sentiment in general Economic Factors National economies Construction industry experienced a 6.8% growth in 2019 which was well above the GDP growth offering growth potential to and trends all industry participants Funding constrains due to Treasury not having sufficient funds can influence the progress of infrastructure development activities General taxation Corporate income tax reduction from the previous 28% to 14% with effect from 1 January 2020 will have a positive impact factors on the margins Reduction of VAT from 15% to 8% Removal of NBT Exemption of condominium housing units from VAT Seasonality or other Extreme weather conditions affecting the progress of construction related activities weather issues Special Sector Construction boom and attention towards condominium developments and underserved resettlements in the country will factors favour the building construction sector Focus of the government to move towards more sustainable and environment friendly energy forms giving opportunities in new sectors such as wind power Interest and Interest rate specifies the borrowing capacity and influences the investment process especially if the projects are debt exchange rates financed. The recent continuous decline in interest rates will favour the use of debt funding for infrastructure development. Depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee has led to foreign exchange losses and high cost of imports for raw materials such as cement and steel International trade Tendency to import construction related materials and machinery from low cost destinations like China will reduce the cost and monetary of construction factors International trade restrictions caused by limited port activity and closure of airports due to COVID-19 Free trade agreements, bilateral and multilateral agreements enhancing the potentials for engaging in international trade including the possibility of carrying construction projects overseas ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 23 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment Social Factors Lifestyle trends Increase in urbanisation has created opportunities for construction companies specially for construction of condominium apartments Rapid developments in telecommunication infrastructure fuelled by lifestyle trends Demographics Ageing population creating limitations for the potential workforce especially engaging in construction related works Job perceptions Majority of job seekers in the construction industry opt white-collar jobs as opposed to blue-collar jobs creating a scarcity of skilled labour Consumer attitudes People becoming more concerned about the environment creating a tendency to demand for more sustainable construction and opinions methodologies Media views Influence of the public media by bringing to limelight pressing issues of the general public like housing, water, electricity, etc… is creating more opportunities for construction activities and companies Image of the High degree of concern towards organisational reputation, brand image, adaption of good corporate governance practices organisation Consumer buying Increase in demand for more urbanised office spaces and condominium developments patterns Major events and Easter Sunday attack and the resulting economic downturn influences Outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic on a global scale disrupting the usual business and daily life patterns of people Technology Factors Competing Development of modern techniques that; technology ´´Reduce the use of natural resources and raw materials development ´´Reduce pollution ´´Reduces cost and speeds up construction such as prefabricated construction, self-healing concrete, and advance finishing materials Associated/ Development of sophisticated software. Especially for the purposes of designing which in turn result in accuracy and speed. dependent technologies Augmented reality/virtualisation designs 3D scanning and photogrammetry Maturity of The construction industry is moving from being a strictly labour incentive one to a more knowledge incentive one technology Emerging technological advances used throughout the world to foster efficient construction are now being introduced and used in Sri Lanka Innovation potential Heavy emphasis on research and development to further initiate technological advancements and construction materials Maturity of Construction related products and services do not face the problem of having a shorter life cycle. Most of the products are organization’s perceived as long-term investments. However there is technological obsolescence of machinery and methods used in the products/services construction processes. 24 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Stakeholder Engagement Taken in the context of sustainable development, it is paramount that we need to engage with internal as well as external stakeholders while balancing their short-term and long-term interests. Our stakeholder engagement process in place effectively engages with all stakeholders in a proactive manner in line with our strategic priorities. We identify their needs and expectations to find out how best we could integrate their concerns into our decision-making process. R ENGAGEMENT EHOLDE PRO AK CE ST or SS and rep t performa ev iew nce R to stakeholders Industry peers Board of Engagin and competitors Directors holders stake ge in strategy i mplo key l issues Society Corporate mpl y em ees tify ateria Management Team en en Id nd m ta ti o a Business Investors and n partners shareholders Bankers Suppliers and including prospective subcontractors lenders Clients and Employees customers h te al olde Government ra s St cu gy and ity fo regulatory ke rs ed dev authorities s t a ri on elo th te pr pme e wi ma ior n ag rify itie t E ng e s to v ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 25 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement IDENTIFY KEY STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL ISSUES STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT FOCUSED ON PRIORITIES The process starts with the identification of key stakeholders and issues that are of material nature to them. This process involves analysis of internal and external environment while After verification of issues with monitoring micro and macro facts and lining them with our strategic objectives. The list of stakeholders, appropriate engagement stakeholders identified is then analysed in groups based on the power they can exert on strategies are devised which are then AEL and their level of interest on AEL’s operations and activities as shown below: prioritised. Prioritisation of the issues would make AEL to proactively attend to stakeholder concerns and direct the resources and management efforts to Keep satisfied Key players the issues at hand with a lessor lead time. ´´Government and ´´Clients and customers regulatory bodies ´´Investors and shareholders ENGAGE EMPLOYEES IN STRATEGY HIGH ´´Business partners IMPLEMENTATION Next stage of engagement is the implementation of prioritised strategies. AEL engages its employees cohesively in POWER devising strategies addressing stakeholder issues and implementing them depending on the interest and power each stakeholder Minimum effort Keep informed group exerts. This process devises methods of engagement with stakeholders which ´´Banks and ´´Employees prospective lenders involves utilising the responsive methods ´´Suppliers and LOW that enables fast decision-making. subcontractors ´´Society REVIEW AND REPORT PERFORMANCE ´´Industry peers and competitors TO STAKEHOLDERS AEL continuously and regularly reports outcomes of the engagement process to LOW HIGH stakeholders. We also consider regulatory INTEREST and statutory requirements which act as minimal criteria in deciding frequency of engagement. AEL follows this process Basis of identification and selection in engagement and the frequency of iteratively improving the engagement with of stakeholders with whom to engage engagement is continuous. However stakeholders in each cycle and creating we are mindful of engaging at least at As elaborated above stakeholders are optimum value to them. a minimum level even with the other identified and selected for engagement stakeholder groups. based on the following two criteria Our stakeholders ´´Level of interest a particular stakeholder ENGAGE WITH STAKEHOLDERS TO ´´Board of Directors group has on our activities VERIFY MATERIALITY ´´Corporate Management Team ´´The degree of power exercisable by Assessing the issues that are material is an ´´Investors and Shareholders a particular stakeholder group on our Company ongoing process that includes consultation ´´Bankers and prospective lenders with internal and external stakeholders. ´´Employees Usually in the event a particular This would enable AEL to assess the ´´Government and regulatory authorities stakeholder group has a high degree materiality of the issues accurately and engage them in an early stage of the ´´Clients and customers of power as well as a high level of interest, such groups are given priority decision-making process. ´´Suppliers including subcontractors ´´Business partners ´´Society ´´Industry peers and competitors 26 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Our rationale behind engaging with the stakeholder groups identified above is as follows; Stakeholder group Rationale for engagement and expectations Board of Directors The Board is responsible for the following; ´´Setting corporate objectives and formulating strategies and policies ´´Reviewing the performance of Corporate Management ´´Representing the views of the Company to outside world ´´Protecting Company assets and shareholder interests ´´Establishing a sound system of governance and enforcing same Corporate The Corporate Management Team is responsible for implementing the objectives, strategies, and policies set forth Management Team by the Board and effective functioning of the Organisation. Investors and As the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) is not able to finance all planned infrastructure development projects, shareholders investors play a key role in funding future projects. The investors of mega infrastructure projects expect us to provide them a reasonable return on their investment in the long-term and to honour contractual obligations. Shareholders provide equity capital and approve/reject company strategic decisions while expecting a reasonable return on their investment. They also expect us to provide periodic updates about the development of our Company, our key financial figures and our long-term business strategy/direction. As the custodians of their wealth the shareholders expect us to build a growing and sustainable business while being a good corporate citizen. The long-term strategy of AEL is to increase its market value to shareholders. Banks and Banks play a major role in the following areas: prospective lenders ´´Financing infrastructure development projects of the country ´´Processing day-to-day monetary transactions of the Company ´´Providing funding arrangements enabling effective working capital management ´´Providing investment opportunities through accepting deposits Employees The industry we operate-in is highly labour intensive. Thus to remain competitive in the market we need to have the best talent pool and human capital in the industry. A fully engaged workforce that is highly satisfied will go an extra mile for the benefit of the Company to achieve its goals and objectives. In return for their commitment the employees expect us to provide them with a safe working environment, equal opportunities, individual career growth, opportunities for training and development, reward their performance and to promote work-life balance. Similarly our vision towards sustainability is driven by our employees, who need the most up-to-date information to make a valuable and informed contribution. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 27 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Rationale for engagement and expectations Government and Maintaining cordial relationships with GoSL is very important to the Company since most infrastructure projects are regulatory bodies initiated by the Government. Thus building confidence is paramount to business operations and our continuity. The Government expects us to create direct and indirect employment opportunities, engage in investment opportunities and drive economic growth while complying with all their laws and regulations. We act as a source of revenue to the Government by paying direct taxes and channelling indirect taxes. Regulatory bodies and authorities play a vital role in approving and reviewing completed, ongoing and future infrastructure development projects. They also expect us to fully comply with all their rules and regulations. Clients and Maintaining cordial relationships with clients is important since most of the repeat orders are based on this. Similarly client Customers satisfaction through effective project implementation is important in securing future business. Hence client interaction is one of the most important factors of our success. We also carry out a substantial amount of engineering projects and services at the client’s premises and need customers to continually subscribe to our engineering products and services in order to generate business. Suppliers and Construction industry is heavily dependent on raw material and, therefore, suppliers play a key role in the achievement of Subcontractors business objectives and timely completion of projects. While enabling us to deliver innovative value engineering solutions to various clients they also help us to make our processes more efficient. We also need subcontractors who are capable of carrying out work in an uninterrupted manner, who are trustworthy, competitive in terms of prices, quality of service offered and flexibility, easy to communicate with, have a good past track record and adhere to ethical conduct. In carrying out our projects and services they expect us to build progressive long-term relationships while honouring all contractual obligations. Business partners For us to be a leader in knowledge-based value engineering, we need to liaise with companies specialising in particular areas enabling a valuable knowledge transfer process. They also collectively expect us to safeguard their interests honouring their obligations on time while building progressive sustainable relationships. Society The end user of almost all our products, i.e. construction projects, is the general public. Hence they expect us to build infrastructure and provide services that are of high quality and safe to use while being sustainable economically, socially, and environmentally. Being a responsible corporate citizen adhering to social norms and culture and maintaining a positive public image is very important to succeed in this industry. The general public also expects us to create direct and indirect employment generation. Industry peers and Fostering and engaging in fair competition while promoting ethical business practices is vital for the development of the competitors industry. The peers expect us to actively promote and uplift the standard of the industry as a whole through our active participation in various industry initiatives. In situations where joint execution of projects with industry participants is necessary, they expect us to honour contractual obligations and joint venture agreements while displaying a satisfactory level of performance. 28 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Organisation’s approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group: Stakeholder group Method of engagement Frequency of engagement Board of Directors ´´Board meetings Continuous with at least ´´Board committee meetings a meeting every quarter ´´Independent evaluation of performance Annual Corporate Management Team Corporate Management meetings Continuous with at least one in every two months ´´Progress review meetings Monthly ´´Performance review meetings Investors and shareholders ´´Periodic meetings to ascertain/review project progress As and when required ´´Business promotion meetings Annual Report and General Meeting Annual Interim Financial Statements Quarterly Extraordinary General Meetings As and when required ´´Updated website and dedicated investor relations email Continuous ´´Newspaper articles and other publications ´´Road shows and investor forums ´´CSE disclosures and announcements ´´Research reports of the stock broking community ´´Telephone communication ´´Email and other written correspondence Bankers and prospective lenders ´´Timely settlement of dues Continuous ´´Providing periodic financial information Responding to lenders’ queries As and when required Employees ´´Periodic management-employee meetings Continuous ´´“Open-door” policy ´´Training and development ´´Maintaining transparency in all activities ´´CSR initiatives ´´Staff welfare activities ´´Exit interviews ´´“News Within” quarterly newsletter ´´Performance appraisal and rewarding Annual ´´Annual get-together and staff outing ´´Sports carnival ´´Joint communication from MD and COO via mail to every employee at the beginning of each year ´´Annual staff forum ´´Employee satisfaction surveys As and when required ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 29 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Method of engagement Frequency of engagement Government and ´´Public private partnership projects Continuous regulatory bodies ´´Timely feedback through submission of reports, tax returns, updates, etc. ´´Ensuring compliance ´´Participation at various forums, meetings, discussions organised by the Government and regulatory authorities ´´Continuous membership in industry associations Clients and customers Publication of the Integrated Report Annual ´´Proactive business development Continuous ´´Progress review meetings ´´Updated website ´´Relationship managers for each major customer ´´Regular correspondence during defect liability period (DLP) Suppliers and ´´Subcontractor/supplier evaluation Continuous Subcontractors ´´Progress review meetings ´´Updated website ´´Contract negotiation and communication ´´Procurement Committee meetings Business partners ´´Regular visits to/from business partners Continuous ´´Updated website ´´Regular written communication and periodic meetings for ongoing projects ´´Relationship managers for each major customer Society ´´Updated website Continuous ´´Regular media and other communications with public ´´Participation at/sponsoring trade exhibitions ´´Providing employment and internship opportunities ´´Various corporate social responsibility projects ´´Consultation of local communities in project planning and execution Publication of the Integrated Report Annual Industry peers and competitors ´´Membership in industry associations Continuous ´´Joint execution of infrastructure projects with peers ´´Industry advancement workshops, discussion forums and CSR projects 30 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Key concerns raised during the year Company response Board of Directors Facilitation of meetings with the Chairman Meetings between the Chairman and Independent without the presence of Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are held as and when required Rationalisation of business activities ´´Completed the divestment of Horizon Holding Ventures ´´Invested LKR 925 Mn. to acquire 100% of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited for the construction of a purpose built warehouse ´´Further scrutinized and strengthened the monitoring of subsidiary performance Consolidation of core business Continued with infrastructure development projects while extending the product/service portfolio via the introduction of new construction techniques. Further, capacity was added to strengthen the construction material segment. Completed the administrative and legal procedures required for the initiation of infrastructure development projects in Kenya. Corporate Management Team Improving efficiency and productivity Strengthened cost and project management functions Investors and shareholders Timely securing of projects Vigilant and proactive business development efforts Provision of a monetary return on Declared LKR 500 Mn. in dividends their investment Providing up-to-date information about ´´Press releases featuring every project at three stages of the affairs of the Company the life cycle (commencement, execution, and completion), earnings reviews and other publications such as the Annual Integrated Report ´´Frequent release of research reports about the Company via stock broker companies ´´Participation at investor forums, both local and foreign ´´One-to-one meetings with institutional investors, stock broker firms, research companies, etc. Bankers and Effective treasury management Negotiated better rates with financial institutions and prospective lenders strengthened treasury management functions at the Group level Employees Need of recognising and rewarding Continued the performance based reward system high performers Need to enhance the competence of staff Provided training and development opportunities to staff members with the main area of focus during the year being health and safety Need to provide staff with more up-to-date ´´“News Within” quarterly newsletter information about the Company ´´“Staff Forum 2019” headed by the Managing Director ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 31 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Key concerns raised during the year Company response Government and Need to participate in the infrastructure ´´Carried out infrastructure development projects throughout regulatory bodies development drive/initiatives of the country the Government ´´Participated at various industry related forums, discussions spearheaded by the GoSL Need to comply with all government Complied with all applicable rules and regulations of the regulatory requirements and payment Government with timely payment of all dues of dues such as taxes, rates, etc. Clients and customers Speedy delivery of projects at a lesser cost Provided solutions that are less costly and speedy such as the diaphragm wall, prefabricated bridges, post – tensioning, HDD, micro trenching, etc. during the year Need for high quality construction Completed projects with least number of defects Suppliers and Timely settlement of dues Settled all dues on time with zero fines or penalties for Subcontractors delayed payments Business partners Need to maintain sound business relationships ´´Carried out projects in partnership with foreign principles ´´Continuous training for business development staff Society Addressing the timely needs of the public ´´Carried out various social responsibility initiatives ´´Offered direct and indirect employment opportunities Enhancing the knowledge base of ´´Offered internships for 316 students the industry ´´Introduced innovative solutions to the industry during the year Industry peers and Need to jointly execute mega-scale Continued construction of Section II of the Central Expressway competitors infrastructure development projects in partnership with two local contractors 32 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-47, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, Materiality We consider a matter to be material if it GRI aspect Significance Significance to Internal/ could affect our ability to create value over to AEL stakeholders external the short, medium, and long term. In the formulation of our strategy, we identify ECONOMIC and assess material issues, which enables 201 – Economic performance High High Internal us to prioritise certain areas over others to better focus our energy and resources. 202 – Market presence Moderate High Internal These topics are analysed according to 203 – Indirect economic impacts High High External their importance to the Company as 204 – Procurement practices High High Internal well as the stakeholders by the Board 205 – Anti-corruption High Moderate Internal and the Management. 206 – Anti-competitive behaviour Moderate Moderate External AEL has identified aspects that are material ENVIRONMENTAL to the Company’s stakeholders and AEL, in the context of its economic, environmental, 301 – Materials Moderate Moderate Internal and social agenda for sustainable value 302 – Energy High High Internal creation. The topics AEL considers to be 303 – Water High High Internal important are thus rated as low, moderate, and high as tabulated. AEL has used GRI 304 – Biodiversity High High Internal Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI 305 – Emissions High High Internal Standards in this process. 306 – Effluents and waste Low Low External 307 – Environmental compliance Moderate Moderate External Our materiality determination process is given below: 308 – Supplier environmental assessment Low Low Internal Internal factors SOCIAL ´´Strategic direction mapped out and the 401 – Employment High High Internal outcomes derived from Board meetings, 402 – Labour/management relations Moderate Low Internal Board Committee meetings, and Corporate Management meetings 403 – Occupational health and safety High High Internal ´´Annual Key Staff Forum 404 – Training and education High High Internal ´´Results of engagement with employees 405 – Diversity and equal opportunity High High Internal ´´Results of internal audits and management 406 – Non-discrimination High High Internal system audits carried out 407 – Freedom of association and ´´Key focus areas of Company policies, collective bargaining Low Low Internal values, ethics, AEL Code of Conduct, 408 – Child labour Low Low Internal and the risk management process 409 – Forced and compulsory labour Low Low Internal External factors 410 – Security practices Low Low Internal Political, economic, social, technological, 411 – Rights of indigenous people Low Low External environmental, and legal/regulatory 412 – Human rights assessment Low Low External developments in the local and global space, external initiatives such as UNGC 413 – Local communities High High External the Company is committed to results of 414 – Supplier social assessment Moderate Moderate External our engagement with external stakeholders. 415 – Public policy Low Low External 416 – Customer health and safety Moderate High External The materiality matrix illustrated below shows the aspects that were identified to 417 – Marketing and labelling Low Low Internal be material to AEL as well as stakeholders 418 – Customer privacy Low Low Internal based on the determination process 419 – Socio-economic compliance High High External adopted above. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 33 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Materiality Procurement practices and customer 202 416 201 203 204 302 health and safety 303 304 305 401 Throughout the years, we have established HIGH long term, healthy relationships with 403 404 405 406 suppliers and subcontractors. We evaluate 413 419 suppliers through a stringent screening SIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDER process and as a part of our engagement with the local community, we strive to 206 301 307 414 205 utilise as many local suppliers as possible. MODERATE We also consider health and safety of the general public to be of utmost importance. We follow strict health and safety guidelines in all our operations. Our infrastructure is built following all required health and safety guidelines. 306 308 407 408 402 Anti-corruption and anti-competitive 409 410 411 412 MINOR behaviour 415 417 418 Access Engineering has taken every possible measure to prevent corruption from taking place. We educate our employees and evaluate our Company through LOW MODERATE HIGH annual financial reports, audits, and other SIGNIFICANCE TO AEL controlling measures. We also understand that anti-competitive behaviour can affect the industry as a whole. We have always MANAGEMENT APPROACH resources to fuel our sustainable growth maintained cordial relationships with prospects we also maintain our dividend our competitors and wish to maintain Economic performance payout at approximately 40% to 50%, thus professionalism in our dealing with the Economic viability, a significant material giving a return on their investment. All external world. topic to AEL, is the foundation of long-term financial matters are in accordance with sustainability and a prime driver of local and global reporting/accounting Energy stakeholder wealth maximisation. We principles and accounting and auditing strive for organic and inorganic growth standards. We clearly communicate internal We are aware that the construction industry through engaging in various economic control procedures and standard operating is energy intensive, with high electricity and activities, acquisitions and mergers, and procedures that govern all financial fuel consumption. We take all the necessary entering into new ventures. Our continuous matters. The annual financial audit, the measures to minimise our consumption investments made in construction annual assurance engagement, and the through energy saving practices. This plants, equipment, and machinery are random and continuous audits carried out includes but are not limited to: our means of supporting organic growth. by the Internal Audit Department are our ´´Use of renewable energy such as solar Where necessary we add new business main methods of evaluation. The Audited power wherever possible verticals within our core construction Financial Statements are the ultimate ´´Use of and investment in energy efficient activities in order to gain new experience method of communicating our financial construction methodologies, equipment, in diversified fields of engineering. The performance to the public. As a public and latest technology latest addition to this is the ongoing quoted company we are also governed by Mannar Wind Power Project which was the Rules and Regulations of the Colombo ´´Recording, monitoring, and improving a completely new area of operation. We Stock Exchange and need to adhere to the energy consumption also acquire lucrative business ventures, best practices of corporate governance. ´´Educating employees on the importance make prudent investments, and move of being energy efficient into related diversification to support our inorganic growth. While retaining sufficient 34 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Materiality Further, each business unit is given a through system audits and site visits by and regulations. We have prepared an target on energy consumption and our our Management Systems Team. Impacts employee handbook which communicates Management Systems Team monitors on biodiversity are periodically reported the benefits, rules and regulations, energy usage through periodic evaluations. to the client as well as included in project administrative matters, company policies process review meetings. We also conduct that are applicable to all employees and by employee awareness programmes and which they are bound. In our recruitments, Water strictly monitor environmental performance we give priority to hiring locally since they Our core business is a heavy consumer through regular EMS audits. The Company possess local knowledge. All our Senior of water and our operations also have environment policy, environmental laws and Management is hired locally and we comply the potential to pollute water and water regulations, and the requirements of the with all the necessary regulations in resources. Thus, we have implemented environment management system (EMS) are remuneration and other benefits. We also various strategies to minimise and save the primary means of communication on conduct annual performance appraisals water usage where possible. These practices biodiversity issues. We also plant trees and which monitor and evaluate employee include but are not limited to: have implemented a regular, annual tree performances. Discussions take place about ´´Use of innovative construction planting programme to offset the impact of performance management in meetings. techniques that consume less amounts our emissions. of water Training and education ´´Budgeting water consumption for each Employees: Labour management In an industry where there is a dearth activity/project and rigorous monitoring relations, occupational health and of highly skilled labour, we have of same safety, market presence, and recognised the importance of training non-discrimination and development programmes. We offer ´´Reusing and recycling water wherever Human capital is the quintessential both internal and external programmes possible. i.e. such as in our workshop element of Access Engineering. Our highly to employees: staff as well as worker ´´Educating employees on the importance categories. We conduct a training needs trained, skilled workforce is the secret of saving water analysis through performance evaluations to our success through which we have ´´Each business unit is given a target on gained a competitive advantage within the and recommendations of managers. AEL water consumption industry. We hope to be the “most preferred formulates a training calendar for every employer” among the potential candidates. year. Once training programmes are Further, targets to be achieved on water We keep our employees incentivised complete, a formal evaluation is conducted consumption are communicated to each through training programmes, monetary by the HR Department which helps with business segment and monitored by our and non-monetary rewards, performancegap analysis and also the feedback leads Management Systems Team. based remunerations, welfare activities, to improvements. and other benefits. We offer internal and external training programmes to all our Diversity and equal opportunity Emissions, environment and employees regardless of their grade. There biodiversity Access Engineering family welcomes those is a clear career progression path that is Our sustainable construction practices from different backgrounds. We are also performance driven and based on merit. We have led to a minimal negative impact a diverse, equal opportunity employer. also have created a healthy, safe working on the environment. The first step of any Though most of our staff is made-up of environment to our employees and conduct project is to carry out an Environmental males, we take all possibilities to decrease an OHSAS audit as well as set specific Impact Assessment by relevant authorities. the gap in gender by employing females. objectives each year. AEL is reputed in the Our environmental performance is also Our rewards schemes, promotions, industry as an equal opportunity employer. monitored through the environmental recruitments are all conducted in a highly We do not discriminate on the grounds of management system (EMS). The EMS is transparent, and a non-discriminative race, religion, gender, class, or disability. also externally verified. We set an annual manner. The employee handbook is used Though due to the nature of the industry, target for emissions at the beginning of to formally communicate information our workforce is made-up principally of regarding equal opportunity at AEL. each financial year and conduct audits. male workers, we take every possible effort Importance of preserving biodiversity to recruit females. We, as a responsible is communicated across the Company corporate, adhere to all local labour laws ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 35 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Local communities: Socio-economic compliance and indirect economic impacts We recognise that our projects may have a major impact on the communities that we operate in. We support the local communities by creating direct and indirect economic benefits which include generation of employment, sourcing material locally, and engaging in community building initiatives. We have built meaningful relationships with the communities we operate in. Our projects have the potential to affect the local communities. We contribute to the communities that we operate in by offering employment opportunities to people from the locality, sourcing material, machinery, and other resources locally, and carrying out CSR programmes. Our sustainability policy and strategy are our primary means of communicating our commitment to the community. Our Integrated Annual Report also form an important part of communicating our work to uphold communities. Our CSR programmes are constantly reviewed and are evaluated at monthly progress meetings and performance review meetings. In all our operations we comply with the applicable laws and regulations. 36 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Strategic Direction Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable, profitable growth, creating value in the short, the medium, and the long-term. It is founded on our vision “To be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering” and through the collective efforts of our employees, Corporate Management, and the Board of Directors headed by the Chairman. The following are our strategic imperatives that drive our operations: ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY IN WINNING HIGH-QUALITY CONTRACTS DELIVERING CONTRACTS SAFELY, ALL OPERATIONS IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS AND FIELDS SUSTAINABLY, AND TO BEST-IN-CLASS STANDARDS At Access Engineering, we are committed This ensures that our brand becomes to sustainability and financial growth in synonymous with high standard We are committed to delivering a all operations with a focus on the triple infrastructure projects in the country world-class service to our clients through bottom line. Environmental preservation which also forms the basis of our business prudently managing and executing our is a top priority of the Company and we continuity. Our leadership in the sector is projects. Through the practice of value ensure to conduct our operations in an a result of consistent, continued trust engineering, our core ethos, we deliver accountable manner which minimises placed on us by our clients. We maintain superior products and services at the our environmental impact. Organically a balance between the orders at hand and lowest cost using the least amount we expand by strengthening the internal bid capacity. We usually tend to maintain of resources. Our internal processes systems and processes and externally, an order book the size of two years’ work at the optimal levels in order to we acquire lucrative businesses that revenue so that we can withstand any prevent any unforeseen circumstances. have potential. Our long-standing, negative economic sentiment or delays Stakeholder engagement at every stage interdependent relationships with in policy decisions. On the other hand, of the project has helped us successfully stakeholders result in repeat business and a very big order book would restrict our execute our projects. We have also we regularly engage with them to maintain capacity to bid. Hence we maintain the maintained leadership in the sector in these relationships. We support local optimum mix among the two. We follow quality, environment management, health communities through CSR programmes a stringent process in the selection of and safety, and sustainability. We also and initiatives that focus on community contracts and bid for projects only with continue to raise the bar in terms of time, development. We also understand that a minimum guaranteed rate of return. cost, and quality performance. Our use of the sustainability of AEL rests on our We maintain a strong construction cutting-edge technology and the adoption highly-skilled, loyal workforce. We continue capability and capacity in the local of modern construction techniques have to attract and recruit the best talent in the market and have positioned ourselves as enhanced our productivity. industry. We support our employees by any an industry leader through offering core means possible to create a safe and healthy engineering solutions and expansion KPIs engaging working environment. beyond our shores through strategic 1. Revenue growth partnerships. In order to consistently win KPIs high-quality contracts, we have embraced 2. Operating margin new engineering disciplines (Ex. Mannar 3. Earning per share (EPS) 1. Revenue and profit growth Wind Power project) and review the market 2. Reduction in emissions and 4. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) to anticipate changes. Further, we continue use of materials to extend integrated service offering utilising 5. Saving in electricity consumption 3. Investment in and number of CSR synergies/skills between services and 6. Amount of water recycled and reused programs conducted construction projects and have identified to expand and diversify our portfolio. 7. Number of processes certified 4. Staff retention ratio KPIs 1. Orders secured during the period 2. Size of the orders at hand 3. Project pipeline 4. New product/service offerings ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 37 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Strategic Direction BEING THE PREFERRED PARTNER DEVELOPING AND ATTRACTING AMONG INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTORS EXCELLENT PEOPLE AND CAPABILITIES Over the years, we have become an industry Our objective of being the preferred leader and our reputation and brand have employer of choice has resulted in allowed us to effect multiple business extending our offering to our employees partnerships with leading international and our potential employees. We operate contractors. We continue to build long-term in a sector that has a high turnover rate partnerships among existing partners and a dearth of skilled labour. Therefore, by delivering sustainable value ensuring we focus on employee retention by win-win situations for all parties involved. investing in our workforce. We conduct We have also formed new partnerships with leadership programmes (both technical reputed international entities that have and non-technical) at all levels. Our allowed us to expand beyond our shores programmes for university students, and facilitated our investments. These apprentices, and interns are all directed synergies have also led to knowledge towards building skills. We have also sharing, knowledge transfer, and exposure focused on enhancing our governance to the best practices in construction at process to create a value-based culture. the global stage. By maintaining these Over the years, we have successfully partnerships, we have developed from the been able to retain talent within our subcontractor status to joint venture Organisation. partner to investment partner. KPIs KPIs 1. Staff retention ratio 1. Revenue generated through foreign 2. Employee satisfaction ratio partnerships 3. Gender ratio 2. Number of new partnerships 4. Number of training hours per employee/ 3. Number of foreign principles Cost of training per employee 5. Staff welfare and benefits 38 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Capital Trade-offs Being a diversified corporate, we consider resource allocation as top strategic priority to facilitate our operations and to maximise returns. We allocate our resources in the form of capitals, financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural to create sustainable value for our stakeholders. The capitals interact with one another and operate independently to create and deliver value to all our stakeholders. The process of transforming the inputs into outputs and outcome is illustrated in our value creation model on page 40. Resource allocation is embedded in our corporate strategy as well where the Management strive to achieve equitable distribution of resources taking into account the trade-offs in the allocation of financial capital and other resources to create value. For example, we invest in our human capital through various training and development initiatives. These programmes contribute to the professional development of our employees as well as improving their expertise on niche fields related to our operations. We see this as an investment rather than an expense because a welltrained employee will be more engaged and will in turn contribute to the overall efficiency of our operations. While this reduces profit generated for financial capital, in the long term, it improves the efficiency of our operations which will lead to saving time and costs. Our Company recognises the significance of equitable resource allocation and capital trade-offs and their impact to the Company, its capitals, and its operations as a whole. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 39 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Value Creation Model INPUTS Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital Base of over 8,832 equity shareholders LKR 189.7 Mn. invested in heavy LKR 22.4 Mn. invested to upgrade machinery and equipment integrated information and LKR 20.53 Bn. equity employed planning systems LKR 1.6 Bn. fleet of machinery LKR 8.1 Bn. obtained from banks and The AEL Brand financial institutions 18 production plants in Sri Lanka LKR 3.2 Bn. used in operations Refer page 72 Refer page 83 Refer page 84 Human Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital 177 internal and external training Network of 15,261 suppliers Energy consumption 317,363,742 joules programmes conducted Water use 121,716 Cubic meters Total staff and labourers 2,583 AEL organisational culture Refer page 88 Refer page 96 Refer page 116 OUTCOMES Value created for stakeholders Investors and Shareholders Suppliers and Business Partners Clients and the Government Financial growth and stability Long-term relationships with suppliers A diverse, innovative product portfolio and business partners Shareholder wealth maximisation A vibrant business entity that is Strategic alliances that strengthen resilient to changing client needs Improved creditworthiness and rating AEL’s position within the industry At the forefront of technological Better retention and attraction of Suppliers and partners who follow advancements shareholders AEL’s values and code of conduct An exemplary culture of compliance Public Private Partnerships leading to projects of National importance Employees Society and Local Community Environment Employer of choice in the industry Infrastructure development driving Mitigating the negative impact of local economic growth our business on the environment Employee engagement and satisfaction Development of the local community Responsible, efficient energy and natural resource management Safe working environment A corporate citizen committed to sustainable development Responsible practices in waste A workforce committed to achieve management sustainable growth Sustainable and green development A culture of learning and knowledge to provide value engineering 40 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Value Creation Model VALUE CREATION PROCESS VISION AND MISSION 1. Stakeholder management 2. Business development and CONSTRUCTION AND project identification CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIALS 3. Tendering ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4. Negotiation and project awarding 5, 6 5. Planning, implementation, and 1 project management 2, 3, 4 6. Project closure and management of AUTOMOBILE PROPERTY defect liability period 8, 9 10, 11 7 7. Advertising, marketing, and sales 8. Warehousing 9. After sales service – parts and workshop MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 10. Import and resource deployment 11. Commission, repair, and maintenance SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY OUTPUTS Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital Profit after tax of LKR 1.93 Bn. Development of much-needed Upgraded Standard Operating public infrastructure to fuel Procedure (SOP) LKR 605 Mn. interest paid to financial economic growth institutions 742 employees with over five years of experience LKR 500 Mn. dividends declared Human Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital LKR 2.4 Bn. paid and distributed 1,015 pairs of desks and chairs 3,012 trees planted among employees distributed to 29 schools 405 kg of wastepaper recycled LTIFR ratio of 1.57 LKR 4.4 Bn. paid to subcontractors 81 kg reduction in GHG emissions 316 industrial placements offered LKR 3.1 Bn. spent on local suppliers LKR 7.4 Bn. worth of projects executed in joint partnerships ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 41 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio BRIDGES AND FLYOVERS TELECOMMUNICATION WATER AND WASTEWATER PILING PLANTS ROAD AND HIGHWAYS BUILDINGS WORKSHOPS IRRIGATION AND LAND POWER DRAINAGE ´´Construction of 608 Housing Units for Government Servants – Colombo 8 ´´Corporate Office – Colombo 2 ´´Design and Construction of Housing Project at 601 Watta, VAVUNIYA Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Bloemendhal – Colombo 13 MANNAR ´´Nanotechnology Building Phase IB – Homagama ANURADHAPURA ´´Proposed Hostel Building for SLTC – Padukka ´´Proposed Research Centre for SLCT – Padukka BATTICALOA KURUNEGALA ´´Sherwood Apartments’ Condominium Development by Complement Investments – Battaramulla GAMPAHA KEGALLE ´´Construction of Guide Wall and Piling Work for COLOMBO Havelock City — Phase III Colombo 05 KALUTARA RATHNAPURA ´´Dewatering, Excavation and Shoring Works For Proposed Mixed Development “Marina Square” – Colombo 13 GALLE HAMBANTHOTA ´´Piling Unit – Kaduwela MATARA ´´Piling Works and Diaphragm Wall Construction of the Proposed City Hotel and Damro Showroom – Colombo 3 ´´Piling Works of Head Office Building for Ministry of Health at ANURADHAPURA Castle Street – Colombo 8 ´´Piling Works of Maritime Facilitation Centre for Sri Lanka ´´Anuradhapura North Water Supply Project — Phase I Ports Authority – Colombo 1 ´´Piling Works of Storm Water Pumping Station – Ambathale BATTICALOA ´´Piling Works for “Eliot Place’’ Condominium Development by ´´Construction of Proposed 60 KLPD TS Grain Based Distillery Urban Development Authority – Borella – Kalkudah ´´Relocation of Underserved Settlement Project — Phase II – Colombo 13 COLOMBO ´´Stabilisation of Cut Slopes at Nugagahapura Below CMC Land Using Soil Nailing Technique – Phase 2 – Colombo 6 ´´Design and Construction of Beira Lake Bridge and Associate works for Waterfront Integrated Resort ´´Substructure, Piling and Diaphragm Wall Construction of Development Project – Colombo 2 ODEL Mall – Colombo 2 ´´Aquaria’ Condominium Development by ´´Construction of Proposed Ring Road Along West Bank of Access Residencies – Colombo 5 West Beira Lake – Colombo 2 42 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ´´Dialog Sprout Connectivity Project HAMBANTOTA ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project ´´Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project – Padukka KALUTARA ´´Central Equipment Division – Kaduwela ´´Piling Works of Proposed District Hospital – Beruwala ´´Design Unit – Colombo 2 ´´Asphalt Plant – Mathugama ´´Fabrication Unit – Ranala ´´Crusher – Mathugama ´´Mechanical Workshop – Kaduwela ´´Quarry – Walallavita ´´Project Management Division I, II, III and IV – Colombo 2 ´´Scaffolding Unit – Ranala KEGALLE ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project GALLE ´´Dialog Sprout Connectivity Project – Benthota KURUNEGALA ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project ´´Asphalt Plant – Ibbagamuwa GAMPAHA ´´Asphalt Plant – Giriulla ´´ISUZU Workshop for Sathosa Motors PLC – Peliyagoda ´´Crusher – Nagollagama ´´Crusher Plant – Kumbukgate ´´Proposed New Warehouse Building for Camso Loadstar – Katunayake ´´Dialog Sprout Connectivity Project – Polgahawela ´´Piling Works of Proposed Damro Showroom – Wattala ´´Deduruoya Water Supply Project – Deduruoya ´´Piling Works of Proposed Pumping Station (Stage II) – Peliyagoda ´´Piling Works of Proposed Tea Factory Complex for George MANNAR Steuart Teas (Pvt) Ltd. – Kelaniya ´´Civil Works of Construction of 100 MW Semi Dispatchable ´´Asphalt Plant – Kotadeniyawa Wind Farm – Mannar Island ´´Concrete Batching Plant – Kandana MATARA ´´Concrete Batching Plant – Mabima ´´Quarry – Hakmana ´´Concrete Batching Plant – Peliyagoda ´´Quarry – Mirigama ´´Dialog Optical Fibre Backbone Network Project – Phase VIII – Udugama ´´Sand Washing Plant – Mirigama ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project ´´Construction of Proposed Package – A of the Central Expressway Project Section II Mirigama to Riloluwa RATHNAPURA ´´Rehabilitation and Improvements to Colombo-Kandy Road – ´´SLT New Subscriber Connection Project Kadawatha to Nittambuwa ´´Widenning and Improvement of the Colombo Kandy Road VAVUNIYA Section – Nittambuwa to Pasyala ´´Asphalt Plant – Vavuniya ´´Dialog Sprout Connectivity Project – Biyagama, Katunayake ´´Quarry – Vavuniya ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 43 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 203-1, 203-2 Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION ROADS AND HIGHWAYS Rehabilitation and improvements to Colombo-Kandy Road section from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa As a part of the National Road Rehabilitation Plan, rehabilitation and improvement of existing Colombo-Kandy Road from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa was initiated by the Road Development Authority (RDA) with the assistance of local bank funding and the rehabilitation and improvement works were successfully completed by Access Engineering PLC. The 23 km, two-lane stretch from Kadawatha (17+000 km) to Nittambuwa (40+000 km) was rehabilitated and improved to a four-lane standard carriageway where the width of a single lane was 3.7 m. The scope also included extensive land acquisition and utility shifting, widening and improvements to existing cross drainage structures, elevated foot walks and centre median/islands as necessary, rehabilitation and improvement of road pavement structure, improvement of the existing drainage system. Further it also included town improvements to Imbulgoda, Balummahara, Yakkala, and Thihariya junctions and widening of four bridges which included the bridges over Balummahara Oya and Uruwal Oya. Two major RCC girder bridges were also widened and rehabilitated to 25 m and 22 m widths. 44 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Completed Location Kadawatha to Nittambuwa on Colombo-Kandy Road-A001 Client Road Development Authority Project Value LKR 6,956 Mn. Funded by Government of Sri Lanka Role in Contract Main contractor Start Date 11 September 2013 End Date 30 September 2019 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 45 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION ROADS AND HIGHWAYS Construction of the proposed Package – A of the Central Expressway Project Section II from Mirigama to Riloluwa The Central Expressway, a much-needed expressway for enhancing development and economical transportation was spearheaded by the Road Development Authority with the funds from local banks of Sri Lanka. The Central Expressway from Kadawatha-Dambulla and the link Expressway from Pothuhera-Galagedara with the highway link to Ambepussa is the fourth expressway of Sri Lanka. The Central Expressway (CEP) spreads along a total length of 169.53 km and is executed under four sections namely, Sections I: Kadawatha (0.0 km) to Mirigama (37.1 km), Section II: Mirigama (37.1 km) to Kurunegala (76.8 km), Section III: Pothuhera (0.0 km) to Galagedara (32.5 km) and Section IV: Kurunegala (76.8 km) to Dambulla (137.1 km). The Section II was subdivided into four subsections and each section was awarded to contractor consortiums which were selected from the pre-qualified local contractors. Package – A of CEP-2 which is 9.71 km was entrusted to the contractor consortium; ICC-ACCESS – (NAWALOKAKDESH JV). Out of the total stretch of 9.71 km, the construction of CH 38+927 to CH 40+430 and CH 40+730 to CH 46+800 was entrusted to Access Engineering. The work scope of AEL includes construction of earthen roadway together with 1.23 km long viaducts to accommodate asphalt concerted four traffic lanes with several culverts, underpasses, and a bridge. Access Engineering has completed a substantial portion of the work assigned under its scope and is expecting to complete the project on time while fulfilling the expectations of RDA. Due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. 46 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Ongoing Location Mirigama to Riloluwa Client Road Development Authority Project value LKR 9,378 Mn. Funded by Local banks of Sri Lanka Role in contract Main contractor Start date 16 January 2017 End date 31 May 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 47 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION WATER AND WASTEWATER Anuradhapura North Water Supply Project – Phase I The objective of the project is to provide safe drinking water and increase water supply coverage by constructing a water supply system in Anuradhapura North. It has been estimated that a population of around 75,000 in 30 Grama Niladhari (GN) divisions in the Medawachchiya, Rambewa, and Mihinthale Divisional Secretariat (DS) Divisions which are considered as kidney disease-prone areas will benefit from the Anuradhapura-North Water Supply Project Phase I. The project is implemented by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board with the funds provided by Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA). Construction works of the project were awarded to Access Engineering PLC. The scope of the project includes the construction of an intake facility, flow control structures, water treatment plants, three ground reservoirs, four elevated water towers, and associate building works and electro-mechanical works. The project is being executed in six locations; Mahakanadarawewa, Rambewa, Medawachchiya, Isinbassagala, Ethakada, Pihimbiyagollawa (East Rambewa). The project is in its final stages and the date of completion may be subject to an extension of time to compensate the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis. 48 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Ongoing Location Anuradhapura Client National Water Supply and Drainage Board Project value LKR 3,650 Mn. Funded by National Water Supply and Drainage Board Role in contract Main contractor Start date 14 May 2018 End date 30 June 2021 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 49 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION WATER AND WASTEWATER Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project The Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project was implemented by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and with the funds from local banks. A total of 116 Sq km area which includes 40 Grama Niladhari Divisions under Seethawaka, Padukka, and Horana Divisional Secretariat Divisions was covered by the project. The project scope was to supply pipe borne water to an estimated population of 373,000 in the eastern part of the Colombo District, implemented through three contract packages. The contract Package I which was awarded to Access Engineering PLC included; supply and laying of 1000 mm diameter DI transmission pipes for a length of 4 km from Meepe to Meegoda and HDPE pipes of variable diameter as distribution mains for a length of 200 km. This project was successfully completed and handed over to the authorities. Status Completed Location Padukka, Seethawaka DS Area Client National Water Supply and Drainage Board Project value LKR 4,390 Mn. Funded by Government of Sri Lanka Role in contract Main contractor Start date 4 January 2015 End date 31 October 2019 50 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Deduruoya Water Supply Project Recognising the urgent requirement to control the growing threat of chronic diseases rapidly spreading across the areas of Nagollagama, Maho, and Polpithigama, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board spearheaded this project together with Kolon Global Corporation of Korea in order to provide safe drinking water to the surrounding communities. A major part of the construction work was subcontracted to Access Engineering and the scope of works awarded includes construction of an intake pump station (16,500M3/day capacity) at the left canal bank of Deduru Oya Reservoir, Potuwewa water treatment plant (15,000 m3 per day capacity), water towers at Maho (1,000 m3 capacity), and Nagollagama (750 m3 capacity) and laying of 500 mm diameter 3.5 km long raw water main DI pipeline, laying of 26 km long clear water transmission line, and installation of distribution network for 164 km of diameters by 100 mm – 300 mm (PVC and HDPE). Due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. Status Ongoing Location Ridi Bendi Ela, Maho Client National Water Supply and Drainage Board Project value LKR 1,984.5 Mn. Funded by Government of Sri Lanka and Government of South Korea Role in contract Subcontractor Start date 12 June 2017 End date 31 December 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 51 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS Nanotechnology Building Phase IB Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC) is a recognised pioneer in Nanotechnology and Advanced technology research in Sri Lanka which offers significant opportunities to nurture young entrepreneurs in the pursuit of scientific discovery. Being the first public-private research institute in Sri Lanka, it has made significant progress over the past several years. SLINTEC based at Pitipana, Homagama is currently undergoing an expansion of its facility under the direction of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Research with the intention of widening the limited research facilities into a world-class laboratory facility complex with state-of-the-art equipment, incubation spaces and pilot plant facilities. The expansion work of phase IB which involves expansion of the main laboratory, accommodation building and new gate house with canteen building was awarded to Access Engineering PLC. The scope of the work awarded to AEL includes the construction of a hexagonal shaped G+4 building of 11,500 m2 with two basements, adjacent to the existing hexagonal shaped three storey building, on a pile foundation for the main laboratory building, construction of a G+6 building of 3,300 m2 with 44 bed rooms and eight studio apartments on a pile foundation for accommodation and construction of a G+1 1,650 m2 to house a canteen and a gate house. The project is in its final stages and due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. 52 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Ongoing Location Pitipana, Homagama Client Ministry of Science, Technology and Research Project value LKR 3,088 Mn. Funded by Government of Sri Lanka Role in contract Main contractor Start date 19 March 2018 End date 31 October 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 53 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS Construction of 608 Housing Units for Government Servants at Borella Initiated by the Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development under the guidance of UDA, this project ensures the Government’s initiative in making housing more accessible to the public sector employees of Sri Lanka. This is a contract where the contractor has to finance the project during design and construction stages. The work scope of the contract awarded to Access Engineering includes investigation, design and construction of G+24 storey building that accommodates 608 residential housing units. 638 parking slots spread across five parking floors provide parking slots for each unit. The complex will comprise 2/3 bedroom apartments of 658 sq. ft. to 870 sq. ft. (approx.) floor areas along with arranged spaces for living, pantry, and modern bathroom facilities. These residential buildings will include a swimming pool, gymnasium, restaurant, and a shopping complex to ensure comfortable living in the middle of the city. The facilities provided at the development also includes electrical supply with backup power system, water supply, fire protection, eight elevators, wastewater and sewerage system, storm water system, car charging points, provisions for disabled car parking, solid waste collection, gas supply system, and internal roads and beautifully landscaped common areas. The project is in its final stages of inspection and handing over is pending. 54 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Ongoing Location Lesley Ranagala Mawatha, Serpentine Road, Borella Client The Urban Development Authority Project value LKR 4,889 Mn. Funded by Public-Private Partnership Model-Government of Sri Lanka and AEL Role in contract Main contractor Start date 19 March 2016 End date 15 August 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 55 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS Design, construction and financing of Housing Project at 601 Watta, Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Bloemendhal This housing project to upgrade the living standards of the underserved communities is implemented by the Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development under the guidance of UDA. The scope of project is to design, construct, and finance for a 15 storied (G+14) building consisting of 500 sq. ft. carpet area housing units. Number of housing units will be 450 and each housing unit includes two bed rooms, living area, kitchen, dining area, balcony, and toilet and bath. The scope includes provision of electricity, water supply, sewage, wastewater disposal system, solid waste disposal system, internal roads, and drainage system. The project is progressing as planned and is expected to be completed as scheduled. Due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. Status Ongoing Location 601 Watta, Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Bloemendhal Client The Urban Development Authority Project value LKR 2,737 Mn. Funded by Public Private Partnership Model-Government of Sri Lanka and AEL Role in contract Main contractor Start date 15 October 2018 End date 15 April 2021 56 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Proposed hostel building for SLTC at Padukka Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) functions as a fully-owned subsidiary of Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT). SLTC offers Engineering Degree programs and they are fully accredited by the University Grants Commission (UGC) under the Ministry of Higher Education and Highways. SLTC is expanding its hostel facilities and related construction works were awarded to Access Engineering with funds by SLTC. The project was to design and construct a G+3 storied hostel building in a short period of five months. The project was successfully completed. Status Completed Location Padukka Client Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Project value LKR 368.6 Mn. Funded by Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Role in contract Main contractor Start date 1 March 2019 End date 20 March 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 57 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS Proposed Research Centre for SLTC at Padukka The proposed environmental research centre is the second project awarded to Access Engineering PLC by Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC). The two-story research centre was designed utilising the existing landscape with minimum excavations and clearance of natural fauna and flora around the site. The building will be equipped with state-of-the art facilities and incorporated with environmental-friendly and energy-efficient designs. Due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. Status Ongoing Location Padukka Client Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Project value LKR 288.26 Mn. Funded by Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Role in contract Main contractor Start date 15 August 2019 End date 30 September 2020 58 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Excavation and Shoring works for proposed Mixed Development Marina Square Initiated by the developer Harbour Village (Pvt) Ltd., Marina Square Mixed Development Project is a joint venture between construction giants, Access Engineering PLC, China Harbour Engineering Company Lanka, and Singaporean retailer Mustafa’s Pte Ltd. The total residential development will comprise five towers; spanning 36 floors each, with 1,068 apartments. The piling works and shoring works were undertaken by Access Engineering PLC and are completed now. Dewatering is currently in progress. Status Completed Location Mattakkuliya Client Harbour Village (Pvt) Ltd. Project value LKR 215 Mn. Funded by Harbour Village (Pvt) Ltd. Role in contract Main contractor Start date 29 November 2018 End date 8 November 2019 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 59 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS Proposed new warehouse building for Camso Loadstar at Katunayake Access Engineering, in collaboration with Camso Loadstar and the developer WUS Logistics Pvt Ltd., initiated the construction of the largest single-roof warehouse in Sri Lanka and the second largest in South Asia. Once completed this will offer a state-of-the-art logistic city including warehousing facilities, cold room facilities, in-house value addition and multi-country consolidation services, auditorium, business communication centre, exhibition centre, logistic education, and a research and development centre. Currently the initial works are in progress along with construction of access roads and land development. Due to the temporary disruption of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be subject to an extension. Status Ongoing Location Katunayake Client Camso Loadstar Private Limited Project value LKR 2,565.24 Mn. (USD 15.17 Mn.) Funded by Camso Loadstar Private Limited Role in contract Main contractor Start date 1 October 2019 End date 31 January 2021 60 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 61 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION POWER INFRASTRUCTURE Civil Works of Construction of 100 MW Semi dispatchable Wind Farm in Mannar Island Mannar Wind Power Project is an electrical power generation project, which will utilise wind to produce electrical energy. Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) is to build and operate a semi-dispatchable wind farm of 100 MW capacity as the first phase of harnessing the available wind electric potential in the Mannar region. The state-of-the-art wind energy conversion systems (WECS) would be selected for the proposed wind farm to generate clean electrical energy in a sustainable manner. The proposed Wind Power Park will be located in the southern part of Mannar Island from Thoddaveli to a length of about 12 km along the coast. The first row of 33 turbines will be installed and the second row of 6 turbines will be located at a distance about 1 km from the shore. Funded by the Asian Development Bank and spearheaded by the CEB, the main contract was awarded to Vestas Asia Pacific A/S. The civil construction works were subcontracted to Access Engineering PLC where the subcontract scope includes design and construction of foundations and hardstands for the wind turbines, building the access road network, construction of the administration and accommodation buildings with utility and other supportive structures, cable trenching for MV electrical cable and fibre optic cable line, supply of the employer’s supportive vehicles, miscellaneous works/supplies for social safeguard commitments including dug wells and toilets. 62 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Currently the road construction and preliminary works are completed and the Status Ongoing piling works are also in its final stages. Location Mannar Island Base erections and utility works are also in progress. Due to the temporary disruption Client Ceylon Electricity Board of work caused by the worldwide health crisis, the date of completion may be Project value LKR 4,156 Mn. and subject to an extension 1.56 Mn. USD Funded by Asian Development Bank Role in contract BoP Subcontractor Start date 18 March 2019 End date 15 October 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 63 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION TELECOMMUNICATION Dialog Optical Fibre Backbone Network – Phase VIII Access Engineering PLC which has the deployment of Dialog Optical Fibre Status Ongoing long been a catalyst of growth in the Network in urban areas and the Project is telecommunication infrastructure to be carried out across the island installing Location Multiple locations development sector is actively engaged an approximate total of over 250 km of in the deployment of the Optical Fibre fibre cables. The coordination between Client Dialog Broadband Backbone Network and an Optical Fibre the utility agencies, road authorities, and Networks (Pvt) Ltd. Sprouts Connectivity Project for Dialog general public is extremely challenging and Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. The National executing work in urban areas is a tough Project value LKR 94.5 Mn. Optical Fibre Backbone Network Project task when the cables were required to was introduced in order to enhance and be installed underground along the busy Funded by Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. develop the current internet penetration roads. Yet the Horizontal Directional Drilling levels by introducing the state-of-the art technology and Micro Trenching technology Role in contract Main contractor wireless technology for broadband internet employed by AEL are assuring that the work delivery. The project is to be conducted is progressing with minimum damage to the Start date 1 November 2019 under several phases and works up to road surfaces and with least disturbances Phase VII have been completed recently to the traffic and pedestrians. Due to the End date Unit rate Contract and the Phase VIII is currently in progress. temporary disruption of work caused by Optical Fibre Sprouts Connectivity Project the worldwide health crisis, the date of involves the supply of services related to completion may be subject to an extension SLT new subscriber connection project Sri Lanka Telecom executes a FTTH work scope includes – installation of Status Ongoing implementation project to provide high new telephone line connections, PEO speed internet and related facilities to TV connections, Fibre to the Home Location Multiple locations households around the country using (FTTH) connections, fault rectification optical fibre cables. The work entrusted and maintenance. In addition, AEL also Client Sri Lanka Telecom PLC to Access Engineering PLC is carried out conducts multi-service access node in three main areas; Southern Province, (MSAN) installation and development and Project value Unit rate contract Sabaragamuwa Province, and in Metro expansions of the optical fibre networks region Colombo. Access Engineering in the said areas. Funded by Sri Lanka Telecom PLC Role in contract Main contractor Start date 1 October 2013 End date Unit rate Contract 64 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio CONSTRUCTION ACCESS PROJECTS (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Projects, a member of the AEL Group, was established in 2002 to provide architectural and engineering building solutions to a spectrum of clients. The Company has made its imprint primarily in the leisure industry for construction, refurbishment, and renovation. It also has a significant market share in the aluminium and ceiling segment in Sri Lanka. The Company is the sole franchiser of Aluk Italy proprietary aluminium doors, windows, and curtain wall systems. The Quality Management System (QMS) and the Environment Management System (EMS) of Access Projects are ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. The workforce of Access Projects (Private) Limited exceeds over 140, comprising professionally qualified engineers, quantity surveyors, draftsmen, marketers, accountants, etc. focused to deliver excellence to clients and services of the highest standard. During 2019/20 the Company was involved in a number of projects including the construction of Capital Heights Rajagiriya, Horizon Knowledge City Malabe, Altair Residential Project Colombo 2, Defense Headquarters Complex Akuregoda, and Academy of Design (AOD) Colombo 4, among several others. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 29 Operational 79 Clerical and supportive 38 146 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 65 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio PROPERTY ACCESS REALTIES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Realties (Private) Limited is a fully-owned subsidiary of Access Engineering PLC. It is the proprietor and managing agent of Access Tower I (North), a 12-storey office complex providing more than 125,000 sq. ft. of office space completed with slick captivating design, corporate amenities, and contemporary resources. Access Tower I was completed in 1998 and at present is home to a number of tenants. It also functions as the headquarters of AEL. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 3 Operational 29 Clerical and Supportive 2 34 ACCESS REALTIES 2 (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Realties 2 is a fully-owned subsidiary of Access Realties. Its premier project: Access South Tower is a high-rise office building. The G+29 storey modern office complex provides approximately 200,000 sq. ft. of A Grade, state-of-the-art office space. Located in close proximity to the urban centre, Access Tower II (South) is an ideal location to grow and develop a business. The location is also blessed with breathtaking views of the Indian Ocean, Beira Lake, and the Colombo Skyline. The Tower has a diverse range of occupants from a wide-variety of sectors. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 0 Operational 9 Clerical and Supportive 3 12 66 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ARL ELEVATE (PRIVATE) LIMITED Elevate is situated on the 28 and 29 floors of Access Tower II. It boasts of an exclusive member’s lounge, private dining, a wellness centre, a restaurant, conference hall, and meeting rooms which offer personalised services to any visitor. Elevate is the perfect choice for professional meetings, leisure, bespoke and customised events comprising of the finest amenities, event management services and state-of-the-art technology offering a unique experience in the heart of Colombo. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 5 Operational 90 Clerical and Supportive 9 104 BLUE STAR REALTIES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Blue Star Realties’ flagship project Capital Heights, Rajagiriya is a unique real estate venture comprising 242 apartments. It goes beyond a residential apartment complex with its offering of a refined lifestyle as well as a long-term investment. It is situated in the residential capital of Rajagiriya that has recently been transformed into a beautiful lake city replete with quiet neighbourhoods, landscaped parks, serene waterways, and a natural bird sanctuary. Capital Heights has the privilege of these peaceful surroundings that belie its close proximity to the city. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 8 Operational 10 Clerical and Supportive 6 24 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 67 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio HARBOUR VILLAGE (PRIVATE) LIMITED Harbour Village is a joint venture formed between Access Engineering PLC, China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (CHEC), and Musthafa’s Singapore (Private) Limited. This Company was formed with the objective of seizing opportunities in the real estate sector in Sri Lanka. Its mixed-development project, five-towered, Marina Square, Colombo with 1,068 units and 150,000 sq. ft. of commercial space is equipped with finest finishes, modern amenities and sweeping views of the Indian Ocean and Colombo Port. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 25 Operational 20 Clerical and Supportive 7 52 WUS LOGISTICS container units complete with a gantry (PRIVATE) LIMITED crane all support equipment. Once completed this will offer a state-of-the-art logistic city including warehousing facilities, WUS Logistics Private Limited is the developer cold room facilities, in-house value addition of the largest single roof warehouse in Sri Lanka. This state-of-the-art Logistics City and bonded consolidation services. project is built on an approximately 42 acre land plot in Katunayake. The warehouse Staff composition and the office space are built on a 9 acre Category Staff as at land plot, spanning over 430,000 sq.ft. 31 March 2020 Upon completion, the pre-engineered steel building will be the 2nd Largest in South Managerial 1 Asia operating as the centralised distribution Operational 2 centre for Camso Loadstar (Pvt.) Ltd. Clerical and Supportive 0 The structure, with an eave height of 3 15.5 meters and a ridge height of 26 meters is a very high-density storage warehousing facility with a specialized floor that allows for racking to a height above 13 meters and loading of 17 tons per square meter. The building being 278 meters long, allows for processing of 50 containers at a time while accommodating 50 loading bays to ensure optimal efficiency. The facility will also include a container yard capable of handling 720 twenty-foot equivalent 68 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio AUTOMOBILE SATHOSA MOTORS PLC Sathosa Motors PLC (SML) is the official dealer for Isuzu vehicles and spare parts manufactured by Messrs Isuzu Motors Limited. SML offers sale of new vehicles, spare parts, and workshop services. It has capitalised on the niche market of reliable, low maintenance transportation solutions. The value proposition and unmatched after care service that SML offers has created a loyal customer base. SML will further expand its position as a trusted leader in the automotive industry. Number of Isuzu light commercial Staff composition vehicles sold (Units) Category Staff as at 846 31 March 2020 638 Managerial 7 323 Operational 41 Clerical and Supportive 140 188 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 ACCESS MOTORS (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Motors is the only authorised distributor of Jaguar and Land Rover in the country operating in the highly competitive premium automobile segment. Access Motors is bolstered by the strength of international automobile brands that has increased its market share in the sector since its inception in 2012. During 2019/20 the company launched Jaguar I – PACE which is Jaguar’s first all-electric car and the 2019 Range Rover Evoque. Staff composition Number of Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles sold (Units) Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 226 Managerial 17 125 Operational 55 39 Clerical and Supportive 29 101 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 69 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ZPMC LANKA COMPANY (PRIVATE) LIMITED ZPMC Lanka Company is a joint venture between Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited of the People’s Republic of China and Access Engineering PLC. Currently, ZPMC Lanka provides services to all the container terminals in Sri Lanka, including maintenance contract for container handling equipment and facility maintenance for Colombo International Container Terminals (CICT) and Hambantota International Port Group (HIPG). It also conducts special repairs and refurbishment work of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) and South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT). Further ZPMC Lanka provides spare parts and special repair services to most of the container terminals in Pakistan including South Asian Pakistan Terminals (SAPT), Karachi International Container Terminals (KICT), Pakistan International Container Terminals (PICT) and Qasim International Container Terminals (QICT). ZPMC Lanka recently commenced the commissioning work of ZPMC Ship to Shore and Rubber Tired Gantry Cranes to SLPA. Staff composition Category Staff as at 31 March 2020 Managerial 10 Operational 130 Clerical and Supportive 5 145 70 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION 72 FINANCIAL CAPITAL 83 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL 84 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 88 HUMAN CAPITAL 96 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 116 NATURAL CAPITAL 125 GRI CONTENT INDEX 129 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT TO AEL THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Review of financial capital and financial performance described how the Group and the Company met the Shareholder objective while mitigating the industry level risk and challengers through operating efficiently, effective utilisation of assets and optimal capital structure. The diagram below depicts the breakdown of DuPont Analysis designed to identify all the key drivers behind asset utilisation, operating efficiency with profitability, and capital structure and how each of these drivers contribute towards the annual ROE. (Follow from right to left) Effective tax rate: Finance cost/ Total liabilities/ (ETR) (X) Total liabilities: Total assets: Year ETR Growth (Q1) (Leverage) (R1) % % Year Fin. cost/ Growth Year Leverage Growth 2016/17 10.60 -6.80 Total liab. % % % % 2017/18 20.20 90.61 2016/17 4.57 – 2016/17 39.42 6.79 2018/19 22.91 13.41 2017/18 4.45 -2.80 2017/18 45.84 16.30 Net return/Equity: 2019/20 22.77 -0.61 Total assets/Equity: 2018/19 6.94 56.18 2018/19 44.87 -2.10 (ROE ) (Z) (Equity multiplier) (U) Year ROE Growth 2019/20 5.94 -14.46 2019/20 44.43 -1.00 Year Equity Growth % % multiplier % 2016/17 15.59 19.03 Y*(1-X) % Q1*R1 2017/18 10.68 -31.49 2016/17 165.06 4.14 2018/19 10.28 -3.75 2017/18 184.63 11.86 Pre-tax return/Equity: 2018/19 181.40 -1.75 2019/20 9.38 -8.69 Finance cost/Total assets: (Pre-tax ROE) (Y) 2019/20 179.94 -0.81 (T) Year Pre-tax Growth ROE % Year Fin. cost/ Growth % Tot. assets % U*V % 2016/17 17.44 18.00 2016/17 1.80 – 2017/18 13.38 -23.25 2017/18 2.04 13.03 2018/19 13.33 -0.36 Pre-tax return/Assets: 2018/19 3.12 52.90 2019/20 12.15 -8.86 (Pre-tax ROA) (V) 2019/20 2.64 -15.32 Year Pre-tax Growth ROA % % S-T 2016/17 10.56 13.3 2017/18 7.25 -31.4 2018/19 7.35 1.4 EBIT/Total assets: (ROCE )* (S) 2019/20 6.75 -8.1 Year ROCE Growth % % 2016/17 12.37 32.66 2017/18 9.29 -24.91 2018/19 10.47 12.71 2019/20 9.39 -10.26 72 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Investment in financial Investment in debentures/ instruments/Total assets: (N) Total assets: (F1) Year Inv. in FI/ Growth Year Inv. in deb./ Growth Total assets Total assets % % % % Interest income/ 2016/17 7.22 -75.88 2016/17 3.42 0.20 Total assets: 2017/18 4.01 -44.48 2017/18 3.05 -10.85 (P) 2018/19 4.41 10.07 2018/19 2.91 -4.53 Year Int. inc./ Growth 2019/20 4.55 3.13 2019/20 2.73 -6.31 Tot. assets % N*O F1+G % 2016/17 1.34 122.85 Interest income/Investment in Investment in short-term 2017/18 0.44 -67.01 financial instruments: (O) deposits/Total assets: (G) 2018/19 1.72 286.74 Year Int. income/ Growth Inv. in FI Year Inv. in ST dep./ Growth 2019/20 1.81 5.62 % % Total assets % % 2016/17 18.63 823.84 2016/17 3.79 -85.69 2017/18 11.07 -40.57 2017/18 0.96 -74.83 2018/19 38.90 251.36 2018/19 1.50 56.74 2019/20 39.84 2.42 2019/20 1.82 21.49 Investment in subsidiaries, JV, associates/Total assets: (L) Investment in subsidiaries/ Year Inv. in sub., JV, Growth Total assets: (E) asso./Total assets Year Inv. in sub./ Growth % % Total assets 2016/17 38.90 47.46 % % Dividend income/ Total assets: (Q) 2017/18 45.12 15.97 2016/17 34.84 38.40 Year Div. inc./ Growth 2018/19 40.69 -9.82 2017/18 41.62 19.45 Tot. assets % 2019/20 39.84 -2.08 2018/19 38.22 -8.17 P+Q+R % L*M 2019/20 37.53 -1.80 2016/17 1.09 296.0 2017/18 1.69 55.0 Dividend income/Investment in subsidiaries, JV, associates: (M) 2018/19 0.96 -43.3 Investment in JV/ Year Dividend income/ Growth 2019/20 2.33 143.5 Inv. in sub., JV, asso. Total assets: (F) % % Year Inv. in JV/ Growth 2016/17 2.80 168.53 Total assets D+E+F % % 2017/18 3.74 33.62 2016/17 3.87 – 2018/19 2.35 -37.13 2017/18 3.33 -13.83 2019/20 5.85 148.61 2018/19 2.31 -30.70 2019/20 2.17 -6.30 Investment in core business/ Total assets: (J) Year Inv. in core business/ Growth Investment in associates/ Total assets Total assets: (D) % % Year Inv. in asso./ Growth Core income/Total assets: 2016/17 32.49 18.89 Total assets % % (R) 2017/18 26.19 -19.40 2018/19 26.04 -0.58 2016/17 0.20 -11.14 Year Core Inc./ Growth Tot. assets % 2019/20 35.37 35.84 2017/18 0.17 -13.83 % 2018/19 0.16 -4.71 J*K 2016/17 9.93 17.63 2019/20 0.15 -6.30 2017/18 6.91 -30.43 Core income/Investment in core business: (K) 2018/19 7.79 12.78 Year Core inc./Inv. Growth 2019/20 5.25 -32.65 in core bus. Investment in PPE/ % % Total assets: (A) 2016/17 30.56 -1.07 Year Inv. in PPE/ Growth Total assets 2017/18 26.38 -13.68 % % 2018/19 29.93 13.45 2016/17 13.20 0.23 2019/20 14.84 -50.42 2017/18 11.17 -15.31 2018/19 10.06 -9.95 H-I 2019/20 8.48 -15.69 A+B Revenue/Investment in Operating cost/Investment core business: (H) in core business: (I) Investment in working capital/ Total assets: (B) Year Revenue/Inv. Growth Year Op. cost/ Inv. Growth in core business % in core business % Year Inv. in WC/ Growth % % Total assets % % 2016/17 160.09 -4.77 2016/17 129.53 -5.60 2016/17 19.30 36.24 2017/18 207.60 29.68 2017/18 181.22 39.91 2017/18 15.02 -22.19 2018/19 214.72 3.43 2018/19 184.79 1.97 2018/19 15.98 6.39 2019/20 137.10 -36.15 2019/20 122.26 -33.84 2019/20 26.89 68.30 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 73 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – BALANCE SHEET (COMPANY) Horizontal analysis Vertical analysis 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 % % % % % % % % % % Property, plant and equipment -16.08 -6.20 -7.37 14.70 -5.04 6.97 8.86 9.91 12.42 12.19 Right-of-use assets 100 – – – – 0.07 – – – – Investment properties 34.68 0.00 89.00 26.15 0.00 1.52 1.20 1.26 0.77 0.69 Intangible assets -20.79 -10.90 -14.82 -14.38 -12.58 0.10 0.14 0.16 0.22 0.29 Investments in subsidiaries 4.80 -3.63 38.63 55.75 22.43 37.53 38.22 41.62 34.84 25.17 Investments in joint venture 0.00 -27.27 0.00 340.00 0.00 2.17 2.31 3.33 3.87 0.99 Investment in associate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.16 0.17 0.20 0.22 Other non-current financial assets -89.08 0.19 3.47 12.76 0.00 0.30 2.91 3.05 3.42 3.42 Total non-current assets -3.20 -5.12 23.89 46.01 24.06 48.80 53.80 59.51 55.74 42.97 Inventories 57.62 -10.99 65.99 16.05 -9.58 6.14 4.16 4.90 3.43 3.33 Trade and other receivables 12.98 18.29 26.02 48.19 0.72 30.84 29.18 25.89 23.84 18.10 Amount due from related parties 117.33 72.95 -82.68 191.88 -15.55 2.41 1.18 0.72 4.81 1.85 Current tax assets 0.00 100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.00 0.00 Other current financial assets 41.02 22.66 25.45 18.46 29.91 9.41 7.13 6.10 5.64 5.36 Short-term investments 176.77 -27.53 -1.36 -10.74 -36.80 0.19 0.07 0.11 0.13 0.16 Short-term deposits 21.96 70.01 -73.19 -84.33 684.95 1.63 1.42 0.85 3.67 26.35 Cash and cash equivalents -80.02 86.42 -26.04 63.77 -68.60 0.58 3.11 1.75 2.74 1.89 Total current assets 18.28 19.74 6.18 -12.67 51.50 51.20 46.20 40.49 44.26 57.03 Total assets 6.72 4.95 16.06 12.54 38.35 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Stated capital 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 24.36 26.00 27.28 31.66 35.63 Revaluation reserve 38.10 0.00 -16.91 82.17 0.00 0.57 0.44 0.46 0.65 0.40 Retained earnings 14.00 13.97 8.43 17.59 15.45 30.65 28.69 26.42 28.28 27.06 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 7.59 6.81 3.75 8.07 6.09 55.57 55.13 54.16 60.58 63.09 Total equity and liabilities 7.59 6.81 3.75 8.07 6.09 55.57 55.13 54.16 60.58 63.09 Interest-bearing borrowings -99.97 – – – – 0.00 14.99 15.73 18.25 20.55 Employee benefits 44.02 8.51 42.97 4.33 6.23 0.75 0.56 0.54 0.44 0.47 Deferred taxation -9.48 -12.12 131.16 24.93 -15.77 1.27 1.50 1.79 0.90 0.81 Total non-current liabilities -87.29 -0.95 6.98 0.99 1451.64 2.03 17.04 18.06 19.59 21.83 Trade and other payables -16.15 18.15 30.14 53.66 25.94 19.36 24.64 21.88 19.51 14.29 Amount due to related parties -86.93 787.69 -55.31 130.21 161.46 0.10 0.81 0.10 0.25 0.12 Lease liabilities 100 – – – – 0.07 – – – – Interest-bearing borrowings 1,914.25 – – – – 21.92 1.16 5.77 0.00 0.00 Current tax liability -48.92 – – – – 0.57 1.19 0.00 0.04 0.65 Unclaimed dividend 6.37 33.40 42.59 83.78 72.93 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.01 Bank OD 100 – – – – 0.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total current liabilities 62.58 5.14 62.62 47.97 32.23 42.40 27.83 27.78 19.83 15.08 Total liabilities 5.66 2.74 34.97 20.18 188.12 44.43 44.87 45.84 39.42 36.91 Total equity and liabilities 6.72 4.95 16.06 12.54 38.35 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 74 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – INCOME STATEMENT (COMPANY) Horizontal analysis Vertical analysis 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 % % % % % % % % % % Revenue -7.43 7.91 21.30 27.42 3.20 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Cost of sales -3.47 6.99 32.89 25.89 4.96 -87.19 -83.61 -84.33 -76.98 -77.92 Gross profit -27.68 12.88 -17.43 32.84 -2.58 12.81 16.39 15.67 23.02 22.08 Other income 102.87 -10.63 51.64 89.91 1416.55 7.34 3.35 4.04 3.23 2.17 Administrative expenses 1.55 14.38 -5.81 27.12 -21.07 -4.34 -3.96 -3.73 -4.81 -4.82 Other expenses 19.73 -13.83 -25.86 -25.85 -50.04 -0.17 -0.13 -0.16 -0.26 -0.45 Net finance income -37.00 8.78 244.85 -184.82 37.28 -1.71 -2.51 -2.49 -0.87 1.31 Profit before tax -1.94 6.43 -20.37 27.52 21.12 13.93 13.15 13.33 20.31 20.29 Income tax expenses -2.54 20.69 51.78 18.85 40.05 -3.17 -3.01 -2.69 -2.15 -2.31 Profit for the period -1.76 2.81 -28.92 28.64 19.06 10.76 10.13 10.64 18.15 17.98 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE GROUP REVENUE GROWTH Review of financial performance covers aspects of improving the return on equity Revenue 2018/19 32,277 (ROE) via operating efficiency (net profit margin) and effective utilisation of assets Construction -1,764 (Asset Turnover). Production of construction 70 related material Turnover Property development 48 In the year under review, despite the Automobile -6,604 challenging environment due to numerous Revenue 2019/20 24,027 external factors which led to compromise daily continuity of the business, AEL was LKR -10,000 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 able to achieve turnover of LKR 24.03 Bn. and LKR 17.92 Bn. at the Group and the Company level which recorded negative Construction Segment Water and drainage construction – growth rates of -25.56% and -7.43% Anuradhapura North Water Supply project – respectively. Road and Highway construction – Mainly Phase I, Deduruoya Water Supply project fuelled by the Central Expressway project are the main key contributing factors for At Group level construction segment which involved in the construction of 9.7 km the 16.81% YOY growth of this by segment witnessed a revenue growth of stretch under Section II from Mirigama to during the period. Towns East of Colombo (-9.93% YOY), production of construction Riloluwa which was nearing completion. water supply project was also completed related materials (+2.39% YOY), property during the year. development of (+6.36% YOY) and Kadawatha-Nittambuwa automobile (-61.16% YOY). Negative growth Building and other construction – rates mainly due to the automobile Road project which was +28.47% YOY growth of this segment revenue and construction sectors. Details of the 23 km road stretch was is the highest contributing factor to the movement in revenue from 2018/19 to Group turnover. Significant progress of the 2019/20 are shown in the chart below. completed and handed over Mannar Wind Power project is the main contributing project towards revenue under to RDA during the period. this segment followed by Nanotechnology Centre which recorded LKR 1.4 Bn. revenue during the year. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 75 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Housing project for the government YOY growth of revenue components servants in Borella was substantially completed during the year and contributed 2019/20 2018/19 YOY to the turnover positively. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. % In addition Camso Warehousing project Highways construction 3,746 7,714 -51.44 and multiple piling projects initiated during Water and drainage construction 2,270 1,943 16.81 the year contributed positively for this Bridge construction 16 314 -94.90 segment revenue. Building and other construction 9,877 7,688 28.47 Construction related Material Hiring income 69 104 -33.78 Sale of construction related materials Fabrication income 34 13 166.89 increased by 2.38% YOY at Group level Construction segment 16,013 17,777 -9.93 as a result of all our production plants run at full capacity as one of Sri Lanka’s Sale of construction related material 2,999 2,929 2.39 largest ready mix concrete and asphalt suppliers. A new sand manufacturing plant Rental income 821 772 6.34 in Mathugama was acquired during Service charges 1 1 25.16 the period. Property and other 821 773 6.21 Property Automobile 4,194 10,799 -61.16 The property sector saw a +6.34% YOY growth of YOY GROWTH OF REVENUE COMPONENTS rental income reported mainly with the Access 17.46% Tower II which was fully booked/leased out during 3.42% 33.46% the period. 2019/20 2018/19 12.48% 55.08% Rental income contributed 3.42% of the Group's revenue. 66.64% 2.39% 9.07% Automobile The automobile sector contributed to 17.5% of the Group’s revenue. The performance Construction segment of both Isuzu and Jaguar Land Rover was Sale of construction related material behind target. The business was also Property and other negatively impacted by the recent import restrictions imposed for the strengthening Automobile of the Sri Lankan Rupee and frequent changes made to luxury tax. Profitability Overall gross profit margins of Group and Company have reported at 15.85% (2018/19: 16.06%) and 12.81% (2018/19: 16.39 %) respectively despite most volatile macro environments in the history of our operations. Negative Impacts towards the gross profit due to negative growth of revenue YOY has slightly offset by the decrease of the cost of sales at same phase leading the Group and Company to report gross profit of LKR 3,807 Mn. and LKR 2,294 Mn. respectively. 76 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital At Group and Company level administration EBIT INTEREST COVERAGE and other expenses as a percentage of revenue remained as 8.66% [2018/19: 5.84%] LKR Mn. % LKR Mn. % and 4.51% [2018/19: 4.09 %] respectively. This 6,000 25 1,250 7.50 increase was mainly due to compromise in productivity and efficiency followed by first 4,800 20 1,000 6.00 ever pandemic situation in early 2020. 3,600 15 750 4.50 Despite all the challenging external factors 2,400 10 500 3.00 the core business of the Company was able to record a 102.87% significant growth 1,200 5 250 1.50 of other income mainly contributed by the dividend income from Access Realties 0 0 0 0 (Pvt.) Ltd. with the support of its subsidiary 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Access Realties 2 which operated 100% during the year. Group EBIT (LKR Mn.) Interest expenses – Group (LKR Mn.) At Group level other Income has reported Company EBIT (LKR Mn.) Interest expenses – Company (LKR Mn.) LKR 599 Mn. against the LKR 482 Mn. Group EBIT margin (%) Interest coverage – Group (%) reported in 2018/19 which is supported Company EBIT margin (%) Interest coverage – Company (%) by a revaluation of Investment property. The Group and the Company level EBIT Finance expenses Taxation stood at LKR 2,678 Mn. and LKR 3,018 Mn. YOY interest expenses of the Group and The effective tax rates for 2019/20 remained respectively despite the reduction of the Company slightly decreased from at 46.91% and 22.77% respectively at Group gross profit margin Impact with negative LKR 1,071 Mn. to LKR 1,023 Mn. and from and Company level as opposed to 28.23% impact of the turnover. This is one of the LKR 666 Mn. to LKR 614 Mn. mainly with the and 22.91% respectively in 2018/19. Group key year that Group reaped the benefit reduction of interest rate for borrowings level income tax expenses was increased of diversifying the business into property and less average loan book value during mainly due to the deferred tax provision development from its core business of the period under review. related to Access Realties (Pvt.) Ltd. and construction. excluding that provision overall effective Similarly interest income of the Group and tax rate has reduced YOY. EBITDA the Company recorded LKR 359 Mn. and LKR 216 Mn. respectively where excess cash LKR Mn. % Company level effective tax during the period time to time at Company 6,000 25 level has positively impacted towards rate will reduce in 2020/21 increase of fixed deposit interest income. 4,800 20 due to the reduction of 3,600 15 In additional to the impact of Group level corporate tax rate reduced reduction of EBIT compared to previous from 28% to 14% effective 2,400 10 year, Group interest coverage ratio has declined from 3.90 to 2.62 times marginally. from 1 January 2020. 1,200 5 0 0 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Group EBITDA (LKR Mn.) Company EBITDA (LKR Mn.) Group EBITDA margin (%) Company EBITDA margin (%) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 77 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Profit After Tax (PAT) In the year under review the Directors have ASSET DECOMPOSITION – GROUP approved one interim dividend of LKR 0.25 The after tax profit for the period ended per share (final dividend 2018/19 was 31 March 2020 was recorded at LKR 928 Mn. LKR Mn. declared at 0.25) totalling to LKR 500 Mn. 50,000 and LKR 1,927 Mn. respectively at Group during the year. and Company level. Highest contribution 40,000 to Group PAT was from construction sector The Company was able to maintain followed by contribution from ARL 1 and 30,000 a reasonable profit margin and ROE ARL II Towers. despite the continuity of most volatile 20,000 macro environments in the history of our PROFIT AFTER TAX operations fuelled by the Easter Sunday 10,000 attack in April 2019 and the first pandemic LKR Mn. % 0 Sri Lanka had in our lifetime which broke 3,500 12.5 out in early 2020. 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2,800 10.0 During this year also, continuous focus 2,100 7.5 was given on improving efficiency of Property, plant and equipment “procurement activities” for better working Inventories and other receivables 1,400 5.0 capital management. Cash and short-term deposits 700 2.5 Acquisition of 100% of WUS Logistics Other current assets 0 0 Private Limited which is involved in the 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 construction of the largest single roof Aligned with the reduction of revenue warehouse will contribute positively in during the period at Group and Company Group level turnover in terms of rental. levels, PPE values reduced by 5.02% and Group PAT (LKR Mn.) Management has identified that continuous 16.08% YOY. focus on diversification will be the key for Company PAT (LKR Mn.) the development and sustainability of this With the commencement of new Group NP margin (%) business in future. operational activities of subsidiaries Group Company NP margin (%) current asset base also stood at LKR 30 Bn. REVIEW OF FINANCIAL POSITION a Growth of 8.80% YOY while Company Earnings per ordinary share was recorded operating current asset base** increased at LKR 0.98 (2018/19: 2.15) and LKR 1.93 Total Non-current asset base of the Group by 18.28% YOY mainly due to increase of (2018/19: 1.96) at Group and Company level and the Company level decreased by 2.18% receivables and upcoming maturity of respectively. to LKR 19.7 Bn. and 3.20% to LKR 18.0 Bn. debenture invested five years ago. respectively, primarily with the limited EPS AND DPS investment on property, plant equipment LKR 3.4 Bn. increase of Group operating and the completed disposal of Horizon current assets and LKR 1.5 Bn. decrease of LKR Holding Ventures Private Limited. the Group operating current liability* which 2.50 result net operating working capital to be GRI 201-4 increased by LKR 4.8 Bn. 2.00 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED 1.50 GRI 201-3 FROM THE GOVERNMENT 1.00 The construction industry was given a DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS concessionary tax rate of 14% with effect AND OTHER RETIREMENT PLANS 0.50 from 1 January 2020. Employees are eligible for the defined 0 contribution plans of Employees’ Provident 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Fund (EPF) and the Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) at the rate of 20% (Employer 12% and Employee – 8%) and 3% on salary. Earnings per share Employees are also entitled to retirement Dividends per share declared 78 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital gratuity. The defined benefit liability of the company as at 31 March 2020 was LKR 279 Mn. (31 March 2019 – LKR 193 Mn.). Payment of liabilities at the point of occurrence will be from the Company's internally generated funds. YOY Growth of Key Working Capital Components Despite the increase of working capital 2019/20 2018/19 Percentage of growth the liquidity position remains strong with LKR LKR % approximately LKR 3.4 Bn. at Group level held in short-term deposits and cash. Group Inventory 8,297,097,495 6,578,633,179 26.12 Capital structure Trade and other receivables 14,064,151,231 13,737,627,879 2.38 The gearing ratio, which is calculated as Trade and other payables 11,012,743,258 12,491,096,071 -11.84 a proportion of the total interest-bearing liabilities to equity, has increased from Company 41.21% to 50.23% and 29.29% to 39.45% at the Inventory 2,269,730,808 1,440,013,027 57.62 Group and the Company Level respectively. Trade and other receivables 11,393,520,734 10,084,363,584 12.98 Company level short-term borrowings Trade and other payables 7,151,916,529 8,528,943,819 -16.15 increased from LKR 402 Mn. to LKR 8,099 Mn. mainly due to upcoming redemption of At Company level total increase of current asset along with the increase of current liability LKR 5 Bn. Debentures within the period of which results a 4.44 Bn. Increase in total net working capital. 2020/21 and as well as further investment in working capital. ** Operating current assets = Current assets – Short-term Investments – Short-term deposits * Operating current liability = Current liability – Short-term borrowings At a the Group level and the Company level the majority of assets were funded by equity at 49% and 55% respectively, which WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENT – GROUP results lower financial leverage compared LKR Mn. to the industry which results for further expansion additional to the benefit of Working capital – 2018/19 12,378 reducing borrowing rates. 3,351 OP current assets 1,477 OP current liabilities Working capital – 2019/20 17,206 WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENT – COMPANY LKR Mn. Working capital – 2018/19 6,243 2,771 OP current assets 1,668 OP current liabilities Working capital – 2019/20 10,682 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 79 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Table of ratio analysis EQUITY AND LIABILITIES – GROUP LKR Mn. 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 50,000 Financial leverage 40,000 Group (Times) 2.05 2.04 1.93 1.67 1.7 30,000 Company (Times) 1.80 1.81 1.85 1.65 1.6 20,000 10,000 Summary – Review of financial performance and financial position ROE is the final outcome of financial performance and the financial position. Amidst 0 continuity of the macro challenges with more focus towards tightening the expenses and 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 exploiting new market opportunities. Company has reported a over 9.38% ROE for the reporting period. Shareholders’ funds With the strategies implemented to further diversification and the expected increase Non-current liabilities of dividend income from subsidiary companies upward trending ROE is expected in future. Current liabilities For a further Breakdown analysis of the ROE, please refer the Annual ROE Decomposition Tree. Non-controlling interest ROE (Company) = Net profit margin x Asset turnover x Financial leverage % % Times Times GEARING RATIO 2019/20 9.38 10.76 0.48 1.80 % 2018/19 10.28 10.13 0.56 1.81 50 2017/18 10.68 10.64 0.54 1.85 40 30 Subsidiary – Consolidated review of financial performance and financial position 20 Access Realties (Private) Limited (ARL) 10 The Company’s fully owned subsidiary Access Realties (Private) Limited, which is the owner and the managing agent of Access Tower I and Access Tower II, gross profits amounting to 0 LKR 908 Mn. and LKR 250 Mn. respectively at the Group and the Company level while the 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Company enjoyed high gross margins of 86%. Addition to this Access Elevate (Pvt) Ltd. which is 100% owned by Access Realties (Private) Group Limited contributed by LKR 280 Mn. to the total turnover of the Group as restaurant, banquet Company and membership fee. 80 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Sathosa Motors PLC Future outlook TENANT ANALYSIS OF ACCESS TOWER I During the year under review Sathosa Our goal is to provide high return on Motors PLC which has the franchise in investments to our shareholders for Sri Lanka for Isuzu motor vehicles and the trust they have placed on Access 18% spare parts manufactured by Isuzu Motors Engineering. Each year, our strategy is to Limited of Japan generated a top line of achieve a higher profit after tax to invest 45% LKR 4,196 Mn. and LKR 2,561 Mn. at Group in ventures that would result in substantial 14% and Company level. returns. Assessing the challenges from the operating environment and the uncertainty Recorded a loss of LKR 80 Mn. and that stems from the COVID-19 pandemic, we 9% LKR 81 Mn. respectively at the Group and will attempt to maintain our dividend policy Company level, which is also due to the of declaring 40% to 50% out of Company finance costs incurred during the year, on profits. With a view to better manage 14% the bank borrowings used for business the working capital, we will strengthen expansion initiatives, with investments in the treasury management system in the land, buildings, workshops, and subsidiaries Company. Further, we will strengthen Less than 5 years amounting to over LKR 1.3 Bn. The business internal control procedures and closely was also negatively impacted by the monitor the performance of our 6-10 years recent import restrictions imposed for the subsidiaries and our investments. 11-15 years strengthening of the Sri Lankan Rupee and 16-20 years frequent changes made to luxury tax. More than 20 years The Company’s gross profit margins at Group and Company level were 18.94% and 16.95% respectively. TENANT ANALYSIS OF ACCESS TOWER II Access Projects (Private) Limited (APL) Top line for the financial year 2019/20 was 5% recorded at LKR 1,913 Mn., with a gross profit of LKR 315 Mn. The margin was 16%. The Company’s net profit for 2019/20 was LKR 82 Mn. 95% 1 year 2 years ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 81 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019/20 2018/19 LKR LKR Value created Gross revenue 17,917,039,628 19,356,105,575 (-) Cost of goods and services (Excluding depreciation and remuneration to employees) (12,813,159,732) (13,236,742,742) Value added from operations 5,103,879,896 6,119,362,833 Other income 1,314,228,230 647,816,174 Finance income 216,975,308 154,440,941 Total value created 6,635,083,434 6,921,619,948 Value distributed Operating costs 153,623,929 370,523,697 Remuneration to the employees 2,351,847,602 2,429,645,077 Directors’ fees and remuneration 26,530,000 24,790,000 Community investments 16,443,795 12,563,806 Government levies 5,410,459 2,597,831 Corporate taxes 624,177,692 652,117,427 Interest cost 614,173,801 666,142,500 Non-controlling interest – – Dividends 500,000,000 500,000,000 Total value distributed 4,292,207,278 4,658,380,337 Total value retained 2,342,876,156 2,263,239,611 Total value distributed and retained 6,635,083,434 6,921,619,948 Value retained Profit retained 1,463,025,881 1,380,965,724 Depreciation and amortisation 879,850,275 882,273,887 Total value retained 2,342,876,156 2,263,239,611 82 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Manufactured Capital Our manufactured capital includes all the The machinery we possess include, piling peers, and enabled us to perform tasks physical and technological objects that machines, grab machines, crawler and faster. We invested LKR 22.4 Mn. during the support our day-to-day operations and in tower cranes, pavers, pump cars, drilling year to further improve our IT capabilities. the delivery of our services. It includes our machines, formwork systems, mobile cranes, physical assets such as land, buildings, motor graders, excavators, Kelly bars, wheel Production plants production plants, quarries we have leased, loaders, micro trenching machines, HDD heavy machinery and equipment fleet, and machines, concrete mixers, silos, desanders, Following our strategy to vertically integrate furniture. Being in the construction sector, rollers, shotcrete machines, compactors, our operations, we have become a leader our manufactured capital plays a vital role loaders, trailers, grouting machines, cable in the production of construction-related in our day-to-day operations, facilitates our blowing machines, weigh bridge systems, materials. We have an extensive network growing business needs, and helps maintain air compressors and other construction of production plants located at strategic optimum service delivery to our clients. equipment we continuously use in the locations that allow us to execute our Further, manufactured capital comprise day-to-day business. projects efficiently. Understanding the market the state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, which and demand potential for construction includes our ERP system, we have in place During the year we invested over LKR 189.7 Mn. material, we will further invest in production to support our operations. in our heavy machinery and equipment plants to cater to ever increasing demand. fleet. Bulk of this investment was towards upgrading our piling fleet including new Our production plants are located in the CAPACITY BUILDING additions to desanders, mobile cranes, following areas: LKR Mn. piling rigs, winch machines and a new ´´Asphalt plants are located in 875 aluminium formwork system. Kotadeniyawa, Mathugama, Mailapitiya, Giriulla, and Vavuniya. The total installed 700 capacity was 536 TPH. AGING OF THE MACHINERY FLEET 525 ´´Crusher plants are located at Mirigama, 1% Vavuniya and Mathugama. The total 350 installed capacity was 390 TPH. 175 ´´Concrete batching plants are located in 34% Kandana, Mabima, Peliyagoda, Balapitya, 0 and Wattala with a total installed 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 capacity of 315 m3/h. ´´Quarries are located in Vavuniya, Hakmana, Wallallavita and Mirigama. Buildings 65% Furniture and fittings FUTURE OUTLOOK Motor vehicles Office equipment In this challenging context, we must invest 0-5 years Other construction equipment wisely to stay ahead of our competition. 5-10 years We will strengthen our manufactured Plant and machinery capital by continuous investments that 10-15 years Tools and equipment provide us a competitive edge. Our vertical integration requires strategic investments 65% of our fleet of machinery had a lifespan to take further control of our supply chain. HEAVY CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES, less than 5 years, 34% a lifespan between We also continue to expand our production EQUIPMENT, AND MACHINERY 5-10 years and the balance 1% a lifespan plants and workshops and increasing their over 10 years. capacity to meet market requirements. We possess heavy construction vehicles, While our equipment and machinery equipment, and machinery that help us with IT Infrastructure requires continuous maintenance, we have the systematic running of our operations as to regularly invest to replace our ageing well as generate additional revenue in the We possess state-of-the-art IT infrastructure fleet. Our investments in bolstering our form of hiring income. We have a dedicated that supports and streamlines our IT infrastructure too is seen as a timely unit in place, the Central Equipment Division day-to-day operations. These include, necessity, given that technology will (CED) to regularly maintain the machinery latest servers, storages, firewalls, backup facilitate our operations, especially during by regular service and supervision. This systems and the Company ERP systems and an unprecedented challenge such as the designated team ensures the safe operation the DMS. This has contributed to improved COVID-19 pandemic. of the machinery, equipment, and vehicles. efficiencies, a competitive edge over our ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 83 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital Our intellectual capital includes We have been recognised as one of the We are the only company from our sector brand, corporate culture, systems, most “preferred partners” among the to be selected to the “Category of 10 Best knowledge-based assets such as licenses, international community and the overseas Corporate Citizens” by the Ceylon Chamber software, procedures and protocols, and contractors who are in Sri Lanka. We have of Commerce for three consecutive years the accumulated internal knowledge collaborated with them and jointly executed 2017, 2018, and 2019. Moreover, we were once that lead to improvement in operational a number of projects from around the again the recipient of the gold award for excellence. These components, combined world. Some examples include: China, construction companies at the annual with our expertise, provide us with a Hungary, Australia, United Kingdom, USA, CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards. competitive advantage in the industry and Japan, Malaysia, Korea, Spain, and etc. helps us generate returns on investment SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES while enhancing our efficiency. As a forerunner in utilising technology, we have introduced several unconventional and The systems and processes that are in place innovative construction methodologies to at Access Engineering help us to deliver THE ACCESS ENGINEERING BRAND the Sri Lankan market. Some of them include value engineering to our customers. We the Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) and utilise the latest IT technology that includes The uniqueness of the micro trenching method of cable installation hardware, software, firewalls, and servers. Access Engineering brand in telecommunication works, use of post We regularly upgrade our systems to stay tensioning and the aluminium formwork ahead of the curve and to streamline stems from our philosophy system in high rise building construction and operations. Most of our critical company on actualising our vision diaphragm wall for basement construction operations that include finance and “To be the foremost Sri among several others. Moreover, we are one controlling, material management, sales and of the most “preferred employers” in the distribution, project systems, production Lankan business enterprise industry with an undisputed retention ratio planning, plant maintenance, equipment in value engineering”. above industry average. and tool management run on SAP. In this endeavour, we have been quite Further, we are the only civil engineering We have introduced an ERP system, the successful. At present, we are one of company in Sri Lanka who is a signatory first construction company to do so, the most accredited civil engineering to the United Nations Global Compact that works on the latest smartphones companies as per the accreditations given and to be a member in good standing of and touch devices and has made the by the Construction Industry Development Trace International, UK for anti-bribery approval process more efficient. We also Authority (CIDA) having the highest compliance. We are a Patron Member of have an internal team capable of giving the Business and Biodiversity Platform solutions for various operational problems accreditation across the most number of of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, a encountered during the operation of SAP. disciplines. We are a “Major and Specialist” member in good standing of the National This in-house team which is highly skilled, contractor accredited by the National Chamber of Commerce and one of the very trained and experienced in the system is Construction Association of Sri Lanka. few companies accredited by the Institute capable of doing system modifications and We possess the fourth largest “market of Engineers of Sri Lanka to train engineers enhancements where necessary to make capitalisation” in the “Capital Goods” GICS for their professional charter review. operations smoother. We have environment Industry Group of the Colombo Stock Exchange. One of the three companies in and H&S Management systems that adhere We are the only company in Sri Lanka to the ISO requirements and continuous the “Capital Goods” GICS Industry Group to partner China Harbour Engineering user training is provided with regular which was a constituent of the S&P SL 20 Company (CHEC), the developer and audits. The “SAP Fiori” system provides index of the CSE during the year 2019/20. investor of the Colombo International a set of applications on compatible Financial City as an investment partner and hand-held devices enabling to perform In keeping with our strategy to become the only company in the world to partner certain business functions. “SAP Fiori” is vertically integrated, we possess expertise ZPMC China as a JV partner to carry out port user friendly, more secured, more efficient, in a number of fields such as engineering equipment maintenance operations. and facilitates a faster approval process. designs, foundations, workshops, production of construction materials, Our document management system (DMS) We have also affected partnerships with tracks, manages, and stores documents construction projects and also forward global giants like Vestas, the world’s while reducing paper usage, costs, and integrated functions of real estate. largest wind turbine manufacturer, and negative environmental impact from Michelin, the world’s second largest tire paper waste. manufacturer to construct Sri Lanka’s largest warehouse for Camso. 84 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital We maintain an in-house library with reference materials on paper and electronic media on civil engineering and project management. Further, we publish Access Engineering “News Within” editorial quarterly newsletters with information about construction projects, sustainability initiatives, technological advancements, human capital, and financial performance. We have already seen tangible benefits of these systems that were implemented: In the H&S performance our LTIFR has improved significantly in 2019/20 compared to 2018/19, our employee engagement has significantly improved in the last few years, and we have not incurred any fines or quality failures during the year. Systems upgraded, automated or digitalised in 2019/20 Upgrades to existing systems ´´SAP system version upgrade from EhP 6 to EhP 8 in 2019 ´´Successfully upgraded the VMware and SUSE Linux kernels to support latest SAP EhP 8 version ´´Upgraded the core firewall system to prevent latest virus attacks Completed during the year ´´The Company health and safety management system was upgraded to meet the requirements of latest international health and safety standard ISO 45001:2018, and got certified for the standard, in June 2019. ´´Use of a digital monitoring system which is an app that can be installed into smart devices. Functions such as QAQC planning, granting approvals can be easily performed via the app. The system is currently used in the Bluemendal Housing Project. Under implementation ´´SAP HR module with a plan to process company payroll through the SAP system Future plans ´´A fully-automated individual data backup system ´´Tendering E-procurement system PROCUREMENT POLICY As a leading construction firm in the industry, a sound procurement policy is needed to carry out business with our extensive suppliers and the supply chain. We have established mutually beneficial, long-standing relationships through our procurement policy as well as maintained transparent, sustainable practices. The policy carefully outlines the steps to follow in the procurement of construction materials, goods and services in an environmentally-friendly manner. We also focus on effective and efficient procurement arrangements that maximise value, minimise cost and support achievement of company’s long-term and short-term objectives. The term supplier includes all suppliers local and foreign, subcontractors who are engaged to provide goods, services and works to AEL. AEL’s procurement policy provides guidance to employees on delegated authority levels to purchase goods, services, and works. Further, in the procurement process we always take into consideration environmental, quality and safety impact of activities and try our best to maintain compliance with the relevant standards applicable to environment, quality, and health and safety. We do periodic evaluation of suppliers to determine their quality and if they do not meet our standards we revoke their vendor status. For more information about our procurement practices, suppliers, and supply chain, please refer to page 109. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 85 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital GRI 102-16 investment in training and development persons or entities that provide goods focusing on new engineering disciplines, or services under contract including all CORPORATE CULTURE all of which contributes to creating engaged our subcontractors and labour suppliers. The corporate culture of our Company is employees. Moreover, the open-door The financial audit and the systems guided by our Vision, Mission, and core culture that prevails at AEL has helped audit ensures stability, adequacy, and Values. The foremost elements of our with grievance handling and resolution. effectiveness. Moreover, we have a culture is striving for excellence and the whistle-blowing policy in place that assures practice of value engineering which is the Another critical differentiator of AEL’s confidentiality and no risk of reprisal. basis of everything we do. The practice unique culture is our rigorous monitoring of project and plant performance through of value engineering has enabled us to Research and development consistently deliver our clients better progress and performance review meetings held every month for each ongoing project AEL has pioneered and introduced a solutions that are more efficient and and production plant. While enabling number of innovations to the sector since effective, durable, less costly and faster. effective project management over the its inception. The more challenging the project is better is the opportunity for value engineering. years these review meetings have proven to This has also been our key competitive be a platform for brain storming, knowledge We undertake research advantage over the years. sharing, and sharing of best practices. and development with There exists a culture of accountability, Anti-corruption and integrity various reputed bodies to transparency, responsibility at Access improve current practices, At AEL, there is zero tolerance of corruption Engineering where we take responsibility and unethical behaviour which is to encourage innovation, for our impact on the community, communicated to our employees through: environment, and society as a whole. and to take the industry We willingly comply with all the necessary ´´The orientation of new employees regulations to provide the best possible where they are introduced to the forward. service to our clients. In being accountable, Company culture we are committed to sustainability that This year we collaborated with the ´´Code of Ethics is at the heart of all our operations. We University of Moratuwa to explore the ´´The policy on disciplinary management possibility of using scrap tyres in gabion have integrated sustainability measures to all our operations which include the ´´Adequately addressing conflict of wall construction. use of environmentally-friendly solutions interest in construction, use of innovative and VALUE ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS ´´Annual Key Staff Forum meeting headed unconventional construction methods, INTRODUCED IN 2019/20 by the MD use of renewable energy and efficient use of raw materials to more focused Over the years, we have pioneered a We enforce anti-corruption through: corporate social responsibility projects. number of technological innovations Our commitment to sustainability has ´´Internal audit function to the sector and we continue to enabled us to continuously deliver improve value engineering solutions by ´´Systems audit function superior performance despite being adapting unconventional techniques and ´´Compliance committee state-of-the-art methodology. Here are in a challenging industry. ´´Annual renewal of TRACE Membership some of the value engineering solutions We give utmost priority to learning and where an annual surveillance is adapted in 2019/20: development which is enabled through carried out ´´In the Sri Lanka Technological Campus research, knowledge sharing from our joint ´´Whistle-blowing policy (SLTC) – Hostel Building project ventures with international bodies, the drive we utilised the existing landscape to use the latest innovative, unconventional ´´Audits by principals and partners and design in building a G+3-story methodologies, and others. Further, AEL accommodation building. The design rewards performance through various Our anti-corruption efforts apply to was made so that minimum excavations means such as: monetary rewards in the persons who are not employees but are and clearing of trees was needed. Design form of increments, profit sharing schemes, authorised to act on behalf of the Company was made according to existing land and incentives and non-monetary rewards or represent it such as consultants elevations to get the maximum natural in the form of promotion, recognition, and while it also encompass non-controlled lighting and air ventilation keeping the natural growth of trees and surrounding. 86 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital ´´Construction of Nanotechnology NOTABLE RECOGNITION AND GRI 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Building – Homagama: This project is AWARDS IN 2019/20 carried out following the Leadership COMPLIANCE in Energy and Environmental Design As a testament to our striving for excellence The effective operation of all the (LEED) system. This is the most widely and the execution of our core ethos of components discussed in intellectual used green building rating system in value engineering, we were recognised with capital has driven Access Engineering the world. The design of the building awards and prizes in 2019/20, by a number to conduct business in an open and a showcases following features: Natural of institutions. Below is a selection of some transparent manner complying with all lighting, water efficiency, passive of our awards we received during the year: the necessary regulatory requirements. heating/cooling, eco-friendly features ´´Annual Report Awards 2019 (Construction We are happy to report that there were through the use of solar panels. We Companies – Gold) awarded by The no incidents of non-compliance reported integrated other features such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of within the year. external skin of the buildings which is Sri Lanka for the third consecutive year. a modular shading device to minimise ´´Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability FUTURE OUTLOOK solar exposure thereby reducing Award – 2019 (Category of Ten Best the energy demand of the internal Corporate Citizens) awarded by The Our vertical-integration ventures as well as air-conditions that is compulsory Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for the our investments into diversified businesses for the scientific instrumentation. third consecutive year. will help the Group grow further as well as ´´Bloemendal Housing project: A new increase our knowledge pool. The ongoing ´´CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting plastering machine is used in this joint venture projects with international Awards – 2019 (Best Integrated Report – project which is more efficient and partners continue to foster our construction Trade and Commerce Sector) awarded productive. arm where we adapt the latest technologies by CMA Sri Lanka. available in the industry. Over the years, ´´Central Expressway project: The use of we have pioneered many innovative beam launcher, a highly efficient system For the full list of awards and recognitions techniques and unconventional methods in for construction of bridges with concrete please refer to page 288. our operations. Thus, our knowledge base beams girder “I”, “T”, “M”, and “U” beams. improves every year. We will also improve Some advantages of the Beam Launcher and upgrade our internal management (BL) include: Fast and efficient beam systems to improve environmental, quality, erection, ease of assembly, reduced and health and safety performance. manpower usage, no temporary ground supports are required, self-launching, and easy to adapt. AEL also used Beam Trolleys (BT) to deliver the pre-cast beams and subsequently picked up by the Beam Launcher for setting into the final position. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 87 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-8, 102-41, 402-1, 405-2 Human Capital We consider our employees to be our religion, or ethnicity. Further, we maintain Total staff province wise greatest asset and our workforce is made an equal ratio of basic salary remuneration up of skilled, committed individuals who between men and women. Workforce execute their roles in a highly professional S/No. Province Staff Daily paid manner. At AEL, we provide our employees AEL employees are not covered under the labourers with a space that encourages learning and collective bargaining agreement and there development and career progression in a are no trade unions operating within AEL. 1. Western 1,379 593 rapidly changing business environment. We take into account the views of our 2. Central 21 9 employees when implementing significant 3. Northern 204 202 From recruitment onwards, we try to instill operational changes and have in place a our corporate values in our employees minimum notice period which is specifically 4. Southern 19 15 to fulfil our strategic imperatives and for mentioned in the employee handbook. 5. North Western 30 65 the smooth running of operations. We 6. North Central 46 0 incentivise our employees to keep them Due to the nature of our business, engaged and we empower them by focusing guaranteeing health and safety parameters Total 1,699 884 on professional development. All our is an absolute priority for AEL. We try to employees are offered equal opportunities create a safety culture in all our operations GRI 202-1, 202-2 based on their skills. to prevent occupational risks, hygiene, safety and health conditions, and the RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION As an equal opportunity employer, we do quality of life in the workplace. not discriminate based on gender, race, Given the nature of our industry, there is a dearth of highly-skilled workers. As a GRI 405-1 leading player in the sector, our recruitment strategy is aimed at attracting the best WORKFORCE PROFILE IN 2019/20 possible talent and then developing Total workforce by age and gender their skills and experience to make them a valuable asset to the Company. Our Age category Male % Female % Total % recruitment and remuneration policy are in place to streamline recruitment. We Age < = 30 471 28 68 4 539 32 offer positions and remuneration packages 30 < age < 50 952 56 63 4 1,015 60 without taking into consideration gender Age > = 50 142 8 3 – 145 8 or any other biases. The stringent process consists of three policies namely, Employee Total 1,565 92 134 8 1,699 100 interview and selection guide, Guideline on employee induction, and Policy on staff recruitment, selection, placement. There Total daily-paid labourers by age and gender were a total of 316 industrial placements offered during the period. Age category Male % Female % Total % Age <=30 393 45 2 – 395 45 Recruitment for our Senior Management 30 < age < 50 364 41 – – 364 41 is done locally. The existing Senior Management Team are all hired from Age >= 50 123 14 2 – 125 14 the local community. There were no Total 880 100 4 – 884 100 recruitments for Senior Management during the year. Total staff by category (excluding labour) Category Total Management professional 165 Technical 491 Clerical and supportive (Operational) 427 Skilled and unskilled 616 Total 1,699 88 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital GRI 401-1 GRI 404-1 New recruitments by gender TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (excluding labour) Operating in a highly competitive, changeable landscape due to the nature of the sector Male % Female % Total as well as the increasing digitalisation of the sector, we offer training programmes that meet the needs of the present and prepare our employees for the future. Digitalisation 427 92 38 8 465 has brought about disruptive changes as well as groundbreaking innovations in the field of construction. Over the years, we have become pioneers of the industry by adapting the latest methodologies and techniques and investing in state-of-the-art machinery. Through New recruitments by category our training programmes, including on-the-job, in-house, and external training in both (excluding labour)* local and foreign locations, sponsorships, and others, we provide our employees with opportunities for professional development and furthering their careers. Category Total A total of LKR 6.56 Mn. was invested on training and development. There was a total of Management and professional 34 62 external and 115 internal training programmes conducted during the reporting year with Technical 129 a participation of 2,677 employees. The number of total training hours stood at 17,807 hours. There was an average of 9.6 hours for staff and 1.8 hours for labourers. Clerical and supportive (Operational) 126 Skilled and unskilled 176 Total 465 62 external and 115 internal * In addition to our staff, there were 893 training programmes labour recruitments during the 2019/20 Financial Year. 2,677 participants Employee turnover by gender (excluding labour) 316 Industrial placements in 2019/20 Male % Female % Total LKR 6.56 Mn. Invested on training and development 353 91 36 9 389 6.9 Average training hours per employee Employee turnover by category (excluding labour)* Category Total Management and professional 29 Technical 70 Clerical and supportive (Operational) 100 AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BASED ON GENDER BASED ON CATEGORY Skilled and unskilled 190 Total 389 Males 6.6 Staff 9.6 * In addition to our staff, there were 845 labour hours hours turnover during the 2019/20 financial year. Females 11.6 Workers 1.8 hours hours ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 89 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital Training Need Analysis (TNA) ´´On-the-job training opportunities (Based on the employee requests as well as company requirements inter-division/inter-subsidiary transfers happen) Using our Training Needs Analysis, we identified the training and development ´´Automated working environment – SAP/HRIS needs of our employees. Individual training ´´The Central Equipment Division where employees are internally trained to maintain requirements are mainly captured through the company owned vehicle fleet annual performance appraisals and ongoing discussions with the Management. GRI 404-2 Divisional/Department Heads play a vital role in identifying gaps and training Training programmes overview needs, where respective HR Departments Internal training programmes are providing a summary of TNA to the Corporate HR Department. Outlined below Internal External are the methods used at present to get inputs for the annual training plan: On-the-Job Trainings Institutional trainings ´´Requests made through performance In-house trainings – (using Company’s Ad hoc trainings appraisals own resources and expertise) ´´Non-compliance reports developed Knowledge sharing sessions Customised trainings (considering organisational through quality management systems/ Industrial training requirements and individual requirements) environmental management systems and health and safety management Internal training programmes Systems audits in the preceding year ´´Interviews conducted through structured Training area Number of programs Total participants Training hours questionnaires among project managers and senior staff to identify training Health and safety 66 908 4,941 needs of their lower level staff members Environmental 4 52 50 ´´Job descriptions are used to identify Technical 45 1,199 6,714 competencies and these are evaluated Total 115 2,159 11,705 against the competency matrix to identify competence gaps ´´Identified training needs are External training programmes communicated to Corporate HR Department for the preparation Training area Number of training Total participants Training hours of Company-wide learning and programmes conducted training plan. Health and safety 5 44 670 An employee evaluation system is Environmental 1 5 35 maintained by the Human Resource Technical 56 469 5,397 Department where all employees are evaluated annually. This enables the Total 62 518 6,102 Management to identify the capabilities of employees as well as the areas that needs to be improved. Creating a learning culture at AEL Our goal is to create a learning culture at AEL through innovative learning and development AEL’s internal capacity initiatives. The following steps have contributed to creating a learning culture at AEL: Access Engineering is equipped with a strong internal training capability as Knowledge sharing is a habit described below: Across Access Engineering, we engage in different types of projects where the methods and ´´Pool of internal trainers techniques used for one project may differ from another. We have provided an opportunity for the best-performing employees to share their experience in knowledge sharing sessions ´´Modern training room facilities with employees at the same level. This has become one of the popular initiatives at AEL. 90 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital Guidance to charter New ideas/innovation is encouraged Challenges faced in employee training Becoming a Chartered Engineer is the Learning is not just an opportunity to We faced the following challenges in ultimate objective of any engineer. We guide gain new skills and knowledge, but also executing our training and development every fresh engineering graduate towards to explore and understand new ways of programmes in the Company: achieving the Chartered status. Voluntary doing things. The culture of learning goes class room trainings are conducted by hand in hand with our organisational Engaging learners with training Chartered Engineers for fresh graduates. culture where new ideas are welcomed at This initiative is also considered as a all levels. By encouraging innovation within Ensuring that employees are fully engaged method of transferring tacit knowledge the Organisation, employees are naturally with the learning platform and content is a to the next level. going to want to learn as much as they problem faced in training and development. can in order to springboard new thinking. This is mainly because the trainee either This could mean wanting to be involved cannot understand the objectives or does Learning is a part of our overall in specific learning interventions, but it not see the relevance of training to him or strategy could also mean a desire to learn from one her. Sometimes, it may be that the mode of At Access Engineering, learning is another and see what other people around delivery feels stale and uninteresting. considered as a part of the company the business are doing. overall strategy where we adopt the 70, Delivering consistent training 20, 10 principle of training. We believe Financial support for learning It increases the difficulty of providing in 70% of on-the-job experience, 20% of mentoring and 10% of classroom/ At employees’ request and upon approval consistent training due to projects/plants lecture style trainings. Knowledge and of his/her superior, Company provides being geographically dispersed and with the experience gained from each project is financial support for employees to pursue pressure of project completion time frames. immense and knowledge sharing sessions their higher education. Our intention is play a tremendous role in disseminating to encourage employees to persue their Quantifying training effectiveness knowledge across the Organisation. postgraduate studies and to increase It is challenging to figure out which metrics their contribution towards business while to use and how to incorporate them into building their own career. Employees Transparency post-training assessments. Apart from who are engaged in higher education are Company has a structured career path enhancing knowledge and skills, measuring encouraged to study company processes along with a linked salary structure. training effectiveness has proven to be and procedures to suggest optimum Employees are aware about their career an important tool to boost employee solutions to the Company. stages within the Organisation and engagement and retention. Results and requirements that need to be fulfilled. We measurements of past training also act as Resources are easily accessible critical indicators while planning future provide respective training by identifying their competency gaps to build the next The Company maintained library within workshops. generation of employees to the Company. our corporate office premise facilitates Employees are provided clear information knowledge enhancement at no cost. Different learning habits as to what learning is available to them and Current workforce consists of different age how they can go about requesting it. Time is provided for employees groups. As an example, they have a radically to reflect different relationship with technology. Cross-team communication Therefore those employees have different Some of the most powerful and lasting learning experiences happen not just from learning habits. Cross-department the experience itself, but from the learners communication plays a taking the time to reflect, assess and ask questions once the intervention is over. major role in our learning We have implemented PDCA concept for strategy. We encourage process improvement and employees cross team employees can continually suggest and implement process improvements with the consent to engage more and to of their superior. share expertise outside the confines of their own teams. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 91 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital GRI 401-2 Monetary Non-monetary Employee benefits ´´Fair and transparent compensation ´´A well reputed employer brand We offer our employees myriad benefits to keep them incentivised, to raise their levels ´´Grade specific benefits such as ´´Overseas exposure via factory and field Company-maintained vehicles, drivers, visits, joint execution of projects with of engagement, and to attract and retain dedicated parking, mobile phones, international partners talent. These benefits keep our employees and others motivated to achieve operational objectives. ´´Exposure to well-known industry experts The following outlines the benefits offered ´´Annual bonuses ´´A wide range of training and development by AEL to its employees: ´´Performance-based rewards and incentives opportunities both internal and external ´´Payment of professional subscriptions ´´Cross functional team building and List of benefits available to full-time ´´Surgical and hospitalisation cover training employees ´´Various employee engagement events ´´Medical reimbursement scheme i. Performance-based recognition such as the employee get together, trips, ´´Providing scholarships to children of sports carnival, and others ii. Career development employees ´´Providing employees with recreation iii. Annual bonus ´´Death donation facilities such as facilities for sports iv. Performance-based incentives ´´Festival advances ´´Employee recognition programmes v. Surgical and hospitalisation coverage ´´Provision of snacks for morning and (extended to the whole family) evening tea ´´A cheerful working environment vi. Festival advance ´´Exposure to latest working and vii. Morning and evening tea with snacks operating systems such as the ERP, viii. Annual staff outing DMS, Smart Boards ix. Sports day ´´Corporate t-shirts x. Christmas carnival ´´Library facilities xi. Providing meals and transport when working extended hours/on holidays GRI 401-3 xii. Library facilities Parental leave xiii. Corporate T-shirts As per the Shop and Office Act, all female employees are entitled to maternity leave. xiv. Personal accident and death insurance We provide 84 working days leave for all child births. coverage xv. Death donations Parental leave during 2019/20 List of benefits available to temporary Number of employees entitled to parental leave 138 or part time employees Number of employees that took parental leave 10 i. Surgical and hospitalisation coverage Number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended 5 (extended to the whole family) Number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work 7 ii. Personal accident and death insurance coverage iii. Accommodation facilities iv. Target-based allowances 92 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital Work-life balance Similarly employees who are located will approve and recommend promotions island wide at our construction sites and increments in discussion with the We promote work-life balance to ensure and production plants are provided Corporate Management. that our employees are paying attention with air-conditioned office premises, to all aspects of their lives and not just accommodation, dining areas with a their employment. The type of work is often HEALTH AND SAFETY kitchen, adequate sanitary facilities, labour intensive and can be physically and security, and other facilities. Given the nature of our industry and psychologically exhausting. The activities our operations, we have taken stringent that we promote have a positive effect on Involvement of employees in measures to ensure the health and safety increasing cohesion and productivity of CSR activities of all our employees, not only on our work our team where they feel the belonging to sites but at our office premises as well. Access Engineering family. To promote the spirit of volunteerism and Safety precautions and measures must be charity, we encourage our employees to strictly adhered to while working on sites With exception to the compulsory leave take an active part in our CSR activities. to prevent work-related accidents and entitlements, confirmed employees are CSR activities are endorsed by the Board other occupational hazards. We have made entitled for seven days medical leave per and the Senior Management is involved workplace safety our top priority for our annum. If an employee faces an accident in their execution which motivates all employees as well as our subcontractors during work or otherwise, employees are employees to take part. There is also a and suppliers. Our health and safety given paid leave-addition to the seven days separate budget available for CSR projects management system is currently certified of medical leave. and cross functional teams are put in for ISO 45001:2018. charge to manage them. We also consider We encourage employees to participate in employee participation in CSR activities at our employee engagement initiatives such their performance appraisals. We are happy COVID-19 workplace preparedness as annual staff outing, Christmas carnival to report that our employees at proactively and response guide (Family event), sports carnival etc. HR staff involved in our projects during the year is trained in employee counselling and with great enthusiasm. Access Engineering PLC, employees are given the opportunity to formulated a “COVID-19 contact them even in case of a personal GRI 404-3 issue. Confidentiality is highly assured Workplace Preparedness in the process. Employees are regularly PERFORMANCE EVALUATION and Response Guide” prior trained on skills that are required to We evaluate our employees through a fair, to resuming operations, as maintain a proper work-life balance. transparent performance management system. Our Performance Measurement the very first step. A stimulating working environment efforts has further streamlined the process. The performance management system at Further, following initiatives were taken and Our work environment is interesting and are still in force, to ensure prevention of Access Engineering serves two purposes: stimulating where employees are provided COVID-19: It acts, firstly as an evaluation system, and with an engaging environment to work in. secondly as a feedback system. The primary ´´Educating and making employees aware We have such a unique office layout design aim of the evaluation system is to identify of COVID-19 control measures and best at our corporate office where open office strengths of the person and performance practices concept is in place. gaps while the main aim of the feedback ´´Requesting employees to self-declare system is to inform the employee about the Access Tower which is the Company’s their health condition, prior to reporting quality of his/her performance. We conduct corporate headquarters is an “A-Graded” to work performance evaluation discussions and office complex located in the Central our employees are continually appraised ´´Enforcing controls when entering the Business District of Colombo 02. Access during the year. Every employee is given an office and worksites (e.g. mandating Tower is housed with all the facilities of opportunity to conduct a self-evaluation wearing of masks, checking of a modern building including adequate against theirs’ and their department’s temperature, frequent cleaning of lighting, air-conditioning, backup power, KPIs. A preliminary evaluation is done by hands, etc.) water, sanitary facilities, lunch rooms with the immediate supervisor which will be ´´Limiting workers physically reporting to open views of the Colombo skyline, security, reviewed by the Head of the Department/ work, by carefully selecting, considering and others. Project Manager with HR personnel and their location of residence, mode of technical personnel. These reviews will be transportation, etc. forwarded to the SGM and Director and they ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 93 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital ´´Managing visitors (mandating declaring The health and safety policy at Access Engineering has outlined the following objectives. of health condition via the Visitor Questionnaire) ´´Making arrangements to work from Occupational disease rate ZERO home, wherever feasible ´´Cleaning and disinfecting common touchpoints and areas, periodically Fatalities ´´Reorganising layouts at sites to maintain adequate distance among workers Major injury rate (accommodations, meal rooms, etc.) ´´Providing adequate resources (e.g. face masks, face shields, gloves, sanitisers, disinfecting agents, foot operated Minor injury rate of BELOW FOUR annually sinks, etc.) ´´Having an emergency action plan to act in a suspected COVID-19 case To achieve the objectives mentioned ´´Providing first-aid training to all site staff ´´In the event of a suspected COVID-19 about we carried out numerous initiatives ´´Identifying and conducting patient, having an isolation room to hold throughout the year. The following is a list emergency mock drills to ensure that the suspect until he/she is transferred of measures carried out under the health predetermined responses are adequate to the hospital and safety policy: ´´and effective ´´Decentralising payments to suppliers/ ´´Conducting frequent safety awareness programmes and safety training ´´Site trainings and awareness to work subcontractors, by routing payments to programmes (both internal/external) safely with minimum impact to health respective sites, and directing them to make the payment (to avoid suppliers/ ´´Conducting safety inductions ´´Selection of best “Safety Performer” subcontractors visiting the Head Office) (videos/presentations) among the employees to cultivate a safety culture in sites/plants ´´Identifying health and safety hazards GRI 403-2 ´´Ensuring the competencies of workers and assessing risks associated with such hazards prior to the assignment of high-risk Health and safety parameters activities ´´Establishing and practicing operational Total safety hours 8,265,082 controls based on the results of risk ´´Review of health and safety assessment (e.g. working at heights, performances monthly in the activity Fatalities* 1 working with electricity, welding, centre and annually at Head Office Major accidents** 9 operating heavy vehicles and Minor accidents 4 machinery, etc.) EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE HANDLING Frequency of major accidents 1.09 ´´Identification of Personal Protective We understand the importance of a Frequency of minor accidents 0.48 Equipment (PPE) needs based on the systematic mechanism to handle LTIFR activities carried out, appropriate usage, grievances in a timely, proactive manner (Lost time injury frequency rate) 1.57 and monitoring its effectiveness before they escalate into an issue. We, at ´´Display of safety signage Access Engineering, address grievances in * A fatality is defined as loss of life a fair and equitable manner and all parties ** A major accident is defined as one where the ´´Adhering to OHSAS 45001 health and worker is unable to report to work for three or concerned are given an open, fair hearing. safety management system and strictly more consecutive days due to the accident There were no grievances reported monitoring it during the year. During the year all workers who met with ´´Health and safety audits by the major accidents reported to work after management systems team and by undergoing treatment. No permanent external assurance providers disabilities have been caused due to the said major accidents that occurred during the year. 94 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital GRI 406-1 FUTURE OUTLOOK We use the following INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND Recruitment methods to inculcate a CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN learning and a innovation We offer equal employment opportunities There were no reported incidents of to all employees. As in the previous years culture that challenges discrimination on grounds of race, sex, we will be continuing our initiatives to religion, political opinion, or social origin, strengthen our employer brand in order to existing practices. or other relevant forms of discrimination offer a better employee value preposition. during the year. Further, we always focus on attracting the ´´Benchmarking industry best practices best coming out from universities. Apart at GLOCAL (Global and Local) level from that our rigorous recruitment and ´´Taking suggestions from all levels CHILD LABOUR AND LABOUR RISK selection process ensures getting best ´´Quality circles which have been The internal audit team carries out a risk talent on board. As social media has a big impact over people management we implemented plant/project wise assessment where child labour is one of will be focusing on social media platforms where each employee gives ideas the aspects it focuses on. Our stringent in attracting best potential candidates for continuous improvement of recruitment policy, implemented by the on board. their processes – PDCA HR, strictly adheres to the labour laws of Sri Lanka. The HR Department closely ´´Open door policy that enables monitors all hires in the Company to Retention any employee to convey their ideas, prevent any malpractices. In recruitments suggestions and opinions to the As an organisation we are always providing management the NIC/Birth Certificate is mandatory and a challenging job for each and every age is cross checked before the offering ´´Key Staff Forum – where MD address key employee and a good remuneration on a of employment. There are external audits staff each year and getting suggestions par with the industry. This bond keeps the such as site visits by the District Labour through face to face discussions individual and the Organisation all the time Commissioner or Team at least twice a year. where each position has a clear and a defined career path to pursue their We have introduced innovative techniques REMUNERATION BASED ON GENDER career. Obviously this is the reason to the construction industry which includes for creating a strong institutional and diaphragm wall technique, post tensioning Our remuneration policy does not method for high rise buildings, utilisation individual fit. Further, the Company has a discriminate between gender or any of pre-cast invented concrete tees for clear focus on succession planning and other biases. We maintain an equal ratio underwater concrete works and introducing leadership development. This also has had of basic salary remuneration between men flyover construction to Sri Lanka. a big impact over employee retention. and women. Innovation Commitment Ratio of basic salary and Having a committed workforce is considered remuneration of women to men Access Engineering continuously spreads as a non-monetised asset. In order to have by employee category awareness on the need for improvement and out of the box thinking and motivates a committed workforce we have a unique employees towards it. organisational culture that encourages Category Remuneration– employee engagement at each level. Women/Men Sports activities/Christmas carnival/staff Corporate Management 1:1 outings are such employee engagement initiatives. Additionally, career development Senior Management 1:1 opportunities, open door policy/effective Manager/Assistant Manager 1:1 communication, performance based Senior Executive/Executive 1:1 rewards have made our culture stronger to have a committed workforce. Junior Executive 1:1 Clerical and supportive 1:1 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 95 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital CUSTOMER CAPITAL CUSTOMER MIX by the Construction Industry Development Authority (CIDA) we are allowed to Guided by our ethos of value engineering, undertake projects under the following we offer competitive solutions to our broad engineering disciplines: 3% customer base. Our vast project portfolio ´´Highways and the number of nationally-significant infrastructure projects we have undertaken ´´Water supply and sewerage attest to our leadership position within ´´Buildings the sector. ´´Bridges We deliver tailor-made, personalised ´´Irrigation and land drainage services to our customers from the initial ´´Dredging and reclamation phase of the project until its completion. We adhere to global best practices and ´´Maritime construction are able to offer expertise through our 97% ´´Piling international partnerships that have ´´Soil nailing and stabilisation enabled knowledge sharing. Our diversified business portfolio includes state-of-the-art ´´Electrical installation (Low-tension) solutions that serve all customer needs. Private ´´Heavy steel fabrication Our primary objective is to serve our Public customers by continuous engagement and In addition to above we are also one of exceeding their expectations. the country’s largest construction material VALUE ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS producers including asphalt, ready mix We execute our projects with a view of We are an entity that offer engineering concrete, and crusher products. We also sustainability and our main focus has been acumen of the highest order to generate operate a number of quarries around the on sustainable construction solutions that and deliver optimum value to our country. In the present order book of the help to lower carbon output. This focus on stakeholders which is why we look on our Company the majority of projects are roads sustainable development in turn helps our enterprise as value engineering. In addition and highways, flyovers, buildings, piling, and customers to meet their own carbon and to the number of projects we execute telecommunication projects. energy objectives. in the island, we possess an integrated portfolio of engineering services that Our highly-skilled employees along with CUSTOMER MIX include engineering designs, production state-of-the-art equipment and machinery of construction materials, piling, and are able to execute any task that are A large number of our customers are workshops. put forward to them and to undertake private due to the bulk of customers large-scale projects. purchasing asphalt concrete, ready mix We possess a knowledge base and utilise concrete and aggregate products, the experience accumulated over the We have diversified and being private. years in the delivery of value. We have acquired the highest CIDA accreditation ventured into real estate across several fields of civil engineering which has allowed us to which enables us to bid for projects and easily pass the pre-qualification phase. We collaborate with different also leverage the latest technology in the internal business units industry across all engineering fields. Our long-standing, international partnerships resulting in operational have enabled joint ventures, knowledge and financial synergies. sharing, raising capital, and to take our operations beyond our shores. Our ISO certified Quality Assurance and Management Systems ensure that all We are one of the largest local Engineering, regulations regarding safety, health, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) environment, and quality are met. We focus contractors present in Sri Lanka. As per the on going beyond compliance when meeting categorisation of engineering disciplines the standards of safety and quality. We 96 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital conduct a minimum of three audits during For the Bloemendhal Housing project CUSTOMERS BY CATEGORY a project, at commencement, execution, and we used structural sections of previous upon completion. Ad hoc audits are also projects when selecting the structural carried out on a needs basis. Through these element dimensions of the project so that 4.45% mechanisms we have ensured the delivery the mywan formwork system of previous of value engineering to all our customers. projects could be used. This resulted in both cost and time saving. Further, exiting GRI 416-2 piles caps were used to support manholes without providing additional micro piles We also value health and service of our as a solution to peaty soil conditions at customers and take the utmost care to the site. ensure our projects once executed pose no health or safety risk to our customers In the design and construction of 1,000 or whoever might be using our services. housing units at Stadiumgama for UDA, There were no incidents of non-compliance 95.55% we reduced the number of columns and concerning health and safety impact to our piles by cantilevering the corridors. This customers reported during the year. resulted in a cost reduction enabling AEL to get a competitive advantage during the CUSTOMERS BY ENGINEERING FIELD Engineering projects tendering stage. We were also able to Engineering services save costs from the pile foundations in 0.40% 2.63% the Marina Square project. 0.40% 0.40% 0.61% 3.64% ENGINEERING SERVICES The Division will use the BIM (Building 0.20% 7.49% Information Management) system more Engineering designs frequently during project execution in We are equipped to execute cutting-edge future. We will also look to invest in engineering designs on par with new tools to perform design jobs more 39.69% international standards. Building on our effectively and efficiently and to enhance unique, design-build positioning, we cope soft skills of the Division’s employees. We 31.79% with the shifting landscape by moving up are also focused to make our designs more the value chain to deliver strong, lasting dynamic and competitive to meet the ever solutions to our customers. Our Design changing needs of the construction industry Division uses design software such as ETAB, both locally and globally. 12.75% STAADPRO, SAP 2000, SAFE, Auto Cad, ADAPT BUILDER, ADAPT, and AUTODESK REVIT. Services In 2019/20 we continued a number of Piling engineering design projects such as the Mannar Wind Power project in which the Mechanical and steel fabrication workshops pile design was economised by verifying the depth from a Static Load Test and the Supply of asphalt concrete design of pile foundation were based on Quarry operations and aggregate Euro Codes. We also provided fatigue checks production for both pile caps and pile foundations Supply of ready mix concrete as per Euro Codes considering the varying Engineering designs wind load. Products Roads and highways Bridges and flyovers Water and wastewater Building and other Telecommunication infrastructure ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 97 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital The following table outlines the design projects carried out by the Design Division of AEL: No. Project name Description of work carried out Type Status as of Date of Expected/ Client 31 March 2020 Commencement Actual date of completion of design works 01. Urban Regeneration Design of two 25 storey buildings Building Completed March 2016 March 2020 Urban Project – City of Colombo: comprising 608 apartment units. Development Construction of 608 Scope of work includes design Authority housing units for of pile foundation, sumps, pools, Government servants and the superstructures at Borella 02. Sri Lanka Technological Architectural and structural Building Ongoing August 2019 April 2020 Sri Lanka Campus (SLTC) Research design of two storey buildings Technological Centre, Padukka and landscaping Campus (SLTC) 03. Mannar Wind Power Design of – Building, Ongoing December 2018 August 2020 Ceylon Project – Phase 1 Pile foundation for 33 numbers Tower Electricity Construction of 100MW of wind turbines/generators Foundation, Board semi dispatchable wind Roads farm Admin building, accommodation buildings, security houses, sport complex, boundary walls and water tanks Main access road, access roads 1, 2 and 3, turbine access roads, community roads, and internal roads 04. Proposed warehouse Design of single storey steel Steel Ongoing December 2018 August 2020 Camso facility for Camso warehouse building of 426,000 Building Loadstar (Pvt) Loadstar (Pvt.) Ltd., Ekala sq.ft. with a mezzanine floor Ltd. including steel portal frames 05. Proposed housing Design of 15 storey building Building Ongoing November 2018 April 2021 Urban complex for UDA at 601 with 450 apartments units, Development Watta, Bloemendhal including pile foundation, Authority sumps, overhead water tank and superstructure 06. Design of proposed Design of Kohuwala flyover with Bridges and Ongoing November 2019 Kohuwala Road Kohuwala and Gatambe two abutments and two piers on flyovers, flyover – Development flyovers the pile foundation Road works Oct 2021, Authority Gatambe Design of Gatambe flyover flyover – with three abutments, twelve March 2022 numbers of piers and one composite bridge with two abutments, extension to existing Gannoruwa Bridge, approaches, retaining wall and road work 98 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital No. Project name Description of work carried out Type Status as of Date of Expected/ Client 31 March 2020 Commencement Actual date of completion of design works 07. “Marina Square” – Design consultation of five 36 Building Ongoing March 2020 December Harbour Proposed mixed storey buildings comprising 2022 Village (Pvt) development at No. 250, 1,068 apartment units including Ltd. Srimath Ramanathan the commercial complex and Mawatha, Colombo 15 swimming pools 08. Design and construction Design of four 15 storey buildings Building Ongoing March 2020 March 2023 Urban of 1,000 housing units at comprising 1,000 housing units. Development Stadiumgama for UDA Scope of work includes design Authority of pile foundation, sumps, overhead water tank and the superstructure Piling We hope to introduce new and innovative PILING REVENUE foundation construction techniques, We specialise in piling work that is a equipment and machinery to reduce cost, fundamental requirement to maintain LKR Mn. time, and improve quality. 3,000 safety in multi-story buildings. AEL has undertaken major projects within the The following major projects were carried 2,400 year which include piling works. The Piling out during the year by the Piling Division: Division is well-equipped with the latest 1,800 machinery including piling machines, a ´´Piling and soil nailing works of Marina hydraulic grab, crawler cranes, excavators, Square mix development at No. 250, 1,200 mobile cranes, and desanders among so Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha, 600 many others. Colombo 15 ´´Piling work of proposed low cost housing 0 In 2019/20 we carried out piling work of project at Bloemendhal 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 the Maritime Facilitation Centre under the ´´Piling work of the Ambathale storm Port Access Elevated Highway Project. The project scope included the construction water pumping station HDD and telecommunication services of 171 number of piles with a diameter of ´´Piling work of the 100MW Mannar wind The Telecommunication services 900 mm, 1000 mm, 1200 mm and 1500 mm power project Division undertakes the development and a depth of 30 – 40 metres. Deploying and construction of HDD and ´´Piling work of the proposed tea factory three numbers of Bauer BG boring rigs, the telecommunication infrastructure in the complex of George Steuart Teas (Pvt.) Ltd. project was completed within the stipulated country which form an essential part of at Biyagama time period. Project planning and execution economic development linking the rural was challenging due to its location within the ´´Piling work of the District Hospital areas to the urban. The Division is equipped heart of the metropolitan city of Colombo Beruwala (Phase 1) with Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) where the project had to be executed with ´´Piling work of the Maritime Facilitation machines, cable blowing machines, micro a tough environment management and Centre under the Port Access Elevated trenching machines, and optical fibre monitoring system in order to maintain Highway Project splicing machines among so many others. noise, vibration, and other parameters within We have been a trusted partner to major the stipulated limits. telecommunication companies in the country and our contribution has been recognised in the past. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 99 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital The Division carried out the following works Asphalt plants WORKSHOPS during 2019/20: Our asphalt plants are located in Fabrication workshop ´´Total HDD distance – Approximately Kotadeniyawa, Mathugama, Mailapitiya, 0.06 km The purpose-built fabrication workshop Vavuniya, and Giriulla. The total installed offers efficient production and fabrication ´´Total cable blowing distance – capacity was 536 TPH. of quality steel components for machinery Approximately 91.9 km and construction projects. The qualified and ´´Total optical fiber network development Crusher plants specialist team at the fabrication workshop distance – Approximately 178.8 km Our crusher plants are located in Mirigama, provides with cutting-edge solutions for Mathugama, and Vavuniya. The total design and fabrication of steel and metal ´´Total sites connected during the year – installed capacity was 390TPH. components including plant and machinery 123 nos. components, structural steel and other ´´New subscriber connections – steel elements for diverse requirements. 5,744 connections Batching plants The fleet of equipment at the workshop ´´PEO TV connections – 3,782 connections Batching plants are located in Kandana, enables the team to take full control on Balapitiya, Mabima, Wattala, and Peliyagoda. the time and quality matrices of the ´´Fibre to the home (FTTH) New Subscriber The total installed capacity was 315 m3/H. projects in progress. connections – 1,420 connections ´´Fibre to the home (FTTH) Network Quarry operations ANALYSIS OF WORKSHOP REVENUE Development – 6,040 new ports During the year the Company had ´´The division also successfully completed % quarries operated in Vavuniya, Hakmana, and handed over FTTH works of the 100 Wallallavita, and Meerigama. Colombo Lotus Tower. 80 Manufactured sand plant PRODUCTION PLANTS 60 The Company operated a M-Sand (manufactured sand) plant at Meerigama 40 SALE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIALS with an installed capacity of 50 TPH since 20 September 2019. LKR Mn. 3,500 0 2018/19 2019/20 2,800 2,100 Services provided to internal customers 1,400 Services provided to external customers 700 0 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 100 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital CUSTOMER SERVICE AND ENGAGEMENT In order to provide a world-class service to our customers, we maintain continuous dialogue with them at each stage of project implementation. A dedicated Business Development Manager is assigned for our priority customers which ensures that their concerns are addressed within a short period of time. The following diagram illustrates our customer engagement process at every stage of a project: Stage in the project Medium of dialogue Typical dialogue content Pre-contract Pre-bid meeting ´´Description of the project and key deliverables ´´Obtaining of bidding documents Site visits ´´Understanding of the actual ground situation ´´Gathering vital information/technical data for preparing bidding documents Queries and clarifications Follow-up queries and clarifications are sought from the customer where required Formal bidding ´´Submission of formal bid together with the technical and financial proposal ´´Submission of guarantees/bonds as required Negotiations Once shortlisted the client commences negotiations and further clarifications are sought if required Implementation Kick-off meeting Happens prior to work commencement where the following is discussed in great detail: ´´Obligations of parties ´´Project implementation schedule and the way forward Progress review meeting Every two weeks at the site where the project progress is discussed at length including Site challenges and proposed actions Special meetings If and when required Substantial completion Formal handing over of the site and completed project to the client/customer or taking over Defect Liability Period Inspection Regular visits are made by the client/customer during the DLP to identify any defects or (DLP) — (Usually for errors and same is communicated for rectification one year) Performance certificate Issued after the expiry of the DLP Customer grievance handling We handle customer grievances and complaints before they escalate into an issue. A standard policy is set up in place to handle grievances. Project Managers, Plant Managers, Activity-Centre Manager, and Departmental Heads follow this policy while the Management Systems Manager monitors its implementation. At all the locations we operate, a Complaint Register is kept to track, record, and respond to customer complaints. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 101 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital Customer grievance handling process Based on the implemented integrated communication strategy, steps were taken Each Project Manager, Plant Manager, Activity Centre Manager, and towards aligning the brand story towards 01 Departmental Head nominates an officer to record customer complaints all internal and external communication platforms while maintaining brand The relevant officer records the complaint and communicates 02 it to responsible people according to the nature of complaint consistency across all mediums. ´´Facebook and LinkedIn profiles were initiated aligning to the branding The relevant officer reviews the complaint and takes 03 immediate actions to rectify the issue raised, if possible strategy during the month of August, 2019 and weekly posts are being uploaded to engage our target audience Subsequently the relevant officer shall investigate and determine 04 the root cause(s) and record in the customer complaint register ´´The Corporate Youtube channel highlights engineering marvels in order Corrective actions are taken to avoid recurrence by to create awareness. We also feature 05 eliminating the root causes identified our upcoming projects under “creating tomorrow’s heritage” 06 Effectiveness of actions are evaluated within a reasonable time period ´´The key milestones of our projects and all corporate events are highlighted through press publications on a Finally feedback is obtained from the complainer and 07 further actions are taken if required timely basis ´´Frequent updates are done to the corporate website that include job MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS OR SPECIAL PROMOTIONS opportunities, share trading activities, project progress, awards received etc. The majority of our infrastructure projects are awarded through a transparent bidding to keep our stakeholders informed structure where marketing does not play a big role. However, while we do not engage in ´´The revamping of the website is large-scale marketing operations, we provide a large range of services targeted at private sector customers. This requires us to engage in marketing activities at a minimal scale. Such under progress activities involve producing of Point of Sales (POS) materials for the purpose of marketing ´´The newsletter blog is done on a construction materials such as ready mix concrete, aggregate, asphalt, and others. quarterly basis highlighting corporate events, project highlights, awards All such materials are produced in-house or in liaison with a responsible advertising agency. received, the summary of trading All materials are approved by the Director Business Development prior to being produced activities, and many more insights of our and all design and production work is monitored by a dedicated Corporate Communication employees like construction techniques team whose scope of the work involves ensuring responsible advertising. and innovative strategies implemented for our projects In order to provide better understanding of the Access Engineering brand, the brand values ´´Moreover, we are engaged in regular needs to be reflected more accurately through all communications platforms so that the and proactive brand building activities stakeholder management will be consistent. As a result such as outdoor advertising including; – Banners, pennants, etc. We engaged in implementing a corporate communication – Vehicle branding strategy to enhance the Access Engineering brand story – Work-wear branding to the stakeholder groups including the cyber audience in – Advertisements order to get engaged with the brand. – Sponsorships 102 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital CHALLENGES FACED IN 2019/20 AND OUR RESPONSES Challenges faced Our response The imposition of island-wide curfew in mid-March 2020 to control Cost cutting measures were immediately put in place. Each major the spread of COVID-19 pandemic required us to temporarily halt all project and project management unit devised respective business ongoing construction work and completely shutdown our production continuity plans so that work could resume immediately after the plants. The situation continued till the end of the financial year. This curfew is lifted. Working from home (WFH) arrangements were also resulted in fixed overheads, depreciation and servicing of finance cost implemented so that works such as engineering designs could be amidst no revenue generation. carried out remotely without any disruption. We also implemented a sound and effective system within our working environments to prevent the spread of the virus in line with the Government’s regulations. The Company also took the advantage of the CBSL relief measures extended to corporates. The full impact of these measures will be realised only in 2020/21. Delays in the commencement of mega scale infrastructure development We maintain a healthy and diversified construction order book projects – delays were seen in the award of projects, finalisation of comprising of confirmed and signed projects that is usually 2+ years funding lines for projects, tendering of projects and commencement. of company revenue. Additionally the business development teams While this phenomena is common in the engineering and construction continuously follow up a list of potential pipeline projects. field it poses several challenges to all industry participants. Some of those challenges include not having continuous work, fixed overheads reducing margins due to lack of work. Rising raw material prices – the prices of major raw materials including We maintain an adequate quantity of the major raw materials sand, cement, steel were continuously on the rise. So was the rising cost required for projects so as to avoid any panic buying and there by of labour. This results in weakening of margins. higher raw material prices. Further, for imported raw materials such as bitumen we continuously seek new suppliers so that the most competitive price could be secured. Increasing price of imports in the wake of a weakening rupee – purchase A portion of the project is maintained in foreign currency as a natural price of construction materials that needs to be imported for projects hedge whenever possible as per the conditions of contract was continuously increasing due to the fast depreciation of rupee in the global market. This too affected the margin of projects. Disruption to operations due to severe weather conditions such as Accurate project planning and execution so as to avoid any unusual floods and the drought delays. For example in building projects all internal block and masonry works and finishing works could be scheduled earlier to be executed in days of severe weather. Shortage of skilled labour – there is a severe shortage of skilled labour We absorb labourers with vocational training skills through particularly in the fields of carpentry, bar bending and masonry. our continuous training programmes. This affects smooth flow of operations and the quality of workmanship. Inconsistencies in the implementation of policy decisions – frequent While this is out of our direct control we manage this through changes made to national policies, regulatory bodies and their proactive means such as maintaining a very healthy and diversified administrative structures delay the commencement and execution construction order book. of projects ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 103 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital INVESTOR CAPITAL Almost 90% of AEL’s share capital is owned by a few major shareholders, many of whom have long-standing ties with the Company. However, our structure of good corporate governance and transparency ensures that interests of smaller shareholders are also safeguarded. INVESTOR CAPITAL STRUCTURE SHARE PRICES FOR THE YEAR From To Number of Number of Percentage 2019/20 2018/19 shareholders shares % Market price LKR LKR per share 1 – 1,000 4,262 1,605,135 0.16 1,001 – 10,000 2,942 12,468,395 1.25 24.00 21.00 10,001 – 100,000 1,287 42,231,375 4.22 Highest (18.11.2019) (09.04.2018) 100,001 – 1,000,000 283 79,704,376 7.97 11.90 12.70 Over 1,000,000 58 863,990,719 86.40 Lowest (17.05.2019) (27.03.2019) Total 8,832 1,000,000,000 100.00 As at end of the year 13.20 13.00 CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS PUBLIC HOLDING Category Number of Number of Percentage The shares that are held publicly account shareholders shares % for 42.836% of the total shareholding comprising 8,812 shareholders. Local individuals 8,304 745,391,366 74.54 Local institutions 440 220,624,175 22.06 The float adjusted market capitalisation of the Company was LKR 5,654.4 Mn. The Foreign individuals 71 4,114,341 0.41 float adjusted market capitalisation of Foreign institutions 17 29,870,118 2.99 the Company falls under option three of Total 8,832 1,000,000,000 100.00 Rule 7. 13. 1 (a) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Company has complied with the minimum public DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING AS AT 31 MARCH 2020 holding requirement applicable under the said option. Name of the Director Number of Percentage shares held % Mr S J S Perera 250,000,000 25.00 Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 10.10 Mr R J S Gomez 35,130,325 3.51 Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.40 Mr D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.40 Mr S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.40 Mr D S Weerakkody 10,000 0.00 Mr S D Perera 2,000,000 0.20 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe 100 0.00 Mr N D Gunaratne Nil Nil 104 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital TWENTY MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 31 March 2020 31 March 2019* Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage Number of shares Percentage % % 1. Mr Sumal J S Perera 250,000,000 25.000 250,000,000 25.000 2. Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 10.100 101,000,000 10.100 3. Mrs R M N Joshua 70,000,000 7.000 70,000,000 7.000 4. Mr Shamal J S Perera 50,811,814 5.081 50,811,814 5.081 5. Mrs D R S Malalasekera 45,000,000 4.500 45,000,000 4.500 6. Mr R J S Gomez 35,130,325 3.513 75,130,325 7.513 7. Foresight Engineering (Pvt.) Ltd. 30,824,098 3.082 30,000,000 3.000 8. Hatton National Bank PLC / Access International (Pvt.) Ltd. 30,000,000 3.000 NIL NIL 9. Mr S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 10. Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 11. Mr D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 12. Employees Provident Fund 20,478,289 2.048 20,478,289 2.048 13. SEB AB – Tundra Sustainable Frontier Fund 18,282,027 1.828 19,282,027 1.928 14. Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. – General Fund 14,607,170 1.461 NIL NIL 15. Access Medical (Pvt.) Ltd. 13,000,000 1.300 13,000,000 1.300 16. Mercantile Investments and Finance PLC 12,671,925 1.267 NIL NIL 17. Mr M J Fernando 10,832,688 1.083 7,102,869 0.710 18. Nuwara Eliya Property Developers (Pvt.) Ltd. 8,102,042 0.810 8,102,042 0.810 19. Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. – Life Fund 7,465,751 0.747 1,070,000 0.107 20. Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee for JB Vantage Value Equity Fund 5,072,312 0.507 5,072,312 0.507 795,278,441 79.528 768,049,678 76.805 Others 204,721,559 20.472 231,950,322 23.195 Total 1,000,000,000 100.000 1,000,000,000 100.000 * Comparative shareholdings as at 31st March 2019 of the twenty largest shareholders as at 31 March 2020 INVESTOR RELATIONS This has led to long-standing relationships available online on www.accessengsl.com. with our investors. The Company also participates in investor We consider regular forums organised by stock-broker firms. We We make presentations at investor also maintain a dedicated investor relations communication with our forums organised by stock-broker firms to email investor.relations@accessengsl.com. investors as a top priority provide information to our investors. All In addition, any shareholder could material and price sensitive information meet Directors by prior appointment. and work towards providing is communicated to the Colombo Stock Company Managing Director and other timely, accurate information Exchange immediately. The Company representatives meet overseas and website is also frequently updated with local fund managers, overseas and local on a consistent basis price sensitive information. Real-time institutional investors, research firms, through various channels. trading information, Financial Statements stockbroking companies, high net worth and Company research reports are freely individuals upon request ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 105 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital Release dates of interim financial 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 statements – 2019/20 Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company Quarter Due date Actual release date EPS (LKR) 0.98 1.93 2.15 1.96 2.51 1.91 2.71 2.68 2.09 2.47 1 15 August 2019 13 August 2019 DPS (LKR) 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.20 1.20 1.50 1.50 0.75 0.75 2 15 November 2019 14 November 2019 Payout (%) 51 26 23 25 48 63 55 56 36 30 3 15 February 2020 14 February 2020 4 31 May 2020 26 May 2020 EPS DPS Release date of Annual Report – LKR LKR % 2018/19 3.00 1.75 75 2.40 1.40 60 Due date Actual release date 1.80 1.05 45 Annual 31 August 2019 18 July 2019 1.20 0.70 30 Report AGM 30 September 2019 9 August 2019 0.60 0.35 15 0 0 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 DIVIDEND POLICY ´´The Company dividend policy of declaring 40% 50% of the Company Company DPS Company (LKR) profits remained unchanged during Group DPS Group (LKR) 2019/20 Payout Company (%) ´´Earnings and dividends since listing are Payout Group (%) as below: ´´An interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per share was declared for 2019/20 on 22 November 2019 and paid in full by the Company on 3 December 2019. ´´The final dividend of 2018/19 amounting to LKR 0.25 was paid on 11 June 2019 Performance of shares relative to ASPI 31 March 2020 1 April 2019 Change % AEL Price LKR 13.20 13.20 0.00 ASPI 4,571.63 5,567.77 (17.89) S&P SL 20 1,943.55 2,716.71 (28.46) Capital Goods 608.27 790.08 (23.01) 106 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital TRADING STATISTICS 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Number of shares traded 357,123,112 102,113,697 108,091,199 146,979,343 199,334,867 Value of shares traded (LKR) 6,756,606,637 1,637,455,435 2,728,514,261 3,624,740,014 4,570,150,971 Number of days traded 231 240 236 242 241 Number of trades 71,138 24,276 10,750 25,709 36,018 DETAILS OF THE DEBENTURE ISSUE In November 2015 AEL issued 50 million rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable debentures with tenures of 5-8 years raising LKR 5 Bn. The bulk of these debentures will have to be paid in 2020/21 upon maturing. The Company and the debentures were rated “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” by ICRA Lanka Limited and was reaffirmed same during the year. The debentures were listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange on 23 November 2015. During 2019/2020 out of the 4 types of debentures in issue only the debentures bearing coupon 10.25% were traded the details of which are as follows: 2019/20 2018/19 Market price per debenture LKR LKR Highest 99.37 (13.03.2020) Not traded Lowest 99.37 (13.03.2020) Not traded As at end of the year 99.37 Not traded AEL TRADING Index LKR 7,500 25 6,000 20 4,500 15 3,000 10 1,500 5 0 0 April March 2019 2020 ASPI (Index) S&P SL 20 (Index) Capital goods (Index) AEl share price (LKR) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 107 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital GRI 206-1 There were no reported incidents of Our international anti-competitive behaviour within the BUSINESS PARTNER CAPITAL reporting year. Our partners follow our partnerships and Being a leading construction company values and high standards when it comes consortium projects allow to quality and execution of projects. We with multiple business lines, we engage us to expand into other with a large number of business partners engage with a range of suppliers such and suppliers for the timely completion as subcontractors, material suppliers, markets as well as to share labour suppliers, machinery suppliers, of our projects. Over the years, we have knowledge with reputed, built solid, interdependent relationships and stationary/utility suppliers. international entities. with our partners. TYPES OF BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS The PPP (Private and Public Partnerships) Business partners form essential cogs model has eased the constraints on the in the Access Engineering machine. In ´´Subcontractor Government Treasury. Further, partnerships our delivery of value engineering, we ´´Joint Venture Partner make it possible to address pertinent work closely with consultants, suppliers, ´´Partner of a Consortium issues of the industry through collective subcontractors, joint venture partners, and lobbying. others. We take a 360°-degree management ´´Public Private Partnership approach to projects that ensures the During the year under review, the main engagement of partners from the early stages to consider financial, social, and VALUE DERIVED FROM BUSINESS projects executed as a subcontractor environmental aspects. Following our Code PARTNERSHIPS included the Mannar Wind Power project, water front integrated development, of Conduct and stringent selection process, We have gone from strength to strength Deduruoya water supply project and we take sustainability, ethical practices, and through the business partnerships we have the ODEL mall development. The only environmental preservation into account established, the supplier base we work with, consortium project during the year was the in formulating our agreements with all and the strategic partnerships effected with Central Expressway project and the only partners. local and international entities. We generate PPP project during the year was the Borella business from our partners via repeat Housing Project. No joint venture projects orders and through joint ventures. were carried out during the year. The following table illustrates in monetary terms the value that we have derived from such business partnerships in LKR Mn.: Partner status 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 As a subcontractor 3,583.97 4,054.50 2,707.13 4,244.68 2,525.79 3,684.05 6,240.17 6,290.79 As a joint venture partner – – – – 41.00 444.66 734.92 717.61 In public private partnerships (PPP) 1,224.43 1,710.42 2,102.70 854.95 – – – – As a partner of a consortium 2,583.61 5,354.63 1,226.50 40.53 – – – – Total 7,392.02 11,119.55 6,036.33 5,140.16 2,566.79 4,128.71 6,975.09 7,008.40 108 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital VALUE DERIVED FROM BUSINESS Management criteria Evaluation criteria Description PARTNERSHIPS Quality Price Price offered by the supplier as opposed LKR Mn. to other suppliers 12,500 Delivery time Track record of delivering goods on time 10,000 Responsiveness and Degree of responsiveness and openness flexibility to change 7,500 Quality of material Percentage of goods rejected upon supply 5,000 Credit facility Credit facility granted 2,500 Environmental Packaging Degree of conformance with specifications Legislation Conformance with applicable legislations 0 Waste management Soundness and quality of waste 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 management practices adopted Test reports Availability of test reports for inspection GRI 102-9, 102-10 ISO 14000 Certification Availability of ISO 14000 Certification TYPE OF SUPPLIERS IN 2019/20 Type of supplier Number of suppliers LABOUR AND ENVIRONMENT STANDARDS APPLIED TO SUPPLIERS as at 31 March 2020 Labour and environment standards vary from supplier to supplier. As a general practice, all labour and environment standards and regulations that are applicable to AEL are also Local 14,701 applicable to our subcontractors who are equally liable to all laws that are applicable to us. Foreign 449 In this regard the following laws and regulations can be considered as important: Inter company 28 Internal 83 Labour The following list is in addition to EPF, ETF and Gratuity related Acts: Total 15,261 ´´Wages Boards Ordinance ´´Factories Ordinance ´´Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance SELECTION AND EVALUATION OF ´´Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act SUPPLIERS ´´Shop and Office Employees act ´´Industrials Disputes Act As a responsible corporate entity, we follow a stringent process in the selection Environmental Regulations imposed by the National Environment Act and evaluation of suppliers. The process Regulations imposed by the Mines and Minerals Act may change according to project and Regulations imposed by the Coast Conservation Act customer. For instance, our contracts with public authorities require to fulfil Regulations imposed by the Marine Pollution Prevention Act additional requirements imposed by the Regulations imposed by the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance Government. In addition, we consider the Regulations imposed by the Forest Ordinance compliance of our partners and suppliers with environmental, labour regulations, Regulations imposed by the Soil Conservation Act the use of child or forced labour, and Regulations imposed by the State Land Ordinance other regulations in the selection of our Regulations imposed by the Explosives Principle Act partners. Further, we procure material from Under above regulations the suppliers are required to obtain suppliers that has the highest cumulative the following where applicable: weighted average score across quality and ´´Environmental Protection License (EPL) environmental criteria. After our evaluation, we give regular feedback and share ´´Mining License knowledge with our partners for improving ´´Archaeology Clearance their standards. The following provides ´´UDA Clearance an overview of the selection and evaluation process: ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 109 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital GRI 204-1 SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS Province Material purchases CAPEX Total Local purchases made from the budget LKR LKR LKR % Western 1,720,159,388 15,147,213 1,735,306,602 39 Nothern 780,803,032 36,205,602 817,008,634 76 North Central 312,223,811 5,314,502 317,538,313 65 North Western 169,434,587 1,300,875 170,735,462 83 Southern 71,354,140 1,407,249 72,761,388 60 3,053,974,958 59,375,441 3,113,350,399 49 ENVIRONMENT CRITERIA IN THE AEL focuses on environmental criteria when score for supplier’s Environmental SELECTION OF SUPPLIERS selecting a supplier where environmental certificates obtained for their business responsibility covers their obligation to; operations. AEL’s operations mostly We are committed to manage the depend on gravel, sand and aggregates, ´´Minimise environmental impact to environmental impact of our supply chain and bituminous products which are more and are committed to reduce CO2 emission the society harmful to the environment. Hence, it and pollution in the supplier screening ´´Manage any waste is important for us to have a systematic and selection process. We have obtained approach to minimise this environmental ´´Demonstrate wiliness to improve the certification ISO 14001:2015, which impact while achieving business goals. business whilst preserving flora, fauna, provides a framework for environment To this effect we request NBRO (National natural resources protection. In all procurement processes Building Research Organization) test reports agreed objectives are measured so ´´Avoid or stop pollutants contact with from suppliers and check the borrow pits that non-compliance is highlighted and water, land, and air where AEL has the sole right to approve/ corrective actions are taken. revoke the status of suppliers. These Especially in our supplier evaluation indicators are used as criteria for evaluating process, we have allocated a substantial suppliers on environmental grounds. Packaging Degree of conformance with specifications Legislations Conformance with applicable legislations Waste management Soundness and quality of waste management practices adopted Process adaptation Use of technology and methodologies to preserve resources Reduce impact on the environment due to operational work (dust control, noise level, dispose of chemical, and hazardous materials) Use of environmentally friendly materials Reduce water, air, and soil pollution using environmentally friendly materials Test reports Availability of test reports for inspection ISO 14001 Certification Availability of ISO 14001 Certification Material transportation, handling, and unloading Use of correct mode of transportation especially with bulk cargo and environmentally-friendly safe handling Rules and regulations Degree of compliance with environmental rules and regulations License requirements Degree of compliance with license requirements 110 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital We have internal plants for supplying NEW SUPPLIER SCREENING PROCESS NEW AND CONTINUED PARTNERSHIPS bitumen, ready mixed concrete, IN 2019/20 aggregate base course under our Our screening process is based on the vertical integration strategy compliance with the requirements specified While continuing our partnerships from by our Standard Operating Procedures and previous years, we completed preliminary In addition to above, AEL also carries requirements imposed by Environmental work for the formation of new partnerships out periodic plant and site visits of Management Systems ISO 14001:2015 and in the field of bridges and flyovers. We suppliers in order to identify their Occupational Health and Safety Assessment entered into a number of strategic alliances sustainable measures in place for Series OHSAS 45001:2018 Standards. to strengthen our position in the industry. sourcing raw materials, production Our strategic alliance with China Harbour process and distribution of materials for Apart from this we buyers. AEL is vigilant to monitor supplier Engineering Company and Mustafa’s and subcontractor activities to gauge their; perform periodical Singapore for the development of Marina Square continued during the year. Our ´´Emission to air (CO2, other pollutants) supplier evaluations such strategic alliance with ZPMC China for the ´´Chemical pollution of water resources as reviewing samples, commissioning, repair and maintenance conducting factory visits, of port machinery also continued during ´´Land contamination the year. ´´Waste management and by-products collecting test reports, released to the environment discussion with suppliers POSSIBILITIES OF SUBCONTRACTING ´´Energy use (renewable) FROM LARGE FOREIGN CONTRACTORS and trade agencies, and ´´Vibration and noise participating in open trade The Sri Lankan Government often employs ´´Recycling and waste prevention large foreign contractors for infrastructure forums both locally and projects of national importance. In such Further, our strategy for importing major internationally. instances, bilaterally and multilaterally raw materials is to bulk order bitumen, funded projects are awarded to foreign cement (partnership with supplier), piling The screening process in place for suppliers contractors who subcontract work to local machines and plant spare parts. We also considers factors that are weighted on companies. There are other occasions mostly use sea freight since air freight priority basis. where the primary contractor is foreign is more expensive and carbon intensive. but there needs to be a local contractor In the financial year 2019/20 mode of within the project. We also take part in New suppliers in 2019/20 transportation was as follows. large infrastructure development projects spearheaded by the private sector such as Type of supplier New suppliers RAW MATERIAL MODE OF TRANSPORTATION the Odel Mall Development, Havelock City added during 2019/20 Development, Marina Square Development, and Tri – Zen Development. Local 1,893 21% The working relationships of Access Foreign 60 Engineering with foreign principals have Inter-company 1 evolved over the years where we tend to Internal 5 jointly execute projects with them rather Total 1,959 than subcontracting work. This has enabled AEL to be on par with them as a joint venture partner. 79% Sea freight Air freight ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 111 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital GRI 102-13 SOCIAL CAPITAL National registrations Being a leading corporate citizen in our sector, we consistently engage with the No. Organisation Information communities that we operate in. We are cognisant of our role in the community 1. Construction Industry Development Refer the below table for CIDA gradings for the smooth running of our operations Authority (CIDA) as well as interdependent formation 2. National Construction Association of Member of beneficial relationships. Long-term Sri Lanka sustainability is one of the greatest collective challenges we face and it 3. Institute of Engineers Sri Lanka Recognition of Organisation for Training of requires unity and collaborative efforts Graduate Engineers for Corporate Membership (Civil Design Engineering) among all communities. We are a company that undertakes infrastructure projects of 4. Institute of Engineers Sri Lanka Recognition of Organisation for Training of national importance and our projects have Graduate Engineers for Corporate Membership contributed to economic and community (Civil Construction Engineering) development, raising the standards of 5. Chamber of Construction Industry Corporate member living, and urbanisation. Sri Lanka 6. The Institute of Chartered Accountants Approved Training Institution for Business and GRI 419-1 of Sri Lanka Corporate Level In our engagement with the larger 7. International Chamber of Commerce Organisational membership community, we comply with all the Sri Lanka necessary regulations and we can report that during the year, we have 8. Condominium Association – Ordinary member had no fines or instances of breaching Ceylon Chamber of Commerce regulations. Further, we funded community 9. Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Business Patron member development projects throughout the year. and Biodiversity Platform These projects are organised by a dedicated 10. National Chamber of Commerce Corporate Member, Serving for Engineering and CSR Committee that selects, reviews, Construction Committees and executes potential CSR projects. The committee evaluates the CSR policy, the CSR 11. Employers’ Federation of Ceylon Member budget, and project objectives rigorously before the implementation stage. All our CSR initiatives concerning the preservation CIDA Registrations of the environment are given in Natural Capital section (page 116). During the year, No. Field Name Grade we invested LKR 16.4 Mn. on CSR projects. 1 Highways CS – 2 ACCESS ENGINEERING SOCIAL 2 Water supply and sewerage CS – 2 RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 3 Buildings CS – 2 Our social responsibility policy forms the 4 Bridges C–1 basis of all our CSR activities. Our social 5 Irrigation and drainage canals C–1 policy revolves around complying with legal norms and business ethics and building 6 Maritime construction C–1 trusting relationships with our stakeholders 7 Dredging and reclamation C–7 by strictly adhering to professional standards of activity. We are cognisant of 8 Piling GP – B1 the impact of our operations and through 9 Soil nailing and stabilisation SP – 1 extensive review we strive to minimise 10 Electrical installations (Low Tension) EM – 1 and manage them through professional mediation. The CSR activities were 11 Heavy steel fabrication EM – 1 incorporated into several platforms and policies were drawn up for each platform as described below: 112 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital GRI 413-1 OUR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN 2019/20 Local community development policy Enhance the Future We will actively work to support the In continuing our efforts to uplift rural education, we have implemented “Enhance the well-being of the community, contribute Future” a project aimed at developing infrastructure in rural schools. The objective of this to the enrichment of the society and program is to develop 4 schools per annum, at a total cost of LKR 10 Mn. As the 1st phase make a tangible contribution to economic of this project, we completed the construction of a class room building for Pinnakanda and social development of the localities Vidyalaya Godakawela that can accommodate up to 70 students. AEL staff provided technical where our projects and plants are located; support services such as designing, drawings preparation, and consulting. In addition, they mitigate health and safety impacts of were involved in procurement of material and managing the project. infrastructure, hazardous materials, emissions, and discharges; counteract social impacts of involuntary resettlement, physical and economic displacement and livelihood disturbances, and honour the local culture and cultural heritage. Human capacity building policy We will build human capacity and develop human resources in the society, including our own employees and their families, focusing our attention on formal preschool, school, technical and tertiary education as well as informal education and social interaction and dialogue by means of transferring knowledge, mentoring and coaching, apprenticeships, scholarships, and other financial contributions. Industry advancement policy We will take leadership in the advancement of the construction industry to take up future challenges through the introduction of modern technology, development of human resources and dissemination of best practices in construction management. Environmental stewardship policy (Refer to Natural Capital page 116) We will contribute to sustain natural resources and the environment for future generations, through initiatives to ensure that our business is in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We will conserve resources by using them efficiently and recycling appropriately, and protect and enhance wildlife habitats around our businesses. We will limit the amount of hazardous wastes produced and disposed, and improve the efficiency of our operations to reduce the amount of waste generated. We will also support local environmental projects and activities. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 113 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital Fabrication and donation of school chairs and desks In our contribution to the development of rural schools and the uplifting of rural education, AEL has been donating school desks and chairs to underprivileged schools in the country since 2016/17. The objective behind the project was to improve the learning environment of rural schools. The project was implemented in three different phases: Phase I: Make better use of the scrap/ waste materials disposed from the construction sites. Phase II: Industry advancement through facilitation of monetary support and other support to the trainees at Homagama Technical College. Phase III: Facilitation of rural education through provision of required 5 classroom infrastructure. ANURADHAPURA Following the project, tons of scrap 2 materials were collected and traded to an PUTTALAM 3 POLONNARUWA external party. These funds were directly 10 transferred to the CSR fund. KURUNEGALA 1 2 BATTICALOA MATALE A special incentive scheme was also arranged to encourage participation 2 1 6 AMPARA and to sustain the carpentry and the GAMPAHA 2 KEGALLE NUWARA ELIYA 4 welding Industry. Trainees in return have 2 COLOMBO 1 MONERAGALA fabricated desks and chairs adhering to BADULLA strict specifications issued by the Ministry 8 KALUTARA 5 RATHNAPURA of Education. From the inception, we have distributed 2,590 pairs of desks and chairs among a selection of 73 schools around GALLE 6 8 the island. 5 HAMBANTOTA MATARA X Number of schools 114 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social and Relationship Capital Construction of a children’s park for members of that community and to address Raising Industry standards Delwala Sir Olcott Maha Vidyalaya needs of the Sunday school. After an initial By nature construction industry is considered assessment of the infrastructure needs This was an initiative by AEL employees of a hindrance to sustainability. Through of the Mathugama area, we came to the the Mirigama plant. The project entailed our various CSR programmes carried out conclusion that the students of the Sunday constructing a children’s park for the school. continuously we have been able to change the school were lacking basic infrastructure. The repairing of playground equipment was negative mindset of localities to some extent With the participation of the plant staff, done using scrap iron and the general site over the years. For example our tree planting desks and benches were procured and clearance, painting, and other works were programmes have enabled us to offset the completed by our own employees. This painted and handed over to the students impact of felling. Similarly the productive project will benefit around 150 students in on 11 December 2019. Around 200 students use of construction debris such as steel to the future. from the eight classes will be benefitted construct school desks and chairs has also from this project. This project also helped changed the attitude of people in project to create goodwill between AEL and the vicinity. Through these various programmes Renovation of library building villagers of the Mathugama and Walallawita we have also been able to set an example to of Mahakanadarawa Yaya 1, areas where we operate two quarries, a other industry players. Primary School crusher and an asphalt plant. To support learning of young students, we Promoting volunteerism and undertook this project to renovate the library National Centre for Disabled Children team work building of the A/M/Mahakanadarawa Yaya 1, Primary School Mihintale. We carried out According to the latest estimates, 20% of Any employee irrespective of his job role, renovations such as roof and ceiling Sri Lankan children are born with some is encouraged to take part in CSR activities repairing, colour washing, electrical form of disability. Access Engineering voluntarily. Most of the successful CSR wiring, installation of lights and wall fans, contributed to the “Ayati Trust Sri Lanka”, initiatives carried out by the Company are refurbishment of doors and windows with a fund formed by the Faculty of Medicine results of selfless efforts of diverse group the help of our employees. Moreover, we in the University of Kelaniya to build a of employees representing engineering, provided the school with book racks, chairs, national centre for children with disabilities. finance, system implementation and quantity office tables, and donated books and posters. The Centre is being built on a land provided surveying departments. Similarly there is by the Faculty of Medicine, located at strong team dynamics at work during CSR Ragama. The proposed National Centre will programmes enhancing cohesiveness Construction of sanitary facilities for play an integral role in assisting children among employees. Pubbiliya Kanishta Vidyalaya with disabilities and help them integrate to This was another project that aimed the community. Development of personal skills and at improving sanitary facilities where a soft skills restroom block was constructed for the Pubbiliya Kanishta Vidyalaya. THE IMPACT OF OUR CSR ACTIVITIES By encouraging cross functional employees to team up and achieve a task like completing a Promoting sustainability CSR project develops personal skills as well Construction of sanitary facilities for The CSR activities have enabled us to instil as soft skills during interactions with the top the Central Dispensary Kotadeniyawa a culture of sustainability and responsible management, external partners, consultants, This project was initiated by the employees living among our employees. employees from other collaborations, of the Kotadeniyawa asphalt plant after movements etc. Employees are also given surveying the needs of the area. We the opportunity to engage in insightful Through continuous identified that the Central Dispensary discussions, exploring future trends and Kotadeniyawa was lacking sanitary facilities involvement in CSR themes in corporate giving. and as a solution we constructed restrooms activities employees gain for male and female patients who visit the dispensary. The plant employees were seamless knowledge and Making Access Engineering an employer of choice involved in land clearance, brick laying, and build a positive perception plastering. CSR activities especially that are carried towards their society and out for the advancement of the construction towards nature. industry enable us to better position our Donation of school desks and self in attracting talent and becoming the benches to Siri Seelarathana Sunday The holistic view developed in the minds employer of choice. It is a proven truth that School, Mathugama of an employee makes him sensitive to the candidates prefer to join a corporate that is This project was initiated by the Mathugama natural environment and the needs of the socially responsible compared to a corporate plant to enhance the relationship with surrounding communities. that is not. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 115 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital We are fully aware of the nature of our ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP environment management systems are business and the impact our operations can carried out along with the management have on the environment, the community, As mentioned in the social and relationship system internal audits. greenhouse gas emissions and global capital, our CSR activities come under warming. However, we are taking necessary several categories. We have included below our CSR activities towards the preservation GRIEVANCE HANDLING steps not only to minimise our impact but to be a part of the solution through inbuilt of the environment. Since we operate in urban and rural systems and processes in our business settings all over the country, disputes and units as well as the utilisation of the latest Tree planting programme concerns may arise over the environmental technology available. impact of our operations and activities. Intending to mitigate the environmental consequences of its business operations, Thus, we place great importance in reducing we have initiated a programme to plant We have a grievance our environmental footprint by sustainable trees in different locations across the construction techniques, proper waste handling mechanism country. Tree planting is a tradition that management, prudent resource allocation, we have upheld over the years to preserve in place to handle energy saving initiatives, and other such natural vegetation wherever possible. measures that contribute to minimising grievances through a During the year, 3,012 trees were planted our impact. timely, effective manner. under the programme. GRI 307-1 Reported complaints are recorded in the Educating employees about Complaint Register. If serious complaints We are happy to report that during the year environmental and social impact there were no incidents of non-compliance are recorded, a thorough investigation We conducted internal and external takes place to determine the nature with environmental laws and regulations. training sessions to educate employees of the issue and then the grievance is The following section provides extensive on environmental impacts. The addressed through a transparent process. information on our environmental policies sessions included waste management, We regard complaints as opportunities for and management, outlining the steps we environmental pollution, and global learning and growth and to improve our have taken to reduce usage or emissions of warming among several others. A total sustainability. energy, carbon, materials, and water. of 57 participants attended the sessions. Further, in addition to the environment Grievances filed, addressed, and training sessions, awareness sessions on resolved during the period 16 Filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the period 7 Filed during the period and under processing 5 Total 28 116 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital OUR ECO-FRIENDLY MEASURES Access Engineering focuses on creating a culture that values the environment Energy preservation ´´Anticipating and addressing concerns during the design stage which leads to reduction in energy consumption and consequently GHG emission in the long term. ´´Thermal insulations for roofs to control heating, so that the need for air conditioning is minimised. ´´Usage of CFL and LED bulbs for lighting and other electric equipment that consume less energy. ´´Usage of renewable energy (solar) wherever practical. ´´Avoid oversized electrical equipment. ´´Procuring energy efficient machinery/equipment. ´´Providing natural ventilation and lighting whenever possible in construction site offices, rest rooms, and meal rooms. ´´Dividing the lighting system into several zones with separate switches. ´´Installing power factor correction capacitors for three phase connection to improve energy efficiency. ´´Limiting operation time for AC (in selected areas). ´´Isolating locations (such as meeting rooms) from central AC system. ´´Usage of solar powered lighting, wherever feasible. ´´Motivating users to save energy via displaying posters. Fuel consumption ´´Procuring fuel efficient vehicles and machinery. ´´Annual maintenance and assessment of vehicles and machinery and performing scheduled services on time. ´´Disposing of or cease operations of aged machinery. ´´Monitoring fuel consumption against the mileage of the vehicles and machineries, and troubleshoot any deviations. ´´Monitoring fuel consumption against the production of the plant. ´´Avoid oversized generators for electricity generation and other fuel-driven equipment. Emission ´´Measuring emissions of generators, vehicles, and other machinery to identify any abnormal compositions in the emission. ´´Emissions in fuel-driven equipment such as generators are measured and appropriate action such as filter replacement or servicing is done to rectify any anomalies. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 117 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital Preventing pollution ´´Noise generated during the operation of machinery is assessed and actions are taken appropriately. ´´High noise generating equipment is isolated or is replaced with equipment that generate a less amount of noise (e.g. sound proof generators). ´´Using a hydraulic bullet removing machine at the piling workshop to eliminate high noise generation during the conventional method of hammering. ´´To reduce noise generated from crusher and asphalt noise barriers are made with trees or GI sheets along the boundary of plants. Wherever practical eco-friendly material/methods such as dry coconut leaves, green belts, etc. are used. ´´Lubricants, oil, and fuel are stored with secondary containment to avoid spillage and hence soil pollution. For larger quantities permanently built secondary tanks are used and for smaller quantities secondary trays are used. ´´In crusher plants, heavy dust pollutes the air. This is drastically reduced by covering the plant with a material which is wetted using water sprinklers. Further in other projects several methods such as water spraying, vehicle speed limiting is used to minimise air pollution. ´´Installing a dust collector to the micro-trenching machine which reduces dust spreading during the operation. Waste disposal techniques ´´Every site has its own Waste Management Plan addressing controls to minimise the generation of waste and methods of disposal. ´´Bentonite wastes are disposed as per the CEA/MC recommended methods only in approved locations. ´´Domestic waste collected onsite are segregated at the time of collection (E.g. iron, glass, steel, paper, polythene, etc.). ´´Hazardous waste generated at site (burnt oil, oil filters, etc.) are disposed via CEA approved agents for recycle and reusing purposes. ´´Electronic wastes are collected and disposed via a CEA-approved agent. ´´Non-hazardous construction and demolishing debris are used for landfills. ´´Following are collected and sent to CEA approved agents for recycling and reusing purpose: – Waste papers – Barricade tapes – HDPE wastes – Used batteries – Glass wool ´´Sludge accumulated in the concrete batching plant is used for back filling on public requests after approval from the relevant authorities. ´´Storage techniques are used to avoid material wastages and material storages are covered. ´´Construction techniques that minimise wastage are used. ´´Procurement of quality material at every stage of a project to eliminate wastage due to rejections. ´´Reinforcement scraps are used to erect chairs in the cafeteria, carts to move materials and buckets to be used for the crane. ´´A DMS (Document Management System) was introduced to reduce paper consumption. 118 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital Environment preservation ´´Reusing materials during construction and production (e.g. de-sander, re-claimer, mivan formwork, etc.). ´´Excavated soil is used for backfilling to minimise the environmental disturbance made to the ecosystem. ´´Use of properly sized equipment. ´´Placement of project/plant office buildings and other facilities in a way that conserves trees. ´´Tree planting with the main objective being to trade-off carbon footprint due to our operations. ´´Not using materials which are hazardous to environment, such as asbestos, lead content paints, etc. ´´Constructing rock walls to minimise soil erosion. ´´Maintaining a plant nursery (small scale) attached to the mechanical workshop, so that plants will be available for internal tree planting programmes as well as for outsiders ´´Control measures to avoid environmental emergencies/incidents (e.g. secondary containments for oil/fuel storage, etc.) ´´Minimum disturbance to the existing ecosystem during site office construction whenever feasible (e.g. environmental friendly site office construction with natural environment) ´´Considering environment concerns of the suppliers, during the supplier evaluation ´´Compliance to environmental statutory requirements [e.g. EPL conditions, material (ABC, Quarry, Soil) transportation, etc.] ´´Promoting employees to adopt practices which conserve our environment (e.g. using lunch boxes instead of lunch sheets, etc.) Water conservation/treatment ´´Waste water is treated and reused at production plants and the workshop wherever possible. ´´Budgeting water consumption based on project activities for more realistic consumption (construction and day-to-day), and monitor consumption accordingly. ´´Cement contaminated water generated in the batching plant is sent through a sedimentation process and reused to wash truck mixtures, vehicles, etc. ´´Re-using water at all our construction sites as much as possible. ´´Usage of concrete curing agents, so that water consumption for concrete curing is reduced. ´´Monitoring of water consumption by the Head Office. ´´Motivating users to save water via posters and spreading awareness. Other techniques ´´Throughout construction, the Company assesses pollution and the possibility of the environment getting polluted. In such situations, water resources/bodies adjacent to the project areas or any other operation of the Company, are identified to avoid potential pollution by changing the method or establishing controls to minimise. ´´Dust controlling techniques such as watering, speed controls for vehicles inside the site, water sprinklers (in the quarry/crusher plants) are used to minimise environmental impact. ´´River sand is replaced by manufactured sand partially or completely in concrete batching plants. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 119 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital ENERGY MANAGEMENT Our sector contributes to the highest percentage of energy-related CO2 emissions. Therefore, we are conscious our role as a thought leader in the industry to minimise our consumption of energy through various means. We consider the management and reduction of energy to be of utmost priority. Energy management is integrated to all our systems and processes and is implemented in our operations. The energy consumed by operations mainly consist of two main components; fuel and electricity. Further, a significant portion of the total fuel is consumed at the asphalt plants and the Central Equipment Division. Refer page 117 for our energy conservation methods. GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within at AEL Type of energy Units consumed Conversion ratio Total energy consumption (Megajoules) Diesel (ltr.) 7,938,761 38.3 304,054,546 Petrol (ltr.) 193,081 33.6 6,487,522 Kerosene (ltr.) 3,137 37.0 116,069 Electricity (kWh) 1,862,668 3.6 6,705,605 Total 317,363,742 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Total energy consumption (Megajoules) 317,363,742 Year end number of employees 2,583 Energy intensity measured in terms of energy consumption per employee (Megajoules) 122,866 GRI 305-1, 305-2 Direct and Indirect GHG emissions Type of emission Type of energy Units Conversion Total CO2 emission consumed rate (Kg) Direct emission Diesel (Litres) 7,938,761 2.74 21,752,205 Petrol (Litres) 193,081 2.28 440,225 Kerosene (Litres) 3,137 2.28 7,152 Indirect emission Electricity (kwh) 1,862,668 0.71 1,322,494 Total emission (Direct + Indirect) 23,522,076 120 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital GRI 303-1, 303-3 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is a scare resource and we consider water preservation as a top priority. Consequently, sustainable practices have been adapted to manage water in our sites and in our operations since water preservation improves wet weather working conditions, reduce clean up costs, and reduce stockpile losses. We have also adopted measures to reuse and recycle water by making optimal use of storm water, reuse of grey and black water, and have integrated water management to our processes which have led to economical and effective strategy for managing water. Refer page 119 for our water conservation methods. GROUND WATER SURFACE WATER PIPE BORNE WATER TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION 2019/20 121,716 (Cubic meters) WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED 1,408 25,694 7,730 88,292 (Cubic meters) (Cubic meters) (Cubic meters) (Cubic meters) PERCENTAGE OF WATER RECYCLED 1.16% WASTE MANAGEMENT We have adapted resource-efficient practices to reduce waste generation connected to our operations. These practices are integrated to our systems and processes in our effort to contribute to sustainable construction. Through our waste management system underpinned by the three R’s (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle), waste is segregated at source, stored safely and disposed in the most environmentally-sound way. Refer page 118 for our waste disposal techniques. Paper consumption in 2019/20 Type of paper Total consumption (Kgs) A3 80 gsm 2,055.72 A4 80 gsm 11,827.85 A5 80 gsm 74.59 Total 13,958.16 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 121 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital TOTAL PAPER CONSUMPTION WASTE PAPER RECYCLED FULLY GROWN TREES SAVED 13,958 kg 405 kg 7 Numbers OIL SAVED ELECTRICITY SAVED WATER SAVED 710 L 1,620 kwh 12,870 L LANDFILL SAVED REDUCTION IN GHG EMISSIONS (kg of Carbon emission) 1.22 M3 81 Wastewater treatment Wastewater is treated and reused at production plants and the workshop wherever possible (e.g. Mabima Concrete Batching Plant, Peliyagoda Concrete Batching Plant, Kandana Concrete Batching Plant, Kaduwela Workshop, etc.). In 2019/20, 1.16% of the total water consumed was recycled and reused as shown below: Total water consumption (m3) 121,716 Water recycled and reused (m ) 3 1,408 Percentage of water recycled and reused (m ) 3 1.16% GRI 304-1 BIODIVERSITY The following table outlines locations and size of land owned, leased, managed, in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity: Location/Project Land extent Description of Ownership of Position in Type of Biodiversity Listing of protected operation land relation to the operation value status (if applicable) protected area Vavuniya quarry, crusher 0.4 hectares Production of Leased Adjacent to Manufacturing Terrestrial Forest Conservation and asphalt plant asphalt Department 122 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operation Impact (on local community) Control measures Road Damages to utility supplies during Using equipment to detect underground utilities road works Taking prompt actions to restore/repair Road/Bridge Projects Safety hazards of the area Barricading the working area Adhering to the Traffic Management Plan Using safety sign boards Managing traffic Public inconvenience on mobility Providing advance notice to areas affected Determining alternate options for access and parking, if available Providing controlled access by keeping the traffic moving Managing traffic as per the Traffic Management Plan Air quality degradation due to dust Watering to control dust generation and machinery Checking emissions of generators and other equipment Vibration and crack propagation Measuring and monitoring the level of vibration Limiting the time of operation Conducting crack surveys and rectifying at the end of the project Piling/General Area nuisance due to noise Monitoring noise levels to ensure they are within allowed range construction activities Ensuring that construction machinery is fitted with silencers to reduce noise Using soundproof or low noise equipment Limiting the time of operation Operation of plants Air quality degradation due to Using sprinklers to control dust spread plant operation Testing the emission from the plant, to detect acceptability and act accordingly General construction Cultural issues Appointing a public relationship officer to build relationship with the local community and to execute the project with minimal cultural disturbance Carrying out CSR projects in partnership with the local communities ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 123 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural Capital ENVIRONMENT, STATUTORY, AND OTHER COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS Legislation Statutory requirement National Environment Act No. 47 of 1980, Obtaining environmental protection license for emission or disposal of waste National Environment Act (Amendment) Act No. 56 of 1988, National Environment Provision with respect to the powers, functions and duties of the Authority and provision for Act No. 53 of 2000 and Rules and Regulations the protection and management of the environment and for the matters connected therewith of the Central Environmental Authority Protection of the environment and quality regulations Compliance with noise control measures Compliance with air quality regulations and standards Compliance for ozone depleting substances Compliance with mobile air emission standards Compliance with vehicular exhaust emission standards/fuel standards and exhaust emission standards for importation of vehicles Mines and Minerals Act No. 33 of 1992 Obtaining trade license and industrial mining license Coast Conservation Act No. 57 of 1980 Compliance in harbour and marine work projects Marine Pollution Prevention Act No. 59 of 1981 Compliance in harbour and marine work projects Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance 1981 Protecting fauna and flora (Consolidated status up to 2006) Felling of Trees (control) Act No. 9 of 1951 Compliance in activity of felling trees Forest Ordinance Compliance in operating production plants in a forest area Mahaweli Authority Act No. 23 of 1979 Compliance for workstations situated under Mahaweli Authority Municipal Councils Ordinance Compliance when working in municipal council areas Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Compliance with the prevention of mosquito breeding; for the eradication Act No. 11 of 2007 of places of mosquito breeding and for matters connected there with or incidental thereto Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 Compliance when working in Pradeshiya Sabhas Soil Conservation Act (Amendment) Compliance for the enhancement and substance of productive capacity of the soil; to restore No. 24 of 1996 degraded land for the prevention and mitigation of soil erosion; for the conservation of soil resources and protection of land against damage by floods, salinity, alkalinity water logging, brought and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto Antiques Ordinance Compliance when working in archeological department areas State Land Ordinance Compliance when working on land North Western Provincial Environmental Compliance when working in the North Western Province Statute No. 12 of 1990 FUTURE OUTLOOK We are conscious of our impact on the environment and we take every step to mitigate any negative impacts by engaging in responsible, sustainable infrastructure development. We will continue to invest in the latest technology which helps to minimise our carbon footprint. Our annual tree planting project will continue for the next foreseeable future. We will make further improvements to other eco-friendly measures while leveraging the latest, cutting-edge construction methodologies to reduce the use of raw materials and natural resources such as water. 124 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organisation Inner back cover Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 102-3 Location of headquarters Inner back cover 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form Inner back cover 102-6 Markets served 3, 6 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 88-95 102-9 Supply chain 109-111 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 109-111 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 4 102-12 External initiatives 4 102-13 Membership of associations 112 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-Maker 10-12 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 86, 146 102-18 Governance structure 141 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 25-32 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 88 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 25, 26 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 25, 26 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 31, 32 102-45 Entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 6 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 4 102-47 List of material topics 33-34 102-48 Restatements of information 4 102-49 Changes in reporting 4 102-50 Reporting period 4 102-51 Date of most recent report 4 102-52 Reporting cycle 4 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 4 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 4 102-55 GRI content index 125-128 102-56 External assurance 4, 129, 130 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 125 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number GRI 201: Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 Performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 82 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 78 201-4 Financial assistance received from Government 78 GRI 202: Market Presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 88 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 88 GRI 203: Indirect Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 36 Impacts 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 44-70 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 44-70 GRI 204: Procurement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 Practices 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 110 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 87 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 87 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 87 GRI 206: Anti-competitive 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 Behaviour 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 108 GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 120 302-3 Energy intensity 120 126 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 121 303-3 Water recycled and reused 121 GRI 304: Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 122 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 120 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 120 GRI 307: Environmental 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 Compliance 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 116 GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 89 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 92 or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 92 GRI 402: Labour/Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 Relations 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 88 GRI 403: Occupational 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 Health and Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 94 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 127 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number GRI 404: Training and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 Education 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 89 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skill and transition assistance programmes 90 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 93 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 Opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 88, 144 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 88 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 95 GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 36 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 113-115 and development programmes GRI 416: Customer Health and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 34 Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 97 products and services GRI 419: Socio-economic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 33, 36 Compliance 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 112 128 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-56 Independent Assurance Report to AEL KPMG Tel : +94 11 542 6426 (Chartered Accountants) Fax : +94 11 244 5872 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, : +94 11 244 6058 P. O. Box 186, Internet : www.kpmg.com/lk Colombo 00300, Sri Lanka. We have been engaged by the Directors of OUR CONCLUSIONS with the Consolidated Set of Global Access Engineering PLC (“the Company”) to Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting provide reasonable assurance and limited Our conclusion has been formed on the Standards Guidelines. assurance in respect of the Sustainability basis of, and is subject to, the matters Indicators as identified below for the year outlined in this report. We believe that These responsibilities includes establishing ended 31 March 2020. The Sustainability the evidence we have obtained is sufficient such internal controls as management Indicators are included in the Access and appropriate to provide a basis for determines are necessary to enable the Engineering PLC’s Integrated Annual Report our conclusions. preparation of the Reasonable Assurance for the year ended 31 March 2020 Sustainability Indicators and the Limited (the “Report”). REASONABLE ASSURANCE Assurance Sustainability Indicators that SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS are free from material misstatement The Reasonable Assurance Sustainability whether due to fraud or error. Indicators covered by our reasonable In our opinion, the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability Indicators, as defined above, Management is responsible for preventing assurance engagement are: for the year ended 31 March 2020 are, in all and detecting fraud and for identifying material respects, prepared and presented and ensuring that the Company complies Assured sustainability Integrated Annual indicators Report page in accordance with the Consolidated Set of with laws and regulations applicable to Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability its activities. Financial highlights 8 Reporting Standards Guidelines. Management is also responsible for ensuring LIMITED ASSURANCE that staff involved with the preparation and The Limited Assurance Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS presentation of the description and Report Indicators covered by our limited assurance are properly trained, information systems are engagement are: Based on the limited assurance procedures properly updated and that any changes performed and the evidence obtained, as in reporting encompass all significant Limited assurance Integrated Annual described below, nothing has come to our business units. sustainability indicators Report page attention that causes us to believe that the Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators, OUR RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial highlights 9 as defined above, for the year ended 31 March 2020, have not in all material Our responsibility is to express a Information provided on respects, been prepared and presented in reasonable assurance conclusion on the the following accordance with the Consolidated Set of Company’s preparation and presentation Financial capital 72-82 Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability of the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability Reporting Standards Guidelines. Indicators and a limited assurance Manufactured capital 83 conclusion on the preparation and Intellectual capital 84-87 MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY presentation of the Limited Assurance Human capital 88-95 Sustainability Indicators included in the Social and Management is responsible for the Report, as defined above. relationship capital 96-115 preparation and presentation of the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability We conducted our assurance engagement Natural capital 116-124 Indicators and the Limited Assurance in accordance with Sri Lanka Standard Sustainability Indicators in accordance on Assurance Engagements SLSAE 3000: M.R . Mihular F C A P.Y.S. Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA T.J.S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J.C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.D.C Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA G.A.U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA Ms. B.K.D.T.N. Rodrigo FCA KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm R.H. Rajan FCA M.N.M. Shameel ACA Ms. C.T.K.N. Perera ACA of the KPMG network of independent member firms A.M.R.P. Alahakoon ACA affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative Principals S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK), LLB, Attorney-at-Law, H.S. Goonewardene ACA, (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Ms. P.M.K. Sumanasekara FCA ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 129 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Assurance Report to AEL Assurance Engagements other than Audits the Company, and re-computation of the The procedures performed in a limited or Reviews of Historical Financial Information calculations of the Reasonable Assurance assurance engagement vary in nature and (SLSAE 3000) issued by The Institute of Sustainability Indicators. timing from, and are less in extent than Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. for, a reasonable assurance engagement, LIMITED ASSURANCE ON THE ASSURED and consequently the level of assurance We have complied with the independence SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS obtained in a limited assurance engagement and other ethical requirements of the is substantially lower than the assurance Code of Ethics issued by The Institute of Our limited assurance engagement on the that would have been obtained had a Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators reasonable assurance engagement been consisted of making enquiries, primarily performed. Accordingly, we do not express SLSAE 3000 requires that we plan and of persons responsible for the preparation a reasonable assurance conclusion on the perform the engagement to obtain of the Limited Assurance Sustainability Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators. reasonable assurance about whether Indicators, and applying analytical and the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability other procedures, as appropriate. These PURPOSE OF OUR REPORT Indicators are free from material procedures included: misstatement and limited assurance In accordance with the terms of our ´´interviews with Senior Management and about whether the Limited Assurance engagement, this assurance report has been relevant staff at corporate and selected Sustainability Indicators are free from prepared for the Company for the purpose site level concerning sustainability material misstatement. of assisting the Directors in determining strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across whether the Company's Reasonable and REASONABLE ASSURANCE OVER the business; Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators REASONABLE ASSURANCE are prepared and presented in accordance ´´enquiries of management to gain with the Consolidated Set of Global SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS an understanding of the Company’s Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting The procedures selected in our reasonable processes for determining material Standards Guidelines and for no other assurance engagement depend on our issues for the Company’s key purpose or in any other context. judgement, including the assessment stakeholder groups; of the risks of material misstatement of ´´enquiries of relevant staff at corporate RESTRICTION OF USE OF OUR REPORT the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability and selected site level responsible for Indicators whether due to fraud or error. the preparation of the Limited Assurance Our report should not be regarded as Sustainability Indicators; suitable to be used or relied on by any In making those risk assessments, we party wishing to acquire rights against us ´´enquiries about the design and have considered internal controls relevant other than the Company, for any purpose implementation of the systems and to the preparation and presentation of or in any other context. Any party other methods used to collect and report the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability than the Company who obtains access to the Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators in order to design assurance our report or a copy thereof and chooses to Indicators, including the aggregation procedures that are appropriate in the rely on our report (or any part thereof ) will of the reported information; circumstances, but not for the purposes do so at its own risk. To the fullest extent of expressing a conclusion as to the ´´comparing the Limited Assurance permitted by law, we accept or assume no effectiveness of the Company's internal Sustainability Indicators to relevant responsibility and deny any liability to any controls over the preparation and underlying sources on a sample basis party other than the Company for our work, presentation of the Report. to determine whether all the relevant for this Independent Assurance Report, or information has been appropriately for the conclusions we have reached. Our engagement also included assessing included in the Report; the appropriateness of the Reasonable ´´reading the Limited Assurance Assurance Sustainability Indicators, Sustainability Indicators presented in the suitability of the criteria, being the the Report to determine whether they Consolidated Set of Global Reporting are in line with our overall knowledge of, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards and experience with, the sustainability Colombo Guidelines, used by the Company in performance of the Company; preparing and presenting the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability Indicators within ´´reading the remainder of the Report 31 July 2020 the Report, obtaining an understanding to determine whether there are any of the compilation of the financial and material misstatements of fact or non-financial information to the sources material inconsistencies based on our from which it was obtained, evaluating understanding obtained as part of our the reasonableness of estimates made by assurance engagement. 130 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STEWARDSHIP 132 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 136 CORPORATE MANAGEMENT TEAM 141 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 171 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors Seated (Left to right) Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe, Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando Standing (Left to right) Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis, Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne, Dinesh Weerakkody 132 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors Seated (Left to right) Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera, Joseph Christopher Joshua Standing (Left to right) Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe, Dilhan Perera, Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 133 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors Sumal Joseph Dalpadoruge Anton Saumaya Dharshana Sanjiva Perera Rohana Fernando Munasinghe Chairman Executive Director/ Executive Director/Director – Chief Operating Officer Business Development The Founder Chairman of the Access Group of Companies founded in 1989, he is also Joining the AEL Group in 1998 as an He joined Access International (Private) the Founder Chairman and a shareholder Engineer based in the Engineering Division, Limited in 1996 and held Executive and of AEL. He continues to be the Chairman he played a vital role in enabling the Senior Managerial positions throughout of all companies under the umbrella of division to become a separate business his successful career. He joined AEL in 2006 the Access Group, AEL Group and Sathosa entity, encompassing the name and persons and was appointed to the Board of AEL as Motors PLC. He is a Fellow Member of of AEL. Having held Senior Management Director – Business Development. He is also the Chartered Institute of Management positions in AEL, he was appointed to the a Director of Access International (Private) Accountants – UK. It is under his vision Board in 2002. In 2007, he was appointed Limited, Sathosa Motors PLC, Access Motors and leadership that the Access Group of as the Director/COO of AEL. He is a (Private) Limited, Access Realties (Private) Companies has grown to be a diversified Corporate Member of Institution of Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, and successful business enterprise, Engineers Sri Lanka (IESL) and has a ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited and in a span of over three decades. BSc Degree in Civil Engineering from the ARL Elevate (Private) Limited. University of Peradeniya. He is also a Director of Access International (Private) Limited, Eco Friendly Power Developers Joseph Christopher Joshua (Private) Limited, Access Realties (Private) Dilhan Perera Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, Non-Executive Director Managing Director Harbour Village (Private) Limited, Access Projects (Pvt) Ltd., Sathosa Motors PLC, WUS Logistics (Private) Limited and ARL One of the founder Directors of the Access Elevate (Private) Limited. Dilhan Perera is serving in the capacity Group of Companies, he was instrumental of Non-Executive Director of AEL since in heading some of the most successful December 2013. He is serving as the Chief business units within the Group. A founder Shevantha Harindra Financial Officer in affiliated companies shareholder of AEL, he was the Joint Sudharaka Mendis which are not coming under the Group Managing Director/CEO of the Company. of Companies of Access Engineering PLC. Executive Director/Director – It was under his leadership that AEL Business Development achieved significant milestones in growth. Companies under his purview include Ranjan John Access Realties (Private) Limited, Access Suriyakumar Gomez Having held many executive and Realties 2 (Private) Limited, Harbour Village management positions within the AEL Non-Executive Director (Private) Limited, Access Energy (Private) Group, he has functioned within the Limited, Access Natural Water (Private) Engineering Division since its inception. Limited, Eco Friendly Power Developers With the genesis of AEL, he became a part One of the Founder Directors of the AEL (Private) Limited and business units of of that unit and was appointed as Director – Group of Companies and has functioned Access International (Private) Limited. Business Development in 2002. He is also as the Joint Managing Director of the Group He was also appointed as Managing a Director of Access International (Private) since 1997. Companies under his purview Director of Sathosa Motors PLC with effect Limited, Access Realties (Private) Limited, include Access Holdings (Pvt) Ltd., ATSL from 1 April 2019. He is also a Director of Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited, Access International (Private) Limited, ATSL Telesoft WUS Logistics (Private) Limited, ZPMC Lanka Realties 2 (Private) Limited and ARL Elevate (Private) Limited, Access Energy Solutions Company (Private) Limited and ARL Elevate (Private) Limited. (Private) Limited and business units of (Private) Limited. Access International (Private) Limited. 134 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors Prof Kulatilleke Dinesh Weerakkody Arthanayake Malik Kumar Independent Non-Executive Ranasinghe Director Independent Non-Executive Director Dinesh Weerakkody is the Chairman of Hatton National Bank PLC, Chairman of A member of the AEL Board since 2011, the International Chamber of Commerce Prof Ranasinghe is a Senior Professor Sri Lanka and Cornucopia Sri Lanka. He in Civil Engineering at the University is a former Chairman of the National of Moratuwa, a Chartered Engineer, Human Resource Development Council of International Professional Engineer, Fellow Sri Lanka, Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka, and the Employees’ Trust Fund Board of National Academy of Sciences, Sri Lanka Sri Lanka. He was also the Chairman of the and Institute of Project Managers. He Government appointed Committee to review is the Chairman of Sampath Bank PLC, the Banking Sector and NBFI consolidation Independent Non-Executive Director of and the Committee appointed to review Resus Energy PLC, Sampath Bank PLC, the Budgetary Allocation for Education. He Teejay Lanka PLC and United Motors Lanka was also a Director of DFCC Bank. He is a PLC. He was a former Vice-Chancellor and Graduate in Business Administration (UK), Dean of the Faculty of Engineering at the a Fellow Member of both the Chartered University of Moratuwa, former Fellow of the Institute of Management Accountants (UK) National University of Singapore and former and the Certified Management Accountants Non-Executive Director of the Colombo (Sri Lanka), Professional Member of the Stock Exchange, Hemas Power PLC and Singapore Human Resource Institute Lanka IOC PLC. and holds an MBA from the University of Leicester. He currently serves in a number of private sector and MNC Boards and Niroshan Dakshina Chairs/Member of the Audit Committee and Gunaratne the Remuneration Committee in several of those companies. He is a Council Member Independent Non-Executive of the Employers‘ Federation of Ceylon, Director Institute of Directors and a Financial Advisory Board Member of Sri Lanka Cricket and Caritas Sri Lanka. Appointed to the AEL Board in 2011, he is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants – UK. He possesses over twenty years of experience in the field of finance and accounting and has been at MB Financial Services (Private) Limited, a primary dealer appointed by the CBSL and Jewelknit, a subsidiary of Mast Industries – USA. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 135 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team Seated (Left to right) Joseph Christopher Joshua, Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando, Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera Standing (Left to right) Kosala Wickramasinghe, Niroshan Thilakarathne, Nilantha Iddagodage, Senarath Bandara, Lagath Gamalathge, Dharmasiri Chandrapala, Srimal Fernando 136 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team Seated (Left to right) Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis, Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe Standing (Left to right) Vasantha Manatunge, Manoaj Jayahsuriya, Dhanushka Munasinghe, Thasantha Kumara, M G Dhammika Deshapriya Silva, Pivithiri Jayasinghe, Prabashana Kumara ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 137 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team Sumal Joseph Manoaj Jayahsuriya Vasantha Manatunge Sanjiva Perera General Manager – Project Senior General Manager Chairman Management Division I Profile given on page 134. V K Manatunge joined the Company in Manoaj joined the Company in March early 2003 and is currently functioning 2006. He has over 33 years of experience as the Senior General Manager of Access in diversified fields such as the Sri Lanka Engineering. He obtained his Degree Navy, operations, apparel manufacturing, Joseph Christopher Joshua in Civil Engineering from the University corporate planning and human resources Managing Director of Moratuwa in 1978 and has been a management. He is a Project Management Corporate Member of the Institution of Professional (PMP) who holds an MBA Engineers, Sri Lanka since 1982. He counts from the Postgraduate Institute of over 41 years of experience in the civil Management (PIM) of the University of Profile given on page 134. engineering field and has worked in various Sri Jayewardenepura, BSc (Hons) from the capacities in the state sector as well as the University of Colombo and a Postgraduate private sector. Diploma in Psychology as well as several Dalpadoruge Anton naval professional qualifications. He also Rohana Fernando functions as a Director of Sathosa Motors PLC and Access Motors Private Limited. Executive Director/ Dharmasiri Chandrapala Chief Operating Officer General Manager – Technical Srimal Fernando Profile given on page 134. Senior General Manager – T D D Chandrapala joined the Company Project Management Division II in 2002 and counts over 14 years of Shevantha Harindra experience at the Senior Management level Sudharaka Mendis of the Company. He holds a BSc in Civil Srimal joined the Company in August 1999 Engineering and he is also a Chartered as a civil engineer and was promoted to Executive Director/Director – Civil Engineer. He has over 40 years of Manager – Engineering in January 2004, Business Development experience in the fields of Irrigation and General Manager in January 2008 and Drainage, Building Construction, Water Senior General Manager in 2017. He holds Supply, Roads and Bridges. a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering Profile given on page 134. from the University of Peradeniya and is a Corporate Member of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka. During the period SAUMAYA DHARSHANA of his service, he was involved with MUNASINGHE major projects in many diversified fields Executive Director/Director – such as Roads and Highways, Bridges, Business Development Telecommunication, Water and Wastewater, Piling and Buildings in a senior level management capacity. He was also Profile given on page 134. appointed as a Director to the Board of WUS Logistics Private Limited. . 138 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team Kosala Wickramasinghe Prabashana Kumara Nilantha Iddagodage General Manager – Planning General Manager – Deputy General Manager – and Development Project Management Division II Finance Kosala joined the Company as a Project Prabashana joined the Company in Nilantha joined the Company in 2008 and Manager in 2007 and currently functions December 2006 as an Operations Manager – presently serves in the capacity of Deputy as the General Manager (Planning and Telecom Projects. Since then he has risen General Manager – Finance of the Company. Development). He holds a BSc (Hons) from Senior Manager – Telecom Projects to He is a Fellow Member (FCA) of The Institute in Civil Engineering from the University Deputy General Manager and he is currently of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and of Moratuwa, Postgraduate Diploma in functioning as a General Manager (Project an Associate Member of the Association Structural Engineering from the University Management Division II). He holds a BSc of Accounting Technicians of Sri Lanka. of Moratuwa and an MBA from Cardiff in Electrical and Electronics Engineering He holds an MBA from the Postgraduate Metropolitan University. He is also a from the University of Peradeniya. He has Institute of Management (PIM) of the Corporate Member of the Institution of 20 years of experience in the fields of University of Sri Jayewardenepura and holds Engineers Sri Lanka and a Corporate Telecommunication and Building Services a BSc in Estate Management and Valuation Member of the Society of Structural (M&E) and was involved in several major (Special) degree from the University of Engineers Sri Lanka. He has over 20 years’ projects in Sri Lanka and overseas in Key Sri Jayewardenepura. He has over 14 years experience in various disciplines of Civil Management roles. of experience in the field of Finance and Engineering including structural engineering Auditing. He was also appointed to the designs, contract administration and project Board of Access Projects (Pvt) Ltd. on management in Sri Lanka and overseas. Thasantha Kumara 1 May 2018. General Manager – Project Management Division IV Niroshan Thilakarathne Dhanushka Munasinghe General Manager – Deputy General Manager – Commercial Thasantha joined the Company at the Project Management beginning of 2013. He has over 25 years of Division III experience in the field of Civil Engineering Niroshan presently serves in the capacity of including Roads, Highways and Bridge General Manager – Commercial after serving Engineering and Project Management. He Dhanushka joined Access Engineering as in various capacities in the Company over has served in the capacity of Resident an Engineer for Projects in 2005 and rose a period of almost 16 years. He also has Engineer, Design Engineer, Executive to Senior Engineer, Senior Manager (Project over six years of experience before joining Engineer for the Road Development Management Division III) and is currently Access Engineering having worked in a Authority for seven years and in the functioning as Deputy General Manager professional firm which provides Audit, private sector for 14 years in the capacity (Project Management Division III). He Tax, Finance and Advisory services. He is of Project Manager, Senior Project Manager graduated from the University of Peradeniya also a finalist of The Institute of Chartered and Divisional Coordinator in the Roads, with a B.Sc. in Engineering and pursued his Accountants of Sri Lanka. He also functions Highways and Bridges Division. He has a MBA in Project Management at the University as a Director of Sathosa Motors PLC. BSc (Hons) in Civil Engineering from the of Moratuwa. He is also a Chartered Engineer University of Moratuwa and a Postgraduate with memberships in the Institution of Diploma in Highway and Traffic Engineering Engineers of Sri Lanka, Institute of Chartered from the University of Moratuwa. He is also Professional Managers, and the Institute of a Corporate Member of the Institution of Management of Sri Lanka. Engineers, Sri Lanka. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 139 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team Pivithiri Jayasinghe M G Dhammika Senarath Bandara Deshapriya Silva Deputy General Manager – Deputy General Manager – Project Management Division II Deputy General Manager – Business Development Engineering Designs Pivithiri joined Access Engineering in Senarath has served in the capacity of 2008 as a Trainee Site Engineer attached Dhammika joined Access Engineering Civil Engineer for a foreign construction to the piling division. He then rose to in 2007 as a Senior Design Engineer. company for seven years. He joined becoming Manager, Senior Manager and Since then he has risen from Manager Access Engineering in 2004 as a Planning was promoted to Deputy General Manager Engineering Design to Senior Manager Engineer. Then he rose to Senior Engineer (Project Management Division II) in 2019. Engineering Designs and is currently Planning, Senior Manager Engineering He holds a BSc (Hons) in Civil Engineering operating as the Deputy General Manager and is currently functioning as the from the University of Moratuwa and is also Engineering Designs. He holds both a Deputy General Manager – Business a Chartered Engineer. BSc (Hons) in Engineering and a M.Eng in Development. He graduated from the Structural Engineering from the University University of Peradeniya with a BSc in of Moratuwa. Dhammika is a Fellow member Civil Engineering, after which he followed of the Institution of Engineers, of Sri Lanka through with an MBA from the University Lagath Gamalathge and a Member of the Society of Structural of Moratuwa and Diploma in Commercial Deputy General Manager – Engineers of Sri Lanka. He is a recognised Arbitration. Senarath is also a corporate Project Management Division I structural Engineer eligible to design and member of the Institution of Engineers approve high rise buildings in Sri Lanka of Sri Lanka. He has over 20 years of under the IESL and UDA regulations. He experience in the fields of Civil Engineering Lagath joined Access Engineering in 2007 is an International Professional Engineer Construction, Planning, Contract as an Accountant for Projects and since recognised in 20 leading countries under Administration, Dispute Resolution, Project then he has risen from Manager to Senior the Washington Accord. He has over Management and Business Development. Manager roles and is now operating in 18 years of experience in various disciplines his present placement as Deputy General of Civil Engineering mainly in structural Manager (Project Management Division I). engineering designs together Lagath graduated from the University of with the constructions. Sri Jayawardenapura with a Bachelor of Commerce, specialising in marketing; following which he also completed an MBA at Cardiff Metropolitan University. He has over 20 years of experience in diversified fields such as manufacturing, operations and trading in Sri Lanka and overseas. Lagath is also a member of the Chartered Professional Managers of Sri Lanka. 140 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance “Corporate governance is concerned with holding the balance between economic and social goals and between individual and communal goals. The governance framework is there to encourage the efficient use of resources and equally to require accountability for the stewardship of those resources. The aim is to align as nearly as possible the interests of individuals, corporations and society.” Sir Adrian Cadbury, UK ABOUT ACCESS ENGINEERING GRI 102-18 The Company’s vision and mission guide us throughout our journey and we have Built on a sound philosophy, ethics, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE also firmly embedded the same into our policies, values, accountability and sincerity future journey, with the Board of Directors Any administrative or governance structure of action, AEL corporate governance ethos and the Executive Management providing is strong and efficient as long as same is works within a culture of performance that the necessary stewardship to our team backed by the overall ethics and values emphasises a framework of conformance and other stakeholders to achieve our of the Organisation. In compliant with the and compliance. To us, corporate objectives. The Board does not only aim country’s laws and regulations, we have governance goes beyond the tenets of for the primary objective of any profit built our ethical framework for improved conformance and compliance into a oriented entity which is the maximisation transparency and adopted our ethics in milieu where our business is grown and of shareholder wealth along with protecting our culture itself; so it goes beyond mere nurtured into a sustainable and equitable the interests of all internal and external compliance. one, presenting all our stakeholders stakeholders of the Company, but also with a future to grow with us. Maximising entrenched to provide their insights in the At AEL, our governance and operating shareholder wealth on a sustainable basis decisions by involving in designing strategic model facilitates decision-making while safeguarding the rights of multiple initiatives, establishing performance efficiently coupled with pragmatic resource stakeholders is a fundamental tenet which objectives and targets to ensure continuity mobilisation, for productive operating has permeated through all levels of our and sustainability of the business. results. This is thus manifested in the Management and staff, who in turn work composition of the Corporate Management on the trusses of truth, trust, principles and team, division of powers and duties and honesty to ensure that the end justifies the promotion of sound corporate ethics the means and remain strategically aligned across the Company. We also consider it our to the core principles of our corporate prime responsibility to disclose unbiased, governance practice. fair and accurate information on our governance practices in a timely manner to all stakeholders so that they could exercise sound decision-making. Hence, this report serves that purpose in great detail. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 141 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE For AEL, sustainability governance is the foundation for delivering short-term financial performance coupled with long-term growth prospects. We have integrated sustainability topics into our business strategy and they form part of our integrated model. This is backed by the strong governance structure we have put in place across the Group. STAKEHOLDERS Business Community Government Partners and SHAREHOLDERS Employees and Other EXTERNAL FRAMEWORKS and Regulators Investors Stakeholders Mandatory Provisions Reporting to ´´The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and Regulations CHAIRMAN AND BOARD ´´Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Elected by Reporting to Voluntary Provisions ´´Code of best BOARD SUBCOMMITEES practices on Corporate Governance issued Investment and jointly by CA Related Party Subsidiary Strategic Sri Lanka and SEC Audit Remuneration Transactions Performance Planning of Sri Lanka* Committee Committee Review Monitoring Committee Committee Committee Reporting to Internal Enterprise Risk Corporate Management Audit Management Board Subcommittee Charters INTERNAL FRAMEWORKS AEL Code of Ethics and Integrated Management Systems * AEL has fully complied with the 2013 “Code” and has complied with almost the full 2017 “Code” to the extent of business exigencies and as required by AEL. Our competitiveness in the market space and the successful past track record is a direct result of the work that embodies contribution from a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, community, etc. Hence the corporate governance structure of AEL emanates from these various stakeholders with whom we foster sustainable value creation. 142 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance THE CHAIRMAN The diverse range of skills and leadership experience offered by the Non-Executive 30% Chairman of the Company who acts in an Directors means that they are well qualified Executive capacity is mainly responsible to scrutinise performance, assess the for directing the affairs of the Board while 50% Company’s risk management and control maintaining effective external relationships processes, constructively challenge and practice of good corporate governance. decisions and operations and support the Executive Directors. Decisions regarding new The Chairman is responsible for making 20% Board appointments are taken by the Board sure that the agenda, minutes of prior collectively and the qualifications and meetings, Board papers and supplementary experience of Board members are decided information are circulated among the based on the nature of the business of members in advance, giving sufficient time Executive Directors the Company and the value addition the for preparation. He encourages active and member is expected to bring to the Board Non-Executive Directors effective participation of all Board members and the Company. Biographical details of Independent Non-Executive Directors each of the Directors are set out on pages facilitating productive discussions. The Chairman ensures the proper recording 134 to 135. of all matters discussed at the meetings through the Company Secretary. He is also BOARD EVALUATION responsible for making the Board members The Board caries out a self-evaluation aware of the importance of creating of its performance both individually as value to all stakeholders of the Company. well as collectively against economic, Chairman’s responsibilities are discussed in 50% 50% environmental, and social targets/goals detail on page 154. set at the beginning of each year. Results of these evaluations are properly minuted for future reference. The Executive Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS are required to adhere with the provisions With sustainability in the long run as of the “Company Policy on Disciplinary Management” to avoid any potential the ultimate goal, the Board as a whole conflict of interest. Implementation of the continues to take ownership of effective Executive Directors said policy is periodically monitored by a leadership. The management and five-member committee. The Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors governance framework, which the Board Directors are required to confirm the has implemented to support the Company’s existence or non-existence of conflicts of long-term growth objectives is set out on interest in the dated declaration submitted page 141. The Board comprises ten (10) to the Board. Directors out of whom five (5) are Executive Directors and five (5) are Non-Executive BOARD SUBCOMMITTEES Directors. Daily operational aspects of the 40% With an objective of further strengthening Company are headed by the Managing the governance in AEL, the Company has set Director who is supported by the Director/ up following subcommittees, 60% Chief Operating Officer (COO). The Board ´´Audit Committee comprises three (3) Non-Executive Directors who are also independent in respect ´´Related Party Transactions Review of criteria laid down by the regulatory Committee authorities and have no interests or ´´Remuneration Committee relationships in relation to the affairs of Independent Directors* ´´Investment and Subsidiary Performance the Company. Non-Independent Directors* Monitoring Committee * Out of Non-Executive Directors ´´Strategic Planning Committee ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 143 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance GRI 405-1 Committee and composition Key areas of responsibilities Committee report reference Audit Committee Three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors Oversight responsibilities for the integrity of financial statements, risk Page 165 and one (01) Non-Executive Director. management, business ethics, internal control, internal audit function, compliance, review External Auditor’s performance and financial reporting. Related Party Transactions Review Committee Three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors Ensuring that all related party transactions of the Company are consistent Page 167 and one (01) Executive Director. with the regulatory provisions laid down by the Corporate Governance Directions, LKAS 24 and the Listing Rules of the CSE. Remuneration Committee Three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors Setting up the remuneration policy and making recommendations to the Board Page 168 and one (01) Non-Executive Director. on recruitment, remuneration and performance evaluation. Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee Five (05) members including three (03) Assessing and monitoring existing and new investments of AEL and Page 169 Independent Non-Executive Directors and report observations and recommendations to the Board. two (02) Executive Directors. Strategic Planning Committee One (01) Independent Non-Executive Director and Focusing on planning and setting strategic directions to achieve goals and Page 170 three (03) Executive Directors. objectives of the Company. INTERNAL AUDIT Management that the internal controls while adding value to its core. It further imposed over core organisational processes assists the Company to meet its obligations Internal controls are considered a are effective enough so as to ensure the of adhering to the practice of good fundamental and an integral part of good achievement of the ultimate objective corporate governance. corporate governance culture at AEL. of wealth maximisation of the Company The Board of Directors’ is responsible and its Shareholders. The internal audit The internal control system at AEL has for identifying and managing all risks of function not only provides the above embedded in, all operative activities and the Company. To this effect, assessment assurance but also presents the Company business units within the Company and is of the operating effectiveness and the with a systematic, disciplined approach not an extraneous exercise which is merely malfunctions and exceptions of the to evaluate and improve the effectiveness ticking against a checklist. Hence the same internal controls is done by the Internal of risk management/mitigation process, is able to respond to emerging risks within Audit Division of the Company which aims internal controls, compliance, legal and outside the Company and includes on providing a reasonable assurance to proceedings, customer complaints and procedures for reporting control failures the Board of Directors and the Corporate governance activities within the Company and weaknesses, if prevalent. INFORMATION Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Business risk Ranking the identified Identifying auditable Planning internal audit identification risk based on likelihood areas based on ranking for the financial year and impact MATERIALITY 144 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance The Company adopts a risk assessment processes within the Company. The team, Driving a team branded on excellence, based approach with regard to its internal comprising the Managing Director, Chief people remain centric to our entire audit function with the objective of Operating Officer (COO), Board Members operational capabilities and engineering maintaining safety, reliability, profitability and Senior Management, meet at regular competencies. The experience and and integrity of the Organisation and to intervals to discuss the management of professionalism within our team has overlook key operational and regulatory business and operating activities. The core been the catalyst in integrating our core deficiencies. of AEL, project implementation is carried competencies into strategic partnerships. out by the Project Management Divisions Maintaining a healthy work-life balance In preparing the Internal Audit Plan for wherein General Managers and Deputy with an environment of superior each financial year, the Company adopts a General Managers work on plans and human resource development via a balanced approach considering both high targets, matching those to practical time comprehensive Quality Management risk areas as well as core organisational frames and ensuring any shortfalls System and Occupational Health and Safety processes. Due to the increasing complexity or delays are speedily attended to. Management System inculcate the culture of the business environment the Company of meritocracy and performance oriented operates in, the more recent Internal Audit In exercising the authority within an individuals who make up for an excellent Plans have adopted a flexible structure so ethical framework which is continuously team, driven to achieve ambitious goals. as to facilitate unforeseeable, and ad hoc demanding the compliance to itself, as well Part of the compensation of staff including situations. Once prepared the draft plan is as best practices in dealing with employees, Executive Directors and the Corporate presented to the Corporate Management customers, suppliers, and the community Management is performance based and for review and comments prior to being at large, AEL thrives to optimise its triple the distribution of the same is decided by presented to the Audit Committee for bottom line at the end. the Board and the Management after the final ratification. evaluation of multiple factors including We have also infused a milieu of but not limited to performance of the Based on a thorough evaluation and increased participation by middle Company and the individual concerned. previous audit findings, the department’s management to permeate the need for Employees are encouraged to make key focus areas for the financial year a more responsible, transparent, and recommendations to the Board via their 2020/21 were identified to be statutory accountable administration, which in turn respective Department Heads. Profiles of compliance, information technology, will strengthen the financial discipline of the Corporate Management are given from enterprise resource planning system, public the Company. Our approach to delegation pages 138 to 140. complaints, insurance process, procurement of high authority tied-up with high and financial reporting. accountability has given us the freedom INTERNAL FRAMEWORKS to respond to customer needs faster CORPORATE MANAGEMENT OF than most of the competitors which has Board committee charters been the cornerstone of our competitive ACCESS ENGINEERING Each Board subcommittee of AEL has its advantage. The permeation of authority and own Charter which clearly sets out the With the objective of achieving sustained accountability right down to the shop-floor subcommittee’s roles and responsibilities, value creation for the benefit of all level and the front-line has freed up the top duties, powers and authority and the stakeholders, the Corporate Management management to dwell on the more strategic composition. These Charters help the Board team of AEL has adhered to the corporate and conceptual inputs. to meet its regulatory commitments while governance principles, along with also enabling it to uphold good governance. maintaining effective structures and ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 145 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance GRI 102-16 BUSINESS ETHICS We believe that despite a mere profitability motive, an entity should uphold its ethics for its sustainability in the long run. Our Code of ethics has been devised with the objective of developing and maintaining long-term relationships with all stakeholders while satisfying the requirements of our valuable customers. Thus every employee at AEL including the new recruits are firmly guided to abide by the following ethics. Recognising the rights of all stakeholders Carrying out activities with due consideration to their rights ´´ Equality Solving conflicts in a fair and Conducting business in expeditious manner ´´Self regulation Honesty ´´ a professional manner Meeting all regulatory AEL’S Upholding the requirements CODE OF principles of fair play ETHICS Upholding a healthy Being transparent about business environment ´´Cooperativeness Integrity ´´ business activities Cooperating with other Serving all stakeholders businesses and professionals with honesty ´´ Discipline Having company interest over self-interest Carrying out work in an orderly manner INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS implementation of management systems, Our quality policy while internal audits are carried out to At AEL, we have established and ´´AEL is committed to satisfy customer ensure conformance with the management implemented Quality, Environment, needs and expectations by providing systems and periodically reviewed for and Health, and Safety Management high quality products and services continual improvement. Systems which meet the requirements with effective, efficient, and innovative of international standards. Further the solutions. Company’s Quality, Environment, and Quality management system (QMS) ´´The top management determines Health and Safety Management Systems The QMS defines processes which will result the context of the Organisation by are upgraded and certified to the latest in quality of products and services instead strategically analysing and reviewing its international standards, ISO 9001:2015, ISO of adopting a reactive approach of detecting internal and external factors to support 14001:2015, and ISO 45001:2018 respectively. product and service non-conformance. its strategic direction. Further, it establishes policies, objectives, ´´The Company is committed towards Management systems are driven by processes and procedures in order to the identification of relevant interested risk-based thinking and interacts with continually improve the effectiveness and parties, their needs and expectations all activities of the Organisation, identify efficiency of its performance. It ensures; and their fulfilment to enhance the context/needs and expectations of ´´The ability of AEL to deliver the desired sustainability of the business. interested parties, assessing and managing product and/or service consistently, risk, satisfying interested parties while ´´To meet with the above commitment, while meeting relevant interested enabling AEL to improve its processes, the Company continually improves parties' needs and expectations and reduce environmental impacts, protect the its quality management system workforce and increase the market share. ´´That the products and services are whilst adhering to the applicable produced at an optimum cost with regulatory requirements through cost The Corporate Management of AEL efficient use of the available resources – effective, profitable, safe and sound ensures its commitment and provision materials, human capital, technology, environmental friendly operations. of adequate resources for the effective and information. 146 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Environment management Health and safety management system ´´Ensure that the health and safety policy system (EMS) remains relevant and appropriate to AEL Health and safety management system by requiring periodic review in line with AEL reflects its green consciousness via in AEL is a systematic approach that has Management review procedures. the establishment and maintenance of been put in place to minimise the risk of the environment management systems. injury and illness. It involves identifying, This enables to eliminate/reduce assessing and controlling risks to workers in REPORT ON BOARD SUBCOMMITTEES significant environmental impacts caused all workplace operations. The core elements Audit Committee by the operations carried out by the of our health and safety management Organisation. This is done by identifying system include management involvement Audit Committee has continued to review and assessing environmental impacts, and commitment, hazard identification, and and report to the Board on the Group’s establishing environmental control risk assessment, hazard control, training, financial reporting, internal control measures, formulating and implementing emergency response, incident reporting and risk management processes and management programmes to minimise that and investigation and communication. The the performance, independence and impact. This enables AEL to – system enables us to protect our workforce, effectiveness of the External Auditor, comply with laws and regulations, reduce Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. ´´Manage and improve our environmental cost, enhance employee relations, and This report describes the Committee’s performance (managing negative create an incident free workplace. major areas of focus since their last impacts) and increase the efficiency report in financial year 2018/19. The of resource utilisation (e.g. reduce Committee appointed by the Board of waste and energy use) Our health and safety policy Directors comprises three (03) Independent ´´Comply with environmental laws and Access Engineering is a leading Non-Executive Directors and one (01) regulations infrastructure development solutions Non-Executive Director of the Board. provider in Sri Lanka, committed to ´´Improve our standing and reputation preventing injury and ill health to among staff, clients, partners, and other Members of the Audit Committee: employees, subcontractors, suppliers and stakeholders the general public according to applicable ´´Adapt to changing environments Niroshan Dakshina Independent health and safety regulations of the country Gunaratne (Chairman) Non-Executive (in operations and/or products and its safety manual. Director and services) Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Independent In satisfying this commitment, AEL aims to – Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Non-Executive Our environment policy ´´Strictly comply with applicable, legal and Director ´´AEL is committed to carry out its other requirements and where possible Dinesh Weerakkody Independent operations to have a minimal impact to setting its own higher standards. Non-Executive the environment as its strategic direction ´´Provide suitable training, awareness, Director for the sustainable business. information, instructions, and Suresh Dilan Perera Non-Executive ´´The Company analyses the internal supervision to maintain these standards. Director and external factors affecting the ´´Encourage communication and performance of its EMS. consultation between employees and The Audit Committee Charter formalises ´´The Company identifies and reviews the Management on health and safety the authority, responsibilities and specific the needs and the expectations issues. duties pertaining to the Committee as of the interested parties including ´´Continually strive to improve health and follows; compliance obligations with regard safety performance by establishing clear 1. Overseeing preparation, presentation to the environment, and establishes and measurable objectives and targets, and adequacy of disclosures in the communication with the relevant auditing, reviewing, monitoring and financial statements of the Company, interested parties on environmental reporting performance and recognising in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting obligations. those who contribute positively to its Standards; ´´The environmental management improvement. 2. Ensuring compliance with financial system is continually improved by ´´Arrange for the effective planning, reporting requirements, information reviewing, assessing and setting organisation, control, monitoring requirements of the Companies Act targets and objectives for enhancing and review of preventative and and other relevant financial related its performance. protective measures. regulations and requirements; ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 147 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance 3. Ascertaining that the Company’s internal Related Party Transactions Review decisions are essential to be reviewed, controls and risk management processes Committee this Board Subcommittee was set up, are adequate and meet the Sri Lanka comprising three (03) Independent The objective of the Related Party Auditing Standards requirements; Non-Executive Directors and two (02) Transactions Review Committee is to Executive Directors. The purpose of the 4. Assessing the independence and ensure that the interests of shareholders Committee is to discuss prospective performance of the Company’s as a whole are taken into account by a investments and performance monitoring of External Auditor; listed entity when entering into Related subsidiaries/associates prior to discussion 5. Making recommendations to the Party Transactions. The Committee is also of the relevant maters at Board meetings. Board pertaining to appointment, responsible to ensure that related party reappointment and removal of External transactions of the Company are compliant with the regulatory provisions of Coprate Members of the investment and Auditors and to approve remuneration Governance and the Listing Rules of the subsidiary performance monitoring and terms of engagement of the CSE. The Rules set out in this section committee External Auditor. further provide certain measures to prevent Directors, Managing Director or substantial Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Independent Audit Committee Report is given on page 165. shareholders taking advantage of their Malik Kumar Ranasighe Non-Executive (Chairman) Director positions. This Committee comprises three Remuneration Committee (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors Niroshan Dakshina Independent In order to attract and retain the best and one (01) Executive Director of the Board. Gunaratne Non-Executive Director human capital to sustain operations while rewarding performance, the Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Members of the Related Party Remuneration Committee is tasked with Non-Executive Transactions Review Committee: recommending the remuneration payable Director to the Executive Directors of the Company. Niroshan Dakshina Independent Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing This recommendation is made to the Gunaratne (Chairman) Non-Executive Director Board, which is responsible for the final Director Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Executive determination upon consideration of such Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Fernando Director/Chief recommendations. Non-Executive Operating Director Officer Comprising three (03) Independent Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Independent Non-Executive Directors and one (01) Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of the Board, this Director The Committee’s mandate includes: Committee is appointed by the Board. Dalpadoruge Executive ´´Assessment and notification of their Anton Rohana Fernando Director/Chief recommendations to the Board on Members of the Remuneration Operating major new investments in subsidiaries/ Committee: Officer associates and capital investments in the parent company. Dinesh Weerakkody Independent (Chairman) Non-Executive The purpose of the Committee is to provide ´´Assessment and notification of their Director independent review, approval and oversight recommendations to the Board on of all proposed related party transactions divestment of subsidiaries in the parent Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Independent in accordance with the Related Party company. Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Non-Executive Director Transactions Policy. The Related Party ´´Monitoring the budgets of subsidiaries Transactions Review Committee Charter and associates and submit their Niroshan Dakshina Independent Gunaratne Non-Executive formalises the authority, responsibilities observations and recommendations to Director and specific duties pertaining to the the Board. Committee. Refer page 167 for the Related Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive ´´Review the progress of subsidiary Party Transactions Review Committee Report. Director companies of AEL ´´Advise the Management on what action Investment and Subsidiary should be taken for any instances of Performance Monitoring Committee non-compliance noticed in investment Since the investment decisions and and budgetary monitoring of performance of previous investment subsidiaries/associates. 148 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Strategic Planning Committee ´´Reviewing and forwarding to the The Committee’s mandate includes – Board, strategic plans of subsidiary The Strategic Planning Committee assists 1. Establish and monitor whether the organisations to assure they are aligned the Board with its responsibilities for the Organisation’s objectives are met with the system’s strategic direction Organisation’s vision, mission and strategic 2. Evaluate Company policies, formulate and goals. direction. The Strategic Planning Committee new policies, advise and take the provides a useful forum for Board members ´´Reviewing major new programmes initiative to revise existing policies to share views on strategic issues. The and services. Committee addresses strategic issues in 3. Ensure that policies are in compliance detail that require more focused study prior The Committee met regularly to fulfil the with laws and regulations to bringing a matter to the full Board. above tasks assigned. 4. Ensure that project management, accounting, procurement, stores and Strategic Planning Committee Report is human resource functions are carried Members of the Strategic Planning given on page 170. out according to established processes Committee: and procedures. Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Chairman Compliance Committee 5. Ensure that control systems are laid Perera (Chairman) down and operated to promote most The Compliance Committee is appointed Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing by the Chief Operating Officer (COO) and economic, efficient and effective use of Director resources as well as safeguard assets. is set-up to further strengthen good Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Executive governance at the Corporate Management Fernando Director/Chief level. This mechanism will bridge the gap Beyond the mandatory requirements to Operating between the Senior Management and set-up the Audit, Remuneration and Related Officer Party Transactions Review Committees, the Board of Directors when important Prof Kulatilleke Independent decisions are to be made on operational AEL has also set-up its Strategic Planning Arthanayake Malik Kumar Non-Executive issues. The Board oversees the performance Committee, Compliance Committee and Ranasinghe Director of the Company against the triple bottom Subsidiary Performance Monitoring line objectives and the Code of Conduct Committee described above voluntarily based on the recommendations made by for enhanced transparency and good Key Responsibilities of the Strategic the Compliance Committee via the COO. governance on a par with industry practices. Planning Committee Include – Regular meetings are conducted to discuss Occasionally, where it may be more the compliance matters and new trends. expedient to do so, the Board may delegate ´´Making recommendations to the Board some of its powers to a Subcommittee on related to the Organisation’s vision, an ad hoc basis. mission, strategic initiatives, major Members of the Compliance programmes and services. Committee: EXTERNAL FRAMEWORKS ´´Identify critical strategic issues facing the Organisation and assisting in Rohana Fernando Chief Operating The main external frameworks that govern (Chairman) Officer/Executive analysis of alternative strategic options. the system of corporate governance at AEL Director ´´Ensuring Management has established include; the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, V K Manatunge Senior General an effective strategic planning process the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock (Convener) Manager with time line targets. Exchange and the Code of Best Practice on Manoaj Jayasuriya General Manager Corporate Governance jointly issued by CA ´´Advising the Board on the trends (Project Management Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange in Organisation’s industry, market/ Division I) Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC). Company’s community, and core competencies. Kosala General Manager compliance with each of these provisions is ´´Periodically reviewing the vision, mission Wickramasinghe (Planning and given on pages 150 to 164. and strategic plan, and recommending Development) changes to the Board. Niroshan Thilakaratne General Manager (Commercial) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 149 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7. 6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance Principal Description Comment/Reference Compliance status CSE Listing Rule 7.6 – Contents of Annual Report (i) Names of persons who during the financial year were Directors of Board of Directors Complied the Entity (ii) Principal activities of the Entity and its subsidiaries during the year Notes to the Financial Statements Complied and any changes therein (iii) The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of Investor Capital Complied voting and non-voting shares and the percentage of such shares held (iv) The public holding percentage Investor Capital Complied (v) A statement of each Director’s holding’s and Chief Executive Officer Investor Capital Complied holding’s in shares of the Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year (vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity Enterprise Risk Management Complied (vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial During 2019/20 there were no material issues pertaining to relations of the Entity employees and industrial relations of the Entity (viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied Entity’s land holdings and investment properties on the affairs of the Company (ix) Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied on the affairs of the Company (x) A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of Investor Capital Complied equity securities, and the percentage of their total holdings (xi) Financial ratios and market price information Investor Capital Complied (xii) Significant changes in the Entity’s or its subsidiaries’ fixed assets and Notes to the Financial Statements Complied the market value of land, if the value differs substantially from the book value. (xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and In 2019/20 no funds were raised through a public issue, a private placement during the year rights issue or a private placement (xiv) Employee Share Option Schemes and Employee Share Purchase The Company does not have any Employee Share Schemes Option Schemes or Employee Share Purchase Schemes (xv) Disclosures pertaining to corporate governance practices ´´Board of Directors (Ref. page 134 and 135) Complied in terms of Rules 7. 10. 3, 7. 10. 5. c. and 7. 10. 6. c. of Section 7 ´´Compliance with Code of Best Practice on of the Rules Corporate Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC (Ref. page 152 to 163) ´´Annual Report of the Board of Directors (Ref. page 182) ´´Notes to the Financial Statements (Ref. page 202 to 282) ´´Audit Committee Report (Ref. page 165) (xvi) Related party transactions exceeding 10% of the equity or 5% of ´´Related Party Transactions Review Complied the total assets of the Entity as per Audited Financial Statements, Committee Report (Ref. page 167) whichever is lower ´´Notes to the Financial Statements 150 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7. 10 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance Principal Description Comment/Reference Compliance status CSE Listing Rule 7. 10 – Corporate Governance a. and b. Compliance with corporate governance rules Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied on the affairs of the Company CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 1 – Non-Executive Directors a., b. and c. Composition of the Non-Executive Directors Board of Directors Complied CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 2 – Independent Directors a. Composition of the Independent Directors Board of Directors Complied b. Signed and dated declaration of each Independent Director Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Complied Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 3 – Disclosures Relating to Directors a. and b. Determination of independence or non-independence ´´Board of Directors Complied of each Non-Executive Director ´´Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC c. A brief résumé of each Director Board of Directors Complied d. Brief résumé of newly appointed Director/s During 2019/20 no new Director was appointed CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 4 – Criteria for Defining “Independence” a. to h. Criteria to meet to be an Independent Director Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Complied Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 5 – Remuneration Committee a. Composition Corporate Governance Complied b. Functions Corporate Governance Complied c. Disclosures in the Annual Report ´´Annual Report of the Board of Directors on Complied the affairs of the Company ´´Notes to the Financial Statements ´´Remuneration Committee Report (Ref. page 168) CSE Listing Rule 7. 10. 6 – Audit Committee a. Composition Audit Committee Report (Ref. page 165) Complied b. Functions Audit Committee Report Complied c. Disclosures in the Annual Report Audit Committee Report Complied ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 151 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance THE COMPANY’S ADHERENCE TO CODE OF BEST PRACTICES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ISSUED JOINTLY BY THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF SRI LANKA AND THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA Principal Comment Compliance status A. Directors A.1 The Board A.1 The Company is headed by a unitary board comprising of ten members. The primary objective of the Board is to Complied provide necessary stewardship, strategic direction, a policy framework and a governance structure in order to achieve the vision of the Company. The Board regularly monitors the performance of the Company against goals and targets set on a periodic basis and discusses the same at Board meetings in great detail. Composition of the Board is set out on page 143. All Executive Directors are a part of the Company’s Corporate Management Team. The Board consists of professionals from diverse fields such as Engineering, Accounting, Finance, Business Development, Human Resources and Consultancy, bringing independent judgement and perspectives for the efficient functioning of the Board and discharge of duties. They also sufficiently represent professional, academic and entrepreneurial domains, all of which are necessary for the effective functioning of the Board. Additionally, all members of the Board possess adequate levels of skills, competencies and knowledge in their respective fields of specialisation so as to provide overall strategic direction to the Company. The Board also sets the level of risk appetite of the Company. There are five subcommittees of the Board of which three are mandatory and two are voluntary. These committees ensure the Company’s adherence to best practices of corporate governance in conducting business. A.1.1 During the year five scheduled Board meetings were conducted, all of which were well planned and informed in Complied advance and all members were eligible to attend. Attendance of members at meetings was as follows: DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS % 100 80 60 40 20 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 – Mr S J S Perera 6 – Mr S D Munasinghe 2 – Mr R J S Gomez 7 – Prof K A M K Ranasinghe 3 – Mr J C Joshua 8 – Mr N D Gunaratne 4 – Mr S H S Mendis 9 – Mr S D Perera 5 – Mr D A R Fernando 10 – Mr D Weerakkody As and when the need arises Special Board meetings are also conveyed though no such meeting was held during the year under review. In addition to the above, the Board Subcommittees also met at various frequencies to discuss matters under their purview as elaborated in detail under their respective Reports. 152 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status A.1.2 A brief profile of each member of the Board of Directors and Corporate Management team is given on Complied pages 134 and 135. A.1.3 The Board collectively, and the Directors individually, have recognised their duty to act in accordance with the Complied prevailing laws of the country. The Board has put in place the Compliance Committee, which is headed by the Chief Operating Officer to ensure compliance with all necessary rules and regulations applicable to the Company. The Board also complies with the sound framework of business practices in place, which further strengthens compliance with existing laws and regulations. In matters of strategic importance to the Company, the Board obtains independent professional advice, if it deems necessary, at the expense of the Company. A.1.4 All Directors had access to the services of a professional company secretarial body, which ensured that the Board Complied received information on a timely manner for the effective conduct of meetings. The firm also provided the Board with advice on matters relating to compliance with rules and regulations, proper conduct of meetings and the adoption of best practices of corporate governance. The firm is also responsible for the distribution of the Company’s Annual Report to its shareholders. A.1.5 All Directors are encouraged to bring independent judgement on matters relating to strategic direction of the Complied Company, effective utilisation of resources, performance and business conduct. The vast experience and knowledge they possess in their specialised fields ensure the execution of this judgement. Transparency of the judgements is further enhanced with the existence of three Independent Non-Executive Directors who continue to critically evaluate the decisions of the Executive Directors. The Board has put in place a culture of accepting the contribution of each member and all Directors have an equal opportunity to express their views and ideas. The composition of the Board is sufficient to ensure balance of power and no Director dominates the conduct of meetings or the Board’s decision-making process. A.1.6 All Directors dedicated an adequate amount of time on matters relating to the Company and the Board. Their Complied contribution to the Company was evident in the participation at Board meetings, Board Subcommittee meetings and in the decisions passed through circular resolution. Relevant Board papers, together with supplementary information, were sent at least a week prior to the Board meetings so as to give them adequate time to critically review and study the contents. In the event additional information was requested by the Board through the Company Secretary the same was made available at the earliest in order to enhance the effectiveness of Board decisions. A.1.7 One third of the directors could request for a resolution to be presented to the Board for the best interest of Complied the Company. A.1.8 A new Director who is appointed to the Board receives an orientation on the operations, risk management, internal Complied control and other areas from the Managing Director in order to familiarise the new Director with the Company. Majority of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. Each Director was well aware of the need to continuously enhance his knowledge and skills so as to effectively perform his duties as a Director. Knowledge sharing among members, attending seminars organised by relevant professional bodies, participating in industry advancement sessions and policymaking initiatives are some of the methods adopted during the year with respect to training and development. A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) A.2 The Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the business of the Board, while the executive responsibility Complied for management of the Company’s business is vested with the Managing Director. Hence there is a balance of power and authority. The Managing Director is supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer in managing the day-to-day affairs of the Company. Decision-making at the highest level happens by adopting the rule of simple majority. No one individual is vested with unfettered powers of decision-making. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 153 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status A.2.1 The Chairman is mainly responsible for leading, directing and controlling the affairs of the Board including the Complied Board balance, effective conduct of Board meetings and special meetings of the Board. He is also responsible for maintaining effective external relationships. Day-to-day affairs of the Company are headed by the Managing Director who is supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer (COO). The MD and COO give leadership to the Corporate Management team who is collectively responsible for the conduct of day-to-day operations. A.3 Chairman’s Role A.3 As the highest member of the organisation, the Chairman is committed to the practice of good corporate governance. Complied As the head at the Board meetings, the Chairman ensures that the Board members receive adequate information prior to every meeting together with the agenda to enable them to take accurate decisions about the Company, facilitates discussions at the meetings to include the views of all members, encourages participation of all members in the decision-making process and ensures accurate recording of proceedings via minutes through the Company Secretary. He is responsible for ensuring that the objectives of the meeting are achieved and adequately discussed among its members. The Chairman is also responsible for the composition and the structure of the Board, representing the views of the Company to the public, maintaining relationships with shareholders and overseeing the self-evaluation of Board members performance. A.3.1 The Chairman is responsible for making sure that the agenda, minutes of prior meetings, Board papers and Complied supplementary information are circulated among the members in advance, giving sufficient time for preparation. Agenda for each Board meeting is finalised by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and where necessary, feedback from the other members is taken. A.4 Financial Acumen A.4 A brief profile of each member of the Board of Directors is given on pages 134 and 135. Complied A.5 Board Balance A.5 The Board compromises of ten Directors of which five are Executive Directors and five are Non-Executive Directors. Complied This ratio was maintained throughout the financial year. Composition of the Board is set out on page 143. No individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-taking. Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day operations of the Company, thus ensures independent judgement. Non-Executive Directors are also veterans in their respective fields both academically and professionally thus deemed suitable to hold office. A.5.1 50% of the Board of Directors of the Company operates in a non-executive capacity and this ratio was maintained Complied throughout the year. Every Non-Executive Directors on the Board has excelled in their respective discipline. Thus their contribution to the decision-making of the Board was noteworthy during the year, both quantitatively as well as qualitatively. A.5.2 The Board of Directors of the Company comprises five Non-Executive Directors out of which three are Independent Complied and this ratio was maintained throughout the year. Composition of the Board is set out on page 143. A.5.3 Three Non-Executive Directors on the Board are not involved in day-to-day affairs of the Company and they do not Complied have any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their unfettered and independent judgement. Additionally, each Independent Non-Executive Directors submits a written declaration of his independence to the Board on an annual basis. This written annual submission is also considered as a part of their annual performance evaluation. Based on the written declaration submitted by the Independent Non-Executive Directors for the financial year 2019/20, they were considered as continuing to be independent. 154 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status A.5.4 During the year, each Non-Executive Director submitted a dated and signed declaration regarding their independence Complied against the specified criteria set out in the Code. While this declaration fulfilled the requirements of Schedule J of this Code, no circumstance rose for the determination of independence by the Board outside the criteria set out by the Code. A.5.5 Based on the declarations submitted to the Board and other information available, the following Non-Executive Complied Directors’ of the Board were decided to be independent as at the end of the financial year. ´´D S Weerakkody ´´Prof K A M K Ranasinghe ´´N D Gunaratne The Board considered the annual declaration made by the Non-Executive Directors’ to be a fair representation of their independence. A.5.6 This is not applicable as there are no Alternate Directors in the Company. N/A A.5.7 This is not applicable as the Chairman of the Company is not the CEO. N/A A.5.8 Please refer comment under A.5.7. N/A A.5.9 The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the presence of Executive Directors as and Complied when necessary. During the year one such meeting was held. A.5.10 During the year, there were no matters of the Company that the Board was unable to resolve unanimously. However, Complied in the event such matter arises, the Company Secretary records same in sufficient detail in the Board minutes. These minutes are circulated among Board members prior to the next meeting. A.6 Supply of Information A.6 The Board was provided with timely information by way of Management Reports, Proposals, and Board Papers during Complied the year. The information was made available by the Company Secretary along with the agenda at least seven days prior to the meeting in order to provide sufficient time for preparation. In the event, information provided was not sufficient, supplementary information was provided on the request of Board members. A.6.1 Members of the Board (mainly Executive) are provided with Management Reports, Proposals, and Project Performance Complied Reports on a monthly basis, both in a quantitative and qualitative manner. In addition to this, the entire Board is provided with Board papers and other relevant information by the Corporate Management. The Board is also appraised on areas such as CSR, Risk Management, Corporate Governance, Human Resources and Legal Compliance by the Corporate Management time to time. In instances where additional information is required the same is requested, from the Corporate Management or the responsible individuals. As and when necessary, the Corporate Management also makes presentations to the Board in order to enable sound decision-making. The Board has free and open access to all Corporate Management members. The Chairman ensured that all Board members were briefed sufficiently on any matter/s arising from the meeting/s. Any Director who was unable to attend a particular Board meeting is briefed on the proceedings before the next meeting by the Chairman and through the minutes of the meeting. A.6.2 As a norm, all Board papers are circulated to the Board members 10 working days before hand for them to study the Complied materials and prepare themselves for the meeting and within two weeks of the meeting the decisions taken and the discussion points are minuted and circulated for their review/comments and finalisation. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 155 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status A.7 Appointments to the Board A.7 All Board appointments are based on the capacity of the individual concerned to pass the “fit and proper” test, which Complied in turn is based on the qualifications, experience and the value that can be added by the individual to the Board as well as to the Company. Existing Directors are vested with the autonomy to critically evaluate the potential candidate in the above test and a final decision is taken by the Board collectively. A.7.1 The Company does not have a Nomination Committee in place. Complied However, the existing Board members function in a manner that is similar to a formally appointed Nomination Committee in matters concerning new appointments to the Board. A.7.2 During the year, the Board critically evaluated the “quality” of the Board in terms of their qualifications, experience, Complied independence and the value that can be added to the Company to effectively meet the demands of the Company. The Board is satisfied with its composition and the level of qualifications, knowledge and experience it possesses as a whole in order to meet strategic demands facing the Company. A.7.3 No new Director was appointed to the Board during the year. However, all new appointments are promptly N/A. No new communicated to the CSE together with a brief résumé containing the member’s expertise, other Directorships Directors held and independence for public dissemination. appointed during the year. A.8 Re-election A.8 Directors are re-elected with the sanction of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company. The Complied Articles of Association of the Company requires one Non-Executive Director to appear for re-election every year and as such 2019 saw the re-election of R J S Gomez who retired by rotation. Generally, Directors who retire are the ones who have held office for the longest period since election and reappointment. Recommendations on the re-election of Directors are given by the Company Secretary and the same is reviewed by the Board. In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company D S Weerakkody will retire by rotation and being eligible will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. A.8.1 In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, one Non-Executive Director is required to retire by rotation Complied every year. The re-election of Non-Executive Directors is sanctioned by the shareholders at the AGM of the Company. A.8.2 No new Director was appointed to the Board during the year. However, in the event a new Director is appointed to N/A. No new the Board, he/she will offer himself/herself for election by the shareholders at the first opportunity. Directors appointed during the year. A.8.3 Resignation A.8.3 Before the formal resignation the Directors explain their reasons for the resignation decision and the same is N/A. No being minuted under the Board meeting minutes. Also when Directors send their resignation letters, they explain resignation the decision factors in the resignation letter for the documentary purposes. of Directors during the year. 156 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance A.9 Performance of the Board is evaluated from time to time with at least once a year to ensure that responsibilities Complied are satisfactorily discharged. Appraisal of Board performance is usually coordinated by the Company Secretary and overseen by the Chairman. A.9.1 In order to retain the enthusiasm in company operations the Board members meet the Chairman and Complied conduct face to face discussions on the members anticipated suggestions for the betterment of the Company and the Chairman addresses the performance remarks of the individual Board members that he has observed during the year. A.9.2 Members of the Board and Board Committees carried out self-assessments of their performance for the FY 2019/20 Complied against targets set at the beginning of the year. Minutes of the results of these assessments were recorded by the Company Secretary and areas for improvement in the FY 2020/21 were identified. Each individual Director was satisfied of his performance in the FY 2019/20. Over the years, both individual and collective performance appraisal of the Board has facilitated continuous development and improvement. A.9.3 When a member’s name is up for re-election, rest of the Board members discuss the value addition brought by that Complied particular member to the Board and the contribution made thereof. Based on the discussion points the decision is made as to re-elect the member or not to. The discussion points are minuted under the Board meeting minutes. A.9.4 The performance of the Board has been appraised though a formalised process of individual appraisal by enabling Complied each member to self-appraise on an anonymous basis. A.10 Disclosure of Information in Respect of Directors A.10 Shareholders are informed as and when necessary about changes to the Board, interest in the shares of the Company Complied and other relevant details through disclosures and financial results released to the CSE for public dissemination. A.10.1 Please refer the following pages for the information relating to Directors of the Company. Complied Information requirement Page/s ´´ Brief profile 134 and 135 ´´ Nature of Expertise 134 and 135 ´´ Related Party Transaction 254 to 257 ´´ Other directorships held 256 ´´ Attendance of Board meetings 152 ´´ Composition of Board committees 144 ´´ Attendance of committee meetings 165 to 170 ´´ Remunerations 257 A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Officer A.11 Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A A.11.1 Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A A.11.2 Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 157 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status B. Directors’ Remuneration B.1 Remuneration Procedure B.1 Remuneration payable to the Executive Directors of the Company is recommended by the Remuneration Committee. Complied Remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company is recommended by the Board as a whole. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. B.1.1 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending the remuneration payable to Executive Directors. Complied The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, which is responsible for the final determination. B.1.2 The Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board consisted of four Non-Executive Directors out of which three Complied were independent. B.1.3 Details of the Remuneration Committee are given on page 148 of this Report. Complied B.1.4 Remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors is decided by the Board as a whole. The Non-Executive Directors Complied are paid a monthly fee for being a member of the Board and its Subcommittees. Since the Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day affairs of the Company they are not entitled to any performance incentives. B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee consulted the Chairman and the Managing Director in providing recommendations Complied regarding the remuneration of other Executive Directors. The Chairman and the Managing Director are not remunerated by the Company. B.2 Level and Make Up of Remuneration B.2 The remuneration package of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is based on a variety of factors including Complied their contribution to the Company, market rates of remuneration and their expectation. The Board is aware of the fact that the level of remuneration should be sufficient to attract and retain Directors of high calibre to direct the Company. Portion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors’ is linked to their performance which is evaluated against targets set and agreed at the beginning of the period. B.2.1 The Remuneration Committee considers the value addition of Executive Directors and their contribution to the Complied achievement of short and long-term objectives in structuring their remuneration packages so as to ensure that nothing is paid more than necessary. B.2.2 As the remuneration of the key personnel are decided and approved by the Board based on the evaluation and Complied recommendation made by the Remuneration Committee in parity with the current market rates and packages provided, the Executive Director’s remuneration is also decided by the same process, also providing specific targets in the Executive Directors’ TOR which directs the Executive Directors’ in achieving overall organisational performance goals. B.2.3 The Committee conducts an analysis of other companies in the industry in deciding the levels of remuneration Complied of the Company. If the need arises the Company carries out an annual salary survey in determining the level of remuneration of key positions and their increment. B.2.4 Companies within the Group operate in different industry and market sectors where the remuneration and Complied employment conditions are substantially different to those of the Company. B.2.5 The extent of contribution and value addition towards achieving the set targets and objectives of a particular year is Complied the key determinant in deciding the performance related element of the remuneration of the Executive Directors. 158 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status B.2.6 Not applicable as there are no executive share options in the Company. N/A B.2.7 Provisions of Schedule E of the Code were followed in designing schemes of performance related remuneration. Complied B.2.8 There are no compensation commitments (including pension contributions) in Directors contracts of service. N/A B.2.9 Company’s objective is to avoid early termination by all means. Complied B.2.10 The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors reflects the degree of responsibilities and the level of time commitment Complied extended by them in contributing and adding value to the Company’s decision-making. The Non-Executive Directors’ do not have any share options in the Company. B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration B.3 Compensation paid to Key Management Personnel is given in page 257 of this Report. Complied Remuneration Committee Report is given in page 168. B.3.1 Names of the members of the Remuneration Committee and the compensation paid to Key Management Personnel Complied are given in pages 148 and 257 of this Report respectively. C. Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and conduct of General Meetings C.1 The Company considers the AGM as the primary tool of communication with shareholders. The Notice of Meeting Complied inviting all shareholders is given on page 292 of this Report. All shareholders are free to raise any queries from the Board, on matters relating to the Company at the AGM. The Board encourages an open dialogue with shareholders at the AGM. General proposals adopted at the AGM include the Annual Report and the Accounts, reappointment of Directors and Auditors and any other matter that require shareholder approval as per the provisions of the Articles Association of the Company. C.1.1 All related papers and the Notice of Meeting are sent to the shareholders 15 days before the AGM through the Complied Company Secretary. C.1.2 To receive and consider the Annual Report and Accounts is the first resolution adopted at every AGM. Further, the Complied Company proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue. Hence shareholders are given the opportunity to vote separately on each substantial issue. C.1.3 The secretariat and admin teams have strict follow up from the day the Notice of the Meeting along with the Annual Complied Report is sent to the shareholders. They track the appointed proxies at the time of the registration of the AGM and the Secretaries note the casted votes in favour of the passed resolutions accordingly. C.1.4 Before the AGM date, the Company Board and the respective subcommittees meet and organise how the AGM should Complied process and run through the possible questions that the management may face. Accordingly all the committee heads are prepared in an instance where a related question is raised to answer them. C.1.5 The Notice of Meeting and related documents are circulated to the shareholders 15 working days prior to the AGM. Complied Summary of the procedures governing voting at the AGM is provided in the proxy form, which is circulated to shareholders together with the Notice of Meeting 15 working days prior to the AGM. The Board encourages all shareholders to attend and actively participate in the AGM. The shareholders may raise any queries they have with the Directors. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 159 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status C.2 Communication with Shareholders C2 The AGM, Annual Report and other General Meetings (as and when required) are the primary means of Complied communication with shareholders. Additionally, the Company makes disclosures on material and price sensitive matters from time to time to the CSE for dissemination among the public. Similarly the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com is updated with financial and project related information, corporate disclosures and other press releases for public viewing. C.2.1 Refer comment given under C.2. Complied C.2.2 The Company’s policy on information dissemination is based on the prime need of creating a fair market for the Complied Company’s securities among all market participants. Hence the Company focuses on accurate, timely, relevant and open information dissemination and communication so as to avoid any market malpractice or doubt. C.2.3 The Company has disclosed the contact information in all their publications and always encouraged Complied the shareholders to connect. Accordingly the Company has a separate page indicating Investor information such as the market price per share. C.2.4 The point of contact is given on page 04 of this Report. Complied C.2.5 The shareholders are free to correspond with the Board either directly or through the Company Secretary as they Complied wish. The Directors can also be met by the shareholders on appointment. The Company Secretary keeps a record of all valid correspondence from the shareholders and directs them to the appropriate Board member who in return would respond as necessary. The Company also has a dedicated investor relations email that could be equally utilised by any shareholder to correspond. C.2.6 Both the Company Secretary as well as members of the Board act as contact points in relation to shareholder matters. Complied C.2.7 Responses for shareholder queries directly sent to individual members of the Board are sent by the respective Complied members. Queries directed to the Company Secretary are responded by the Directors via the Company Secretary. C.3 Major and Material Transactions C.3 Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report on page 167 and Note 29 of Notes to the Complied Financial Statements. C.3.1 Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report on page 167 and Note 29 of Notes to the Complied Financial Statements. C.3.2 Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report on page 167 and Note 29 of Notes to the Complied Financial Statements. D. Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting D.1 The Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company making the relevant declarations is Complied given on page 182 of this Report. D.1.1 This Integrated Report fulfills this requirement Complied D.1.2 Audited Financial Statements giving a true and fair view of the operations of the Company, Interim Financial Complied Statements and other price sensitive disclosures are made by the Company periodically and as and when required in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. In these aspects the Company complied with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, Registrar of Companies, Department of Inland Revenue, and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and reporting requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Securities, and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. 160 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status D.1.3 The Financial statements itself has the respective declaration stating that all standards, legal requirements are Complied met with and the DGM Finance signs the financial statements below that declaration. Additionally an annual declaration is also signed by the DGM Finance confirming the same. D.1.4 The Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company making the relevant declarations, Complied is given on page 182 of this Report. D.1.5 “Directors Responsibility for Financial Reporting”, “Statement of Auditors” and the “Directors Statement on Internal Complied Control” are given on pages 188, 190 and 189 respectively. D.1.6 “Management Discussion and Analysis” is given on pages 72 to 124 of this Report Complied D.1.7 Not applicable as there was no serious loss of capital during the year. N/A D.1.8 The Company has set in place an effective and comprehensive system of internal control for identifying, recording Complied and disclosing related party transactions. This system ratified by the Board ensures that there is no conflict of interest when transacting with related parties and that there will be no bias and favourable treatment. All related party transactions as defined in Sri Lanka Accounting Standards – LKAS 24 “Related Party Transactions” are disclosed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. D.2 Risk Management and Internal Controls D.2 The Company operates with a sound system of internal control within an integrated risk management framework that Complied is formulated and ratified by the Board. This system ensures that shareholders interests and Company assets are safeguarded. The Board Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring the effective operation of the system of internal controls to achieve objectives of the Company. D.2.1 The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing appropriate systems of internal control for the Group Complied and in turn assessing its effectiveness. The Group’s Internal Audit Division assists the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee in carrying out the above task. Any internal control system has its inherent limitations. The Board is aware of the inherent limitations and has taken appropriate steps to minimise same. The Directors’ responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control is given in the Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control on page 189. D.2.2 The confirmation of the Risk assessment conducted and the principal risks faced by the Company are disclosed in Complied the Enterprise Risk Management report given on pages 171 of this Report. D.2.3 The Company has an internal audit function headed by the ‘Chief Internal Auditor’ and overseen by Complied the Board Audit Committee. D.2.4 Operation and review of internal controls is done by the internal audit function as a continuous and ongoing process Complied including internal control over financial reporting. These reports are forwarded to the Audit Committee for review to ensure that the system of internal control and the risk management process are effective. The Board is responsible for making disclosures on internal controls. In 2019/20 the Board was satisfied with the effectiveness of the system of internal control in place within the Company. D.2.5 Refer page 189 for the “Directors Statement on Internal Controls”. Complied ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 161 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status D.3 Audit Committee D.3 Accounting policies and financial reporting principles of the Company are formulated so as to ensure compliance Complied with all applicable standards, rules and other regulations. At times the guidance of the External Auditors is also sought in this process. D.3.1 The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director of the Complied Board. The Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director. D.3.2 AEL has developed a Charter for the Audit Committee clearly defining the objective/duties of the Committee, each Complied member’s duties and responsibilities and administrative arrangements etc. D.3.3 Disclosures D.3.3 The Audit Committee Report enhances a descriptive note regarding the Audit Committee and how they discharge Complied their duties and also show how they have allocated their valuable time by participating in the meetings and decision-making. D.4 Related Party Transactions Review Committee D.4 As a Group norm when transacting with related parties of the Group, the responsible parties stress on the price at Complied which the transaction takes place to make sure that neither the buyer nor the seller will gain an extraordinary gain through the same. D.4.1 Company has considered the guidelines provided in the LKAS 24 in defining the related parties, in developing the Complied Charter for the Related Party Transactions Review Committee. D.4.2 In compliance with the requirements of the voluntary Code of Corporate Governance, the Related Party Transactions Complied Review Committee comprise three Non-Executive Directors who are also independent. Further the COO/Executive Director attends the meetings upon invitation by the Committee. D.4.3 Company has developed a Charter for the Related Party Transactions Review Committee clearly defining the objective/ Complied duties of the Committee, each member’s duties and responsibilities and administrative arrangements etc. D.5 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.5 Refer page 146 of this Report – Stewardship – Business Ethics. Complied D.5.1 The Company has a Code of Ethics which includes the Code of Conduct and is circulated to Directors and all Complied employees. The Board ensures that the Directors and the employees strictly adhere to the Code of Ethics of the Company in their duties so as not to adversely affect the brand of Access engineering in any manner. The violation of the Code of Ethics is an offence which is subject to disciplinary action. D.5.2 The price sensitive transactions relating to Investments are monitored through the Investment and Subsidiary Complied Performance Monitoring Committee and through the Audit Committee. Significant matters are informed to the Board for further action. D.5.3 Refer the report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee on page 167. Complied D.5.4 Refer pages 141 to 170 of this Report – Stewardship. Complied D.6 Corporate Governance Disclosures D.6 This Report on the Company’s compliance with the CA Sri Lanka/SEC “Code of Corporate Governance” meets Complied this requirement. D.6.1 Same as D.5 Complied 162 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principal Comment Compliance status E. Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting E.1 Board encourages the active participation of institutional shareholders at the AGM. In addition, Executive Directors Complied meet institutional shareholders upon their request to discuss about the Company’s past performance and future strategies. E.1.1 The most structured and continuous dialogue the Company has with the shareholders is the AGM. Complied The Chairman is available to meet shareholders at the end of each AGM and can be met on appointment on other occasions. The Chairman then communicates the views and concerns of shareholders to the Board as a whole. E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosure E.2 Institutional investors are encouraged to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention in evaluating Complied Companies’ governance arrangements. F.1 Investing/Divesting Decisions The Company encourages individual shareholders to carry-out adequate analysis or seek independent advice in Complied investing or divesting decisions. The Company facilitates this process by providing information necessary for the same on a timely and unbiased basis. This Integrated Report prepared by the Company gives sufficient information to shareholders to carry out their own analysis of the Company and its operations. F.2 The Company encourages individual shareholders to participate in General Meetings and exercise their voting rights. Complied G. Internet of things and Cybersecurity G.1 Refer Enterprise Risk Management on page 179 of this Annual Report (IT – related risk) Complied G.2 The functions of the CISO is carried out by the Manager IT reporting to the Senior General Manager. Complied G.3 Relevant risks are discussed at Internal Audit Report and reported the same to Audit Committee. High risk matters are Complied referred to the Board for further actions. G.4 Issues are addressed at the Integrated Risk Management audit annually carried out by an independent third party and Complied identified issues are reported through the management letter. G.5 The Company adheres to the required level of cybersecurity analysing the gravity of requirement and Complied the IT department does continuous monitoring to mitigate the identified risk. H. Environment, Society and Governance (ESG) H.1.1 Reporting Refer page 72 to 124 of the Annual Report – Management Discussion. Complied of ESG Factors H.1.2 Refer page 72 to 124 of the Annual Report – Management Discussion. Complied Environmental Factors H.1.3 Social Refer page 72 to 124 of the Annual Report – Management Discussion. Complied Factors H.1.4 Refer pages 141 to 149 of the Annual Report – Corporate Governance for this requirement. Complied Governance H.1.5 Board’s The Company understands its role and responsibility in ESG reporting and ensures that the Company Complied role on ESG adheres to the ESG reporting requirements. Factors ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 163 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 168 of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Principal Description Comment Compliance status Section 168 – Contents of Annual Report (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with Notes to the Financial Statements Complied any change thereof during the accounting period. (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the Financial Statements Complied accounting period completed. (1) (c) Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements and any Group Independent Auditors’ Report Complied Financial Statements. (1) (d) Change in accounting policies made during the accounting period Notes to the Financial Statements Complied (1) (e) Particulars of entries in the interests register made during Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied the accounting period. on the affairs of the Company (1) (f ) Remuneration and other benefits of Directors during the accounting period. Notes to the Financial Statements Complied (1) (g) Total amount of donations made by the Company during Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied the accounting period. on the affairs of the Company (1) (h) Names of the persons holding office as Directors of the Company as at the Board of Directors Complied end of the accounting period and the names of any persons who ceased to hold office as Directors of the Company during the accounting period. (1) (i) Amounts payable by the Company to the person or firm holding office as Notes to the Financial Statements Complied Auditor of the Company as audit fees and as a separate item, fees payable by the Company for other services provided by that person or firm. (1) (j) Particulars of any relationship (other than that of Auditor) which the Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied Auditor has with or any interests which the Auditor has in, the Company or on the affairs of the Company any of its subsidiaries. (1) (k) Be signed on behalf of the Board by two Directors of the Company. Financial Statements Complied 164 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information necessary to fulfil its duties, call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee, as and The Committee was established under the when required, and obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, Corporate Governance rules of Section at the Company’s expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties. 7. 10. 6 of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate MEETING ATTENDANCE Governance issued jointly by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial the Securities and Exchange Commission year of which the members’ attendance was as follows: of Sri Lanka. The Committee continued to review and report to the Board on Name 21 April 21 May 9 August 13 November 12 February the Group's financial reporting, internal 2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 control and risk management processes and the performances, independence and Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne effectiveness of external auditors. (Chairman)      Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe      ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Suresh Dilhan Perera      The role of the Audit Committee is to Dinesh Weerakkody      oversee and report to the Board on the Group’s financial reporting system, compliance with legal and regulatory In addition to the Committee members, the meetings were attended by the COO, requirements, internal control mechanism, GM-Commercial, DGM-Finance and the Internal Auditor on invitation. The Company risk management process, internal audit Secretaries were also present at every meeting. function and review of Independence and performance of External Auditors, with a view to safeguarding the interests of the TERMS OF REFERENCE Financial Statements to assess whether shareholders and all other stakeholders. these have been set appropriately in the The Audit Committee has its terms of context. The Committee also keeps under reference, dealing with its authority review the impact of any actual or expected COMMITTEE COMPOSITION and duties, which is established for changes to accounting standards applicable the purpose of assisting the Board in to the Group and provides general oversight There were no changes to the composition fulfilling their oversight responsibilities in relation to the financial policies of of the Committee as at 31 March 2019. that include the integrity of the financial the Group. The Committee continued to comprise statements, risk management, business four Non-Executive Directors as set ethics, internal control, compliance The Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly out below. To ensure compliance with with legal and regulatory requirements, and annual Financial Statements prior to its the requirements of the Rule 7. 10. 6 of review of Independent External Auditors’ publication and the review included: the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock performance and the Internal Audit. Exchange and the Code of Best Practice on ´´Appropriateness and changes in Corporate Governance issued jointly by The accounting policies Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri COMPLIANCE ´´Significant estimates and judgements Lanka and Securities Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka, Committee membership Financial reporting and significant made by the management comprises three (3) Independent judgements ´´Compliance with relevant accounting Non-Executive Directors and one (1) The Committee is responsible for reviewing standards and applicable regulatory Non-Executive Director of the Board. whether suitable accounting policies have requirements been adopted and whether Management ´´Impairment of assets has made appropriate estimates and Category Number of ´´Issues arising from the internal audit judgements in the preparation of the Directors and independent external audit Financial Statements. As part of its review the Committee considers the clarity ´´The Group’s/Company’s ability to Independent and completeness of disclosures in the continue as a going concern Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors 1 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 165 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance LAWS AND REGULATIONS Independent auditors CONCLUSION The Audit Committee reviewed the reports The Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee is satisfied that the submitted by the Management and the independence and objectivity of the effectiveness of the organisational structure Internal Auditors on compliance with Independent External Auditors, Messrs of the Group and of the implementation applicable laws and regulations. The KPMG Sri Lanka, Chartered Accountants. of Group’s accounting policies and Committee is satisfied that laws and The Audit Committee has met with the operational controls provide reasonable regulations are duly complied with and External Auditors to review their audit assurance that the affairs of the Group are statutory payments have been made on plan and any observations made by them. managed in accordance with Group policies a timely basis. and that the Group assets are properly The Committee has received a declaration accounted for and adequately safeguarded. from the External Auditors, confirming The Committee is also satisfied that the AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY that they do not have any relationship Company and its subsidiaries are able to Internal controls or interest in the Company or its continue as a going concern. subsidiaries. The Committee reviewed the The Committee is satisfied that an non-audit services and its impact on the effective system of internal control is in independence of the External Auditors. place to provide reasonable assurance on safeguarding the Company’s assets The Audit Committee has recommended to and reliability of financial statements. the Board that Messrs KPMG be reappointed Effectiveness of the Company’s system as the Independent External Auditor and N D Gunaratne of internal controls is evaluated through that the reappointment be included in the reports provided by the Management, agenda of the Annual General Meeting. Chairman – Audit Committee Internal Auditors and Independent External Auditors. POTENTIAL FINANCIAL IMPLICATION 31 July 2020 ARISING FROM COVID-19 PANDEMIC Internal audit The committee regularly monitored the The Committee is responsible for reviewing Group’s known and emerging exposures the role and effectiveness of the internal in relation to the changes in the external audit function by monitoring the results of regulatory and political environment, its work and the responses of Management including the possible impact on the to its recommendations. The Audit Group’s risk management activities and the Committee meets the Internal Auditors on a recent emerging global spread of COVID-19. quarterly basis and reviews their findings in The Committee reviewed the risk and going order to identify risks attached to different concern assessment carried out by the areas of operation and effectiveness of Management after considering the existing internal controls. and potential financial impact of COVID-19 in the revised budget, cash flow projections The Committee reviewed and approved the and funding arrangements. Further the 2019/20 Internal Audit Plan and continued Committee is satisfied that the Group and to monitor progress against this Plan the Company is able to continue as a going during the year. Results and management concern and adequate disclosures have actions arising from the reviews undertaken been made in these Financial Statements. in 2019/20 were discussed in detail at each of the Committee’s meetings. The Head of Internal Audit attended all of the Committee’s meetings during 2019/20 and held discussions with the Committee in the absence of Executive Management. 166 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The brief profiles of the existing members of the Committee are given on pages 134 and 135 REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT of the Annual Report. PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The Related Party Transactions Review The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial Committee was established to advise the year of which the members’ attendance was as follows, Board in relation to transactions with the related parties as defined by LKAS 24. The Committee also exercises oversight function Name 21 May 9 August 13 November 12 February 2019 2019 2019 2020 on behalf of the Board in complying with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman)     Exchange and with the Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar issued by the Securities and Exchange Ranasinghe     Commission of Sri Lanka. The Committee Dinesh Weerakkody     has also adopted best practices as Rohana Fernando     recommended by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. TERMS OF REFERENCE ´´To recommend the creation of a ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE special committee to review and The Committee is governed by the written approve the proposed related party The role of the Committee is to ensure that terms of reference, approved by the Board transaction, in the event of any the interests of shareholders as a whole are of Directors, which is carefully designed to potential conflict of interest. taken into account by a listed entity when discharge the Committee’s purpose, duties entering into related party transactions. ´´Establishing guidelines to be followed and responsibilities. The Committee’s by Senior Management in the event duties and responsibilities are set out in related party transactions are ongoing. COMPOSITION accordance with requirements stipulated by Thereafter, the Committee, on an annual the Code of Best Practices on Related Party There were no changes to the composition basis, shall review and assess ongoing Transactions published by the Securities of the Committee as at 31 March 2019. The relationships and transactions with the and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka, Committee continued to comprise three related party to determine whether they regulations issued by the Colombo Stock Independent Non-Executive Directors are in compliance with the Committee’s Exchange and LKAS 24. Terms of reference and one Executive Director/COO, who guidelines and that the related party of the Committee includes: were appointed by resolution at a Board transaction remains appropriate. ´´Review in advance all proposed meeting. To ensure compliance with the requirements of the Section 9. 2. 2 of Listing Related Party Transactions of the Company except those explicitly POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and Code of Best Practice on Corporate exempted by the Code. As per the existing practice, all related Governance issued jointly by The Institute ´´Determine whether related party party transactions must be reported to the of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka transactions that are to be entered Audit Committee and referred for approval and Securities Exchange Commission of into by the Company require the by the Committee in accordance with this Sri Lanka, the Committee comprised the approval of the Board or shareholders Policy. Such transactions are also disclosed following members: of the Company. to stakeholders through the Company’s Financial Statements. In case of frequent/ ´´Ensure that no Director of the Company repetitive/regular transactions which Category Number of shall participate in any discussion of a are in the normal course of business of Directors proposed related party transaction for the Company, the Committee may grant which he or she is a related party, unless standing pre-approval. Independent such a Director is requested to do so by Non-Executive Directors 3 the Committee for the express purpose of providing information concerning Executive Director/COO 1 the related party transaction to the Committee. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 167 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance PERFORMANCE REVIEW DURING REMUNERATION Responsibilities include, THE YEAR COMMITTEE REPORT ´´Preparation of the remuneration framework Every year the Related Party Transactions Remuneration Committee was Review Committee must review and established to ensure compliance with ´´Recommend to the Board on the evaluate its performance and submit the the requirements of Section 7. 10. 5 of remuneration payable to the Executive observations to the Board of Directors. All the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Directors and Senior Management disclosures as per Section 9.3 of the Listing Exchange and the Code of Best Practices ´´The evaluation of performance of Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are on Corporate Governance issued jointly Senior Management given under declaration of this Report. by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Details of other related party transactions of Sri Lanka and Securities Exchange ´´Preparation of performance based entered into by the Company/Group of Commission of Sri Lanka. remuneration plans including Companies during the year are disclosed performance incentives in Note 29 of Notes to the Financial ´´Making amendments to the COMPOSITION Statements. remuneration policy Composition of the Board appointed DECLARATION Remuneration Committee is comprised The Committee is authorised by the Board of three (3) Non-Executive Independent to seek appropriate professional advice A declaration was given by the Board Directors and One (1) Non-Executive inside and outside the Company as and of Directors as a negative statement to Director. There were no changes to the when it considers necessary. reflect that, there were no non-recurrent composition of the committee during or recurrent related party transactions 2019/20. MEETING ATTENDANCE that exceeded the respective thresholds mentioned of the rule 9.3.2 in the Listing During the year 2019/20, the subcommittee Dinesh Weerakkody (Chairman) Independent Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, members attended one meeting as set in Non-Executive requiring disclosure in the Annual Report. Director the following table. Prof Kulathilake Arthanakyake Independent Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Non-Executive Name 24 February Director 2020 Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne Independent Dinesh Weerakkody (Chairman)  Non-Executive Director Prof Kulathilake Arthanakyake  N D Gunaratne Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Chairman Director Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne  Related Party Transaction Review Committee Suresh Dilhan Perera  The Committee’s composition met the 31 July 2020 requirements of the rule 7. 10. 5 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The role of the Remuneration Committee is Dinesh Weerakkody to set up the remuneration policy for Senior Management and make recommendations Chairman to the Board on recruitment, remuneration Remuneration Committee and performance evaluation on Senior Management including Executive Directors 31 July 2020 of the company. 168 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance INVESTMENT AND SUBSIDIARY ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE MONITORING COMMITTEE ´´Subcommittee will make their assessment and notify their recommendations to the Board on major new investments in subsidiaries/associates and capital investments in PURPOSE the parent company. ´´Subcommittee will make their assessment and notify their recommendations to the The Investment and Subsidiary Performance Board on divestment of subsidiaries in the parent company. Monitoring Committee was established as a Board subcommittee to provide the ´´Monitoring the budgets of subsidiaries/associates which are approved by relevant Executive Directors and the Independent responsible person/persons such as the Board of Directors, Managing Director or Directors with an opportunity to discuss the nominated Head of the Business Unit and ratified by the Chairman or Managing prospective investments and performance Director of AEL. The subcommittee will submit their observations and recommendations monitoring of subsidiaries prior to to the Board. discussion of relevant matters at Board ´´Review the progress of subsidiary companies of Access Engineering PLC and the progress meetings. of their respective subsidiaries. ´´Advice the Management on what action should be taken for non-compliances noticed in COMPOSITION investment and budgetary monitoring of subsidiaries/associates/joint venture. Composition of the Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring MEETING ATTENDANCE Committee is comprised of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors During the year 2019/20, the subcommittee members attended meetings as set in the and two (2) Executive Directors as table below: set out below: Name 14 May 31 July 19 September 16 November 6 February 2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 Prof Kulathilake Independent Arthanakyake Malik Non-Executive Kumar Ranasinghe Director Prof Kulathilake Arthanakyake (Chairman) Malik Kumar Ranasinghe (Chairman)      Niroshan Dakshina Independent Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne      Gunaratne Non-Executive Dinesh Weerakkody      Director Joseph Christopher Joshua      Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando      Non-Executive Director Joseph Christopher Managing Director Joshua SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES Dalpadoruge Anton Executive Director/ During the year, the Committee comprehensively reviewed the new investment/ Rohana Fernando Chief Operating divestment decisions of AEL and monitored budgets of subsidiaries/associates/ Officer joint venture of the Company. Committee decisions and discussions of the meetings were recorded and forwarded to the Board of Directors of AEL for further action. Prof Malik Ranasinghe Chairman — Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee 31 July 2020 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 169 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance STRATEGIC PLANNING Key Responsibilities of the Strategic COMMITTEE REPORT Planning Committee: ´´Periodically reviewing the Company’s Strategic Planning Committee was vision, mission, strategic initiatives, established to focus on planning and major programs and services and setting strategic directions to achieve goals making recommendations to the Board. and objectives of the Company. During the year the committee has continued to review ´´Identifying critical strategic issues and report to the Board on the Company’s facing the Company and assisting in the strategic direction, trends and issues in analysis of alternative strategic options. achieving its goals and objectives. ´´Ensuring that the Management has established an effective strategic ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE planning process with time lines and targets. The role of the Committee is to assist ´´Advising the Board on trends in the the Board with its responsibilities for the Company’s vision, mission and strategic industry, market/community and core direction. The Committee complies with the competencies. best practices in corporate governance. ´´Reviewing and forwarding to the Board, strategic plans of subsidiary companies COMPOSITION to assure that they are aligned with the Company’s strategic direction and goals. The Committee comprised three ´´Reviewing major new programmes and (3) Executive Directors and One (1) services. Non-Executive Independent Director of the Board. There were no changes to the composition of the Committee during CONCLUSION 2019/20. The Strategic Planning Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera Chairman strategic initiatives taken during the year Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing and discussed the preventive measures to Director be taken for issues identified in achieving overall goals and objectives of the Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Executive Fernando Director/Chief Company. Operating Officer Prof Kulatillake Arthanayake Independent Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Non-Executive Director Sumal Perera MEETINGS Chairman — Strategic Planning Committee The Strategic Planning Committee meets 31 July 2020 as and when necessary at the call of the Committee Chair at dates and times which are specified in advance. The Committee met several times during the year to discuss the Company’s strategic direction and its major strategic issues. 170 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management “As challenges in our operating landscape continue to intensify, the proactive identification and management of risks become all the more vital for ensuring sustainable value creation for all the stakeholders.” AEL risk management process continues to management has enabled us to strengthen The Second Line of Defence Consists of evolve to ensure it is reflective of the shape our overall responsibility for managing functions that monitor the implementation of the business and its operations. The risks, adopt industry best practices and of effective risk management practices by internal audit function has been founded improve our internal control frameworks. operational managers, assist risk owners to be fully aligned with the Board and in defining the target risk exposure and Board Subcommittees to further sharpen The functions that enable AEL to effectively report adequate risk-related information focus on the Company’s internal risk control its risks have been assigned to throughout the Company. The Third and control environment. The Company three levels. The First Line of Defence Line of Defence provides the governing recognises that a consistent, agile and consists of operational managers who own body and the Corporate Management responsive approach to risk management and manage risks. They are also responsible a comprehensive assurance based on is crucial to the sustainable delivery of its for implementing corrective actions to the highest level of independence and business objectives. Our approach to risk address process and control deficiencies. objectivity within the Organisation, by the internal audit function. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Risk Governance BOARD SUBCOMMITEES and Oversight (3rd Line of Defence) Sustain and Continuously Improve Internal Integrated Management Risk Infustructure Audit Systems (2nd Line of Defence) Quality Risk Risk Risk Ownership Risk Assessment, Management Cost Identification Evaluation and (1st Line of Defence) and Rating Monitoring Time ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 171 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management RISK GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT Audit Committee Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee To meet the requirements of corporate The Audit Committee assists the Board in governance (voluntary and mandatory) and fulfilling its oversight responsibility relating The purpose of the Committee is to other regulatory bodies, the Board accepts to the integrity of the Company’s Financial evaluate prospective investments and to overall responsibility for risk management Statements and the financial reporting monitor the performance of subsidiaries/ and determines the nature and extent of process, the systems of internal accounting associates prior to discussion of the the principal risks to be taken and assesses and financial controls, the internal audit relevant matters at Board meetings. the effectiveness of the risk management function, the annual independent external and internal control systems that are audit, compliance with legal and regulatory Strategic Planning Committee in place to mitigate impacts. The risk requirements, and policies and ethics established by the Company. The Committee assists the Board and governance and oversight function ensures the Management in fulfilling its oversight that appropriate Board Subcommittees are responsibilities relating to strategic plans, involved in the oversight of risk processes Related Party Transactions Review which identify specific long-term goals and coming under their purview and that the Committee business objectives determined to be in full Board is actively engaged in a robust The objective of the Committee is to the Company’s best interests. This includes dialogue about critical risks. ensure that the interests of shareholders helping the Board and the Management are taken into account when entering into identify opportunities such as mergers and Board of Directors related party transactions and to enhance acquisitions, joint ventures, new markets or The Board is responsible for maintaining corporate transparency and promote fair product lines, acquisition or disposition of a sound risk management framework transactions between the Company, its capital assets, equity and debt funding and and internal control system to safeguard subsidiaries and other related parties. modifications of existing capital structure, the shareholders’ investments and the The Committee also performs the dividend policy, and stock offerings, Company assets, identifying principal risks oversight function on behalf of the Board repurchase programmes etc. Additionally, and ensuring the implementation of an in complying with the Listing Rules of the the Committee evaluates the progress of appropriate risk management and internal Colombo Stock Exchange and with the execution and effectiveness of the strategic control system to manage those risks in Code of Best Practices on Related Party plan and recommends changes to the plan accordance with corporate governance Transactions issued by the Securities and where necessary and evaluates other issues principles. The ultimate responsibility for Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. or opportunities. setting the risk appetite for the effective management of risk rests with the Board. Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee The Remuneration Committee assists the The Compliance Committee assists the Board subcommittees Board to discharge its responsibility by Board and the Management in overseeing Board subcommittees are responsible overseeing remuneration policies and the Company’s efforts with respect to for overseeing the development and practices of the Company. The Committee’s operational compliance. This includes: implementation of policies relevant to main roles are: (i) Compliance with the laws and their areas of scope, identification of ´´To review and make recommendations regulations applicable to the emerging risks and monitoring the ongoing to the Board in relation to the individual Company’s business; effectiveness of Company procedures. remuneration levels of Directors (ii) Compliance with the Company policies Acting within the authority delegated (Executive and Non-Executive), Senior and procedures, standards of business by the Board, the Strategic Planning Executives, other Executives and conduct and ethics by employees, Committee and the Audit Committee other persons whose activities in the officers, Directors and other associates review specific risk profiles and receive Committee’s opinion affect the financial of the Company that are designed to regular reports on risk management, soundness of the Company. support lawful and ethical business which include the Company’s portfolio ´´To oversee general remuneration conduct by the Company and its trends, policies, standards and soundness practices across the Company and make employees and promote a culture of internal controls, infrastructure and appropriate recommendations. of compliance, and regulatory compliance. These Committees are authorised to investigate or seek any (iii) Reviewing the Company’s enterprise information relating to an activity within the risk management and practices. terms of reference. 172 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management RISK INFRASTRUCTURE which conforms with the requirements of of the unit, supported by his senior ISO 14001:2015 and the occupational health executive team. Chief Operating Officer Risk infrastructure in place at AEL ensures and safety management system (OHSAS) together with the Corporate Management that it is well prepared to address risks which conforms with the requirements considers the operational risks that arise and includes our risk management policies, of ISO 45001:2018. These integrated from the execution of the Company’s procedures, risk training and knowledge, management systems are a pivotal business including risk of systems and databases and information. The internal component of our risk infrastructure. equipment failure, overcapacity situations, audit function and the integrated inadequate skilled workforce and adverse management systems function play a vital These systems are implemented in all climatic conditions. The Company adheres role in setting out the risk infrastructure business units across the Company and to policies, procedures, quality controls at AEL. they help mitigating risks related to quality, and best practices to ensure that all environment, and health and safety. All systems and equipment are functional. Internal audit function business units are regularly audited by the The consolidated risks and the mitigating Management Systems’ internal audit teams actions are presented to the Strategic The Company’s Internal Audit Department whilst they are biannually audited by the Planning Committee and the Audit which performs the internal audit function Management Systems external auditor Det Committee for review. focuses on providing an independent Norske Veritas (DNV GL). oversight to the Board and the Audit Primarily engaged in large scale Committee on the processes and controls infrastructure development projects, that help to mitigate major risks. RISK OWNERSHIP AEL is constantly challenged by the triple The risk ownership function at AEL is constraints of Time, Cost, and Quality Integrated management systems responsible for identifying, measuring, and the principal risks we face emanate function monitoring, and controlling risks at an from them. These risks have been broadly Our integrated management systems operational level. This function also creates categorised under 12 principal risk drivers consist of the quality management adequate risk awareness among the staff. as elaborated in the Risk Table and are system (QMS) which confirms with the constantly reported to the Board and its requirements of ISO 9001:2015, the Each business unit’s risk management Subcommittees. At a more operational environmental management system (EMS) function is led by the respective head level, we adopt the following approach to managing these risks. 01 Risk Identification is the process of determining risks that could potentially RISK IDENTIFICATION prevent the enterprise from achieving its objectives. It includes documenting and communicating the concerns. Risk registers are used to assess and evaluate risks. All identified risks are 02 RISK ASSESSMENT, assessed at three levels (high/medium/low) with reference to the likelihood of EVALUATION AND occurrence and the potential impact. Tolerance levels and trigger points are also RATING defined for each identified risk. Based on the risk scores derived from the risk register, the respective functions 03 formulate strategies to curtail and mitigate these risk exposures. Risks are monitored RISK MANAGEMENT at multiple levels within the Organisation including at functional level, Board AND MONITORING Subcommittee and Board level. Identified risks, the risk registers, mitigation plans and performance of each identified risk are evaluated at these levels throughout the year. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 173 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management RISK IDENTIFICATION SIGNIFICANT An ongoing appraisal of the Company’s Plan for action Immediate action Immediate action risk profile is made by the Board. The level (Mitigate or transfer) (Mitigate or share) (Mitigate or share) of risk the Company is willing to accept is defined as its risk appetite and has been set in the context of the interaction between risk assessment processes and its ability to mitigate and exert control over existing and emerging risks. Our risk No action Plan for action Immediate action MODERATE appetite has been determined by the SEVERITY senior leadership to ensure that it is (Accept or avoid) (Mitigate or transfer) (Mitigate or share) embedded in critical business processes. RISK ASSESSMENT, EVALUATION AND RATING Risk matrix for risk assessment No action No action Plan for action MINOR The following risk matrix is used by AEL as (Accept) (Accept) (Mitigate or transfer) a technique for assessing and evaluating its risk. This matrix mainly focuses on risk analysis based on qualitative perception. LOW MEDIUM HIGH LIKELIHOOD The likelihood of occurrence of a risk is determined based on past experience, industry and organisational trends and judgement. The severity of a risk is the potential financial or a non-financial loss/damage to the Organisation. This can also be determined based on experience, discussion, calculation, judgement etc. Based on likelihood and severity, risks are categorised into three categories where relevant actions are proposed. Accordingly risks need to be monitored, communicated, and controlled. These three areas are identified based on the risk tolerance (appetite) limits agreed as given below; Risk rating process The following diagram summarises the risk rating process of AEL: Risk category Identify the activity (Business and operational, Identified risk finance, legal, strategic) Risk rating Existing control methods Impact of risk (Risk assessment matrix) 174 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Objectives Our principal risks ´´Minimise risk of not meeting profit expectations. 02 07 08 01 03 04 SIGNIFICANT ´´Comply with the regulatory requirements. 09 10 11 05 06 ´´Maintain a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ 12 wealth and Company assets. ´´Ensure faster response to market opportunities by maintaining a “sufficient” liquidity position at all times. 02 07 08 01 03 04 MODERATE IMPACT ´´Move towards diverse business 09 10 11 05 06 segments that are synergised with our core business in order to manage our 12 exposure to cyclical downturns in our core business due to external factors. ´´Continue ourselves to be the preferred employer, successful in motivating, MINOR developing, retaining and attracting the best of human capital. ´´Keep pace with the current and new technological developments to safeguard against obsolescence and LOW MEDIUM HIGH disruptions to our business. PROBABILITY ´´Achieve cost savings through better management of resources. Risk positioning after mitigation action Risk positioning before mitigation action ´´Encourage employees to come up with ideas of innovative solutions RISK MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING and new ventures. The risk management and monitoring The Board and the Audit Committee function at AEL measures the effectiveness concluded that the level of risk associated of responses given to risks identified while with the Company’s principal risks is evaluating their implementation against currently consistent with the Company’s the plan and taking necessary corrective overall appetite in relation to these risks. measures where deviations are evident. The “heat map” sets out the positioning of our principal risks by impact and probability; both before any mitigation measures are taken into account and after the impacts of mitigation measures are taken into account. The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 175 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2018/19 2019/20 01 Operational risks are ´´Delays in project ´´Efficient and effective planning and Unchanged Increase the risk of loss resulting deliverables implementation since the inception of Operational Since the latter part of from inadequate the project, covering the scope of the risks ´´Cost overruns 2019/20, the Company or failed internal project, management of resources, ´´Unsatisfactory product faced a potential risk processes, people time, quality, and risk performance arising from the outbreak and systems, or from ´´Conducting frequent progress review of the COVID-19 global external events. ´´Quality not meeting meetings for business units to monitor pandemic. Nevertheless, specified requirements work progress and budgetary controls and the Company has ´´Loss of profits, credibility accordingly taking precautionary actions managed to resume and reputation when and where necessary operations after a ´´Use of appropriate methodologies temporary disruption and is able to continue ´´Use of advanced technology and new as a going concern. construction techniques to expedite project implementation and reduce cost ´´Training and skills enhancement 02 This risk factor involves ´´Failure to compete ´´Investment in new technology Unchanged Unchanged issues or concerns in the market as a Technological ´´Upgrading of knowledge through training associated with the result of technological In 2019/20, the Group risk and development, industrial visits technologies involved in obsolescence made considerable the execution methods in the processes. ´´Partnering with foreign principals and investments to adopt and operational on-the-job knowledge transfer new technologies on technology of par with global industry the project. practices. 03 Socio-economic and ´´Loss of social license ´´The severity of the socio-economic and Unchanged Unchanged political factors have to operate as a result political variables is evaluated during SocioDuring 2019/20, the a direct impact on of corporate behaviour the corporate planning sessions on an economic Company engaged in the operational and against the interests of annual basis and political various community investment activities the society. risk ´´Contingency plans are incorporated in of the Company. related activities, ´´The weakening of the the corporate plan including community Rupee adds increased ´´An overall feasibility study is conducted development and market pressures to the including socio-economic and political philanthropic initiatives business of the Group risks, in order to prevent any potential while maintaining ´´Negative impact on risk from investing in new ventures. healthy stakeholder budgetary control due to relationship. Influence political uncertainties by economic and political risks on Company performance was minimised by strong strategic planning. 176 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2018/19 2019/20 04 Failure to attract and ´´Failure to achieve ´´Recruitment of the best talent pool in Unchanged Unchanged retain key management growth plans as a the industry Human capital During 2019/20, the could lead to a lack of result of failure to and labour ´´Conducting periodic performance necessary expertise or attract and retain Company placed a risk appraisals of staff lack of continuity in sufficient numbers strong emphasis on executing strategy. of qualified and ´´Continuous training and development retaining key talent experienced employees of staff both on-site and off-site through performance and/or inability to recognition and reward ´´Adopt market-based compensation, ensure their ongoing schemes, succession including appropriate incentive packages engagement and planning, leadership ´´Giving freedom to employees to meet and career development commitment their senior managers at any time, for programmes, ensuring ´´Improper recruitment discussing their work-related matters that high quality resulting in an employees are retained, incompetent workforce despite the highly and inferior product/ competitive labour service offering to environment. clients. The industry is also prone to a high level of staff/ labour turnover 05 Potential harm to the ´´Downgrading in ´´Maintain accreditations: ISO 9001, Unchanged Unchanged growth of the Company, CIDA Accreditation ISO 14001, and OHSAS 45001 Quality, Company is committed to people, our key assets, environment, ´´Impact on achieving ´´Focused training on health, safety and others involved in continual improvement safety and continual growth of and environment to all employees our operations as well of the quality health the Company as potential damage to ´´Regular management meetings, management system performance ´´Damage stakeholder evaluating performance and and the environmental the environment and risk relationships identifying improvements management system. stakeholders. Health performance ´´Impairing Company ´´Internal audit function to monitor and risk status did not reputation the proper implementation of safety change during 2019/20. standards with the support of safety officers attached to each project site ´´R and D into new techniques in construction which cause less impact to the environment ´´Periodic evaluation of stakeholders (mainly sub-contractors and suppliers) on environmental grounds ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 177 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2018/19 2019/20 06 Compliance risk may ´´Risk on going concern of ´´Conducting periodical assessments on the Unchanged Unchanged arise due to the failure the Company extent of compliance with the statutory Compliance During 2019/20, Group to abide by any law or requirements risk ´´Impact on continuity and regulatory requirements adopted its risk growth of the Company ´´The Management Systems Team applicable to the mitigation strategies to operations continuously reviews the changes in Company. maintain a high standard regulations and takes necessary action to ´´Impairing Company of regulatory compliance. ensure that the Company is in compliance Non-compliance could reputation with the regulatory requirements lead to sanctions by ´´Reduction in profitability regulatory bodies, ´´Complying with the CSE reporting due to legal fees and penalties and requirements on a periodic basis penalties reputational damage, ´´Strictly following the expert advice on which could have a issues related to income and other taxation material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial condition. 07 Increased competition ´´Total revenue growth ´´Ensuring high standards of quality in Increased Unchanged has the possibility of finished products Competition ´´Underlying operating reducing market share During 2019/20, the risk margin ´´Increasing productivity and efficiency and margins. Group remained alert in order to ensure our prices remain ´´Underlying earnings with regard to ensuring competitive despite increasing wage, per share its competitiveness. The energy and transportation costs Group has sought to ´´Work won and secured ´´Increasing efficiency through R and D, match global standards and probable orders investment in new technology and the through benchmarking adoption of best practices its businesses to global best practices and ´´Diversifying business operations to reduce maintaining the highest the impact of competition quality levels in terms of both construction, products, and services. 08 Probability of loss ´´Weakening of cash flows ´´Credit risk is maintained by reviewing Increased Increased inherent in financing due to higher debtor the creditworthiness of counterparties Finance risk During 2019/20 there was methods which may positions to transactions on a case by case basis impair the ability updated with latest information as it continuous monitoring ´´Unavailability of to provide an becomes available of liquidity management sufficient working capital, adequate return. strategies. The Treasury negatively affecting the ´´Liquidity risk is managed by bank facilities Division was supported smooth functioning of and monitoring headroom by the finance functions day-to-day operations ´´Interest rate risk in respect of surplus of respective businesses. of the Group cash is managed by making deposits with ´´Negative impact on suitable financial institutions profitability ´´Downgrading Company rating for investors 178 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2018/19 2019/20 09 Reputation risk is the ´´Deteriorating ´´Having in place a budgetary process and a Unchanged Unchanged risk that an event or qualifications for bidding budgetary control mechanism on a monthly Reputation The Group’s policies, incident could damage basis to ensure that the Company’s risk ´´Negative effects on total procedures and the image of performance is in line with its targets revenue growth best practices were the Company. ´´Adopting stringent quality assurance the foundation of ´´Underlying operating policies with regard to goods/materials its uncompromising margin procured from third parties as well as approach to ethical and ´´Underlying earnings the inputs, processes and outputs of transparent business per share own products during 2019/20. ´´Negative impacts on ´´Ensuring effective communication work won and secured with various stakeholders including and probable orders employees, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders and the community at large ´´Ensuring compliance with relevant laws and regulations ´´The Code of Ethics of the Company is expected to be followed by all employees without any exception 10 Breakdowns and failures ´´Impact on regulatory ´´Maintaining a well-established IT Unchanged Unchanged in information systems reporting deadlines governance structure IT-Related Risk Majority of the Group’s IT and the use of obsolete of SEC and CSE ´´Maintaining a proper “back up” system systems are centralised systems will adversely ´´Reduce underlying in order to overcome data loss to ensure uniformity and affect the smooth operating margin due standardisation across operations of ´´Implementing a password/ to cost of time and the Group. the Company. access control policy data recovery ´´Incorporating necessary validation and ´´Impairing goodwill of verification functions at the information the Company due to entry level loss of credibility ´´Carrying out Application Control Audits ´´Installing a Fire Protection System at the Server Rooms and maintaining centralised UPS Rooms and installing Smoke Detectors for the Server Rooms and UPS Rooms 11 Material/services ´´Reducing underlying ´´Developing new products to improve Increase Increase price variations and operating margin quality and manage costs Procurement The procurement risk has availability of them risk ´´Inability to meet the ´´Establishing relationships with many primarily increased due will adversely affect completion targets global and local suppliers for raw to the de-valuation of the progress of materials and commodities in order to the Sri Lankan Rupee. the business. ´´Degrading quality reduce over-dependency on a single standards of works supplier/brand ´´Impact of unfavourable ´´Adoption of backward integration strategies exchange rate fluctuations ´´Entering into forward contracts for raw material purchases ´´Regular supplier evaluations are conducted to ascertain their financial strength, social and environmental conduct ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 179 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2018/19 2019/20 12 Fraud risk arises due ´´Loss of reputation of ´´The Internal Audit Department conducts Unchanged Unchanged to weaknesses in the Group audits on a regular basis in the areas, Fraud risk During 2019/20, the the internal controls, which are susceptible to the occurrence ´´Decrease in operating Group has managed to which could result in of fraud profitability of the Group continue with robust financial losses. ´´Authority and approval limits are internal controls to ´´Going concern of implemented for all functions mitigate risks associated the Company. of the Company, making the employees with frauds and accountable for their actions maintained an ethical ´´Ensuring appropriate segregation working environment of duties for employees. ´´Every key activity is subject to the scrutiny of another suitably skilled and authorised employee ´´When fraud is detected, immediate remedial action is taken to prevent repetition ´´Employees are encouraged to report any genuine concerns regarding fraud and malpractice ´´Whistle-blowing policy 180 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES FINANCIAL CALENDAR Eighth Annual General Meeting 9 August 2019 First Quarter Report 9 August 2019 Second Quarter Report 13 November 2019 Third Quarter Report 12 February 2020 Fourth Quarter Report 21 May 2020 Final Dividend for 2018/19 11 June 2019 First Interim Dividend for 2019/20 3 December 2019 FINANCIAL REPORTS 182 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY 188 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY 189 DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL 190 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 196 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 197 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 198 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 199 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 201 INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 202 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company The Directors of Access Engineering PLC PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), issued by have pleasure in presenting their Annual The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Report of the Company, together with Access Engineering PLC manages a portfolio Sri Lanka and comply with requirements the Audited Financial Statements of the of diverse range of business including of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Company for the year ended 31 March 2020. Construction, Construction-Related Material, and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock This Report covers Chairman’s Message, Property and Automobile. Refer Note 1.3 to Exchange inclusive of specific disclosures, Corporate Governance and Management the Financial Statements on page 202 for a duly signed by two Directors on behalf of Structure, Enterprise Risk Management, brief description of the principal activities the Board and the Auditors are included Auditors Report Independent Assurance of the Company and subsidiaries. on Page 197 in this Annual Report and on Non-Financial Reporting and all other forms part and parcel hereof. relevant information for the year ended SUBSIDIARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES 31 March 2020, in addition to the Audited DURING THE YEAR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND Financial Statements. APPROPRIATIONS The Company invested LKR 925 Mn. during The Company’s Board of Directors is the year in WUS Logistic (Private) Limited Revenue responsible for confirming that the a fully owned subsidiary of the Company. Revenue generated by the Group amounted information stated in the Annual Report Furthermore, the investment in Horizon to LKR 24,027 Mn. (2019 – LKR 32,277 Mn.) on the affairs of the Company, contains Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited, a fully whilst Company revenue amounted to the information required in terms of the owned subsidiary of AEL during the year LKR 17,917 Mn. (2019 – LKR 19,356 Mn). Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Listing was disposed of. Breakdown of revenue is provided in Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and is Note 5.1 (page 211) to the Financial guided by recommended best practices. REVIEW OF THE PERFORMANCE Statements. Review of the financial and operational GENERAL Profits and appropriations performance of the Company and the Access Engineering PLC was incorporated Group are described in the Joint Statements The Group profit after tax and Group in terms of the Companies Act No. 17 of of Managing Director and Chief Operating profit attributable to equity holders of 1982 on 31 July 2001 and was re-registered Officer and under the review of business the Parent for the year were LKR 928 Mn. as per the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 operations on pages 13 to 16 Segment-wise (2019 – LKR 2,245 Mn.) and LKR 979 Mn. on 6 February 2008 with PB 200 as the contribution to Group revenue, results, (2019 – LKR 2,150 Mn.) respectively. Whilst assets and liabilities are provided in Note 4 the profit after tax of the Company was new number assigned to the Company. (page 209) to the Financial Statements. LKR 1,927 Mn. (2019 – LKR 1,962 Mn.) Thereafter, the Company obtained a listing on the DiriSavi Board of the Colombo Stock The Group total comprehensive income Exchange on 27 March 2012 and changed FINANCIAL STATEMENTS attributable to parent was LKR 1,140 Mn. its name to Access Engineering PLC on The Financial Statements of the Group (2019 – LKR 2,164 Mn.) and the Company’s 12 June 2012. The registration number of the and the Company have been prepared total comprehensive income for the year Company changed to PB 200 PQ. in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting was LKR 1,951 Mn. (2019 – LKR 1,973 Mn.). The Company is now listed on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange with Access Engineering PLC for the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 effect from 8 January 2013. LKR ’000 LKR ’000 The Company also has LKR 5,000 Mn. Profit after tax 1,927,095 1,961,595 (2019 – LKR 5,000 Mn.) Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable Debentures at a Other adjustments (36,339) (244,279) par value of LKR 100/which are listed Balance brought forward from the previous year 9,682,281 8,714,965 on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock Amount available for appropriation 11,573,037 10,432,281 Exchange. 1st interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per share (2019 – LKR 0.25) (250,000) (250,000) Both the Company and the debentures 2nd interim dividend of LKR Nil per share (2019 – LKR 0.25) Nil (250,000) in issue have been assigned a Rating of Final dividend declared of LKR Nil per share (2019 – LKR 0.25) Nil (250,000) “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” by ICRA Balance to be carried forward to next year 11,323,037 9,682,281 Lanka Limited. In accordance with LKAS 10 – “Events after the Reporting Period”, the final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the Financial Statements. 182 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company Dividends Corporate social responsibility Additions to intangible assets of the Group and the Company during the year As required by Section 56 (2) of the The Company continued its corporate social amounted LKR 2.1 Mn. (2019 – 39.9 Mn.) and Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of responsibility initiatives with a range of LKR Nil (2019 – LKR 3.39 Mn.) respectively. Directors have confirmed that the Company programmes, details of which are set out on All other related movements to intangible satisfies the solvency test in accordance pages 113 to 115 of the Annual Report. assets are disclosed under the Note 14.1 with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 (page 235) to the Financial Statements. of 2007. Property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets A first interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per MARKET VALUE OF PROPERTIES share was declared on 22 November 2019 The Group and the Company capital expenditure on property, plant and Market value of property, plant and and paid on 3 December 2019. equipment amounted to LKR 572 Mn. equipment (2019 – LKR 1,163 Mn.) and LKR 257 Mn. All freehold land and buildings owned by Revenue reserves (2019 – LKR 705 Mn.) respectively and all Group companies were revalued as at 31 The Revenue reserves of the Group and other related information and movements March 2020 and carrying value adjusted the Company as at 31 March 2020 amounted have been disclosed in Note 11 (pages 222 accordingly. The details of freehold land to LKR 12,834 Mn. (2019 – LKR 12,195 Mn.) to 228) to the Financial Statements. and buildings are given in Note 11.3 and LKR 11,534 Mn. (2019 – LKR 10,085 Mn.) (Page 228) to the Financial Statements. respectively. The movement and composition during the year are disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity on Land holdings page 198. The extents, locations and valuations of the Group’s freehold land holdings are given below: Location Extent Carrying Value Accounting policies of Assets The significant accounting policies A R P LKR adopted in the preparation of Financial Statements of the Group and the Company Access Engineering PLC are given on pages 202 to 282 of the No. 336/1, Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala – 3.0 38.40 80,000,000 Annual Report. SLFRS 16 – ‘‘Leases” and No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama – 3.0 1.00 242,000,000 IFRIC 23 – ‘‘Uncertainty over Income Tax No. 278, Alubogahalanda,Jalthara,Ranala 3.0 3.0 4.86 82,000,000 Treatments’’ have been adopted with effect from 1 April 2019 and no any other changes No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa – 2.0 35.00 225,000,000 in the accounting policies adopted by the Dickowita – Hendala 2.0 3.0 10.18 18,007,200 Group and the Company during the year. Weliwita – Kaduwela 2.0 – – 64,000,000 The Financial Statements of the Company Divigalahena – Hakmana 10.0 – – 10,000,000 have been prepared in accordance with the Access Realties (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs and Nos. 264/5, 266, 268, 278 and 278/4, Dr Colvin R De Silva LKASs) and the policies adopted thereof Mawatha (Union Place) and Nos. 116 and 118 Dawson are given on pages 202 to 282. Figures Street, Colombo 2 1.0 – 25.65 4,025,903,931 pertaining to the previous period have been restated where necessary to conform to the Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited presentation for the year under review. 30 Stories Buildings at No. 278/4, Colombo 2 – – – 6,770,814,500 Donations Sathosa Motors PLC Peliyagoda – Leasehold land 2.0 – 23.93 5,133,746 Total donations made by the Group and the Company as at 31 March 2020 amounted No. 86, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 – – 28.70 326,086,000 to LKR 2,939,092 (2019 – LKR 1,668,400) and LKR 876,378 (2019 – LKR 1,596,286) Access Projects (Private) Limited respectively. No: 278, Kekulanvila Road, Jaltara, Ranala 2.0 1.0 38.38 82,000,000 No. 42 A, Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka – 3.0 10.00 11,000,000 No: 281, Kekulanvila Road, Jaltara, Ranala – – 20.00 5,477,000 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 183 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company Location Extent Carrying Value THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of Assets A R P LKR Directors’ responsibility for financial reporting WUS Logistics (Private) Limited The Directors are responsible for the No. 540, Maligagodella Watta, Aswedduma Junction, preparation of Financial Statements of the Aluthapola, Negambo 41.0 2 27.45 900,000,000 Company to reflect a true and fair view of Kimbulapitiya, Negambo – – 136.25 13,008,718 the state of its affairs. The Directors are of the view that these Financial Statements Harbour Village (Private) Limited have been prepared in conformity with No:250, Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha, Kotahena, requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Colombo 15 5.0 – – 2,400,000,000 Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Investment properties DEBENTURE Investment properties of business units, Debenture of the Company is LKR 5,000 Mn. The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility when significantly occupied by Group representing 50 million debentures (2019 – is given on Page 188. companies, are classified as property, LKR 5,000 Mn. of 50 million debentures), as plant and equipment in the consolidated given in Note 26.1 (pages 247 and 248) to the Financial Statements in compliance with Names of Directors Financial Statements. The said debentures LKAS 40. have been assigned a Rating of “(SL) A+ with The names of the Directors who held office a stable outlook” by ICRA Lanka Limited. as at the end of the accounting period are The Group revalued its investment given below and their brief profiles appear properties in line with the policies adopted on pages 132 to 135. by the Group and the carrying value at RATIOS AND MARKET PRICES OF Group and Company level is LKR 10,331 Mn. DEBENTURES Executive Directors (2019 – LKR 10,729 Mn.) and LKR 560 Mn. Ratios and market prices of the Listed Rated (2019 – LKR 416 Mn.) respectively. All Mr S J S Perera – Chairman Senior Unsecured Redeemable Debentures information related to revaluation of the Mr J C Joshua – Managing Director issued by the Company, as required by the investment properties is provided in Note Listing Rules are set out in Note 26.1 to the Mr D A R Fernando – Chief Operating Officer 13.2 (Page 233) to the Financial Statements. Financial Statements on Page 248. Mr S H S Mendis Mr S D Munasinghe INVESTMENTS SHARE INFORMATION A detailed description of the Company’s Non-Executive Directors Shareholders investment in quoted shares held as at Mr R J S Gomez 31 March 2020 is given in Note 21 (Page 244) There were 8,832 shareholders registered Mr S D Perera to the Financial Statements. as at 31 March 2020 (7,226 shareholders as at 31 March 2019). The details of distribution of shares are given on Page 104 of the Independent Non-Executive Directors In addition, a detailed description of the Company’s fixed deposits and debentures Annual Report. Prof K A M K Ranasinghe held as at 31 March 2020, are given in Mr N D Gunaratne Notes 22, 17 and 20 (Page 244, 240 and 243) Major shareholders, distribution Mr D S Weerakkody to the Financial Statements. schedule and other information Information on the distribution of Retirement and re-election of STATED CAPITAL shareholding, analysis of shareholders, Directors market values per share, earnings, The Stated Capital of the Company is In terms of Article 88(i) of the Articles dividends, net assets per share, twenty LKR 9,000 Mn. representing 1,000 million of Association, Mr D S Weerakkody shall largest shareholders of the Company, ordinary shares (2019 – LKR 9,000 Mn. retire by rotation and being eligible, is percentage of shares held by the public as representing 1,000 million ordinary shares), recommended by the Board for re-election per the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock as given in Note 24 (Page 245) to the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Exchange are given on pages 104 to 106 Financial Statements. under Investor Capital. Directors of subsidiary companies are given on page 291. 184 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company Review of the performance of Strategic Planning Committee Non-recurrent related party the Board transactions Mr S J S Perera – Chairman The performance of the Board has been Mr J C Joshua There were no non-recurrent related party appraised through a formalised process Mr D A R Fernando transactions of which aggregate value of individual appraisal by enabling each exceeded 10% of the equity or 5% of the Prof K A M K Ranasinghe member to self-appraise on an anonymous total assets of the Company during the basis and it is mentioned on page 157. year ended 31 March 2020, which require Declaration under Rule 9.3.2. (d) of specific disclosures in the Annual Report Listing Rules as required by Listing Rule 9.3.2 of the BOARD COMMITTEES The Directors declare that the Company Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code of The Audit Committee, Remuneration is in compliance with Rule 9 of the Listing Best Practices on Related Party Transactions Committee, Strategic Planning Committee Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange issued by the Securities and Exchange and the Related Party Transactions Review pertaining a Relate Party Transactions Commission of Sri Lanka. Committee, investment and subsidiary during the Financial Year ended performance monitoring committee function 31 March 2020. Recurrent related party transactions as Board Subcommittees, with Directors, who possess the requisite qualifications and There were no recurrent related party Interests Register transactions which in aggregate exceeded experience. The number of Board meetings held and the number of meetings attended The Company maintains an Interests 10% of the consolidated revenue of the by the Directors is given on page 165. The Register in terms of the Companies Group as per 31 March 2020 audited composition of the said Committees as at Act No. 07 of 2007, which is deemed to form Financial Statements, which required 31 March 2020 is as follows. part and parcel of the Annual Report and additional disclosures in the 2019/20 available for inspection upon request. Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code Audit Committee of Best Practices on Related Party All related party transactions which Mr N D Gunaratne – Chairman encompasses the transactions of Directors Transactions issued by the Securities Prof K A M K Ranasinghe who were directly or indirectly interested and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. Mr S D Perera in a contract or a related party transaction Mr D S Weerakkody with the Company during the accounting DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION period are recorded in the Interests Register in due compliance with the applicable rules The Directors’ remuneration is disclosed Remunerations Committee and regulations of the relevant regulatory under Key Management Personnel Mr D S Weerakkody – Chairman authorities. compensation in Note 29.6 to the Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Financial Statements on page 257. Mr N D Gunaratne The relevant interests of Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2020 DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS Mr. S D Perera as recorded in the Interests Register are given in this Report under Directors’ Directors’ interests in contracts with the Related Party Transactions Review shareholding. Company are stated below. The Directors Committee have no direct or indirect interest in any Mr N D Gunaratne – Chairman other contract or proposed contract with EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS the Company. Except for the transactions Prof K A M K Ranasinghe The Group does not operate any share referred to in Note 29 (pages 254 to 257) to Mr D S Weerakkody option scheme. the Financial Statements, the Company did Mr D A R Fernando not carry out any transaction with any of the Directors. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee The Company’s transactions with related Prof K A M K Ranasinghe – Chairman parties, given in Note 29 (pages 254 to 257) to the Financial Statements. Mr N D Gunaratne Mr D S Weerakkody Mr J C Joshua Mr D A R Fernando ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 185 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING SUPPLIER POLICY The relevant interests of Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2020 and The Group applies an overall policy of 31 March 2019 are as follows. agreeing and clearly communicating terms Shareholding Shareholding of payment as part of the commercial as at as at agreements negotiated with suppliers and 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 endeavours to pay for all items properly charged in accordance with these agreed Mr S J S Perera 250,000,000 250,000,000 terms. As at 31 March 2020 trade and Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 101,000,000 other payables of the Group and the Company amounted to LKR 11,013 Mn. Mr R J S Gomez 35,130,325 75,130,325 (2019 – LKR 12,491 Mn.) and LKR 7,152 Mn. Mr D A R Fernando 24,000,000 24,000,000 (2019 – LKR 8,529 Mn.) respectively. Refer Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 24,000,000 trade and other payables in Note 28 of Mr S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 24,000,000 page 253. Mr S D Perera 2,000,000 2,000,000 The Group strives to integrate principles Prof K A M K Ranasinghe 100 100 of sustainable practices in its value Mr N D Gunaratne Nil Nil chain through extensive stakeholder consultations, the findings of which are Mr D S Weerakkody 10,000 10,000 integrated into work plans. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The Board of Directors confirm, that they The Group pursues its business goals The Group complies with appropriate are in compliance with Section 7.10 of the based on a model of stakeholders’ environmental laws and regulations to Listing Rules of the CSE. The Chairman, governance. Finding of the continuous fulfil the best practices applicable in the the Board of Directors and the Key internal stakeholder engagements have country of operation. After making adequate Management Personnel is dedicated enabled the Group to focus on material enquiries from the Management, the towards upholding an effective Corporate issues highlighted by other stakeholders Directors are satisfied that the Company Governance Framework in compliance with such as employees, customers, suppliers operates in a manner that minimises the the Code of Business Conduct, Ethics of and the community. These steps have been detrimental effects on the environment and the Company and in implementing systems encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy provides products and services that have a and structures required to ensuring best focused on sustainable development beneficial effect on the customers and the practices within the Company. which is continuously evolving based communities within, which the Company on the above mentioned stakeholder operates. Refer Natural Capital on pages 116 The corporate governance of the Company engagements. Refer Capital Formation to 124 for more information. is reflected in its strong belief in protecting and Distribution on pages 72 to 124. and enhancing stakeholder value in a RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT sustainable manner, supported by a sound EMPLOYMENT POLICY system of policies and practices. Prudent The Group has an active approach to internal controls ensure professionalism, The Company’s employment policy research and development and recognises integrity and commitment of the Board of is totally non-discriminatory which the contribution that it can make to the Directors, Management and employees. respects individuals and provides carrier Group’s operations. Significant expenditure opportunities irrespective of the gender, has taken place over the years and The Corporate Governance Statement on race, or religion. substantial effort will continue to be made pages 141 to 170 explains the measures to introduce new products and processes adopted by the Company during the year At Company level as at 31 March 2020 a and develop existing products and of review. total of 2,583 persons were in employment processes to improve operational efficiency. (2,458 persons as at 31 March 2019). Refer Human Capital on pages 88 to 95 for more information. 186 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company STATUTORY PAYMENTS GOING CONCERN ANNUAL REPORT The Directors confirm that to the best The Financial Statements are prepared The Board of Directors approved the of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and on going concern principles. After making consolidated Financial Statements on levies payable by the Company and its adequate enquires from the Management, 31 July 2020 and appropriate number of subsidiaries, all contributions, levies the Directors are satisfied that the Company copies submitted to the Colombo Stock and taxes payable on behalf of, and and its subsidiaries have adequate Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting in respect of employees of the Group resources to continue its operations in the and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board and the Company and all other known foreseeable future. as required. statutory dues as were due and payable by the Group and the Company as at the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Statement of Financial Position date have been paid or, where relevant provided for, The Report of the Independent Auditor on The Ninth Annual General Meeting will be except as specified in Note 30 (page 258) the Financial Statements of the Company is held on 16 September 2020 consideration to the Financial Statements covering given on Page 190. the current regulations/restrictions commitments and contingencies. prevailing in the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in line with the Guidelines issued AUDITORS by Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and on CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants the assumption that no curfew will be in Except as disclosed in Note 30 (page 258) served as the Auditors during the year force on that date and that there would be to the Financial Statements, there were under review and also provided non-audit/ no restrictions imposed by the authorities no material contingent liabilities as at the consultancy services. They do not have any on conduct on meetings. reporting date. interest in the Company other than that of Auditor and provider of tax related services. The notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 292. RISK MANAGEMENT A total amount of LKR 4,209,618 is payable An ongoing process is in place to identify by the Company to the Auditors for the year This Annual Report is signed for and on and manage the risks that are associated under review comprising LKR 2,851,000 as behalf of the Board of Directors by with the business and operations of the audit fees and LKR 1,358,618 for non-audit Company and the Group on a quarter services. (on Note 8 of page 214) basis. The Directors review this process through the Audit Committee, to identify The Auditors have expressed their the competence and success of internal willingness to continue in office. A controls. resolution to reappoint the Auditors and S J S Perera to authorise the Directors to determine Chairman Specific steps taken by the Company in their remuneration will be proposed at managing the risks are detailed in the the Annual General Meeting. section on Enterprise Risk Management on pages 171 to 180. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE To the best of knowledge and belief of the J C Joshua REPORTING PERIOD Directors, the Group/Company has not Managing Director Except for the matters disclosed in Note 31 engaged in any activity, which contravenes (page 262) to the Financial Statements, laws and regulations of the country. there were no material events as at the date of the Auditor’s Report, which require adjustment to or disclosure in the P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd. Financial Statements. Secretaries 31 July 2020 Colombo ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 187 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Directors’ Responsibility The Section D.1.5 of the “Code of Best ´´Financial Statements are presented in COMPLIANCE REPORT Practice on Corporate Governance 2017” accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting issued by The Institute of Chartered Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) and The Directors confirm that to the best Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends reasonable and prudent judgements and of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and that the Board of Directors present a estimates have been made so that the levies payable by the Company and its Responsibility Statement on preparation form and substance of transactions are subsidiaries, all contributions, levies and presentation of Financial Statements properly reflected; and taxes payable on behalf of and in in the Annual Report together with a respect of the employees of the Company ´´Financial Statements provide the statement by the Auditors about their and its subsidiaries and all other known information required by and otherwise reporting responsibilities. statutory dues as were due and payable comply with the Companies Act and by the Company and its subsidiaries as at the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock This Statement sets out the responsibility reporting date have been paid or, where Exchange; of the Board of Directors in relation to relevant, provided for, except as specified the Financial Statements of the Company ´´The Company maintains with reasonable in Note 30 to the Financial Statements and its subsidiaries. Responsibility of accuracy sufficient accounting records covering commitments and contingencies. the Auditors in relation to the Financial to disclose the financial position of the Statements of the Company and its Company and the Group; By Order of the Board, subsidiaries is set out in the “Independent ´´Financial Statements have been Auditors’ Report” given on pages 190 to 195. prepared on a going concern basis and they are of the view that sufficient The Directors are responsible for the proper resources are available to justify it. recording and maintenance of books of P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited accounts of all transactions of the Company Further, the Directors confirm that they have Secretaries and its subsidiaries under Sections 150 taken reasonable measures to safeguard (1), 151, 152 (1), and 153 of the Companies the assets of the Company and the Group 31 July 2020 Act No. 07 of 2007. and in this regard have established Colombo appropriate systems of internal control Under Section 148, the Directors are with a view to preventing and detecting responsible for preparing Financial fraud and other irregularities. The External Statements that give a true and fair view Auditors were provided with all information of the state of the affairs of the Company and explanations necessary to enable them and its subsidiaries at the end of each to form their independent opinion on the financial year. These statements consist of Financial Statements. the Statement of Comprehensive Income giving a true and fair view of the profit or As required by the Section 56 (2) of the loss of the Company and its subsidiaries Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of for the financial year, the Statement of Directors have confirmed that the Company, Financial Position giving a true and fair based on the information available, view of the state of affairs of the Company satisfied the solvency test immediately and its subsidiaries as at the end of the after the distribution, in accordance with financial year, Statement of Changes in Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and the of 2007, and have obtained a certificate Notes thereto. from the Auditors, prior to declaring all dividends. The Directors are of the view that In preparing these Financial Statements the they have discharge their responsibilities as Directors are required to ensure that: set out in this statement. ´´Appropriate accounting policies have been selected and applied in a consistent manner and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and explained; 188 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Directors’ Statement on Internal Control INTRODUCTION ´´Internal Audit Department which CONFIRMATION STATEMENT is headed by the Chief Internal The following statement fulfils the Auditor carries out periodic audits Based on the above processes, the Board requirement to publish the Directors’ on an ongoing basis covering all of Directors confirms that the financial Statement on Internal Control as per operational projects/units to ensure the reporting system of the Company has been the Code of Best Practice on Corporate effectiveness of the system of internal designed to provide reasonable assurance Governance 2017 jointly issued by The control. These audits are carried out in regarding the reliability of financial reporting Institute of Chartered Accountants of accordance with the Annual Audit Plan and the preparation of Financial Statements Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange approved by the Board Audit Committee for external purposes has been done in Commission of Sri Lanka. and findings of the same are submitted accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting to the Board Audit Committee for their Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY review on a quarterly basis. Additionally special audits are conducted as and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The Board of Directors is responsible for the when the need arises and findings of the and other regulatory requirements. The adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s same are submitted to the Board Audit consolidated Financial Statements for the system of internal controls. However, such a Committee for their review. year ended 31 March 2020 have been audited system is designed to manage the Group’s by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. key exposure areas within an acceptable ´´The Board Audit Committee reviews risk profile rather than eliminating the risk internal control issues identified of failure to achieve the Group’s objectives. by the Internal Audit Department, Accordingly, the system of internal controls regulatory bodies, and the Management, can only provide a reasonable assurance and evaluates the adequacy and but not absolute against the material effectiveness of the risk management S J S Perera misstatement of management and financial and internal control systems. They also Chairman information and records or against financial review the internal audit functions with losses or fraud. The Board has established particular emphasis on the scope of an ongoing process for identifying, audits and quality of internal audits. evaluating and managing the significant The minutes of the Board Audit exposures faced by the Company and this Committee meetings are tabled at the process includes enhancing the system of Board meetings of the Company. internal controls as and when there are ´´In accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting J C Joshua changes for the business environment or Standards comprising SLFRS and LKAS, Managing Director regulatory framework. processes that are required to comply with requirements of recognition, KEY INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES measurement, presentation and disclosures were introduced and Following features of the System of Internal implemented. Continuous monitoring Control put in place by the Board provide is in progress to enhance the system’s reasonable assurance regarding the effectiveness and efficiency. N D Gunaratne reliability of financial reporting. They also ´´The comments made by External Chairman, Audit Committee ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the system. Auditors in connection with the internal control system during the financial year 31 July 2020 ´´Committees appointed by the Board to 2018/19 were taken into consideration assist them in ensuring the effectiveness and appropriate steps have been taken of Company’s daily operations, and to incorporate them where applicable. to ensure that these daily operations are within the corporate objectives, strategies and annual budget ratified by the Board ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 189 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report KPMG Tel : +94 11 542 6426 (Chartered Accountants) Fax : +94 11 244 5872 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, : +94 11 244 6058 P. O. Box 186, Internet : www.kpmg.com/lk Colombo 00300, Sri Lanka. TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ACCESS BASIS FOR OPINION ENGINEERING PLC We conducted our audit in accordance Report on the Audit of the Financial with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Statements (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of OPINION the Financial Statements section of our We have audited the financial statements report. We are independent of the Group of Access Engineering PLC (“the Company”) in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the consolidated financial statements issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics), of the Company and its subsidiaries and we have fulfilled our other ethical (“the Group”), which comprise the statement responsibilities in accordance with the of financial position as at 31 March 2020, Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit and the statement of profit or loss and evidence we have obtained is sufficient other comprehensive income, statement of and appropriate to provide a basis for changes in equity and statement of cash our opinion. flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a KEY AUDIT MATTERS summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information as set Key audit matters are those matters that, out on pages 196 to 282. in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the In our opinion, the accompanying financial Company Financial Statements and the statements of the Company and the Group Consolidated Financial Statements of give a true and fair view of the financial the current period. These matters were position of the Company and the Group addressed in the context of our audit of as at 31 March 2020, and of their financial the Company Financial Statements and the performance and cash flows for the year Consolidated Financial Statements as a then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, Accounting Standards. and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. M.R . Mihular F C A P.Y.S. Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA T.J.S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J.C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.D.C Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA G.A.U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA Ms. B.K.D.T.N. Rodrigo FCA KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm R.H. Rajan FCA M.N.M. Shameel ACA Ms. C.T.K.N. Perera ACA of the KPMG network of independent member firms A.M.R.P. Alahakoon ACA affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative Principals S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK), LLB, Attorney-at-Law, H.S. Goonewardene ACA, (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity Ms. P.M.K. Sumanasekara FCA 190 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report RECOGNITION OF REVENUE Refer Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk description Our response The major components of Group’s revenue comprises Our audit procedures on construction revenue included, revenue from construction contracts amounting to ´´Obtaining and understanding of assessing the design, implementation and operating LKR 15.9 Bn. for the year ended 31 March 2020. effectiveness of the Group’s key internal controls over revenue recognition. Construction revenue is recognised overtime by reference ´´Inspecting significant manual adjustments to revenue raised during the reporting period, to the Group’s progress toward completing the contracts. enquiring of management the reasons for such adjustments and comparing the details Management judgement is required to estimate the total of the adjustment with relevant underlying documentation. construction costs, variations or claims recognised as contract revenue, and provision for liquidated damages ´´Discussing with the Group management and project managers the performance of that will affect the measure of progress and revenue and the major contracts in progress during the year and comparing the contract revenue profit margins recognised from construction contracts. recognised for a sample of contracts in progress during the year with certifications from quantity surveyors appointed by the customers or payment applications from We identified revenue recognition of the Group as a the in-house surveyor. key audit matter because of the revenue recognition ´´On a sample basis, inspecting of project contract agreements with customers and is inherently subjective and requires significant subcontractors to identify key terms and conditions, including contracting parties, management judgement and errors in the recognition of contract period, contract sum, scope of the work and evaluating whether these key revenue could have a material impact on the Group profit terms and conditions had been appropriately reflected in the total estimated revenue for the year. and cost to complete under the forecasts of contracts. VALUATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Refer Note 11 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk description Our response The Group has property, plant and equipment and investment properties Our audit procedures included, amounting to LKR 4.9 Bn. and LKR 10.3 Bn. respectively which are measured ´´Assessing the objectivity, independence, competence and at fair value in the statement of financial position as at 31 March 2020 with gain on fair value changes for the year ended 31 March 2020 from property, qualifications of the external valuers. plant and equipment and investment properties amounting to LKR 230.4 Mn. ´´Assessing the key assumptions applied and conclusions made and LKR 64.2 Mn. respectively in the statement of profit or loss and other in determining the fair value of the investment properties and comprehensive income. comparing the fair value of properties with evidence of current market values. Property, plant and equipment and investment properties are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position. The Group has engaged ´´Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation techniques used independent professional valuers with appropriate expertise in valuing by the external valuers, taking into account the profile of the properties to determine the fair value of the property, plant and equipment investment properties. and investment properties in accordance with recognised industry standards. ´´Challenging how valuers had assessed the impact of COVID-19 Further, the uncertainty on the impact of COVID-19 introduced significant to assess whether that it was appropriately considered in the estimation uncertainty in relation to the measurement of the market value measurement in valuing properties to determine the fair value of property, plant and equipment and investment properties. of the property, plant and equipment and investment properties. ´´Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial We identified this as a key audit matter because of the significant estimates statements, including the description and appropriateness such as per perch price and value per square foot involved in assessing the of the inherent degree of subjectivity and key assumptions fair value of the investment property. in the estimates. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 191 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT OF GOODWILL AND INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Refer Note 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Risk description Our response As at 31 March 2020, the goodwill and investment in subsidiaries Our audit procedures included, amounting to LKR 1.2 Bn. and LKR 13.9 Bn. respectively. ´´Obtaining an understanding of Management’s impairment Management allocated goodwill to the respective cash-generating assessment process. units (“CGU”) and the recoverable amounts of the identified CGUs ´´Evaluating the reasonableness of the Group’s key assumptions for its have been determined based on value-in-use calculation. cash flow projection by considering COVID-19 pandemic such as discount rates, cost inflation and business growth with reference to the internally Management performed the impairment assessment for the and externally derived sources including Group budgetary process and subsidiaries with indicators of impairment and determined their reasonableness of historical forecasts. recoverable amounts based on value-in-use calculation. ´´Obtaining the Company’s cash flow projections covering a period of Further, the uncertainty on the impact of COVID-19 introduced 12 months from the reporting period end date and challenging these significant estimation uncertainty in relation to the Management’s key assumptions used in preparing the projections. assumptions and estimation of future cash inflows and outflows when preparing cash flow projections. ´´Considering the adequacy of the Group disclosures in the financial statements in respect of impairment testing. We have identified the assessment of impairment of goodwill and impairment of investments in subsidiaries as a key audit matter because judgement is required in identifying indicators of impairment and impairment assessment process involves significant Management judgement and required the management to make various assumptions in the underlying cash flow forecasts. 192 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES Refer Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Risk description Our response The Group has significant levels of inventory amounting to Our audit procedures relating to vehicle inventories included, LKR 8.3 Bn. as at 31 March 2020. ´´Testing the Group key control over inventory valuation and the identification There is inherent risks relating to specially vehicle inventory with of slow moving and/or obsolete inventories. the changes in economic sentiment or consumer preferences ´´Comparison of inventory levels, by product group, to sales data to and the introduction of newer models with the latest design and corroborate whether slow moving and obsolete inventories had been technologies by vehicle manufacturers to these different markets appropriately identified and challenge the Group’s categorisation as could result in inventories on hand no longer being sought after or obsolete or slow moving. being sold at a discount below their cost. ´´Comparing, on a sample basis, the carrying value of inventories with sales Further, COVID-19 outbreak resulted in interruption in business prices subsequent to the end of the reporting period. activities and resulted in loss of income from some of the individuals ´´Assessing whether the inventory provision at the end of the reporting which would adversely affect the ability to sell its inventories with period was determined on a basis consistent with the Group’s inventory a reasonable margin which would potentially impact on the net provisioning policy by recalculating the inventory write-downs and realisable value. provisions based on expected selling prices. Given the level of judgements and estimates involved, there is a risk ´´Challenging how Management had assessed the impact of COVID-19 to that carrying value of inventory could be misstated. assess whether that it was appropriately considered in the Measurement of inventory provision at year end. In particular, we challenged Management’s Estimating future demand for and the related selling prices of assessment of the likelihood of a severe economic downturn caused vehicle is inherently subjective and uncertain because it involves by COVID-19 at the reporting date with reference to the reasonable and Management estimating the extent of markdown of selling prices supportable information available to Management at that date. necessary to sell the older or slow-moving models in the period subsequent to the reporting date. Our audit procedures relating to other inventories included, ´´Understanding and evaluating the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of Management’s key internal controls over inventory management including the purchases of inventories, inventory valuation, and cycle counts of inventories and reviews of the status of inventories. ´´Performing recalculations on inventory valuation for selected samples in accordance with the Group’s valuation policy. ´´Obtaining the surveyor’s (In–house) valuation report on the work in progress as at 31 March 2020, and inquired the management over the reasonableness of the valuation performed by the surveyor. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 193 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report RECOVERABILITY OF TRADE RECEIVABLES Refer Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Risk description Our response The Group trade receivables are stated in the financial position at their fair Our audit procedures included, value less any provision for irrecoverable amounts. As at 31 March 2020 net ´´On sample basis circularised trade receivable confirmations of trade receivables were LKR 11.6 Bn. after provisions of LKR 234.5 Mn. for construction receivables to verify existence and tested the There are inherent risks relating to customer’s credit risk profile which reconciliations where discrepancies were identified and testing the varies due to the size of each customer and the industries that the subsequent collections for outstanding trade receivables, where customers operate in. The risk is whether the trade receivables are applicable. recoverable and determining an appropriate provision for potentially ´´Understanding and evaluating the design, implementation and impaired trade receivables requires significant Management judgement. operating effectiveness of Management’s key internal controls in respect of the valuation of trade debtors, which included credit Impairment allowances represent Management's best estimate of the control procedures and the application of the Group’s doubtful debt losses expected within receivables as at the financial position date. provisioning policy. Management has assessed the receivable balances individually based on the age of debts to identify any objective evidence of impairment. ´´Assessing, on a sample basis, whether items in the trade debtors’ ageing report were classified within the appropriate ageing bracket The rapidly evolving consequences of COVID-19 and government, business by comparing individual items in the report with underlying and consumer responses could result in significant adjustments to the documentation, which included sales invoices and goods delivery allowance within the current financial years. notes. Given the level of subjectivity nature of significant Management ´´Challenging how Management had assessed the impact of COVID-19 judgements involved, impairment of trade receivables being considered within the credit losses model to assess whether that it was as a key audit matter. appropriately considered in the Measurement of doubtful debts at year end. In particular, we challenged Management’s assessment of the likelihood of a severe economic downturn caused by COVID-19 at the reporting date with reference to the reasonable and supportable information available to management at that date. OTHER INFORMATION Statements or our knowledge obtained determines is necessary to enable the in the audit or otherwise appears to be preparation of Financial Statements that Management is responsible for the materially misstated. If, based on the work are free from material misstatement, other information. The other information we have performed, we conclude that there whether due to fraud or error. comprises the information included in the is a material misstatement of this other annual report but does not include the information, we are required to report In preparing the Financial Statements, Financial Statements and our Auditor’s that fact. We have nothing to report in Management is responsible for assessing report thereon. this regard. the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters Our opinion on the Financial Statements related to going concern and using the RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT does not cover the other information and going concern basis of accounting unless AND THOSE CHARGED WITH we do not express any form of assurance Management either intends to liquidate GOVERNANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL conclusion thereon. the Group or to cease operations, or has no STATEMENTS realistic alternative but to do so. In connection with our audit of the Management is responsible for the Financial Statements, our responsibility is preparation of Financial Statements that Those charged with governance are to read the other information and, in doing give a true and fair view in accordance responsible for overseeing the Company’s so, consider whether the other information with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and and the Group’s financial reporting process. is materially inconsistent with the Financial for such internal control as Management 194 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ´´Conclude on the appropriateness of We also provide those charged with AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management’s use of the going concern governance with a statement that we basis of accounting and, based on have complied with ethical requirements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable the audit evidence obtained, whether in accordance with the Code of Ethics assurance about whether the Financial a material uncertainty exists related regarding independence, and to Statements as a whole are free from to events or conditions that may cast communicate with them all relationships material misstatement, whether due to significant doubt on the Group’s ability and other matters that may reasonably be fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor’s to continue as a going concern. If we thought to bear on our independence, and Report that includes our opinion. conclude that a material uncertainty where applicable, related safeguards. Reasonable assurance is a high level of exists, we are required to draw attention assurance, but is not a guarantee that an in our auditor’s report to the related From the matters communicated with audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs disclosures in the Financial Statements those charged with governance, we will always detect a material misstatement or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to determine those matters that were of most when it exists. Misstatements can arise from modify our opinion. Our conclusions are significance in the audit of the financial fraud or error and are considered material based on the audit evidence obtained statements of the current period and if, individually or in the aggregate, they up to the date of our Auditor’s Report. are therefore the key audit matters. We could reasonably be expected to influence However, future events or conditions describe these matters in our auditor’s the economic decisions of users taken on may cause the Group to cease to report unless law or regulation precludes the basis of these Financial Statements. continue as a going concern. public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, ´´Evaluate the overall presentation, As part of an audit in accordance with we determine that a matter should not structure and content of the Financial SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgement be communicated in our report because Statements, including the disclosures, and maintain professional skepticism the adverse consequences of doing so and whether the financial statements throughout the audit. We also: would reasonably be expected to outweigh represent the underlying transactions ´´Identify and assess the risks of the public interest benefits of such and events in a manner that achieves material misstatement of the Financial communication. fair presentation. Statements, whether due to fraud ´´Obtain sufficient appropriate audit or error, design and perform audit REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND evidence regarding the financial procedures responsive to those risks, REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS information of the entities or business and obtain audit evidence that is activities within the Group to express an As required by section 163 (2) of the sufficient and appropriate to provide opinion on the Consolidated Financial Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we a basis for our opinion. The risk of not Statements. We are responsible for the have obtained all the information and detecting a material misstatement direction, supervision and performance explanations that were required for the resulting from fraud is higher than for of the group audit. We remain solely audit and, as far as appears from our one resulting from error, as fraud may responsible for our audit opinion. examination, proper accounting records involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the have been kept by the Company. We communicate with those charged with override of internal control. governance regarding, among other matters, CA Sri Lanka membership number of the ´´Obtain an understanding of internal the planned scope and timing of the audit engagement partner responsible for signing control relevant to the audit in order and significant audit findings, including any this independent auditor’s report is 2599. to design audit procedures that are significant deficiencies in internal control appropriate in the circumstances, but not that we identify during our audit. for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company and the Group’s internal control. ´´Evaluate the appropriateness of CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS accounting policies used and the Colombo, Sri Lanka reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 31 July 2020 Management. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 195 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue 5.1 24,026,524,618 32,277,441,194 17,917,039,628 19,356,105,575 Cost of sales (20,218,748,732) (27,093,199,821) (15,622,640,045) (16,183,403,341) Gross profit 3,807,775,886 5,184,241,373 2,294,399,583 3,172,702,234 Other income 6.1 599,152,527 481,768,869 1,314,228,230 647,816,174 Administrative expenses (2,037,920,324) (1,852,100,797) (777,836,151) (765,960,002) Other expenses (41,697,487) (34,199,999) (29,875,397) (24,951,305) Operating profit 2,327,310,602 3,779,709,446 2,800,916,265 3,029,607,101 Finance cost 7.1 (1,415,099,351) (1,520,195,874) (975,114,199) (1,078,964,678) Finance income 7.1 843,479,736 869,305,906 669,574,645 594,015,983 Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax 16.2 (8,610,025) (273,936) – – Profit before tax 1,747,080,962 3,128,545,542 2,495,376,711 2,544,658,406 Income tax expense 9.1 (819,505,859) (883,188,540) (568,282,115) (583,063,290) Profit for the year 927,575,103 2,245,357,002 1,927,094,596 1,961,595,116 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 979,247,287 2,150,223,368 1,927,094,596 1,961,595,116 Non-controlling interest (51,672,184) 95,133,634 – – Profit for the year 927,575,103 2,245,357,002 1,927,094,596 1,961,595,116 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit liability 27.1 (51,054,764) 19,092,533 (47,461,268) 15,447,533 Revaluation of land and buildings 11.1/11.2 230,350,057 – 78,118,356 – Related tax 9.1 (7,670,412) (4,608,927) (6,670,213) (4,325,309) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 171,624,881 14,483,606 23,986,875 11,122,224 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,099,199,984 2,259,840,608 1,951,081,471 1,972,717,340 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,139,528,880 2,164,068,924 1,951,081,471 1,972,717,340 Non-controlling interest (40,328,896) 95,771,684 – – Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,099,199,984 2,259,840,608 1,951,081,471 1,972,717,340 Basic earnings per share 10 0.98 2.15 1.93 1.96 Dividend per share 24.3 – – 0.50 0.50 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 196 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 11.1/11.2 4,936,918,659 5,198,089,223 2,574,753,034 3,067,938,263 Right-of-use assets 12.1 259,194,678 – 25,808,317 – Investment properties 13.1 10,330,805,144 10,729,192,520 560,007,200 415,800,000 Investment properties – work-in-progress 13.3 1,896,474,092 492,568,921 – – Intangible assets and goodwill 14.1 1,248,103,670 1,406,234,214 37,384,532 47,196,982 Investments in subsidiaries 15 – – 13,865,857,707 13,230,857,707 Equity-accounted investees 16.1 889,376,338 898,019,125 855,465,410 855,465,410 Non-current financial assets 17 110,220,036 1,420,363,347 110,220,036 1,008,933,068 Deferred tax assets 9.4 33,901,427 – – – 19,704,994,044 20,144,467,350 18,029,496,236 18,626,191,430 Current assets Inventories 18.1 8,297,097,495 6,578,633,179 2,269,730,808 1,440,013,027 Trade and other receivables 19.1 14,064,151,231 13,737,627,879 11,393,520,734 10,084,363,584 Amount due from related parties 29.2 239,117,758 126,895,989 890,226,038 409,622,868 Current tax assets 9.3 95,204,109 55,203,106 – – Other current financial assets 20 4,173,097,257 2,697,690,207 3,478,697,449 2,466,744,153 Short-term investments 21 71,321,630 25,769,394 71,321,630 25,769,394 Short-term deposits 22 1,268,925,720 2,209,898,751 600,671,244 492,509,058 Cash and cash equivalents 23 2,164,437,939 2,485,877,649 214,926,490 1,075,663,894 30,373,353,139 27,917,596,154 18,919,094,393 15,994,685,978 Total assets 50,078,347,183 48,062,063,504 36,948,590,629 34,620,877,408 Equity and liabilities Equity Stated capital 24.1 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 Revaluation reserve 469,042,894 258,652,205 210,819,173 152,660,185 Retained earnings 12,365,267,222 11,936,129,031 11,323,036,990 9,932,281,210 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 21,834,310,116 21,194,781,236 20,533,856,163 19,084,941,395 Non-controlling interest 33 2,552,784,328 2,393,297,382 – – Total equity 24,387,094,444 23,588,078,618 20,533,856,163 19,084,941,395 Non-current liabilities Government grants 25 5,484,707 5,704,096 – – Lease liabilities 12.2 137,350,213 – – – Loans and borrowings 26 56,142,279 5,097,947,765 1,650,279 5,188,152,871 Employee benefit liabilities 27 360,269,657 263,326,437 278,609,201 193,452,552 Deferred tax liabilities 9.4 2,393,539,864 2,165,728,615 469,814,674 519,040,038 2,952,786,720 7,532,706,913 750,074,154 5,900,645,461 Current liabilities Bank overdraft 23 516,221,235 329,833,689 125,036,649 – Trade and other payables 28 11,012,743,258 12,491,096,071 7,151,916,529 8,528,943,819 Amount due to related parties 29.3 34,806,787 24,486,763 36,601,865 279,991,521 Lease liabilities 12.2 10,497,052 – 27,692,165 – Loans and borrowings 26 10,911,060,875 3,637,207,534 8,099,866,742 402,128,177 Current tax liabilities 9.3 222,056,620 424,288,511 210,400,050 411,867,608 Unclaimed dividends 31,080,192 34,365,405 13,146,312 12,359,427 22,738,466,019 16,941,277,973 15,664,660,312 9,635,290,552 Total liabilities 25,691,252,739 24,473,984,886 16,414,734,466 15,535,936,013 Total equity and liabilities 50,078,347,183 48,062,063,504 36,948,590,629 34,620,877,408 Net asset per share 21.83 21.19 20.53 19.08 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. N Iddagodage Deputy General Manager – Finance The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Approved and signed for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Access Engineering PLC. J C Joshua D A R Fernando Managing Director Chief Operating Officer 31 July 2020 Colombo ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 197 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Changes in Equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent Group Stated capital Revaluation Retained Total Non-controlling Total equity reserve earnings interests LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 404,698,445 10,387,913,212 19,792,611,657 2,299,725,473 22,092,337,130 Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 – – (261,914,765) (261,914,765) (2,184,355) (264,099,120) Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 404,698,445 10,125,998,447 19,530,696,892 2,297,541,118 21,828,238,010 Profit for the year – – 2,150,223,368 2,150,223,368 95,133,634 2,245,357,002 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – 13,845,556 13,845,556 638,050 14,483,606 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,164,068,924 2,164,068,924 95,771,684 2,259,840,608 Transactions with owners of the Company – contributions and distributions Cash dividends – – (500,000,000) (500,000,000) – (500,000,000) Changes in ownership interests Disposal of subsidiary-Horizon Knowledge City Limited – (146,046,240) 146,061,660 15,420 (15,420) – Balance as at 31 March 2019 9,000,000,000 258,652,205 11,936,129,031 21,194,781,236 2,393,297,382 23,588,078,618 Impact of adopting SLFRS 16 – – – – (184,140) (184,140) Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2019 9,000,000,000 258,652,205 11,936,129,031 21,194,781,236 2,393,113,242 23,587,894,478 Profit for the year – – 979,247,287 979,247,287 (51,672,184) 927,575,103 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – 210,390,689 (50,109,096) 160,281,593 11,343,288 171,624,881 Total comprehensive income for the year – 210,390,689 929,138,191 1,139,528,880 (40,328,896) 1,099,199,984 Transactions with owners of the Company – contributions and distributions Cash dividends – – (500,000,000) (500,000,000) – (500,000,000) Non-controlling interest of Access Motors (Private) Limited right issue – – – – 199,999,982 199,999,982 Balance as at 31 March 2020 9,000,000,000 469,042,894 12,365,267,222 21,834,310,116 2,552,784,328 24,387,094,444 Company Stated Revaluation Retained Total capital reserve earnings equity LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 8,714,965,150 17,867,625,335 Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 – – (255,401,280) (255,401,280) Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 8,459,563,870 17,612,224,055 Profit for the year – – 1,961,595,116 1,961,595,116 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – 11,122,224 11,122,224 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,972,717,340 1,972,717,340 Transactions with owners of the Company – contributions and distributions Cash dividends – – (500,000,000) (500,000,000) Balance as at 31 March 2019 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 9,932,281,210 19,084,941,395 Impact of adopting SLFRS 16 – – (2,166,703) (2,166,703) Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2019 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 9,930,114,507 19,082,774,692 Profit for the year – – 1,927,094,596 1,927,094,596 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – 58,158,988 (34,172,113) 23,986,875 Total comprehensive income for the year – 58,158,988 1,892,922,483 1,951,081,471 Transactions with owners of the Company – contributions and distributions Cash dividends – – (500,000,000) (500,000,000) Balance as at 31 March 2020 9,000,000,000 210,819,173 11,323,036,990 20,533,856,163 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 198 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 1,747,080,962 3,128,545,542 2,495,376,711 2,544,658,406 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.1/11.2 1,029,071,381 1,077,028,529 813,980,582 873,104,852 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 12.1 37,755,948 – 56,082,789 – Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14.1 19,455,491 34,591,799 9,812,450 9,169,035 Provisions for employee benefits 27.1 70,570,126 64,266,599 48,850,715 46,824,048 Impairment losses/write-off of trade and other receivables/ inventories 84,289,845 70,866,144 2,659,927 22,448,339 Gain on fair value changes of investment properties 13.1 (64,207,200) – (144,207,200) – Loss on fair value changes of short-term investments 6.1 9,447,660 9,791,387 9,447,660 9,791,387 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 (36,460,854) (62,587,664) (24,851,149) (40,038,992) Loss on asset write-off 8 1,217,636 – 1,217,636 – (Gain)/Loss on disposal of subsidiary 6.1 5,527,503 5,977,460 (185,000,000) (140,010,000) Gain on disposal of equity accounted investees 6.1 – (6,427,534) – – Gain on disposal of maturity of unit trust 6.1 (2,892,766) – (2,892,766) – Amortisation of government grant 25 (219,389) (219,389) – – Share of profit of equity-accounted investees, net of tax 16.2 8,610,025 273,936 – – Dividend income 6.1 (1,123,761) (1,340,836) (862,789,874) (332,979,009) Net finance cost 7.1 571,619,615 650,889,968 305,539,554 484,948,695 Operating profit before working capital changes 3,479,742,222 4,971,655,941 2,523,227,035 3,477,916,761 Changes in: Inventories (1,703,296,023) (531,218,240) (832,656,184) 167,488,183 Trade and other receivables (556,309,629) (2,537,685,709) (1,319,067,593) (1,444,269,783) Other current financial assets (142,719,618) (502,322,172) (113,310,957) (455,748,911) Amounts due from related parties (112,221,769) 72,789,822 (480,603,170) (172,773,121) Trade and other payables (1,297,603,114) 2,000,457,622 (1,284,581,464) 936,379,932 Amounts due to related parties 10,320,024 (44,071,428) (243,389,656) 248,449,982 Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (322,087,907) 3,429,605,836 (1,750,381,989) 2,757,443,043 Interest paid (1,009,393,345) (1,194,682,725) (604,506,447) (744,443,042) Income tax paid 9.3 (834,443,968) (338,370,025) (815,456,331) (167,987,537) Gratuity paid 27 (24,681,670) (20,767,885) (11,155,334) (16,199,790) Net cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities (2,190,606,890) 1,875,785,201 (3,181,500,101) 1,828,812,674 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 199 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.1/11.2 (572,318,137) (1,163,188,146) (257,060,629) (704,596,318) Purchase of intangible assets 14.1 (2,071,342) (39,996,158) – (3,392,293) Purchase of investment properties 13.1 (12,605,424) (15,243,007) – – Purchase of investment properties work-in-progress 13.3 (503,905,171) (90,090,613) – – Proceeds from sale of Property, plant and equipment 70,010,596 105,658,776 38,017,145 74,204,133 Investment in equity securities (54,999,896) – (54,999,896) – Investment in unit trust (250,000,000) – (250,000,000) – Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash (900,000,000) – (900,000,000) – Investment in subsidiary – – (25,000,000) (126,572,560) Investment in joint venture – 300,000,000 – 300,000,000 Proceeds from sales of non-current financial assets – 39,850,000 – – Net cash flows on disposal of subsidiary 474,949,844 762,119,876 475,000,000 765,000,000 (Investments in)/withdrawal from short-term deposit 929,598,513 (121,716,019) (94,968,695) (195,686,786) Proceeds from sale of unit trust 252,892,766 – 252,892,766 – Dividends received 1,123,761 1,340,836 862,789,874 332,979,009 Interest received 342,935,844 523,258,061 202,709,907 230,742,709 Net cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities (224,388,646) 301,993,606 249,380,472 672,677,894 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (500,000,000) (500,000,000) (500,000,000) (500,000,000) Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interest 199,999,982 – – – Proceeds from borrowings 26.2 23,312,362,280 11,954,669,609 3,605,000,000 5,011,000,000 Repayment of borrowings 26.2 (21,081,669,606) (12,299,674,552) (1,095,168,163) (6,513,832,740) Payment of lease liabilities 12.2 (23,524,376) (6,116,140) (63,486,261) – Net cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities 1,907,168,280 (851,121,083) 1,946,345,576 (2,002,832,740) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (507,827,256) 1,326,657,724 (985,774,053) 498,657,828 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,156,043,960 829,386,236 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 1,648,216,704 2,156,043,960 89,889,841 1,075,663,894 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 200 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Index to the Financial Statements Accounting policy Note Page Corporate and group information 1 202 Basis of preparation 2 203 New and Amended Standards issued but not effective as at the reporting date 3 208 Segment information 4 209 Revenue 5 210 Other income 6 212 Net finance income/(cost) 7 212 Profit before tax 8 214 Income tax 9 215 Earnings per share 10 221 Property, plant and equipment 11 222 Right-of-use assets and leases 12 229 Investment properties 13 232 Intangible assets and goodwill 14 234 Investments in subsidiaries 15 236 Equity-accounted investees 16 237 Non-current financial assets 17 240 Inventories 18 240 Trade and other receivables 19 241 Other current financial assets 20 243 Short-term investments 21 244 Short-term deposits 22 244 Cash and cash equivalents 23 245 Capital and reserves 24 245 Government grant 25 246 Loans and borrowings 26 247 Employee benefits 27 250 Trade and other payables 28 253 Related party disclosure 29 254 Provisions, commitments and contingencies 30 258 Events after the reporting period 31 262 Business combinations 32 263 Non-controlling interest 33 265 Financial assets and financial liabilities 34 267 Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures 35 272 Financial instruments, risk management objectives, and policies 36 274 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 201 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 1. CORPORATE AND Subsidiaries, joint venture and associate GROUP INFORMATION The principal activities and nature of operations of subsidiaries, joint venture and associate are as follows. This section provides corporate and group information about Access Engineering PLC, Name Principal activities Percentage of its subsidiaries, joint venture and associate. equity interest 2020 2019 1.1 Reporting entity Access Realties (Private) Limited Commercial property development for Access Engineering PLC (“Company”) Lease and rental 100 100 is a public limited liability company, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Commercial property development for incorporated on 31 July 2001 and domiciled Lease and rental 100 100 in Sri Lanka. The Company was re-registered ARL Elevate (Private) Limited Provision for conference, restaurant under the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on and support facilities for Access 6 February 2008. The Company’s registered Towers 100 100 office and the principal place of business Sathosa Motors PLC Authorised distributor for ISUZU are located at “Access Towers”, 278, Union brand vehicles in Sri Lanka 84.42 84.42 Place, Colombo 2. Access Motors (Private) Limited Authorised distributor for [Previously known as SML Frontier Jaguar and Land Rover in Sri Lanka 42.21 42.21 The ordinary shares of the Company are Automotive (Private) Limited] listed at the Colombo Stock Exchange. Access Projects (Private) Limited Construction and supply of Access Engineering PLC does not have any construction related services identifiable parent of its own. The Company and materials 80 80 is the ultimate parent of the Group. Horizon Holdings Ventures Commercial property development (Private) Limited for lease and rental Nil 100 1.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Harbour Village (Private) Limited Residential and commercial property development. 60.83 60.83 The Consolidated Financial Statements of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited Commercial property development Access Engineering PLC for the year ended for lease and rental 100 Nil 31 March 2020, comprise the Company, its subsidiaries, joint venture and associate ZPMC Lanka Company Commission, repair, and maintenance (together referred to as the Group ). (Private) Limited of port machinery 30 30 Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited Residential property development 50 50 The Financial Statements of all Companies in the Group have a common financial year All the companies are incorporated in There are no other significant changes which ends on 31 March. Sri Lanka. in the nature of the principle business activities of the Group or the Company 1.3 Principal activities and nature of Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited, during the financial year under review. operations fully owned subsidiary of AEL was disposed The business activities of the Company Company on 20 March 2020. and its subsidiaries are described in more detail in the Group Directory on page 07. Access Engineering PLC (AEL) is primarily AEL has acquired 100% voting shares of involved in the business of construction WUS Logistics (Private) Limited on 30 activities and supply of construction-related September 2019. services and materials. 202 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION The Board of Directors acknowledges this responsibility as set out in the “Statement of Directors’ Responsibility” for Financial Statements (Refer page 188), “Annual Report of the 2.1 Statement of compliance Board of Directors” (Refer page 182) and in the statement appearing with the Statement of The Financial Statements of the Company Financial Position (Refer page 197) of this Annual Report. and those consolidated comprise the Statement of Financial Position, Statement The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2020, were approved and authorised of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive for issue by the Board of Directors on 31 July 2020. Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows together with 2.3 Basis of measurement the Accounting Policies and Notes (the These Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the Financial Statements) which have been following material items in the Statement of Financial Position. prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by The Institute of Chartered Accounting Standard Note Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and with the requirement of the Companies Financial assets and financial liabilities that have been measured at fair value – SLFRS 9 34 Act No. 07 of 2007, provide appropriate Employee benefit liability recognised based on actuarial valuation – LKAS 19 27 disclosures as required by Listing Rules Land and buildings stated at revalued amounts – LKAS 16 11 of Colombo Stock Exchange. Investment property measured at fair value – LKAS 40 13 This is the first set of the Group’s Annual Financial Statements in which SLFRS 16 – 2.4 Functional and presentation In the process of applying the Group’s “Leases” and IFRIC 23 – “Uncertainty over currency accounting policies, Management has Income Tax Treatments” have been applied. made various judgements. Those which The Consolidated Financial Statements are Management has assessed to have the presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), which Changes to the significant accounting most significant effect on the amounts is the Group’s functional and presentation policies due to adoption of this standard recognised in the Consolidated Financial currency. are described in Note 2.9. Statements have been discussed in the individual Notes of the related Financial These Financial Statements except for 2.5 Comparative Information Statement line items. information on cash flows have been The presentation and classification of the prepared following the accrual basis of The key assumptions concerning the Financial Statements of the previous years accounting. The Group did not adopt any future and other key sources of estimation have been amended, where relevant for inappropriate accounting treatments uncertainty at the reporting date, that have better presentation and to be comparable which are not in compliance with the a significant risk of causing a material with those of the current year. requirements of SLFRSs and LKASs, adjustment to the carrying amounts of regulations governing the preparation assets and liabilities within the next of Financial Statements. 2.6 Summary of significant accounting financial year, are also described in the judgements, estimates, and individual Notes of the related Financial assumptions Statement line items below. The Group 2.2 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated based its assumptions and estimates Financial Statements requires Management on parameters available when the The Board of Directors is responsible for to make judgements, estimates and Consolidated Financial Statements were the preparation and presentation of the assumptions that affect the reported prepared. Existing circumstances and Financial Statements of the Company amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and assumptions about future developments, and its subsidiaries as per provisions liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, however, may change due to market of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. changes or circumstances arising that are the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Uncertainty about these assumptions and beyond the control of the Group. Such (SLFRSs/LKASs). estimates could result in outcomes that changes are reflected in the assumptions require a material adjustment to the carrying when they occur. amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 203 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of 2.7 Going concern resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within In light of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic the year ending 31 March 2020 is included in the following notes. situation, the Group and the Company has assessed its going concern and a Accounting policies Note detailed disclosure of its assessments are provided below. Revenue recognition 5 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 11 As a result of island-wide curfew imposed Fair value of the investment property 13 by the Government in March – May 2020, several Group operations were temporarily Impairment of non-financial assets: key assumption underlying recoverable amount 2.8.5 disrupted. Nevertheless work on certain Measurement of defined benefit obligation: key actuarial assumptions 27 construction projects continued from end Measurement of ECL allowance for trade receivables 19 of April while complying with the public health related regulations imposed by the Fair value measurement of financial instruments 35 relevant authorities. By early May 2020 most Impairment of financial assets: key assumption underlying recoverable amount 34 of the remaining construction projects Income Tax (current tax and deferred tax) 9 and production plants resumed work within confined worksites with necessary Recognition and measurement of provisions and contingencies: approval from the authorities. Due to key assumption about the likelihood and magnitude of an outflow of resources 30 the temporary disruption of operation caused, construction sector, production of Impact of COVID-19 pandemic The significant accounting estimates construction related material sector and The post-lockdown implications have impacted by these forecasts and associated automobile sector expected an adverse increased the uncertainty of estimates uncertainties are related to expected impact to the first quarter results of 2020/21. made in preparation of the Financial credit losses and recoverable amount While we anticipate a short-term downturn Statements. The estimation uncertainty assessments of non-financial assets, in the Group’s and the Company’s immediate is associated with: recoverable value of property plant and financial results, we are confident of equipment and net realisable value of ´´the extent and duration of the disruption returning back to normal without much delay. inventory. to businesses arising from the actions of stakeholders such as government, In preparing Financial Statements, the The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on businesses, and customers. Directors are responsible for assessing accounting estimates is discussed under the Group's and the Company's ability ´´the extent and duration of the expected the relevant notes to these Financial to continue as a going concern and economic downturn due to impact on Statements. Management has assessed the anticipated GDP capital markets, credit risk of our post lockdown economic implications on customers, impact of unemployment the Group and the Company. The Group and and possible decline in consumer the Company has in place a sound business discretionary spending. continuity plan supported by the Corporate ´´the effectiveness of Government and Management and relevant line managers. Central Bank measures that have and will be put in place to support businesses through this disruption and economic downturn. 204 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements By assessing the Company’s strong order 2.8.1 Basis of consolidation The Group reassesses whether or not book which comprises confirmed and it controls an investee if facts and The Consolidated Financial Statements signed projects spanning next 2-3 years with circumstances indicate that there are comprise the Financial Statements of the secured funding, best corporate governance changes to one or more of the three Company and its subsidiaries prepared as practices, initiated cost management elements of control. Consolidation of per Accounting Standard – SLFRS 10 – practices, well secured funding through a subsidiary begins when the Group “Consolidated Financial Statements”. local banks, bilateral and multilateral obtains control over the subsidiary and Control is achieved when the Group is funding, ability defer non-essential capital ceases when the Group loses control of exposed, or has rights, to variable returns expenditure, Group and Company expected the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income from its involvement with the investee to improve during the second quarter. and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or and has the ability to affect those returns Unutilised bank facilities of the Company as disposed of during the year are included through its power over the investee. at 31 March 2020 amounted to LKR 25.3 Bn. in the Consolidated Financial Statements Specifically, the Group controls an investee from the date the Group gains control if, and only if, the Group has: Having evaluated the presentations until the date the Group ceases to control made by the Group companies on their ´´Power over the investee. (i.e. existing the subsidiary. future outlook, the Directors are satisfied rights that give it the current ability that the Company and its subsidiaries to direct the relevant activities of the Profit or loss and each component of have adequate resources to continue its investee). OCI are attributed to the equity holders operations at least, but not limited to, ´´Exposure, or rights, to variable returns of the parent of the Group and to the 12 months from the reporting date, to from its involvement with the investee. non-controlling interests, even if this justify adopting the going concern basis in results in the non-controlling interests ´´The ability to use its power over the preparing theses Financial Statements. having a deficit balance. When necessary, investee to affect its returns. adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring their 2.8 Summary of significant Generally, there is a presumption that a accounting policies in line with the Group’s accounting policies majority of voting rights results in control. accounting policies. All intra-group assets Summary of significant accounting policies To support this presumption and when and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and have been disclosed along with the relevant the Group has less than a majority of the cash flows relating to transactions between individual notes in the subsequent pages. voting or similar rights of an investee, the members of the Group are eliminated Group considers all relevant facts and in full on consolidation. A change in the Those accounting policies presented with circumstances in assessing whether it has ownership interest of a subsidiary, without each note, have been applied consistently power over an investee, including: a loss of control, is accounted for as an by the Group, except for the changes of the ´´The contractual arrangement (s) with the equity transaction. accounting policies due to the adoption of other vote holders of the investee. SLFRS 16 and IFRIC 23. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, ´´Rights arising from other contractual it derecognises the related assets (including arrangements. Following accounting policies which have goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest been applied consistently by the Group, ´´The Group’s voting rights and potential and other components of equity, while are considered to be significant but are not voting rights. any resultant gain or loss is recognised in covered in any other sections. profit or loss. Any investment retained is recognised at fair value. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 205 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 2.8.2 Current versus non-current 2.8.3 Borrowing costs 2.8.5 Impairment of classification non-financial assets Borrowing costs directly attributable to the The Group presents assets and liabilities acquisition, construction, or production The Group assesses at each reporting date in the Statement of Financial Position of an asset that necessarily takes a whether there is an indication that an based on current/non-current substantial period of time to get ready for asset may be impaired. If any indication classification. An asset is current when it is: its intended use or sale are capitalised exists, the Company estimates the asset’s as part of the cost of the asset. All other recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable ´´Expected to be realised or intended borrowing costs are expensed in the period amount is the higher of an asset’s or to sold or consumed in the normal in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less operating cycle of interest and other costs that an entity costs to sell and its value in use and is ´´Held primarily for the purpose of trading incurs in connection with the borrowing determined for an individual asset, unless ´´Expected to be realised within 12 months of funds. Capitalisation of borrowing costs the asset does not generate cash inflows after the reporting period ceases when substantially all the activities that are largely independent of those from or necessary to prepare the qualifying assets other assets or groups of assets. Where for its intended use are completed. the carrying amount of an asset or CGU ´´Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is from being exchanged or used to settle considered impaired and is written down to a liability for at least 12 months after the 2.8.4 Foreign currency transactions its recoverable amount. reporting period. Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are In assessing value in use, the estimated All other assets are classified as non-current. translated into the respective functional future cash flows are discounted to their currencies of Group companies at the present value using a pre-tax discount rate A liability is current when: exchange rates at the dates of the that reflects current market assessments ´´It is expected to be settled in the normal transactions. of the time value of money and the risks operating cycle specific to the asset. In determining fair ´´It is held primarily for the purpose of Monetary assets and liabilities value less costs to sell, recent market trading denominated in foreign currencies are transactions are taken into account, if retranslated into the functional currencies available. If no such transactions can be ´´It is due to be settled within 12 months at the exchange rate at the reporting date. identified, an appropriate valuation model after the reporting period is used. These calculations are corroborated Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are or by valuation multiples, quoted share prices measured at fair value in foreign currency ´´There is no unconditional right to defer are translated into the functional currency for publicly traded subsidiaries or other the settlement of the liability for at least at the exchange rate when fair value was available fair value indicators. 12 months after the reporting period. determined. Non-monitory items that are measured based on historical cost in Impairment losses are recognised in The Group classifies all other liabilities as a foreign currency are translated at the the Statement of Profit or Loss in those non-current. Deferred tax liabilities are exchange rate at the date of the transaction. expense categories consistent with the classified as non-current liabilities. Foreign currency differences are generally function of the impaired asset, except recognised in profit or loss. for a property previously revalued where the revaluation was taken to other comprehensive income. In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation. 206 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements For assets excluding goodwill, an 2.9 Changes in accounting policies The Group applied SLFRS 16 using the assessment is made at each reporting and disclosures modified retrospective approach, under date as to whether there is any indication which the cumulative effect of initial New and amended standards and that previously recognised impairment application is recognised in retained interpretations losses may no longer exist or may have earnings at 1 April 2019. Accordingly, the decreased. If such indication exists, The Group applied SLFRS 16 – “Leases”, comparative information presented for the Company estimates the asset’s or which is effective for the annual reporting 2019 is not restated – i.e. it is presented, cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount. periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 as previously reported, under LKAS 17 A previously recognised impairment loss is and IFRIC 23 – “Uncertainty over Income and related interpretations. The details reversed only if there has been a change Tax Treatments” from 1 April 2019 for the of the changes in accounting policies are in the assumptions used to determine first time. The nature and effect of the disclosed below. Additionally, the disclosure the asset’s recoverable amount since the changes as a result of adoption of this new requirements in SLFRS 16 have not generally last impairment loss was recognised. The accounting standard is described below. been applied to comparative information. reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed Several other amendments and The Group applied SLFRS 16 only to its recoverable amount, nor exceed the interpretations apply for the first time in contracts that were previously identified as carrying amount that would have been 2019, but do not have an impact on the leases. Contracts that were not identified determined, net of depreciation, had no Consolidated Financial Statements of the as leases under LKAS 17 and IFRIC 4 were impairment loss been recognised for Group. The Group has not early adopted not reassessed for whether there is a lease the asset in prior years. Such reversal any standards, interpretations or under SLFRS 16. Therefore, the definition is recognised in the Statement of Profit amendments that have been issued of a lease under SLFRS 16 was applied only or Loss unless the asset is carried at a but are not yet effective. to contracts entered into or changed on or revalued amount, in which case the reversal after 1 April 2019. is treated as a revaluation increase. 2.9.1 SLFRS 16 – “Leases” Previously, the Group classified property SLFRS 16 supersedes LKAS 17 – “Leases”, leases as operating leases under LKAS 17. On 2.8.6 Statement of cash flows IFRIC 4 – “Determining whether an transition, for these leases, lease liabilities The Statement of Cash Flow has been Arrangement Contains a Lease”, SIC-15 were measured at the present value of prepared using the “ indirect method” in Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 the remaining lease payments, discounted accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Evaluating the Substance of Transactions at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate Standard – LKAS 7 “Statement of Cash Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. The as at 1 April 2019. Right-of-use assets are Flows”. Cash and cash equivalent comprise standard sets out the principles for the measured at their carrying amount as cash in hand, cash at bank and short term recognition, measurement, presentation, if SLFRS 16 had been applied since the investments that are readily convertible to and disclosure of leases and requires commencement date, discounted using known amounts of cash and subject to an lessees to recognise most leases on the the Group’s incremental borrowing rate insignificant risk of change in value. Statement of Financial Position. at the date of initial application: the Group applied this approach to its Interest received and dividends received Lessor accounting under SLFRS 16 is largest property lease. are classified as investing cash flows, while substantially unchanged from LKAS 17. dividend paid is classified as financing cash Lessors will continue to classify leases as flows and interest paid is classified under either operating or finance leases using the operating cash flows for the purpose of similar principles as in LKAS 17. Therefore, presentation of Statement of Cash Flows. SLFRS 16 does not have an impact for leases where the Group is the lessor. Cash and cash equivalent includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form on integral part of the Group's cash management. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 207 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The Group used a number of practical expedients when applying SLFRS 16 to leases participants are capable of replacing previously classified as operating leases under LKAS 17. In particular, the Group: any missing elements, add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired ´´did not recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases for which the process is substantive, narrow the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application; definition of a business and of outputs, ´´did not recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases of low value assets and introduce an optional fair value (e.g. IT equipment); concentration test. The amendments ´´excluded initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at are applied prospectively for the annual the date of initial application; and periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020 with early application permitted. ´´used hindsight when determining the lease term. The Group is assessing the potential The following table summarised the impact of transition of SLRFS 16 as at 1 April 2019: impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of Group Company amendments to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – SLFRS 3. This amendment Right-of-use assets 151,557,532 81,891,106 is not expected to have a significant Lease liabilities 151,523,212 84,057,809 impact on the financial statements of Retained earnings – (2,166,703) the Group. Non-controlling interests (184,140) – ´´Amendments to LKAS 1 and LKAS 8: Definition of Material – The 2.9.2 IFRIC 23 – “Uncertainty over new information that affect those amendments LKAS 1 – “Presentation Income Tax Treatments” judgements. However, the application of Financial Statements” and of IFRIC 23 did not have an impact on LKAS 8 – “Accounting policies, Changes The Group applied IFRIC 23 – “Uncertainty 1 April 2019, to the Group and Company. in accounting Estimates and Errors” align over Income Tax Treatments” retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially the definition of “material” across the applying the interpretation being adjusted 3. NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS standard and clarify certain aspects of to the opening balance of retained earning. ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE AS AT the definition. The new definition states THE REPORTING DATE that, “ information is material if omitting Due to the transition method chosen by or obscuring it could reasonably be Following amendments to Sri Lanka expected to influence decisions that the Group in applying this interpretation, Accounting Standards issued not yet the primary users of general purpose comparative information throughout effective as at the reporting date have financial statements make on the these financial statements have not not been applied in preparing the basis of those financial statements, been restated. Consolidated Financial Statements. The which provide financial information Group plans to apply these amendments about a specific reporting entity. The The interpretation is to be applied to the to the standards from their effective dates. amendments are applied prospectively determination of taxable profit (tax loss), A summary of the requirements stipulated for the annual periods beginning tax bases, unused tax losses, unused by the amendments and their possible on or after 1 January 2020 with early tax credits and tax rates, when there is impact on financial statements, when application permitted. uncertainty over income tax treatments implemented, is presented in below: under LKAS 12. It does not apply to taxes The Group is assessing the potential or levies outside the scope of LKAS 12 nor ´´Amendments to SLFRS 3: Definition of impact on its financial statements does it specifically include requirements a Business – The amendments to the resulting from the application of relating to interest and penalties associated definition of a business in SLFRS 3 – amendments to LKAS 1 and LKAS 8. with uncertain tax treatments. “Business Combinations” have been This amendment is not expected to made to help the entities determine have a significant impact on the The Group has applied significant whether an acquired set of activities financial statements of the Group. judgements and estimates to recognise and assets is a business or not. These and measure the effect of uncertain tax amendments clarify the minimum treatments are reassessed whenever requirements for a business, remove circumstances change or when there is the assessment of whether market 208 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION Accounting policy Segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing related products or services (business segment), or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment (Geographical Segment), which is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the segments. The Group’s Primary Format for segmental reporting is based on Business Segments. The business segments are determined based on the Group’s Management and internal reporting structure. The activities of the Group are located mainly in Sri Lanka. Consequently, the economic environment in which the Group operated is not subject to risks and rewards that are significantly different on a geographical basis. Hence disclosure by geographical region is not provided. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm's length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements. As such for Management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has four operating business segments as follows: Business segment Operations Construction Process of constructing buildings and other infrastructures. Construction-related Production and supply of construction related material such as asphalt product, quarry products, crusher products, materials ready-mix concrete and other construction material. Property Development of high rise buildings and manage the same or otherwise leasing, renting out or sale in whole or in part. Automobile Importing and distribution or sale of three branded motor vehicles, spare parts and operates of work shops. 4.1 Business segment For the year ended 31 March 2020 Construction ConstructionProperty Automobile Adjustments and Group total related material eliminations LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue External customers 15,962,176,290 3,049,209,361 821,279,100 4,193,859,867 – 24,026,524,618 Inter-segment 699,343,963 1,665,698,544 79,181,624 2,100,572 (2,446,324,703) – Total revenue 16,661,520,253 4,714,907,905 900,460,724 4,195,960,439 (2,446,324,703) 24,026,524,618 Segment operating profit 2,552,723,468 368,297,285 517,335,942 194,740,221 (1,305,786,314) 2,327,310,602 Net finance income/(cost) (343,308,294) – 84,591,797 (336,845,213) 23,942,095 (571,619,615) Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax (Note 16.2 ) – – – – (8,610,025) (8,610,025) Income tax expense (297,200,640) (99,459,281) (313,417,372) 62,193,628 – (647,883,665) IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over income tax treatments – (171,622,194) – – – (171,622,194) Segment profit 1,912,214,534 97,215,810 288,510,367 (79,911,364) (1,290,454,244) 927,575,103 Capital expenditure 196,547,769 126,134,504 637,255,483 198,353,864 (67,391,546) 1,090,900,074 Depreciation and amortisation 697,524,972 159,724,225 48,373,348 127,086,824 15,817,503 1,048,526,872 As at 31 March 2020 Segment assets 36,543,359,658 1,957,822,424 19,424,724,742 6,547,237,417 (14,394,797,058) 50,078,347,183 Segment liabilities 16,717,442,852 824,067,995 4,917,319,466 4,376,220,888 (1,143,798,462) 25,691,252,739 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 209 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2019 Construction ConstructionProperty Automobile Adjustments and Group total related material eliminations LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue External customers 17,656,309,121 3,049,723,377 772,864,116 10,798,544,580 – 32,277,441,194 Inter-segment 478,188,355 1,390,177,802 73,501,364 327,215,398 (2,269,082,919) – Total revenue 18,134,497,476 4,439,901,179 846,365,480 11,125,759,978 (2,269,082,919) 32,277,441,194 Segment operating profit 2,711,897,839 463,324,067 570,098,166 594,583,985 (560,194,611) 3,779,709,446 Net finance income/(cost) (532,113,632) – 180,064,841 (298,841,177) – (650,889,968) Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax (Note 16.2) – – – – (273,936) (273,936) Income tax expense (389,859,053) (193,204,237) (172,410,277) (119,484,842) (8,230,131) (883,188,540) Segment profit 1,789,925,154 270,119,830 577,752,730 176,257,966 (568,698,678) 2,245,357,002 Capital expenditure 716,087,352 17,065,290 187,716,633 427,157,654 (39,509,005) 1,308,517,924 Depreciation and amortisation 758,404,816 156,344,265 41,691,596 137,740,526 17,439,125 1,111,620,328 As at 31 March 2019 Segment assets 34,608,139,636 1,843,581,942 17,873,371,580 7,013,712,416 (13,276,742,070) 48,062,063,504 Segment liabilities 16,290,063,874 787,983,121 3,237,135,553 4,966,109,943 (807,307,605) 24,473,984,886 In addition to segment results, income tax expense has been allocated to other segments for better presentation. NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION. 5. REVENUE Accounting policy Revenue represents the amounts derived from the construction contracts, sale of goods and provision of services, which fall within the Group’s ordinary activities net of trade discounts and turnover-related taxes. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Timing of transferring the goods and services to the customer is determined based on judgments taking into the consideration of the nature of the goods and services that offers to the customers. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue: Construction contracts Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation agreed in the contract. At contract inception, the Group determines whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. For each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. The progress is assessed based on surveys of work performed. When the outcome of construction contract can not be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 210 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Sale of goods The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, on delivery of the goods. Sales are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties (e.g. Sales taxes) and variable consideration (e.g. discounts and rebates). Rendering of services Revenue from rendering of services is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss when each performance obligations are satisfied by transferring promised service to the customer. Rental income Rental income arising from operating lease on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term and incurred in revenue in the Statement of Profit or Loss due to its operating nature. 5.1 Revenue Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Roads and highways construction 3,746,371,567 7,714,437,252 3,746,371,567 7,714,437,252 Water and drainage construction 2,270,224,503 1,943,306,411 2,270,224,503 1,943,306,411 Bridge construction 15,577,062 313,975,166 15,577,062 313,975,166 Building and other construction 9,877,304,916 7,688,431,841 8,662,520,093 6,280,505,777 Sale of construction-related material 2,998,653,271 2,928,948,071 3,117,901,506 2,967,881,616 Hiring income 69,026,342 104,194,304 69,341,907 111,559,900 Fabrication income 34,227,990 12,739,453 34,227,990 12,739,453 Design income – – 875,000 11,700,000 Vehicle sales and after sales services 4,193,859,867 10,798,544,580 – – Rental income 820,879,620 772,065,156 – – Service charges 399,480 798,960 – – 24,026,524,618 32,277,441,194 17,917,039,628 19,356,105,575 5.2 Contract balances Contract assets Contract assets are entity's right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer, when that right is conditioned on some criteria other than the passage of time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables. The contract assets primarily relate to the Group's right to consideration for work completed but not billed at the reporting date. Contract liability The contract liabilities are entity's obligation to transfer goods and services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from customers for goods or services provided, for which revenue is recognised over the time. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 211 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 6. OTHER INCOME Accounting policy Income earned in other sources, which are not directly related to the ordinary course of business are recognised as other income. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising income. Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment The gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment at the time of disposal and the proceeds from disposal net of expenses incurred in disposal. Dividends Dividends income is recognised when the Group’s/Company's right to receive the payment is established. 6.1 Other income Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Dividend income 1,123,761 1,340,836 862,789,874 332,979,009 Rent income 5,784,428 8,516,397 17,519,955 17,808,107 Loss on fair value changes in short-term investments (9,447,660) (9,791,387) (9,447,660) (9,791,387) Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 36,460,854 62,587,664 24,851,149 40,038,992 Foreign exchange gain 80,738,920 102,097,953 50,707,878 72,554,983 Sundry income 175,611,705 79,791,131 35,707,068 54,216,470 Restaurant and membership income 247,308,056 236,776,201 – – Gain/(Loss) on disposal of subsidiary (5,527,503) (5,977,460) 185,000,000 140,010,000 Gain on maturity of unit trust 2,892,766 – 2,892,766 – Gain on disposal of equity-accounted investees – 6,427,534 – – Gain on fair value changes of investment property 13.1 64,207,200 – 144,207,200 – 599,152,527 481,768,869 1,314,228,230 647,816,174 7. NET FINANCE INCOME/(COST) Accounting policy Interest income Interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR) method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instruments or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. Interest income is included in net finance income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. 212 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 7.1 Net finance income/(cost) Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Finance income Interest income on fixed deposits 116,731,488 177,435,834 69,826,964 35,328,834 Interest income on repurchase agreements 27,997,150 17,610,244 27,900,721 403,846 Interest income on debenture 140,151,604 158,371,447 98,129,757 100,087,412 Other interest income 74,500,710 40,365,952 19,975,263 18,620,849 Interest income on related party loan – – 1,142,603 – 359,380,952 393,783,477 216,975,308 154,440,941 Interest income on retention receivable 120,187,806 109,521,475 88,688,359 73,574,088 Interest income on staff loans 8,446,374 5,599,330 8,446,374 5,599,330 Interest income on contract liability 355,464,604 360,401,624 355,464,604 360,401,624 Total finance income 843,479,736 869,305,906 669,574,645 594,015,983 Finance cost Interest on finance leases (17,053,965) (1,201,143) (7,120,617) – Interest on bank overdraft (69,418,092) (92,658,929) (749,410) (236,983) Interest on debenture (495,992,072) (494,636,902) (513,910,060) (512,505,934) Interest on bank loan (440,195,377) (482,929,335) (91,777,276) (150,948,624) Interest expense on related party loan – – (616,438) (2,450,959) (1,022,659,506) (1,071,426,309) (614,173,801) (666,142,500) Unwinding of prepaid retention receivable expenses (120,187,806) (109,521,475) (88,688,359) (73,574,088) Unwinding of prepaid staff loan expenses (8,446,374) (5,599,330) (8,446,374) (5,599,330) Unwinding of significant financing component (263,805,665) (333,648,760) (263,805,665) (333,648,760) Total finance cost (1,415,099,351) (1,520,195,874) (975,114,199) (1,078,964,678) Net finance cost (571,619,615) (650,889,968) (305,539,554) (484,948,695) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 213 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 8. PROFIT BEFORE TAX Accounting policy Expenditure recognition Expenses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on the basis of a direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of efficiency has been charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss. For the purpose of presentation of Statement of Profit or Loss, the Directors are of the opinion that “function of expenses” method presents fairly the elements of the enterprise's performance; hence such presentation method is adopted. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including following: Auditors’ remuneration – Statutory audit and related services 7,407,786 7,414,500 2,851,000 2,851,000 Auditors’ remuneration – Non-audit services 1,721,618 2,416,193 1,358,618 804,165 Loss on fair value changes in short-term investments 9,447,660 9,791,387 9,447,660 9,791,387 Write-off/provision for/(reversal of ) of trade receivables 95,171,198 30,148,714 (1,893,950) 17,282,129 Provision for/(reversal of ) of retention receivables 4,286,940 2,290,362 1,615,474 (5,150,881) Provision for/(reversal of ) write-off of inventories (15,168,293) 38,427,068 2,938,403 10,317,091 Donations 2,939,092 1,668,400 876,378 1,596,286 Staff expenses 3,422,397,805 3,144,410,693 2,447,430,748 2,520,799,347 CSR expense 16,903,390 13,504,671 16,443,795 12,563,806 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.1/11.2 1,029,071,381 1,077,028,529 813,980,582 873,104,852 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14.1 19,455,491 34,591,799 9,812,450 9,169,035 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 12.1 37,755,948 – 56,082,789 – Loss on asset write-off 1,217,636 – 1,217,636 – Staff expenses Defined benefit plan costs – Gratuity 27.1 70,570,126 64,266,599 48,850,715 46,824,048 Defined contribution plan costs – EPF 159,419,156 140,721,208 100,748,906 98,723,499 Defined contribution plan costs – ETF 34,563,080 35,180,300 25,187,228 24,680,873 Directors’ emoluments and fees 29.6 80,989,500 77,550,367 46,746,500 44,445,500 Staff cost 2,984,524,871 2,691,980,233 2,147,565,464 2,180,228,531 Performance incentives 92,331,072 134,711,986 78,331,935 125,896,896 3,422,397,805 3,144,410,693 2,447,430,748 2,520,799,347 Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Number of employees 3,216 3,047 2,583 2,458 214 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 9. INCOME TAX Accounting policy Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI. Current tax Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any tax arising from dividends. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met. Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the statement of profit or loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. IFRIC 23 – “uncertainty over income tax treatments” IFRIC 23 – “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” was applicable to financial years commencing from 01 April 2019 and the Group adopted the above interpretation during the year under review. This IFRIC 23 provides guidance on determining taxable profits, tax bases, unused tax credits and tax rates when there is an uncertainty over the income tax treatment. Upon the adoption of the interpretation, the Group recognised LKR 172 Mn. on the income tax expense for the year. Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for: ´´temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; ´´temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and ´´taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Future taxable profits are determined based on the reversal of relevant taxable temporary differences. If the amount of taxable temporary differences is insufficient to recognise a deferred tax asset in full, then future taxable profits, adjusted for reversal of existing temporary differences, are considered, based on the business plans for individual subsidiaries in the Group. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 215 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. For this purpose, the carrying amount of investment property measured at fair value is presumed to be recovered through sale, and the Group has not rebutted this presumption. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. The Group offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. Significant judgements relating to deferred taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits, together with future tax planning strategies. Transfer pricing As prescribed in Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and gazette notification on transfer pricing Group and Company have complied with the arm's length principles relating to transfer pricing. 9.1 The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2020 and 2019 are: Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Consolidated statement of profit or loss Current income tax: Current income tax charge 9.2 446,442,480 757,966,350 432,640,981 640,686,224 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year 9.3 15,201,775 44,978,082 19,914,517 11,431,203 IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 9.3 171,622,194 – 171,622,194 – Deferred tax: Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.4 186,239,410 80,244,108 (55,895,577) (69,054,137) Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss 819,505,859 883,188,540 568,282,115 583,063,290 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during in the year: Net loss/(gain) on actuarial gains and losses (12,288,956) 4,608,927 (13,289,155) 4,325,309 Net gain on revaluation of land and buildings 19,959,368 – 19,959,368 – Deferred tax charged to other comprehensive income 9.4 7,670,412 4,608,927 6,670,213 4,325,309 216 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 9.2 Reconciliation between accounting profit and current tax expense Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Accounting profit before tax 1,747,080,962 3,128,545,542 2,495,376,711 2,544,658,406 Aggregate non-deductible expenses 1,391,619,724 1,588,023,198 313,473,324 615,664,714 Aggregate allowable items (320,859,467) (1,359,212,945) (179,856,023) (539,179,026) Current year tax losses not utilised 150,995,815 – – – Tax losses set-off against the current taxable income – (62,601,718) – – Total statutory income 2,968,837,034 3,294,754,077 2,628,994,012 2,621,144,094 Exempted income (889,492,868) (368,959,193) (862,789,873) (332,979,009) Taxable income 2,079,344,166 2,925,794,884 1,766,204,139 2,288,165,085 Taxable income at 2% 283,117,996 267,255,189 – – Taxable income at 14% 441,362,860 – 441,362,860 – Taxable income at 24% 6,675,749 – – – Taxable income at 28% 1,347,434,863 2,658,539,695 1,324,088,581 2,288,165,085 Dividend tax at 14% 752,698 – 752,698 – 2,079,344,166 2,925,794,884 1,766,204,139 2,288,165,085 Tax at 2% 5,662,360 5,345,104 – – Tax at 14% 61,790,800 – 61,790,800 – Tax at 24% 1,602,180 – – – Tax at 28% 377,281,762 744,391,115 370,744,803 640,686,224 Dividend tax at 14% 105,378 8,230,131 105,378 – Current income tax charge 446,442,480 757,966,350 432,640,981 640,686,224 9.3 Current tax liabilities/(assets) Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 369,085,405 22,151,620 411,867,608 (60,699,819) Disposal of subsidiary 4,905 (345,173) – – Provision made during the year 446,442,480 757,966,350 432,640,981 640,686,224 IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 171,622,194 – 171,622,194 – Adjustment for the prior year 15,201,775 44,978,082 19,914,517 11,431,203 Payments made during the year (834,443,968) (338,370,025) (815,456,331) (167,987,537) WHT recoverable (41,060,280) (117,295,449) (10,188,919) (11,562,463) Balance at the end of the year 126,852,511 369,085,405 210,400,050 411,867,608 Made up as follows Current tax assets (95,204,109) (55,203,106) – – Current tax liabilities 222,056,620 424,288,511 210,400,050 411,867,608 126,852,511 369,085,405 210,400,050 411,867,608 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 217 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 9.4 Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 2,165,728,615 2,145,470,679 519,040,038 590,652,004 Disposal of subsidiary – (56,795,760) – – Expense for the year recognised in profit or loss 186,239,410 80,244,108 (55,895,577) (69,054,137) Expense for the year recognised in OCI 7,670,412 4,608,927 6,670,213 4,325,309 Adjustment for expected credit loss – recognised in equity – (7,799,339) – (6,883,138) Balance at the end of the year 2,359,638,437 2,165,728,615 469,814,674 519,040,038 Made up as Follows Deferred tax assets (33,901,427) – – – Deferred tax liabilities 2,393,539,864 2,165,728,615 469,814,674 519,040,038 2,359,638,437 2,165,728,615 469,814,674 519,040,038 9.5 Deferred tax provision as at the year end is made up as follows: As at 31 March 2020 2019 Temporary Tax effect on Temporary Tax effect on difference temporary difference temporary difference difference LKR LKR LKR LKR Group Accelerate depreciation for tax purpose 1,749,247,403 489,789,273 2,079,912,540 582,375,511 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 7,186,002,480 2,012,080,694 6,020,088,239 1,685,624,705 Revaluation of investment land to fair value 416,606,700 41,660,670 – – Leasehold land and buildings (right-of-use assets) 8,108,872 2,270,485 – – Provision for impairment of trade receivables (116,632,270) (32,657,036) (117,196,717) (32,815,081) Provision for inventories (12,525,003) (3,507,001) (8,933,871) (2,501,484) Defined benefit obligation (329,645,738) (92,300,806) (239,125,131) (66,955,036) Lease Liability (37,875,468) (10,605,131) – – Tax loss set-off (168,188,255) (47,092,711) – – 8,695,098,721 2,359,638,437 7,734,745,060 2,165,728,615 Company Accelerate depreciation for tax purpose 1,616,798,561 452,703,597 1,929,926,322 540,379,370 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 301,575,164 84,441,046 230,291,707 64,481,678 Revaluation of investment land to fair value 416,606,700 41,660,670 – – Leasehold buildings (right-of-use assets) 25,808,317 7,226,329 – – Provision for impairment of trade receivables (108,759,238) (30,452,587) (113,051,056) (31,654,296) Defined benefit obligation (278,609,201) (78,010,576) (193,452,552) (54,166,714) Lease Liability (27,692,165) (7,753,805) – – 1,945,728,138 469,814,674 1,853,714,421 519,040,038 218 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Recoverability of temporary difference arising from losses Deferred tax assets can only be recognised to the extent it is probable there will be future taxable profits. Subsequent to the reporting date, the Group has reviewed the current impact of COVID-19 on these future taxable profits and concluded that deferred tax assets can continue to be recognised in full. 9.6 Applicable rates of income tax Company Income tax provision for the Company is calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and the notice issued by the Department of Inland Revenue, the instructions of the Ministry of Finance on 12 February 2020 (No. PN/IT/2020-03) “Implementation of proposed changes to the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017” and further amended by the notice dated on 8 April 2020, No. PN/IT/2020-03 (Revised) issued by the Department. As per the instructions issued by Department of Inland Revenue dated 6 May 2020, notice No. PN/IT/2020-06 “Computation of Income Tax Payable and Payments for the Year of Assessment 2019/20”, taxable income computed for the full year needs to be apportioned over the two periods by applying the pro rata basis based on the time (9 months and 3 months) and the relevant tax rates for two periods should be applied. Company has computed the current tax based on the above instructions and remitted the tax payments on the same basis. The Company has adopted above on the basis that said amendments to the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 would be made in near future. In terms of above the income tax provisions of companies have been calculated on their profit at the standard rate of 28% up to 31 December 2019 and 14% thereafter. Though the legislative process relating to the amendments to laws needs to be completed in order for the tax rate to be considered as substantively enacted as at the reporting date, the difference between computing the current tax liability using the proposed rate of 14% and the existing rate of 28%, which have an immaterial impact on the results. Deferred tax for the year has been computed on the enacted rate (28%) as per Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017, since the proposed rates (14%) or (24%), have not been substantially enacted. Impact of proposed tax rates changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities Group Company As at 31 March LKR LKR Deferred tax rate at 28% Deferred tax expense/(income) – Recognised in income statement 186,239,410 (55,895,576) – Recognised in other comprehensive income 7,670,412 6,670,213 Deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 193,909,822 (49,225,363) Deferred tax rate at 24% and 14% Deferred tax expense/(income) – Recognised in income statement (274,036,385) (234,396,633) – Recognised in other comprehensive income (16,737,195) (28,905,733) Deferred tax assets (290,773,580) (263,302,366) Total Impact Deferred tax expense/(income) – Recognised in income statement (460,275,795) (178,501,057) – Recognised in other comprehensive income (24,407,607) (35,575,945) Deferred tax assets (484,683,402) (214,077,002) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 219 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Subsidiaries Access Realties (Private) Limited As per the agreement entered in to with the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka, under Section 17 of the BOI Act No. 04 of 1978, the Company is exempted from Income Tax for the period of seven (07) years from the year of assessment in which the enterprise commences to make profit in relation to the transaction in that year or any year of assessment not later than five (05) years reckoned from the date of its operations whichever year is earlier. Accordingly, the seven (07) years income tax exemption period has commenced on 1 April 2003. In accordance with the agreement entered in to with the BOI of Sri Lanka the Company is liable for Income Tax at 2% on its revenue for next fifteen (15) years immediately following the Seven (07) years tax exemption period. On that basis, the revenue arising from the business shall be taxed at 2% during the concessionary period covering 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2025. Other income of the Company is taxable at 28%. As Per the provision of new Inland revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company has recognised deferred Tax liability on business assets (land and building) at 28% (LKR 1,039,486,177/-) because the management is under the impression that the asset will not be disposed prior to the expiration of BOI concessionary rate period. Deferred tax on other assets (apart from land and buildings) has not been recognised on the basis that reversal of temporary differences will take place within the BOI concessionary rate period. Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited As per the Agreement entered into with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under Section 17 (A) of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 8 of 2012, the Company shall qualify for a tax exemption period of twelve (12) years subject to the condition that over of LKR 2,500 Mn. is made in the project within a period of three (3) years from the date of 4 April 2013. Further insertion of new section under 48 D of Inland Revenue (amendment) Act No. 9 to 2015, if the approval of Board of Investment was granted prior to 31 October 2014 and the Company which invested in such undertaking is unable to complete the required investment prior to 01 April 2015 and to commence commercial operations prior to 1 April 2016 due to practical reasons depending on the nature of the business, such period shall be extended up to 1 April 2018. The aforesaid tax exemption period shall be reckoned from the year in which the enterprise commences to make profits or any year of assessment not later than two (02) years reckoned from the date of commencement of commercial operations whichever year is earlier as determined by Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. Accordingly, the profit arising from the business us exempt from income tax for the period covering 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2029. Other income of the Company is taxable at 28%. As Per the provision of new Inland revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company has recognised deferred tax liability on business assets (Building) at 28% (LKR 840,465,160/-), because the management is under the impression that the asset will not be disposed prior to the expiration of BOI concessionary rate period. Deferred tax on other assets (apart from buildings) has not been recognised on the basis that reversal of temporary differences will take place within the BOI concessionary rate period. ARL Elevate (Private) Limited In accordance with the provision in the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at 28%. Deferred tax asset has not been recognised in the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2020 because the Board of Directors of ARL Elevate (Private) Limited is of the opinion that the deferred tax asset would not be crystallised in the foreseeable future. Sathosa Motors PLC and its Subsidiary In accordance with the provision in the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company and subsidiary are liable for income tax at 28% . Sathosa Motors PLC has recognised LKR 66.1 Mn. as a deferred tax asset on the deductible temporary differences arising from tax losses, defined benefit obligations, obsolete stocks, debtor impairment and right of use assets. Access Projects (Private) Limited Under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at the rate of 28% on its taxable profit. Deferred tax rate is 28%. Deferred Tax Asset amounting to LKR 118,238,846/has not been recognised for the deductible temporary differences as the management is of the opinion that the reversal of the taxable asset will not be crystallised in the foreseeable future. (as at 31 March 2019 – LKR 142,615,596/-). 220 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Harbour Village (Private) Limited The Company has entered into an agreement with BOI for ten (10) years tax holiday period during the year ended 31 March 2017, and the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 relating to the imposition, payment and recovery of income tax in respect of the profits and income of the enterprise shall not apply to the profits and income of the enterprise for the year ended 31 March 2020. For the above purpose the year of assessment shall be commencing from the year of assessment in which the enterprise commences to make a profit or any year of assessment not later than two years reckoned from the date of commencement of commercial operations or production whichever is earlier. In accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at 28%. Deferred tax rate is 28%. The Company has made provisions on the deferred tax liability for the revaluation of business asset (land) and the temporary differences arising on employee benefits. Deferred tax asset amounting to LKR 39,069,623/(2019 – Nil) has not been recognised for deductible temporary difference as the management is of the opinion that the reversal of taxable asset will not be crystallised in the BOI exemption period. WUS Logistics (Private) Limited In accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for Income Tax at 28% on its taxable profit. Deferred tax rate is 28%. Provision for tax assessments Company – Income Tax Assessment received for years of assessment 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16 and 2016/17 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment on income tax for the years of assessment 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16 and 2016/17, assessing the tax exemption claimed under section 17A (2) (C) and qualifying payment claimed under section 34 (2) (s) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 for same investment, to pay Income tax LKR 890,897,683/plus penalty of LKR 441,077,492/-. The company has filed valid appeal against these assessments. Determination for the assessment 2015/16 has been received and Inland Revenue Department allowed claim under the section 17 A. Company has made necessary provisions for these assessments during the financial year 2019/20. Sathosa Motors PLC – Tax Assessments 2009/10 and 2010/11 Revenue authorities are of the view 2/3rd disallowance is applicable for NBT paid on imports. However the Company is claiming the position that 2/3rd disallowance is applicable for NBT paid quarterly only. The Company has been issued an assessment for Nation Building Tax for the year of assessment 2009/10 for sum of LKR 7,350,762/and LKR 3,675,381/as penalty thereon. The Company submitted an appeal against the above assessment and leave has been refused to pursue the case and as such, there is no pending litigation. The Company has been issued an assessment for Nation Building Tax for the year of assessment 2010/11 for sum of LKR 7,790,377/and LKR 3,895,189/as penalty thereon. The Company submitted an appeal against the above assessments and instructions have been given by the Company to withdraw the case. The company’s legal professionals are of the opinion that the Company will not be able to defend against the these cases, therefore the Company has made a provision in full for these assessments during the financial year ended 31 March 2019. 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE Accounting policy Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Access Engineering PLC by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (LKR) 979,247,287 2,150,223,368 1,927,094,596 1,961,595,116 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Basic earnings per share (LKR) 0.98 2.15 1.93 1.96 During the year the Company has not issued ordinary shares and no dilution of earnings per share. There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 221 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 11. PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are tangible items that are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for administrative purpose and are expected to be used during more than one period. The Group applies the requirements of LKAS 16 in accounting of property, plant and equipment. Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Items of property, plant and equipment including construction in progress are stated at cost/revaluation less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Owned assets An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition as an asset is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and subsequent cost. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the working condition for its intended use. This also includes the cost of dismantling and removing the items and restoring in the site on which they are located and borrowing costs on qualifying assets. Property, plant and equipment transferred from customers are initially measured at fair value at the date on which control is obtained. Purchased software that is integrated to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of equipment. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted as separate items (major component) of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets Leases of property, plant and equipment that transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are measured initially at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. Subsequent costs The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Company and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of day-to-day repair and maintenance are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as incurred. The carrying value of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Derecognition An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. Gains are not classified as revenue. 222 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Revaluation A revaluation surplus is recorded in other comprehensive income and credited to the asset revaluation surplus in equity. However, to the extent that it reverses a revaluation deficit of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss, in which case the increase is recognised in profit and loss. A revaluation deficit is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the asset revaluation surplus. Upon disposal, any revaluation surplus relating to the particular asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings. Revaluation is performed on freehold land and building by professionally qualified valuers using the open market value at least once in every three years or when there is a substantial difference between the fair value and the carrying amount, to ensure that the fair value does not differ materially from its carrying amount. Depreciation Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of item of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use whereas depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) and the date that the asset is derecognised. Depreciation is not charged on freehold land and capital work in progress. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Asset category Useful life Freehold building 10-50 years Leasehold building 8-9 years Plant and machinery 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4-8 years Lease hold – Motor vehicles 4 years Office equipment 3-12 years Furniture and fittings 3-13 years Tools 3-10 years Other construction equipment 5 years The residual value, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. Capital work in progress Capital expenses incurred during the year which are not completed as at the reporting date are shown as capital work in progress, whilst the capital assets which have been completed during the year and available to use have been transferred to property, plant and equipment. Reclassification to investment property When the use of a property changes from owner-occupied to investment property, the property is remeasured to fair value and reclassified accordingly. Any gain arising on this remeasurement is recognised in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a previous impairment loss on the specific property, with any remaining gain recognised in OCI and presented in the revaluation reserve. Any loss is recognised in profit or loss. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 223 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Reconciliation of beginning and ending balances by classes of assets 11.1 Group Freehold Land Building Plant and Motor Office Furniture and machinery vehicles equipment fittings LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2018 1,466,429,451 600,404,566 4,905,826,179 844,133,333 436,857,354 335,668,379 Additions – 36,018,320 253,231,115 443,977,674 34,876,309 34,701,620 Transfers – 1,260,000 10,114,734 6,353,214 – (1,753,171) Disposals/derecognition – – (86,547,918) (83,070,384) (1,052,501) (1,387,560) Disposal of subsidiary (765,000,000) – – – (158,800) – Balance at 31 March 2019 701,429,451 637,682,886 5,082,624,110 1,211,393,837 470,522,362 367,229,268 Additions 3,374,000 33,163,734 209,208,188 76,763,177 71,987,171 29,682,606 Transfers – – – – – – Disposals/derecognition – (34,634,545) (4,574,297) (120,399,907) (3,534,582) (418,346) Revaluation adjustment 187,925,759 42,424,298 – – – – Balance at 31 March 2020 892,729,210 678,636,373 5,287,258,001 1,167,757,107 538,974,951 396,493,528 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses Balance at 1 April 2018 – 91,772,803 2,483,239,079 564,366,823 327,956,911 168,548,330 Depreciation charge for the year – 27,700,714 562,697,534 120,384,565 55,622,535 41,156,148 Transfers – – 5,351,073 4,157,241 – (177,419) Disposals/derecognition – – (74,106,203) (60,761,417) (944,518) (1,174,185) Balance at 31 March 2019 – 119,473,517 2,977,181,483 628,147,212 382,634,928 208,352,874 Depreciation charge for the year – 31,136,987 543,856,596 127,548,553 54,485,529 42,334,035 Transfers – – – – – – Disposals/derecognition – (34,634,545) (4,479,768) (93,453,491) (1,150,104) (229,603) Balance at 31 March 2020 – 115,975,959 3,516,558,311 662,242,274 435,970,353 250,457,306 Carrying value At 31 March 2020 892,729,210 562,660,414 1,770,699,690 505,514,833 103,004,598 146,036,222 At 31 March 2019 701,429,451 518,209,369 2,105,442,627 583,246,625 87,887,434 158,876,394 Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 2,365 Mn. (2019 – LKR 1,781.30 Mn.) have been fully-depreciated and continue to be in use by the Group. There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2019/20 (2018/19-Nil). Assets under construction Capital work in progress includes, construction cost incurred to construction of Bodyshop at No. 156, Divulapitiya, Raththanapitiya, Boralasgamuwa. 224 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Freehold Leasehold Tools Other Building Motor Capital work in Total construction vehicles progress equipment LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR 826,644,380 444,199,739 457,994,225 24,353,214 117,949,899 10,460,460,719 55,181,193 45,797,268 18,031,622 – 241,373,025 1,163,188,146 (8,361,563) – 26,980,567 (6,353,214) (28,240,567) – (9,793,417) – – (18,000,000) – (199,851,780) – – – – (59,933,583) (825,092,383) 863,670,593 489,997,007 503,006,414 – 271,148,774 10,598,704,702 45,798,702 4,768,487 3,540,255 4,000,000 90,031,817 572,318,137 – – 306,102,921 – (306,102,921) – (1,844,597) (12,215,757) – – (3,652,195) (181,274,226) – – – – – 230,350,057 907,624,698 482,549,737 812,649,590 4,000,000 51,425,475 11,220,098,670 505,587,688 210,659,145 112,829,597 15,407,241 – 4,480,367,617 158,126,367 70,233,096 41,107,570 – – 1,077,028,529 (5,173,654) – – (4,157,241) – – (8,544,344) – – (11,250,000) – (156,780,667) 649,996,057 280,892,241 153,937,167 – – 5,400,615,479 117,398,353 73,819,067 38,358,928 133,333 – 1,029,071,381 – – – – – – (1,578,683) (10,980,655) – – – (146,506,849) 765,815,727 343,730,653 192,296,095 133,333 – 6,283,180,011 141,808,971 138,819,084 620,353,495 3,866,667 51,425,475 4,936,918,659 213,674,536 209,104,766 349,069,247 – 271,148,774 5,198,089,223 Property, plant and equipment pledged as security Property pledged as securities against loans and borrowings are described in Note 26.3. The Group and the Company reviewed the carrying values of property, plant and equipment as at the reporting date especially the potential impact the COVID-19 pandemic could have on the Group's and the Company's assets and determined that no impairment is necessary, after evaluating their business continuity plans and is satisfied the steps taken to safeguard the assets. There were no restrictions existed on the title of the assets of the Group as at the reporting date. There are no temporarily idle assets as at the reporting date. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 225 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 11.2 Company Freehold Land Building Plant and Motor Office Furniture and machinery vehicles equipment fittings LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2018 181,000,000 67,000,000 4,628,243,085 654,305,213 306,483,443 129,671,980 Additions – 30,428,432 193,995,927 369,711,774 15,810,751 2,642,493 Disposals/derecognition – – (82,264,353) (77,302,205) (917,001) (859,929) Balance at 31 March 2019 181,000,000 97,428,432 4,739,974,659 946,714,782 321,377,193 131,454,544 Additions – – 139,195,671 3,673,177 54,514,623 9,180,919 Disposals/derecognition – (25,634,545) (4,443,654) (88,622,073) (1,346,959) (216,487) Revaluation adjustment 55,000,000 23,118,356 – – – – Balance at 31 March 2020 236,000,000 94,912,243 4,874,726,676 861,765,886 374,544,857 140,418,976 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses Balance at 1 April 2018 – 6,718,356 2,343,667,603 453,120,756 243,829,467 110,174,761 Depreciation charge for the year – 7,131,823 524,102,170 82,275,420 36,970,830 9,815,183 Disposals/derecognition – – (71,970,887) (54,993,238) (816,741) (646,554) Balance at 31 March 2019 – 13,850,179 2,795,798,886 480,402,938 279,983,556 119,343,390 Depreciation charge for the year – 11,814,666 495,611,971 88,288,678 33,967,625 8,934,033 Disposals/derecognition – (25,634,545) (4,443,633) (75,727,551) (1,150,104) (171,127) Balance at 31 March 2020 – 30,300 3,286,967,224 492,964,065 312,801,077 128,106,296 Carrying value At 31 March 2020 236,000,000 94,881,943 1,587,759,452 368,801,821 61,743,780 12,312,680 At 31 March 2019 181,000,000 83,578,253 1,944,175,773 466,311,844 41,393,637 12,111,154 Company property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 2,032.10 Mn. (2019 – LKR 1,571.33 Mn.) have been fully-depreciated and continue to be in use by the Company. Property, plant and equipment pledged as security As at reporting date property, plant and equipment have not been pledged by the Company as securities against facilities obtained from banks. 226 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Freehold Tools Other Total construction equipment LKR LKR LKR 724,233,633 444,199,739 7,135,137,093 46,209,673 45,797,268 704,596,318 (9,793,417) – (171,136,905) 760,649,889 489,997,007 7,668,596,506 45,727,752 4,768,487 257,060,629 (1,514,630) (12,215,757) (133,994,105) – – 78,118,356 804,863,011 482,549,737 7,869,781,386 496,355,067 210,659,145 3,864,525,155 142,576,330 70,233,096 873,104,852 (8,544,344) – (136,971,764) 630,387,053 280,892,241 4,600,658,243 101,544,542 73,819,067 813,980,582 (1,502,858) (10,980,655) (119,610,473) 730,428,737 343,730,653 5,295,028,352 74,434,274 138,819,084 2,574,753,034 130,262,836 209,104,766 3,067,938,263 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 227 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 11.3 Revaluation of land and buildings Company The freehold land and buildings of the Company were revalued as at 31 March 2020 by Mr K T D Tissera – FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng) an independent professional valuer on an open market value for existing use basis. Subsidiaries The freehold land and buildings of Access Projects (Private) Limited were revalued as at 31 March 2020 by Mr K T D Tissera – FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng) an independent professional valuer on a depreciated replacement cost basis for buildings and market value basis for land as at the date of revaluation. Details of Group's land and building stated at valuation are indicated below; Significant unobservable input Location Extent Building Number Valuation technique Estimated price Estimated price Fair value Correlation square of per perch per square feet to fair feet buildings LKR Mn. value Access Engineering PLC Land depicted at No. 336/1, 3 R and Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala 38.4 P 9,070 1 Open Market Value Basis LKR 500,000 LKR 750-1,500 90 Positive Land depicted at No. 278, 3 A 3 R and LKR 100,000Alubogahalanda, Jalthara, Ranala 4.86 P 35,100 1 Open market value basis 150,000 LKR 1,000-1,750 142 Positive Land depicted at Weliwita, Kaduwela 2 A – – Open market value basis LKR 200,000 – 64 Positive Land depicted at Divigalahena, Pananwela, Hakmana 10 A – – Open market value basis LKR 62,500 – 10 Positive Access Projects (Private) Limited Land depicted at Depreciated replacement cost No. 278, Kekulanvila Road, 2 A 1 R and basis for buildings and open LKR 125,000Jaltara, Ranala 38.38 P 50,748 1 market value basis for land 225,000 LKR 600-3,000 210 Positive Land depicted at No. 42 A, LKR 60,000Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka 3 R 10 P – – Open market value basis 100,000 – 11 Positive Land depicted at No. 281, Kekulanvila Road, Jalthara, Ranala 20 P 1,551 1 Open market value basis LKR 250,000 LKR 1,500-3,000 8.3 Positive Summary description of valuation methodologies Open market value method (OMV) Open market value method uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities such as business. Depreciated replacement cost method Depreciated replacement cost method uses the current cost of reproduction or replacement of an asset less deductions for physical deterioration and all relevant forms of obsolescence and optimisation. Land carried at cost (fair value) Location Extent Number of buildings Acquisition date Sathosa Motors PLC Land depicted at No. 86, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 28.70 P 1 17 May 2017 228 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows: Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost 289,402,923 222,942,181 110,461,118 80,032,686 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (51,600,289) (40,419,561) (15,539,189) (10,023,000) Net carrying amount 237,802,634 182,522,620 94,921,929 70,009,686 12. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASES Right-of-use assets The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received. The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the end of the lease term, unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the Group by the end of the lease term or the cost of the right-ofuse asset reflects that the Group will exercise a purchase option. In that case the right-of-use asset will be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset, which is determined on the same basis as those of property and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. Leases Accounting policy Set out below are the new accounting policies of the Group upon adoption of SLFRS 16, which have been applied from the date of initial application. The Group has applied SLFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach and therefore the comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under LKAS 17 and IFRIC 4. Accounting policy applicable from 1 April 2019 At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group uses the definition of a lease in SLFRS 16. As a lessee At commencement or on modification of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of its relative stand-alone prices. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. The Group determines its incremental borrowing rate by obtaining interest rates from debt financing arrangements at the inception of the lease period. The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 229 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low-value assets and short-term leases, including IT equipment. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. As a lessor At inception or on modification of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of their relative standalone prices. When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term as part of “other income”. Generally, the accounting policies applicable to the Group as a lessor in the comparative period were not different from SLFRS 16. Accounting policy applicable prior to 1 April 2019 For contracts entered into before 1 April 2019, the Group determined whether the arrangement was or contained a lease based on the assessment of whether: (a) fulfilment of the arrangement was dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets; and (b) the arrangement had conveyed a right to use the asset. An arrangement conveyed the right to use the asset if one of the following was met: the purchaser had the ability or right to operate the assets while obtaining or controlling more than an insignificant amount of the output; the purchaser has the ability or right to control physical access to the assets while obtaining or controlling more than an insignificant amount of the output; or facts and circumstances indicated that it was remote that other parties would take more than an insignificant amount of the output, and the price per unit was neither fixed per unit of output nor equal to the current market price per unit of output. As a lessee In the comparative period, as a lessee the Group classified leases that transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership as finance leases. When this was the case, the leased assets were measured initially at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Minimum lease payments were the payments over the lease term that the lessee was required to make, excluding any contingent rent. Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets were accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. Assets held under other leases were classified as operating leases and were not recognised in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. Payments made under operating leases were recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received were recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. As a lessor When the Group acted as a lessor, it determined at lease inception whether each lease was a finance lease or an operating lease. To classify each lease, the Group made an overall assessment of whether the lease transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this was the case, then the lease was a finance lease; if not, then it was an operating lease. As part of this assessment, the Group considered certain indicators such as whether the lease was for the major part of the economic life of the asset. 230 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and profit or loss Set out below are the carrying amounts of the Group's right-of-use assets and the movements for the period ended 31 March 2020. 12.1 Right-of-use assets As at 31 March 2020 Group Company LKR LKR Origination from initial application of SLFRS 16 151,557,532 112,165,577 Reclassification from prepayments 4,646,700 – Reclassification from prepaid lease rentals 214,500,000 – Balance at the end of the year 370,704,232 112,165,577 Accumulated depreciation Origination from initial application of SLFRS 16 – 30,274,471 Depreciation charge for the year 37,755,948 56,082,789 Reclassification from prepaid lease rentals 73,753,606 – Balance at the end of the year 111,509,554 86,357,260 Carrying value As at 31 March 2020 259,194,678 25,808,317 Impairment of right-of-use assets The Group does not foresee any impairment of right-of-use assets due to the lockdown economic implication of COVID-19 and does not anticipate discontinuation of any assets for which the Group has the right to use. Lease liabilities are not assessed as there are no known moratorium received for the lease payments so far. 12.2 Lease liabilities Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year – 6,116,140 – – Impact from initial implication of SLFRS 16 151,523,212 – 84,057,809 – Additions 4,254,300 – – – Interest expense 16,633,081 – 7,120,617 – Payments made during the year (23,524,376) (6,116,140) (63,486,261) – Balance at the end of the year 148,886,217 – 27,692,165 – Interest in suspense (1,038,952) – – – Balance at the end of the year 147,847,265 – 27,692,165 – Payable within one year 10,497,052 – 27,692,165 – Payable after one year 137,350,213 – – – Balance at the end of the year 147,847,265 – 27,692,165 – ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 231 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 12.3 Amounts recognised in profit or loss on SLFRS 16 – Leases Group Company LKR LKR 2019/20 Leases under SLFRS 16 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 37,755,948 56,082,789 Interest expense on lease liabilities 16,633,081 7,120,617 2018/19 operating lease under LKAS 17 Operating lease expenses 54,252,468 59,004,626 12.4 Amounts recognised in cash flows for 2019/20 on SLFRS – Leases As at 31 March 2020 Group Company LKR LKR Payment of lease liabilities (23,524,376) (63,486,261) There were no right-of-use assets pledged by the Group and the Company as security for facilities obtained from the Banks. 13. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Accounting policy Investment property is property held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, used in the production of supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Recognition and measurement Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the reporting date. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise, including the corresponding tax effect. Fair values are determined based on valuation performed by an accredited external independent valuer applying a valuation model recommended by the International Valuation Standards Committee. Derecognition Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from their disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition. Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use. For a transfer from investment property to owner occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property becomes an investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are treated as property, plant and equipment in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accounted using Group accounting policy for property, plant and equipment. The Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. 232 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 13.1 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures of the investment properties Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 10,729,192,520 10,713,949,513 415,800,000 415,800,000 Additions (subsequent expenditure) 12,605,424 15,243,007 – – Disposal of subsidiary (475,200,000) – – – Gain on fair value changes 64,207,200 – 144,207,200 – Balance at the end of the year 10,330,805,144 10,729,192,520 560,007,200 415,800,000 Rental income derived from investment properties 980,002,884 941,430,170 13,082,576 11,459,910 Direct operating expenses (including repair and maintenance) generating rental income (145,734,213) (84,759,832) – – 13.2 Location, extent and valuation of investment properties Company Fair value of the property was ascertained by independent valuation carried out by Mr K T D Tissera, FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng) an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31 March 2020. Subsidiaries Fair value of the property was ascertained by independent valuation carried out by Mr K T D Tissera, FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng) an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31 March 2020. Accordingly, the fair value of the property has not been materially changed with the carrying value of the property as at 31 March 2019 and accordingly fair value has not been adjusted to the Financial Statements. Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties; Significant unobservable input Location Extent Freehold Estimated price Estimated price Number Fair value Correlation building per perch per square feet of buildings to fair value square feet LKR Mn. Access Engineering PLC Land depicted at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa* 2 R and 35.5 P 12,784 LKR 2,000,000 LKR 6,000 1 300 Positive Land depicted at No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama 3 R and 1 P – LKR 2,000,000 – – 242 Positive Land depicted at Dickowita, Hendala 2 A 3 R and 10.18 P – LKR 40,000 – – 18 Positive Access Realties (Private) Limited Land depicted at Nos. 264/5, 266, 268, 278 and 278/4, Dr Colvin R De Silva Mawatha (Union place) LKR 9,000,000and No. 116 and 118 Dawson street, Colombo 2 1 A 25.65 P 216,718 LKR 10,000,000 LKR 10,000 1 4,026 Positive Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited 30 Stories Buildings at No. 116 and 118, Dawson street, Colombo 2 – 404,554 – LKR 16,000 1 6,771 Positive * Property located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa is secured on overdraft facility obtained for the value of LKR 125 Mn. by the Company. (Note 23). Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in property plant and equipment Note 11.3. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 233 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 13.3 Investment properties – Work-in-progress Group As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 492,568,921 402,478,308 Additions 503,905,171 90,090,613 Acquisition through business combination 900,000,000 – Balance at the end of the year 1,896,474,092 492,568,921 Investment properties work in progress consists the development at No. 250, Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha, Kotahena, Colombo 15 by Harbour Village (Private) Limited and development at No. 340, Maligagodella Watta, Kimbulapitiya by WUS Logistics (Private) Limited. 14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Accounting policy Recognition and measurement Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Research and Expenditure on research activities is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. development Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Otherwise, it is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Other intangible Other intangible assets are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation assets and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embedded in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 234 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Software All computer software cost incurred, which are not internally related to associate hardware, which can be clearly identified, reliably measured and its probable that they will lead to future economic benefits, are included in the Statement of Financial Position under the category of intangible assets and is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful life. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Asset category Useful lives Enterprise resource planning system 5-10 years Other software 3-10 years Derecognition An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. 14.1 Reconciliation of beginning and ending balances by classes of assets Group Company Software Goodwill Leasehold right Total Software Total LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost/Revaluation At 1 April 2018 111,469,271 1,179,598,942 214,500,000 1,505,568,213 93,093,482 93,093,482 Additions 39,996,158 – – 39,996,158 3,392,293 3,392,293 At 31 March 2019 151,465,429 1,179,598,942 214,500,000 1,545,564,371 96,485,775 96,485,775 Transfer to right-of-use assets – – (214,500,000) (214,500,000) – – Additions 2,071,342 – – 2,071,342 – – At 31 March 2020 153,536,771 1,179,598,942 – 1,333,135,713 96,485,775 96,485,775 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2018 49,106,098 – 55,632,261 104,738,359 40,119,758 40,119,758 Amortisation 16,470,454 – 18,121,345 34,591,799 9,169,035 9,169,035 At 31 March 2019 65,576,552 – 73,753,606 139,330,158 49,288,793 49,288,793 Transfer to right-of-use assets – – (73,753,606) (73,753,606) – – Amortisation 19,455,491 – – 19,455,491 9,812,450 9,812,450 At 31 March 2020 85,032,043 – – 85,032,043 59,101,243 59,101,243 Carrying value At 31 March 2020 68,504,728 1,179,598,942 – 1,248,103,670 37,384,532 37,384,532 At 31 March 2019 85,888,877 1,179,598,942 140,746,395 1,406,234,214 47,196,982 47,196,982 Software in intangible assets mainly consists of the SAP enterprise resource planning system software and SAP user license acquired by the Company. Due to the adoption of SLFRS 16 – “Leases”, Leasehold right has been transferred to right-of-use assets (Note 12.1). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 235 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Intangible assets with a cost of LKR 15 Mn. (2019 – LKR 12 Mn.) and LKR 6 Mn. (2019 – LKR 6 Mn.) have been fully amortised and continue to be used by the Group and the Company respectively. There were no intangible assets pledged by the Group and the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks (2019-Nil). Sathosa Motors PLC has impaired DMS software amounting to LKR 619,415/(2019-Nil) during the year. Having evaluated the business continuity plans and cash flows of each cash-generating unit where the Group has recognised a goodwill, the Group determined that no impairment provision is required for the carrying value of goodwill due to the COVID-19 pandemic as at reporting date. 15. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Accounting policy Investment in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the Financial Statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of investment in subsidiaries are immediately recognised in profit or loss. Following initial recognition, Investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net assets loss. Company Number of shares Effective holding 2020 2019 % LKR LKR Sathosa Motors PLC 5,093,745 84.42 1,196,572,767 1,196,572,767 Access Realties (Private) Limited 199,922,532 100 7,996,901,280 7,996,901,280 Access Projects (Private) Limited 16,000,000 80 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited* – – – 290,000,000 Harbour Village (Private) Limited 174,970,574 60.83 2,747,383,660 2,747,383,660 WUS Logistics (Private) Limited 92,500,000 100 925,000,000 – 13,865,857,707 13,230,857,707 * Company has disposed the investment in Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited during the current financial year (Note 32.2). Accounting estimate – Provision for impairment An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31 March 2020 and it was concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included under unquoted investments exceed its carrying value. Having evaluated the business continuity plans and the cash flows (where necessary) of each subsidiary, the Group determined that no impairment provision is required for the carrying value of subsidiaries due to the COVID-19 pandemic as at 31 March 2020. 236 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 16. EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Accounting policy The Group's interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interest in associate and joint venture. An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately. The Statement of Profit or Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. The Financial Statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as “Share of results of equity-accounted investees” in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. Investments in equity accounted investees are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 237 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 16.1 Carrying amount of interest in equity-accounted investees Group Company Number of Effective 2020 2019 2020 2019 shares Holding LKR LKR LKR LKR % Investment in joint venture Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited 80,300,000 50 749,912,543 774,424,848 800,000,000 800,000,000 Investment in an Associate ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited 5,546,544 30 139,463,795 123,594,277 55,465,410 55,465,410 889,376,338 898,019,125 855,465,410 855,465,410 16.2 Group’s share of total comprehensive income For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Group’s share of profit Joint venture (24,512,305) (27,355,709) Associate 15,902,280 27,081,773 (8,610,025) (273,936) 16.3 Investment in joint venture The Group has invested on 30 May 2016, 50% interest in Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited, a joint venture involves in the business of residential property development. The Group’s interest in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on its SLFRS Financial Statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below: 2020 2019 LKR LKR Non-current assets 13,016,010 16,717,522 Current assets 5,380,270,830 3,199,255,213 Non-current liabilities (163,666,694) (139,808,447) Current liabilities (3,789,425,225) (1,586,944,757) Net assets (100%) 1,440,194,921 1,489,219,531 Group’s share of net assets (50%) 720,097,461 744,609,766 Goodwill 29,815,082 29,815,082 Carrying amount of interest in joint venture 749,912,543 774,424,848 Revenue – – Total comprehensive income (100%) (49,024,610) (50,999,773) Group share of total comprehensive income (50%) (24,512,305) (25,499,887) Group’s share of total comprehensive income (24,512,305) (25,499,887) 238 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements There were no dividends received from the joint ventures during 2019/20 (2018/19 – Nil). The joint venture had no material contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 March 2019 or as at 31 March 2020. 16.4 Investment in an associate The Group has a 30% interest in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited, which has entered in to a contract with Colombo International container terminal to service and maintain the container handling equipment supplied by Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited of China (known as ZPMC). The Group’s interest in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited is accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summarised financial information of the associate, based on its SLFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below: 2020 2019 LKR LKR Non-current assets 9,124,364 3,334,191 Current assets 786,570,332 680,787,562 Non-current liabilities (6,946,913) (2,820,481) Current liabilities (324,598,203) (269,967,050) Net assets (100%) 464,149,580 411,334,222 Group’s share of net assets (30%) 139,463,795 123,594,277 Carrying amount of interest in associate 139,463,795 123,594,277 Revenue 897,593,735 641,005,164 Total comprehensive income (100%) 52,924,392 90,130,872 Group share of total comprehensive income (30%) 15,902,280 27,081,773 Group’s share of total comprehensive income 15,902,280 27,081,773 There were no dividends received from the associate during 2019/20 (2018/19 – Nil). The associate had no material contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 March 2019 or as at 31 March 2020. Having evaluated the business continuity plans and the cash flows (where necessary) of each investment in joint venture and associate, the Group determined that no impairment provision is required for the carrying value of investment in joint venture and associate due to the COVID-19 pandemic as at 31 March 2020. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 239 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 17. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy This consists investment in quoted debentures which have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Investments in debentures National Development Bank PLC – 775,598,826 – 564,353,479 Hatton National Bank PLC – 534,320,123 – 334,135,191 Sampath Bank PLC 110,220,036 110,444,398 110,220,036 110,444,398 110,220,036 1,420,363,347 110,220,036 1,008,933,068 18. INVENTORIES Accounting policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and slow-moving items. The cost of inventories comprised all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, excluding borrowing cost. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Inventory movement is reviewed at the end of reporting period by an expert to assess the recoverability of inventory and the items that are identified as irrecoverable are written off during the year. Work in progress Contractual costs incurred for future work are recognised as an asset when it is probable that they will be recovered and such costs are classified as work in progress. Goods in transit Goods in transit are recognised at purchase cost. 18.1 Inventories Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Inventories 3,841,304,955 3,247,868,811 1,739,694,668 1,047,971,776 Work in progress 3,860,544,377 3,239,510,879 530,036,140 391,275,251 Goods in transit 643,002,056 143,858,583 – 766,000 Less: Provision for inventories 18.1.1 (47,753,893) (52,605,094) – – 8,297,097,495 6,578,633,179 2,269,730,808 1,440,013,027 240 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 18.1.1 Movement in provision for inventories Group As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 52,605,094 62,539,133 Reversal of inventory provision (4,851,201) (9,934,039) Balance at the end of the year 47,753,893 52,605,094 There were no inventories pledged by the Group or the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks (2019 – Nil). Having evaluated the Companies with COVID-19 related revenue decline and/or the nature of the inventories carried and assessed whether it was required to adjust the carrying value of the inventory prior to reflecting them at the lower of cost or net realisable value, where applicable, declines in inventory values were recognised in the Statement of Profit of Loss. 19. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Accounting policy Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial nature receivables are recognised as other receivables. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method (EIR) less any provision for impairment. Provision for impairment of receivables The Group applies the simplified approach in measuring expected credit losses (ECL) allowance which is recommended by SLFRS 9 on making impairment of trade receivables. ECL are probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. It is not resulted in a material change in loss allowance compared with previous policy. The allowance is provided by considering evidence of impairment for receivables of both individual and collective level. Receivables are individually assessed for impairment by considering objective evidence such as experiencing a significant financial difficulty or default in payment by customer. Debtors that are not specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment. In assessing collective impairment, the Group uses historical information on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, the amount of loss incurred and makes an adjustment if current and forward-looking economic and credit conditions are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested historical trends. 19.1 Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade receivables 19.2 11,567,486,315 11,134,597,403 10,007,501,087 8,743,200,936 Other receivables 19.3 526,166,736 578,398,535 186,302,872 132,657,681 Advance and prepayments 19.4 1,897,579,286 1,862,525,106 1,127,471,893 1,055,301,311 Contract assets 72,918,894 162,106,835 72,244,882 153,203,656 14,064,151,231 13,737,627,879 11,393,520,734 10,084,363,584 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 241 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 19.2 Trade receivables Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade receivables 11,802,028,601 11,276,042,127 10,116,260,324 8,856,251,992 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 19.2.1 (234,542,286) (141,444,724) (108,759,237) (113,051,056) 11,567,486,315 11,134,597,403 10,007,501,087 8,743,200,936 19.2.1 Movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 141,444,724 89,218,894 113,051,056 71,219,168 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 93,097,562 52,225,830 (4,291,819) 41,831,888 Balance at the end of the year 234,542,286 141,444,724 108,759,237 113,051,056 Impact on provision due to COVID-19 is disclosed under Note 36.3.1. 19.3 Other receivables Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Margin on bond 101,181,632 94,428,836 101,181,632 94,428,836 Other tax receivables 348,351,273 227,194,484 56,685,768 9,477,407 Others 76,633,831 256,775,215 28,435,472 28,751,438 526,166,736 578,398,535 186,302,872 132,657,681 19.4 Advances and prepayments Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Deposits and prepayments 106,588,769 100,683,652 58,400,300 53,862,954 Advances 1,689,062,589 1,675,342,588 1,002,927,744 951,751,235 Refundable deposit 101,927,928 86,498,866 66,143,849 49,687,122 1,897,579,286 1,862,525,106 1,127,471,893 1,055,301,311 242 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 20. OTHER CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy This mainly comprise retention receivable, staff loans and current portion of investment in debentures which have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Retention receivable 20.1 2,399,367,376 2,272,742,317 2,209,171,974 2,044,588,378 Staff loans 75,728,494 65,264,342 68,860,376 62,472,227 Prepaid retention receivable expenses 356,454,650 352,321,246 293,163,455 352,321,246 Prepaid staff loan expenses 8,859,305 7,362,302 8,859,305 7,362,302 Investment in debentures 20.2 1,332,687,432 – 898,642,339 – Total other current financial assets 4,173,097,257 2,697,690,207 3,478,697,449 2,466,744,153 20.1 Retention receivable Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Retention receivable 2,468,109,491 2,337,197,492 2,215,875,506 2,049,676,436 Less: Provision for impairment of retention receivable 20.1.1 (68,742,115) (64,455,175) (6,703,532) (5,088,058) 2,399,367,376 2,272,742,317 2,209,171,974 2,044,588,378 20.1.1 Movement in provision for impairment of retention receivable Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 64,455,175 62,164,813 5,088,058 10,238,939 Provision for/(reversal of ) impairment of retention receivables 4,286,940 2,290,362 1,615,474 (5,150,881) Balance at the end of the year 68,742,115 64,455,175 6,703,532 5,088,058 20.2 Investment in Debentures Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR National Development Bank PLC 775,587,172 – 564,288,655 – Hatton National Bank PLC 557,100,260 – 334,353,684 – 1,332,687,432 – 898,642,339 – Above investment in debenture were previously classified under non-current financial assets and current year classified to other current financial assets due to its maturity within 12 months. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 243 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 21. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Accounting policy Investment in equity securities have been designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Loss on fair value changes of the investments have been charged to the profit or loss. Cost Market value As at 31 March Number of 2020 2019 2020 2019 shares LKR LKR LKR LKR Group/Company Quoted investments Nation Lanka Finance PLC 12,300 453,009 453,009 8,610 7,380 Lanka Indian Oil Corporation PLC 36,600 1,035,414 1,035,414 578,280 636,840 Touchwood Investments PLC 21,600 – 414,108 – – Horana Plantations PLC 7,500 538,464 538,464 127,500 127,500 The Colombo Fort Land & Building Company PLC 5,000 499,533 499,533 37,500 67,500 Namunukula Plantations PLC 3,300 527,231 527,231 257,400 211,200 Richard Pieris & Co PLC 50,000 798,848 798,848 390,000 460,000 Browns Investments PLC 31,200 78,000 78,000 59,280 53,040 People's Merchant PLC 100 1,976 1,976 870 920 CIC Holdings PLC 204,000 23,517,007 23,517,007 7,139,983 7,853,983 Softlogic Holdings PLC 208,500 6,110,307 6,110,307 2,564,550 3,336,000 Vallibel One PLC 123,300 3,210,050 3,210,050 1,479,600 1,763,190 Central Investments & Finance PLC 1,000,000 – 10,000,000 – – People's Leasing & Finance PLC 864,818 15,109,200 15,109,200 10,550,780 11,247,960 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 39 – – 2,344 3,849 Tess Agro Company PLC 80 – – 24 32 Sampath Bank PLC 404,411 54,999,896 – 48,124,909 – Total 106,878,935 62,293,147 71,321,630 25,769,394 Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, share prices have decreased as at 31 March 2020. 22. SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS Accounting policy Investments in fixed deposits have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Fixed deposits 1,268,925,720 2,209,898,751 600,671,244 492,509,058 1,268,925,720 2,209,898,751 600,671,244 492,509,058 244 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 23. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Accounting policy Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments, readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and deposits in banks net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Investments with short maturities i.e. three months or less from the date of acquisition are also treated as cash equivalents. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Cash at bank 2,095,378,832 1,969,574,144 171,519,979 953,906,395 Cash in hand 49,713,281 27,137,726 43,406,511 21,757,499 Investment in short-term call deposit 19,345,826 489,165,779 – 100,000,000 Cash and cash equivalent in the Statement of Financial Position 2,164,437,939 2,485,877,649 214,926,490 1,075,663,894 Bank overdraft (516,221,235) (329,833,689) (125,036,649) – Cash and cash equivalent for the purpose of Statement of Cash Flows 1,648,216,704 2,156,043,960 89,889,841 1,075,663,894 Company Property located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa is secured on overdraft facility obtained for the value of LKR 125 Mn. (Note 13.2). Group The bank overdraft (Commercial Bank) of the Access Projects (Private) Limited are secured by the corporate guarantee issued by Access Engineering PLC (parent Company) for LKR 250 Mn. 24. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 24.1 Stated capital 2020 2019 Number of Value of shares Number of Value of shares shares LKR shares LKR Issued and fully paid At the beginning of the year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 At the end of the year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in case of a poll. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 245 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 24.2 Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve consist of the revaluation of property, plant and equipment, and revaluation of investment properties immediately before reclassified from property, plant and equipment. 24.3 Dividends The following dividends were declared and paid by the Company for the year: Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend* 250,000,000 – Interim dividend 250,000,000 250,000,000 Second interim dividend – 250,000,000 Total dividends 500,000,000 500,000,000 Dividend per share 0.50 0.50 *Dividend paid out of previous year’s profits. 25. GOVERNMENT GRANT Accounting policy Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed. When the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as income in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset. Group As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 5,704,096 5,923,485 Amortisation (219,389) (219,389) Balance at the end of the year 5,484,707 5,704,096 The above represents a Government grant received by Sathosa Motors PLC, for the construction of work shop at Peliyagoda and is amortised over a period of fifty (50) years. 246 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 26. LOANS AND BORROWINGS Accounting policy Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently they are measured at amortised cost. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Current portion of loans and borrowings Debentures 26.1 5,007,016,667 – 5,187,906,728 – Term Loans 26.2 5,904,044,208 3,637,207,534 2,911,960,014 402,128,177 10,911,060,875 3,637,207,534 8,099,866,742 402,128,177 Non-current portion of loans and borrowings Debentures 26.1 1,650,279 5,007,311,765 1,650,279 5,188,152,871 Term loan 26.2 54,492,000 90,636,000 – – 56,142,279 5,097,947,765 1,650,279 5,188,152,871 26.1 Debentures Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 4,825,670,000 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 Debentures issued during the year – – – – Balance at the end of the year 4,825,670,000 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 Interest payable 182,996,946 181,641,765 189,557,007 188,152,871 Carrying value as at the end of the year 5,008,666,946 5,007,311,765 5,189,557,007 5,188,152,871 Debenture payable within one year 5,007,016,667 – 5,187,906,728 – Debenture payable after one year 1,650,279 5,007,311,765 1,650,279 5,188,152,871 5,008,666,946 5,007,311,765 5,189,557,007 5,188,152,871 On 18 November 2015 Company issued fifty million (50,000,000) rated senior unsecured redeemable debentures to the value of Rupees five billion (LKR 5,000,000,000). These debentures are listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 247 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Sathosa Motors PLC has invested in 1,743,300 No’s of type 01 Five years Tenor debentures issued by the Company, amounting to LKR 174,330,000/-. Carrying value of above debentures has been eliminated at the Group level. Details regarding the listed debentures are as follows: Instrument type Type 01 Type 02 Type 03 Type 04 Issue date 18 November 2015 18 November 2015 18 November 2015 18 November 2015 Maturity date 18 November 2020 18 November 2021 18 November 2022 18 November 2023 Interest frequency Semi-Annually Semi-Annually Semi-Annually Semi-Annually Coupon rate (%) 10.25 10.45 10.72 10.95 Effective annual yield (%) 10.51 10.72 10.01 11.25 IROCGS* as at reporting date (%) 9.7 9.79 9.83 9.87 Market Values Highest (LKR) 99.37 Not traded Not traded Not traded Lowest (LKR) 99.37 Not traded Not traded Not traded Last traded (LKR) 99.37 Not traded Not traded Not traded Last traded date 13 March 2020 Not traded Not traded Not traded Other ratios as at date of last trade Interest Yield (%) 11.20 N/A N/A N/A Yield to Maturity (%) 11.19 N/A N/A N/A *Interest rate of comparable Government Securities. Debt security-related ratios Company For the year ended/as at 31 March 2020 2019 Debt to equity ratio (%) 0.39 0.29 Quick assets ratio (%) 1.06 1.51 Interest cover (%) 4.91 4.78 Utilisation of funds raised via debenture issue is as follows: Objective Construction of Access Tower II at Urban Regeneration Project – Design and Construction of Union Place, Colombo 2 941 Housing Units at Henamulla, Colombo 15 Amount allocated from proceeds in LKR (Mn.) (A) 2,586 2,414 Amount utilised in LKR (Mn.) (B) 2,586 2,414 Percentage Utilisation against allocation (B/A) 100% 100% 248 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 26.2 Term loans Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 3,727,843,534 4,072,848,477 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Obtained during the year 23,312,362,280 11,954,669,609 3,605,000,000 5,011,000,000 Repayment during the year (21,081,669,606) (12,299,674,552) (1,095,168,163) (6,513,832,740) Balance at the end of the year 5,958,536,208 3,727,843,534 2,911,960,014 402,128,177 Loan payable within one year 5,904,044,208 3,637,207,534 2,911,960,014 402,128,177 Loan payable after one year 54,492,000 90,636,000 – – 5,958,536,208 3,727,843,534 2,911,960,014 402,128,177 26.3 Analysis of loans and borrowings 2020 2019 Company name Lending Nature of Interest rate and security Maturity Loan value institution the facility LKR Mn. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. Company Access Seylan Bank Limited Bank loan AWPLR Engineering PLC unsecured 12 months 400 – 402.13 National Development Bank loan AWPLR-0.1% Bank unsecured 12 months 900 900 – Commercial Bank of Bank loan AWPLR-0.1% Ceylon PLC unsecured 12 months 2,000 2,011.96 – Group Access Projects Commercial Bank of Bank loan AWPLR+2.00% 36 months 4 – 0.22 (Private) Limited Ceylon PLC Guarantee land situated at No. 42 A, Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka Bank loan AWPLR+2.0% 48 months 28 4.68 11.68 Guarantee of form work system Bank loan AWPLR+2.0% 48 months 14 2.9 6.41 Guarantee of aluminium profile machine Sathosa Commercial Bank of Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 1 month 1,070 935 1,070 Motors PLC Ceylon PLC short-term loans Unsecured Import loan Market rate over AWPLR 1 month 329 265.34 328.79 Unsecured Hatton National Import loan AWPLR+1% 1 month 354 – 353.79 Bank PLC Unsecured Bank of Ceylon Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 1 month 594 594 500 short-term loans Unsecured National Development Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 3 months 300 300 300 Bank short-term loans Unsecured Seylan Bank Limited Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 3 months 400 400 – short-term loans Unsecured ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 249 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 2020 2019 Company name Lending Nature of Interest rate and security Maturity Loan value institution the facility LKR Mn. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. Access Motors National Short-term loans 12.75% fixed rate 4 months 200 200 193.24 (Private) Limited Development Bank Corporate guarantee from Sathosa Motors PLC Hatton National Bank loans AWPLR+1% (renew monthly) 4 months 200 68.77 97.33 Bank PLC Corporate guarantee from Sathosa Motors PLC Letter of credit AWPLR+1% 4 months 550 275.88 464.25 and temporary Corporate guarantee from over draft facilities Sathosa Motors PLC 27. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Accounting policy Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expected as the related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. Defined contribution plans – Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays a fixed contribution to a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. All employees who are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund Contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund Contributions are covered by relevant contributions funds in line with the relevant statutes. Employer’s contributions to the defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when incurred. Defined benefit plans The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plan is the present value of defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using Projected Unit Credit (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. The Group recognises the changes in the defined benefit liability attributable to the service costs (current service costs and any past service costs) and interest expense in the profit or loss. Key assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are given in Note 27.2. Defined benefit plan liability has not been externally funded by the Company as well as subsidiaries of the Group. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for gratuity payment to an employee arises only after the completion of five years of continued service. 250 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit liability: Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 263,326,437 238,920,256 193,452,552 178,275,827 Current service cost 40,488,636 38,015,162 25,636,409 27,213,707 Interest cost 30,081,490 26,251,437 23,214,306 19,610,341 Actuarial (gains)/losses 51,054,764 (19,092,533) 47,461,268 (15,447,533) 384,951,327 284,094,322 289,764,535 209,652,342 Less: Payments made during the year (24,681,670) (20,767,885) (11,155,334) (16,199,790) Balance at the end of the year 360,269,657 263,326,437 278,609,201 193,452,552 27.1 Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Current service cost 40,488,636 38,015,162 25,636,409 27,213,707 Interest cost 30,081,490 26,251,437 23,214,306 19,610,341 Expense recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss 70,570,126 64,266,599 48,850,715 46,824,048 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 51,054,764 (19,092,533) 47,461,268 (15,447,533) Total provision for the year 121,624,890 45,174,066 96,311,983 31,376,515 27.2 Key assumptions and quantitative sensitivity analysis The cost of the defined benefit plan are determined using actuarial valuations and it involves making various assumptions. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, staff turn over and retirement age (mortality in service). Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The key assumptions and their sensitivity analyses are discussed further below: 27.3 Company An independent actuarial valuation of the retirement benefit obligation was carried out as at 31 March 2020 by professional actuaries – Messrs K A Pandit. The valuation method used by the actuaries to value the retirement benefit obligation is the “Projected Unit Credit Method”. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: 2020 2019 Discount rate (%) 10 12 Expected annual average salary increment rate (%) 8.50 8.50 Staff turnover factor (%) 3 2 Retirement age (years) 55 years 55 years ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 251 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Discount rate Due to the sudden fall in capital markets, the decline in high quality long term corporate bond rates and as a result of COVID-19, the Company have used a long term interest rate of 10% p.a to discount future liabilities. Expected annual average salary increment rate Based on the actual salary increment rate of the Company over the past few years and having evaluated the business continuity plan, adjustments have not been made to expected annual average salary increment rate, to value future liabilities. Staff turnover factor Based on the actual staff turnover of the Company over the past few years, Company has used staff turnover factor of 3% p.a to value future liabilities. 27.4 Group (a) Sathosa Motors PLC An actuarial valuation of the provision for employee benefits was carried out as at 31 March 2020 by Actuarial & Management Consultants (Private) Limited. The valuation method used by the Actuaries to value the employee benefit obligation is the “Projected Unit Credit Method”. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. (b) Other Subsidiaries Employee benefit liabilities of other subsidiaries have been calculated applying the “Projected Unit Credit Method” recommended by LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. The principal assumptions used in determining the employee benefits obligation were: 2020 2019 Discount rate (%) 10 11-12 Expected annual average salary increment rate (%) 5-10 10-11 Staff turnover factor (%) 5-30 5-30 Retirement age (years) 55 55 27.5 Sensitivity of assumptions used A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 March is, as shown below: Group Company 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Effect on the defined benefit obligation liability Increase by one percentage point in discount rate (26,565,058) (17,812,879) (22,703,913) (15,666,877) Decrease by one percentage point in discount rate 30,527,280 20,450,660 26,257,854 18,118,424 Increase by one percentage point in salary increment rate 30,819,094 21,703,698 26,386,935 18,564,411 Decrease by one percentage point in salary increment rate (27,276,945) (19,197,400) (23,194,511) (16,275,423) The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant. The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another. 252 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 27.6 Future expected contributions to the defined benefit plans The following payments are expected contributions to the employee benefit obligation in future years: Company 2020 2019 LKR LKR Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 27,888,970 24,015,934 Between 1 and 2 years 10,533,204 6,804,533 Between 3 and 5 years 53,723,152 34,741,703 Between 6 and 10 years 149,157,644 115,291,126 Total expected payments 241,302,970 180,853,296 Weighted average duration of the projected benefit obligation (years) 11 11 28. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Accounting policy Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligation to suppliers for goods delivered to or services consumed by the Group in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if they are payable within one year or less. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Trade and other payables are normally none-interest-bearing liabilities. Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade creditors 4,810,692,297 4,347,999,090 4,012,683,917 3,469,940,107 Other tax payable 29,553,370 67,145,069 – – Accrued expenses 883,444,708 1,317,694,016 414,096,767 450,941,804 Mobilisation advance 1,889,248,500 4,042,630,803 1,763,217,949 3,753,883,196 Advances received 2,353,282,562 1,683,071,460 310,995,899 99,368,623 Retention payable 633,513,749 550,367,734 508,354,343 438,742,086 Security deposit 269,449,817 151,547,315 – – Contract liability 143,558,255 330,640,584 142,567,654 316,068,003 11,012,743,258 12,491,096,071 7,151,916,529 8,528,943,819 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 253 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 29. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURE Accounting policy The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 – “Related Party Disclosures”. 29.1 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year ended 31 March 2020, the Group has not recorded an impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties (2019 – LKR 53,360/-). Disclosure as per the requirement of Colombo Stock Exchange listing rule sec 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on related party transactions, under the Security Exchange Commission Directives issues under Section 13 (C) of the Security Exchange Commission Act is on Page 167 Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report. The following tables provide the amount receivable from/to and summary of the transactions entered with related parties for the relevant financial years. 29.2 Amounts due from related parties Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Access International (Private) Limited 39,745,822 36,823,772 30,282,369 30,865,432 Access Civimech (Private) Limited 5,056,236 59,164,293 5,017,582 58,852,293 Access International Projects (Private) Limited 99,186,003 10,816,410 92,978,595 10,347,602 Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited 84,101,086 13,201 – 13,201 Sathosa Motors PLC – – 109,459,201 80,271,363 Harbour Village (Private) Limited – – 19,488,176 158,538,693 Access Projects (Private) Limited – – 138,522,457 70,734,284 Access Motors (Private) Limited – – 2,254,714 – Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited 462,110 – 462,110 – Access Real Estate (Private) Limited 1,102,545 18,000 – – Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited 705,882 995,286 – – ZPMC Lanka (Private) Limited 576,886 82,913 – – Access Transport & Services (Private) Limited – 18,638,000 – – ATSL International (Private) Limited 180,400 – 180,400 – Access Residencies (Private) Limited 1,225,369 85,474 – – Access Solar (Private) Limited 1,070,693 312,000 – – Access Natural Water (Private) Limited 5,704,726 – – – WUS Logistics (Private) Limited – – 491,580,434 – 239,117,758 126,949,349 890,226,038 409,622,868 Less: Provision for impairment 29.2.1 – (53,360) – – 239,117,758 126,895,989 890,226,038 409,622,868 254 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 29.2.1 Movement in Provision for impairment of amounts due from related parties Group As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 53,360 – Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 – 3,756 Provision for/(reversal of ) impairment of amounts due from related parties (53,360) 49,604 Balance at the end of the year – 53,360 29.3 Amounts due to related parties Group Company As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Access International (Private) Limited 19,232,849 7,477,059 19,221,509 5,159,821 Access Natural Water (Private) Limited 394,513 582,114 163,309 268,939 Access International Projects (Private) Limited 2,277,290 1,780,196 – 843,268 Reprographics (Private) Limited 508,723 410,598 444,008 410,598 Access Motors (Private) Limited – – 3,366,857 10,500,000 Access Projects (Private) Limited – – 404,189 13,607,369 Sathosa Motors PLC – – 50,067 18,967 Access Realties (Private) Limited – – 7,769,380 248,607,559 CRDS Development (Private) Limited – 575,000 – 575,000 ARL Elevate (Private) Limited – – 5,181,975 – Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited 427,139 – 571 – Access Civimech (Private) Limited 5,039,118 452,678 – – Access Energy solutions (Private) Limited 5,023,101 9,021,931 – – Access Solar (Private) Limited 1,813,207 3,614,913 – – Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited 90,847 278,907 – – Access Transport & Services (Private) Limited – 293,367 – – 34,806,787 24,486,763 36,601,865 279,991,521 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 255 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 29.4 Transactions with related parties The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties: Group Company For the year ended 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Subsidiaries Sales of goods/rendering of services – – 767,445,395 549,200,749 Purchases of goods/receiving of services – – (219,513,225) (447,228,654) Dividend received – – 861,666,113 331,638,173 Loan Received/(repayment) – – (245,000,000) 245,000,000 Interest paid – – (17,917,988) (17,869,032) Investment in shares – – (925,000,000) (126,572,560) Equity-accounted investees Sales of goods/rendering of services 3,501,230 5,903,895 2,081,384 867,143 Other related party companies Sales of goods/rendering of services 332,522,847 583,152,313 89,718,884 340,835,079 Purchases of goods/receiving of services (286,609,199) (379,103,698) (255,487,419) (133,762,957) 29.5 Directorships held by Directors in other group of companies Company name Company (AEL) S J S Perera J C Joshua R J S Gomez S D Perera D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe Subsidiaries Access Realties (Private) Limited        Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited       A R L Elevate (Private) Limited       Sathosa Motors PLC     Access Motors (Private) limited   Access Projects (Private) Limited   Harbour Village (Private) Limited    WUS Logistics (Private) Limited    Associate ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited   Joint venture Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited   256 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Company name Company (AEL) S J S Perera J C Joshua R J S Gomez S D Perera D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe Other related party companies Access International (Private) Limited        Access Natural Water (Private) Limited     Access Civimech (Private) Limited   Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited    Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited   Access Solar (Private) Limited   Access International Projects (Private) Limited   Access Real Estate (Private) Limited   Access Residencies (Private) Limited   C.R.D.S. Development (Private) Limited  Reprographics (Private) Limited   Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited   ATSL International (Private)Limited    29.6 Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving key management personnel (KMPs) and their close family members (CFM) According to LKAS 24 – “Related Party Disclosures”, Key Management Personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity. Accordingly Board of Directors (including Executive and Non-Executive Directors) have been classified as key management personnel of the Group. Close Family Members (CFM) of the KMP are those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that KMPs in their dealing with the entity. They may include: (a) The KMP’s domestic partner and children; (b) Children of the KMP’s domestic partner; and (c) Dependent of the KMP or the KMP’s domestic partner CFM are related parties to the entity. There were no transactions with CFM during the year. A. Directors’ loans No loans have been given to the Directors of the Company. B. Compensation paid to the key management personnel of the Group Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Short-term employee benefits 8 80,989,500 77,550,367 46,746,500 44,445,500 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 80,989,500 77,550,367 46,746,500 44,445,500 The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to Key Management Personnel. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 257 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 30. PROVISIONS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to provision is presented in income statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Statements. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the statement of financial position but disclosed as a note to the financial statements unless the outflow of resources is remote. Contingent assets are disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations and claims arising out of the normal conduct of the business. The Group/ Company does not expect the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact on Group’s financial position, operating profit or cash flow in addition to amounts accrued as provision for legal disputes. The commitments and contingent liability of the Group and the Company as at 31 March 2020, relates to the following: 30.1 Disclosure – Company 30.1.1 Legal claim contingency 30.1.1.1 Legal cases filed against the Company Case No. CHC706/10/MR The case of money recovery by GTB Colombo Corporation (Private) Limited against three defendants, namely, 1st defendant: Asia Pacific Golf Course Limited, 2nd defendant: Access Engineering PLC and 3rd defendant: Urban Development Authority. The claim is made amounting to LKR 17,691,919.68 together with interest against the three defendants jointly and/or severally in the High Court of Western Province for non-payment of material supplied and invoiced by the plaintiff to the 1st defendant. Access Engineering PLC is contesting the case, since the material purportedly supplied by the plaintiff was not received by the 2nd defendant and not invoiced to the 2nd defendant. This matter is rescheduled to be called for further trial on 27 October 2020. Case No. DMR/930/2017 The case of money recovery by Nilmini Shiroma Bombuwala against three defendants namely, 1st defendant: Ceylon Tea Services PLC, 2nd defendant: Delma Properties (Private) Limited, 3rd defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim is made amounting LKR 75,000,000/to recover damages caused due to the constructions of the 3rd defendant. This matter is fixed for further trial on 14 October 2020 and 12 November 2020. Case No. DLM 136/2018 The case of money recovery by NIC Fernando against the defendant namely, Access Engineering PLC. The claim LKR 17,500,000/with legal cost is made against the defendant seeking an injunction to prevent the defendant from constructing the building fully described in the schedule of the plaint and further seeking an interim injunction, enjoining order as well as to claim the said sum with legal cost of the case. This matter is fixed to be called on 27 August 2020 for settlement. 258 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Case No. DPS 297/19 Special matter was filed by M Ashiq Haseem against the two defendants namely, 1st defendant: Senok Trade Combine (Pvt) Ltd. 2nd defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim of LKR 50,000,000/made against the defendants seeking an injunction to prevent the defendants from constructing the building more fully described in the schedule of the plaint and further seeking an interim injunction, enjoining order as well as to claim the said sum with legal cost of the case. The case is fixed to be called for replication on 26 August 2020. Case No. DPS 298/19 The land matter was filed by Fathima Saneeha Mansoor against the two defendants namely, 1st Defendant: Senok Trade Combine (Pvt) Ltd., and 2nd defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim of LKR 50,000,000/made against the defendants seeking an injunction to prevent the defendants from constructing the building more fully described in the schedule of the plaint and further seeking an interim injunction, enjoining order as well as to claim the said sum with legal cost of the case. The case is fixed to be called for replication on 26 August 2020. 30.1.1.2 Legal cases filed by the Company Case No. 6362/M The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against defendant namely, Tharanga Metal and their Director. The claim LKR 3,930,069.78 together with interest is made against defendant for the claim of renting out the equipment. This matter was fixed for summons on 12 October 2020. Case No. 12362/19 The accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no money in account for sum of LKR 1,500,000/to Access Engineering PLC. The cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honoured by The Bank of Ceylon and returned to the Plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 1,500,000/is made against three defendant namely 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd., 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne, 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is re-fixed for trial by the plaintiff on 29 October 2020. Case No. 12363/19 The accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no money in account for sum of LKR 763,744.04 to Access Engineering PLC. The Cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honoured by the Bank of Ceylon and returned to the plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 763,744.04 is made against three defendants namely, 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd., 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne, 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is re-fixed for trial by the plaintiff on 29 October 2020. Case No. 12364/19 The accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no funds in account for sum of LKR 1,360,853.04 to Access Engineering PLC. The Cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honoured by the Bank of Ceylon and returned to the plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 1,360,853/is made against three defendants namely, 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd., 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne, 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is re-fixed for trial by the plaintiff on 29 October 2020. Case No. CHC/44/2019/MR The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against defendant namely 1st defendant: SEAH Networks Company Limited and 2nd defendant: Samhee Construction Company Limited. The claim of LKR 68,704,733.89/on account of work completed and LKR 9,096,941.49 on account of finance charges up to 30.09.2018 together with the legal interest on aggregate of the above cases from 1 October 2018 is made against defendants. Summons have been issued through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Report on the service of summons on the 1st defendant is due. The 2nd defendant sought time to file its proxy and power of attorney and the same is due on the next date. The case is to be called on 4 August 2020. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 259 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 30.1.2 Guarantees Bank guarantees issued by the banks on behalf of the Company are as follows: Bank Amount LKR Nations Trust Bank PLC 1,080,004,940 Hatton National Bank PLC 1,036,425,451 Sampath Bank PLC 32,368,800 Bank of Ceylon 286,957,930 People’s Bank 2,003,218,605 National Development Bank PLC 765,634,658 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 29,700,000 Cargills Bank Limited 561,779,158 Seylan Bank PLC 755,910,849 DFCC Bank PLC 21,379,478 6,573,379,869 Corporate guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of Access Projects (Private) Limited, Sathosa Motors PLC, and Harbour Village (Private) Limited, for banking facilities are LKR 250 Mn., LKR 500 Mn. and LKR 300 Mn. respectively. 30.1.3 Tax assessments PAYE tax assessment received for year of assessment 2011/12 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised PAYE tax assessment to the Company for the year of assessment 2011/12, assessing shares gifted by three shareholders of the Company at that time to the employees of the Company and to external parties, to pay PAYE tax of LKR 634,686,195/plus penalty of LKR 317,343,097/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. The appeal was determined in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue by CGIR and Company has filed valid appeal to Tax Appeal Commission (TAC) against the CGIR determination. Based on expert advice the directors are confident that the ultimate resolution would be in favour of the Company and will not have materiel adverse impact on the Financial Statements of the Group. 260 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 December 2016 to 31 December 2016 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 December 2016 to 31 December 2016, assessing tax credit notes when calculating the output tax to pay value added tax LKR 2,504,622/plus penalty of LKR 1,177,172/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment and initial hearing conducted. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 March 2016 to 31 March 2016 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 March 2016 to 31 March 2016, assessing import purchase claimed amount is in the return not agreed with the assessment and to pay value added tax LKR 4,933,327/plus penalty of LKR 3,995,995/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 August 2016 to 31 August 2016 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 August 2016 to 31 August 2016, assessing a SVAT supply difference in original return and amended return to pay value added tax LKR 171,886/plus penalty of LKR 142,682/-. The company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 June 2017 to 30 June 2017 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 June 2017 to 30 June 2017, assessing SVAT supply difference in original return and amended return. The difference is treated as taxable supply and to pay value added tax LKR 251,157/plus penalty of LKR 148,398/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 September 2017 to 30 September 2017 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 September 2017 to 30 September 2017, assessing two invoices have been issued which are disallowed to pay value added tax LKR 33,008/plus penalty of LKR 16,504/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 February 2017 to 28 February 2017 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 February 2017 to 28 February 2017, assessing disallowed invoices included in the return to pay value added tax LKR 343,960/plus penalty of LKR 220,134/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 01 January 2018 to 31 January 2018 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1 January 2018 to 31 January 2018, assessing disallowed invoices included in input to pay value added tax LKR 365,713/plus penalty of LKR 157,257/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Nation building tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 April 2017 to 30 July 2017 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of nation building tax for the taxable period of 1 April 2017 to 30 July 2017, assessing a delay in payment of tax, LKR 357,485/charged as penalty. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Based on the expert advise, the directors are confident that ultimate resolution would be in favour of the Company and there will not have material adverse impact on the Financial Statements of the Company on above tax assessments. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 261 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 30.2 Disclosure – Group Sathosa Motors PLC Corporate Guarantee Corporate guarantee issued by Sathosa Motors PLC on behalf of Access Motors (Private) Limited is LKR 1,077.30 Mn. as at 31 March 2020 for the purpose of working capital requirement, have been revised for an amount of LKR 481.5 Mn. and USD 1 Mn. as at the reporting date. Access Projects (Private) Limited Guarantees Bank guarantees issued by the banks to Access Projects (Private) Limited’s customers are as follows; Bank Letter of credit/import documents Performance bid Total against acceptance facility retention bonds LKR LKR LKR Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 58,425,772 533,342,907 591,768,679 Hatton National Bank PLC – 106,604,558 106,604,558 31. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD The impacts from post-lockdown financial and economic implications on Group's and Company's going concern, estimation uncertainty, credit risk, liquidity risk and exchange rate risk are disclosed in relevant and to these Financial Statements: Post-lockdown operations Subsequent to the reporting date, the Group has monitored the operation performance, internal actions as well as other relevant external factors (such as changes in any of the government restrictions). No adjustments to the key estimates and judgements have been identified that impact the financial position as at 31 March 2020. Where any material changes in key estimates and judgements have been identified, updates have been made to the financial statements as adjusting post reporting period events or disclosure to these financial statements. Temporary suspension of imports The new limitations recently imposed on the importation of commercial vehicles by the Government Gazette notification No. 2176/19 dated 22 May 2020, is negatively impacting regular business, which is the sale of vehicles and spare parts of Sathosa Motors PLC and Access Motors (Private) Limited. 262 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 32. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, which is measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquire. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non controlling interests in the acquire at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquire’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquire. Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss in accordance with SLFRS 9. Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. Goodwill is initially measured at cost (being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests and any previous interest held over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed). If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units. Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit (CGU) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash generating unit retained. A contingent liability recognised in a business combination is initially measured at its fair value. Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with the requirements for provisions in LKAS 37 – “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets” or the amount initially recognised less (when appropriate) cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the requirements for revenue recognition. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 263 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 32.1 Investment in subsidiary – 2019/20 WUS Logistics (Private) Limited Access Engineering PLC acquired 100% of the issued shares of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited at a total consideration of LKR 900 Mn. on 30 September 2019. WUS Logistics (Private) Limited owns a land of 41.5 acres situated in Kimbulapitiya will be developed for warehousing. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited as at the date of acquisition were: Assets Fair value recognised on acquisition LKR Investment properties – Work-in-progress 900,000,000 Total Identifiable net assets at fair value 900,000,000 Goodwill arising on acquisition – Purchase consideration transferred 900,000,000 Net cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiary 900,000,000 Further investment of LKR 25 Mn. has been made on 9 October 2019. There is no contingent consideration of the acquisition of WUS Logistics (Private) Limited. Access Motors (Private) Limited During the year Sathosa Motors PLC has invested LKR 199,999,982 for 13,003,900 shares in Access Motors (Private) Limited. There was no change in the holding percentage. 32.2 Disposal of subsidiary 2019/20 The Group disposed its investment in Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited on 20 March 2020. The fair value of assets and liabilities thus disposed are as follows: LKR Investment property 475,200,000 Other receivables 79,918 Short-term investments 5,226,548 Trade and other payables (29,118) Cash and cash equivalents 50,155 Total identifiable net assets disposed 480,527,503 Loss on disposal (5,527,503) Cash and cash equivalents (50,155) Net cash proceeds from sale of subsidiary 474,949,845 32.3 Investments in subsidiary 2018/19 Access Realties (Private) Limited Access Engineering PLC further invested LKR 126,572,560/in Access Realties (Private) Limited in 2018/2019, a fully owned subsidiary of AEL involving the commercial property development for lease and rental. 264 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 32.4 Disposal of subsidiary 2018/19 The Group disposed its investment in Horizon Knowledge City Limited during the financial year 2018/2019. The fair value of assets and liabilities thus disposed are as follows: LKR Property, plant and equipment 765,158,800 Capital work in progress 59,933,584 Trade and other receivables 222,798 Trade and other payables (75,930) Related party payable (983) Income tax payable (345,173) Deferred tax liabilities (56,795,760) Cash and cash equivalents 2,880,124 Total identifiable net assets disposed 770,977,460 Loss on disposal (5,977,460) Cash and cash equivalents (2,880,124) Net cash proceeds from sale of subsidiary 762,119,876 33. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interest is measured at their proportionate share of the acquires identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition. The total profit and loss for the year of the Company and its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Comprehensive income with the proportion of profit and loss after taxation pertaining to Non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries being deducted as “Non-controlling Interest”. All assets and liabilities of the Company and of its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The interest of Non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries in the fair value of net assets of the Group is indicated separately in the consolidated statement of financial position under the heading “Non-controlling interests”. Changes in the Group's interest in subsidiary that do not result in loss of controls are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. No adjustments are made to goodwill and no gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Ownership interest held by non-controlling interest (NCI) Principal place of business Operating segment 2020 2019 % % Access Projects (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Construction 20 20 Sathosa Motors PLC Sri Lanka Automobile 15.58 15.58 Harbour Village (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Property development 39.17 39.17 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 265 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The following table summaries the information relating to each of the Group's subsidiaries that has non-controlling interest, before any intra-group elimination. For the year ended 31 March 2020 Access Projects Sathosa Harbour Village Total (Private) Limited Motors PLC (Private) Limited LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-current assets 312,381,029 1,625,675,538 626,836,668 2,564,893,235 Current assets 1,240,210,420 4,921,561,886 5,639,368,153 11,801,140,459 Non-current liability (27,850,853) (346,113,550) (52,137,636) (426,102,039) Current liability (1,098,925,526) (4,030,107,340) (1,935,207,022) (7,064,239,888) Net asset 425,815,070 2,171,016,534 4,278,860,163 6,875,691,767 Net asset attributable to non-controlling interest 85,163,014 791,591,788 1,676,029,526 2,552,784,328 Revenue 1,913,253,786 4,195,960,439 – 6,109,214,225 Profit/(loss) for the year 82,335,747 (79,911,367) (140,171,117) (137,746,737) Other comprehensive income 55,094,283 3,325,437 (494,213) 57,925,507 Total comprehensive income 137,430,030 (76,585,930) (140,665,330) (79,821,230) Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 16,467,149 (13,234,306) (54,905,027) (51,672,184) OCI attributable to non-controlling interest 11,018,857 518,015 (193,584) 11,343,288 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 27,486,006 (12,716,291) (55,098,611) (40,328,896) Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities (193,477,626) (166,407,576) 12,265,788 (347,619,414) Cash flows from/(used in) investment activities 34,378,357 (124,765,694) 813,782,160 723,394,823 Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (17,337,306) (103,118,048) (9,503,885) (129,999,239) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (176,436,575) (394,291,318) 816,544,063 245,816,170 For the year ended 31 March 2019 Access Projects Sathosa Horizon Knowledge Harbour Village Total (Private) Limited Motors PLC City Limited (Private) Limited LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-current assets 216,848,552 1,911,286,831 – 509,825,510 2,637,960,893 Current assets 1,612,845,761 5,102,425,588 – 5,172,470,684 11,887,742,033 Non-current liabilities (29,130,166) (154,933,136) – (46,478,710) (230,542,012) Current liabilities (1,511,830,960) (4,811,176,802) – (1,215,999,648) (7,539,007,410) Net assets 288,733,187 2,047,602,481 – 4,419,817,836 6,756,153,504 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest 57,746,637 604,308,099 – 1,731,242,646 2,393,297,382 Revenue 1,886,397,426 11,125,759,978 – 13,012,157,404 Profit for the year 98,449,868 176,257,965 (906,326) 37,008,936 310,810,443 Other comprehensive income 2,162,972 1,301,159 – 7,073 3,471,204 Total comprehensive income 100,612,840 177,559,124 (906,326) 37,016,009 314,281,647 Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 19,689,974 60,947,278 (18) 14,496,400 95,133,634 OCI attributable to non-controlling interest 432,594 202,685 – 2,771 638,050 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 20,122,568 61,149,963 (18) 14,499,171 95,771,684 266 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2019 Access Projects Sathosa Horizon Knowledge Harbour Village Total (Private) Limited Motors PLC City Limited (Private) Limited LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 491,452,680 (564,612,392) – (233,243,704) (306,403,416) Cash flows from/(used in) investment activities (105,648,149) (272,287,558) – 304,064,555 (73,871,152) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (28,746,340) 1,180,457,998 – – 1,151,711,658 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 357,058,191 343,558,048 – 70,820,851 771,437,090 Having evaluated the business continuity plans and the cash flows (where necessary) of each subsidiary, the Group determined that no impairment provision is required for the carrying value of non-controlling interest due to the COVID-19 pandemic as at 31 March 2020. 34. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair value through profit or loss. The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset's contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group's business model for managing them. With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under SLFRS 15. Classification and measurement In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are “solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)” on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The Group's business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified into four categories based on the entity’s business model and the cash flow characteristics: (a) financial assets at amortised cost; (b) financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses (debt instruments); (c) Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments); (d) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 267 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Financial assets at amortised cost The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: (a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. The Group's financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables, short-term deposits, corporate debt securities and other current financial assets. Financial assets at fair value through OCI (debt instruments) The Group measures financial assets at fair value through OCI if both of the following conditions are met: (a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling; and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, interest income, foreign exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and computed in the same manner as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. The remaining fair value changes are recognised in OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value change recognised in OCI is recycled to profit or loss. Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI (equity instruments) Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 – “Financial Instruments: Presentation” and are not held for trading. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the right of payment has been established, except when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with net changes in the fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. This category includes listed equity investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also recognised as other income in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the right of payment has been established. 268 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Derecognition A financial asset (or, where applicable, apart of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Group's Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) when: ´´The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or ´´The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. Impairment of financial assets The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL). For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Group applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting date, the Group evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Group reassesses the internal credit rating of the debt instrument. The Group’s debt instruments at fair value through OCI comprise solely of quoted bonds that are graded in the top investment category (Very Good and Good) by the Good Credit Rating Agency and, therefore, are considered to be low credit risk investments. It is the Group’s policy to measure ECLs on such instruments on a 12-month basis. However, when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since origination, the allowance will be based on the lifetime ECL. The Group uses the ratings from the good credit rating agency both to determine whether the debt instrument has significantly increased in credit risk and to estimate ECLs. Aside from this note, other disclosures relating to impairment of financial assets (trade receivables) are included in Note 19. Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdraft. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 269 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Classification and measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss incurred financial liabilities held-for-trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities held-for-trading are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in SLFRS 9 are satisfied. The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Statement of Profit or Loss. This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings. Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. 270 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 34.1 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 – Group Financial instruments Financial instruments at Total Financial liabilities measured recognised through amortised cost at amortised cost profit or loss As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – Trade and other receivables – – 13,609,211,188 13,456,501,011 13,609,211,188 13,456,501,011 – – Amounts due from related parties – – 239,117,758 126,895,989 239,117,758 126,895,989 – – Other current financial assets – – 2,840,409,825 2,697,690,207 2,840,409,825 2,697,690,207 – – Short-term deposits – – 1,268,925,720 2,163,147,483 1,268,925,720 2,163,147,483 – – Cash and cash equivalent – – 2,164,437,939 2,485,877,649 2,164,437,939 2,485,877,649 – – Corporate debt securities – – 1,442,907,468 1,420,363,347 1,442,907,468 1,420,363,347 – – Financial liabilities Unsecured bond issue – – – – – – 5,008,666,946 5,007,311,765 Bank overdraft – – – – – – 516,221,235 329,833,689 Interest-bearing borrowings – – – – – – 5,958,536,208 3,727,843,534 Trade payable – – – – – – 9,093,941,388 8,381,320,199 Amount due to related parties – – – – – – 34,806,787 24,486,763 Lease liabilities – – – – – – 147,847,265 – Total 71,321,630 25,769,394 21,565,009,898 22,350,475,686 21,636,331,528 22,376,245,080 20,760,019,829 17,470,795,950 34.2 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 – Company Financial instruments Financial instruments at Total Financial liabilities measured at recognised through amortised cost amortised cost profit or loss As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – Trade and other receivables – – 11,206,189,784 9,885,130,026 11,206,189,784 9,885,130,026 – – Amounts due from related parties – – 890,226,038 409,622,868 890,226,038 409,622,868 – – Other current financial assets – – 2,580,055,110 2,466,744,153 2,580,055,110 2,466,744,153 – – Short-term deposits – – 600,671,244 475,198,599 600,671,244 475,198,599 – – Cash and cash equivalent – – 214,926,490 1,075,663,894 214,926,490 1,075,663,894 – – Corporate debt securities – – 1,008,862,375 1,008,933,068 1,008,862,375 1,008,933,068 – – Financial liabilities Unsecured bond issue – – – – – – 5,189,557,007 5,188,152,871 Bank Overdraft – – – – – – 125,036,649 – Interest-bearing borrowings – – – – – – 2,911,960,014 402,128,177 Trade payable – – – – – – 5,246,130,926 4,458,992,620 Amount due to related parties – – – – – – 36,601,865 279,991,521 Lease liabilities – – – – – – 27,692,165 – Total 71,321,630 25,769,394 16,500,931,041 15,321,292,608 16,572,252,671 15,347,062,002 13,536,978,626 10,329,265,189 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 271 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 35. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES 35.1 Fair value measurement Fair-value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed in this note. Accounting policy Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: ´´In the principal market for the asset or liability or ´´In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant's ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Financial Statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 – Inputs that are quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the Financial Statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. Involvement of external valuers is decided upon annually by the management. Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained. The Management decides, after discussions with the Group’s external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. At each reporting date, the Management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be remeasured or reassessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the Management verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. The Management, in conjunction with the Group’s external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy, as explained above. 272 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 35.2 Fair value hierarchy The following table shows fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group's assets, liabilities. It does not includes fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 35.2.1 Fair value hierarchy – Group Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 34.1 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – – – 71,321,630 25,769,394 Non-financial assets Land and building 11.1 – – – – 1,571,365,583 1,842,118,751 1,571,365,583 1,842,118,751 Investment properties 13.1 – – – – 10,330,805,144 10,729,192,520 10,330,805,144 10,729,192,520 35.2.2 Fair value hierarchy – Company Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 34.2 71,321,630 25,769,394 – – – – 71,321,630 25,769,394 Non-financial assets Land and building 11.2 – – – – 330,844,243 238,000,000 330,844,243 238,000,000 Investment properties 13.1 – – – – 560,007,200 415,800,000 560,007,200 415,800,000 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 273 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES, AND POLICIES 36.1 Introduction Financial risk management is the practice of economic value in a firm by using financial instrument, manage exposure to risk face by Group. The Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations. The major financial liabilities used by a group including debt securities, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial investments is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. 36.2 Risk management framework The Company's Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group's risk management framework. The Board of Directors has established group risk management policies to identify analyse the risk faced by the Group and set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risk and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly, and aim to develop a disciplinary constructive control environment, in which all employees understand their roles and obligations through training, management standards and procedures. The Group Audit Committee oversees how Management monitors compliance with the Group's risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the result of which are reported to the Audit Committee. The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. The Group is exposed to key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk. The Board of Directors reviews, verifies, agree the policies for managing each type of risk which are summarised below. 36.3 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. 36.3.1 Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business units subject to group’s established polices procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management. The Group's exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. However, Management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its customer based including default risk associate with the industry and country in which customers operate. Each new customer is analysed individually for credit worthiness, reviews external ratings, if they are available financial statements, credit agency information, industry information, and in some cases bank references. Each business units monitor the customers' financial standing (financial insolvency) and outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date using simplified approach to measure expected credit losses. The calculation reflects the probability-weighted outcome, the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic conditions and ECL is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customer's actual default in the future. The minimum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 34. 274 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several industries and operate in largely independent markets and material payments being backed by guarantees and enters contractual agreements with client before starting the operations. Impact of COVID-19 pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic post-lockdown situation of the country has impacted to the country's economy and business activities which would delay the settlements of customer dues. Composition of significant amount of government debtors and certified revenue of private debtors will reduce the possibility of default in payments. The uncertainty is reflected in the assessment of expected credit loss calculation which are subject to a number of management judgements and estimates. Based on the assessment carried, no further impairment provision is required to be made in the Financial Statements as at the reporting date in respect of impairment provision other than disclosed in Note 19.2.1. As at 31 March, the aging analysis of trade receivables that were not impaired was as follows: Group Company 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Neither past due nor impaired 4,412,542,977 4,218,930,556 4,401,928,068 4,165,871,003 Past due but not impaired <30 days 577,313,907 2,662,376,615 363,803,199 1,609,521,610 30-60 days 1,609,726,928 829,482,039 1,195,262,680 430,993,119 61-90 days 954,048,377 350,023,068 741,424,838 191,191,827 91-120 days 646,271,519 1,026,593,311 208,860,926 726,209,888 >120 days 3,367,582,607 2,047,191,814 3,096,221,376 1,619,413,489 Total 11,567,486,315 11,134,597,403 10,007,501,087 8,743,200,936 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 19.2.1 234,542,286 141,444,724 108,759,237 113,051,056 Gross carrying value 11,802,028,601 11,276,042,127 10,116,260,324 8,856,251,992 36.3.2 Short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institution is managed by the Group’s treasury management in accordance with the Group’s policy. Treasury management established “ investment policies” in place, funds invest with high liquidity and high level of safety. The funds may invest in investments grade assets with a rating award by rating agencies or awarded internally by the fund management company. The Group held short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalent as at 31 March 2020 which represents its maximum credit exposure on these assets. Impairment on cash and cash equivalents has been measured on a 12-month expected loss basis and reflects the short maturities of the exposures. The Group considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties. The Group uses a similar approach for assessment of ECLs for cash and cash equivalents to those used for debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents has not been materially impaired. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 275 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31 March 2020 – 99%, (2019 – 99%) of the favorable balances of bank and financial institution were rated “A” or better for the Group: 2020 2019 Fitch rating – Group LKR % LKR % AA+ 742,713,222 22 1,434,914,931 31 AA 10,150,155 1 195,199,557 4 AA2,467,916,572 73 2,849,011,339 61 A+ 39,715,390 1 23,467,644 1 A 78,619,753 2 117,293,018 3 A3,663,450 1 1,435,572 0 BBB19,052 0 – 0 BB+ – 0 25,302 0 BB – 0 309,083 0 Not rating 249,489 0 230,960 0 Total 3,343,047,083 100 4,621,887,406 100 As at 31 March 2020 – 99% (2019 – 99%) of the favorable balances of bank and financial institution were rated “A” or better for the Company. 2020 2019 Fitch rating – Company LKR % LKR % AA+ 630,841,286 85 1,225,607,274 80 AA 6,090,950 1 72,448,962 6 AA362,902 0 99,004,204 6 A+ 25,126,842 3 16,117,064 1 A 76,642,256 10 113,926,573 7 A2,354,500 1 1,435,572 0 BBB19,052 0 – – BB+ – 0 25,302 0 BB – 0 309,083 0 Not rating 249,489 0 230,960 0 Total 741,687,277 100 1,529,104,994 100 The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Statement of Financial Position at 31 March 2020 and 2019 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 34. 276 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 36.3.3 Corporate debt securities As at 31 March 2020 – 100% (2019 – 100%) were guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better for the Group. 2020 2019 Fitch rating – Group LKR % LKR % AA+ 557,100,260 39 – – AA110,220,036 8 200,184,932 14 A+ 775,587,172 53 545,380,538 38 A – – 674,797,877 48 1,442,907,468 100 1,420,363,347 100 As at 31 March 2020 – 100% (2019 – 100%) guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better for the Company. 2020 2019 Fitch rating – Company LKR % LKR % AA+ 334,353,684 33 – – AA110,220,036 11 – – A+ 564,288,655 56 334,135,191 33 A – – 674,797,877 67 1,008,862,375 100 1,008,933,068 100 36.4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tools. The Group’s approach of managing liquidity risk is to ensure as far as possible that it will always have sufficient liquidity meets its liability when due, and maintaining the balance between financial assets and liabilities and forecasting cash flows from operating activities under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damages to the Group’s reputation. The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The business units attempt to match cash outflows in each time bucket against a combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement or other secured borrowing. The Group aims to maintain the level of its cash and cash equivalents and other highly marketable debt instruments at an amount in excess of expected cash flows on financial liabilities. To measure and mitigate liquidity risk, the Company closely monitors its net operating cash flow, forecasting and maintaining a level of cash and cash equivalents and secured committed funding facilities from financial institutions. As disclosed in Note 2.7, Board of Directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate liquidity and a business plan to continue business operations and mitigate the increased liquidity risk arising from COVID-19 post-lockdown economic implication, for the next 12 months from the reporting date. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 277 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry. In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly. Maturity analysis The table below summarises, the maturity profile of Group’s/Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2020 based on contractual payments: Contractual cash flow Carrying On demand 6 months 6-12 More than amount or less months 1 year LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-derivative financial liabilities – Group Bank overdrafts 516,221,235 – 516,221,235 – – Trade and other payables 11,012,743,258 64,443,581 9,059,051,177 1,889,248,500 – Amounts due to related parties 34,806,787 – 34,806,787 – – Interest-bearing borrowings 10,967,203,154 875,000 10,907,851,875 2,334,000 56,142,279 Unclaimed dividend 31,080,192 31,080,192 – – – Lease liabilities 147,847,265 – 10,341,484 10,829,772 126,676,009 Contractual cash flow Carrying On demand 6 months 6-12 More than amount or less months 1 year LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-derivative financial liabilities – Company Bank overdraft 125,036,649 – 125,036,649 – – Trade and other payables 7,151,916,529 – 5,375,132,468 1,776,784,061 – Amounts due to related parties 36,601,865 – 36,601,865 – – Interest-bearing borrowings 8,101,517,021 – 8,099,866,742 – 1,650,279 Unclaimed dividend 13,146,312 13,146,312 – – – Lease liabilities 27,692,165 – 17,777,146 9,915,019 – 278 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements 36.5 Market risk Market risk is the risk that fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market price. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Group Management. Market risk comprises the following types of risk: (I) Interest rate risk (II) Currency risk (III) Commodity price risk (IV) Equity price risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, debt, equity and derivative financial instruments. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in the market interest rates. The Group's exposure to the risk of changes market interest rates relates primarily to the Group long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate financial instruments. Group treasury designed capital structure guidelines for each projects at the planning stage and thereby maintains optimised level of gearing in the Group. The Group manage its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows negotiating favourable rates on borrowings and deposits including and maintaining on appropriate combination of fixed and floating rate risk. Group Company Capital structure as at 31 March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Loans and borrowings 26 10,967,203,154 8,735,155,299 8,101,517,021 5,590,281,048 Bank overdraft 23 516,221,235 329,833,689 125,036,649 – Total borrowings 11,483,424,389 9,064,988,988 8,226,553,670 5,590,281,048 Equity 24,387,094,444 23,588,078,618 20,533,856,163 19,084,941,395 Debt/Equity (%) 47.09 38.43 40.06 29.29 At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group’s/Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments were: Group Company 2020 2019 2020 2019 LKR LKR LKR LKR Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 2,731,179,014 4,072,676,609 1,609,533,619 1,584,131,667 Financial liabilities 5,008,666,946 6,182,155,299 5,189,557,007 5,188,152,871 Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities 6,474,757,443 2,882,833,689 3,036,996,663 402,128,177 During the financial year, consecutive reductions in policy rates and monetary easing policies by Central Bank of Sri Lanka to encourage banks and finance companies to reduce lending rates. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 279 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group exposes to the foreign currency risk on purchases, foreign operations that are denominated in a foreign currencies. These currencies primarily are the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Pound (GBP) and Djiboutian franc. The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its foreign operations by forward contracts and matching sales and purchases to same currency. The Group's Treasury management closely monitors the exchange rate fluctuations and advices Management on a regular basis. Impact of COVID-19 pandemic Due to the loss of foreign currency inflows to the country during the lockdown period of the COVID-19 pandemic, resulted in an increase in USD exchange rates against Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) as at 31 March 2020. With the sharp depreciation of LKR against USD Dollar, Group has taken several measures to manage risk. Having foreign currency trade receivables and through foreign currency bank account balances to cover the exposure on foreign currency payables to extent possible. Exposure to currency risk The summary quantitative data about the Group’s exposure to currency risk as reported to the Management of the Group is as follows: 2020 2019 EUR USD GBP DJF EUR USD GBP DJF SGD JPY THB Trade and other receivables 3,390,676 5,435,318 – – 367,621 4,578,844 39,369 – – – – Cash at bank 34,988 792,390 18,247 128,050 664,432 4,030,007 23,628 128,050 – – – Trade and other payables – (1,918,640) (236,411) – (30,773) (1,343,819) (618,221) – (8,599) (56,427,200) (7,648,824) Net statement of financial position exposure 3,425,664 4,309,068 (218,164) 128,050 1,001,280 7,265,032 (555,224) 128,050 (8,599) (56,427,200) (7,648,824) The summary quantitative data about the Company's exposure to currency risk as reported to the Management of the Company is as follows: 2020 2019 EUR USD GBP DJF EUR USD GBP DIF SGD Trade and other receivables 1,431 5,435,318 – – 367,621 4,578,844 39,369 – – Cash at bank 34,988 252,924 18,247 128,050 664,432 1,851,674 23,628 128,050 – Trade and other payables – (1,112,160) – – (30,773) (1,168,248) – – (8,599) Net statement of financial position exposure 36,419 4,576,082 18,247 128,050 1,001,280 5,262,270 62,997 128,050 (8,599) 280 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements The following significant exchange rates were applicable during the year 2019/20: Company/Group Year end spot rate 2020 2019 LKR LKR EUR 207.96 197.80 USD 188.62 176.13 GBP 232.67 230.16 DJF 1.08 0.99 SGD 132.47 129.93 JPY 1.74 1.59 THB 5.79 5.54 Sensitivity analysis A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Pound (GBP) and Djiboutian franc against all other currencies as at 31 March would have affected the measurement of the financial instruments denominated in the foreign currency and affected equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other receivables in particular interest rates remains constant and ignores. Group 2020 2019 Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening LKR LKR LKR LKR EUR (10% movement) 71,239,252 (71,239,252) 19,805,594 (19,805,594) USD (10% movement) 81,279,192 (81,279,192) 127,959,005 (127,959,005) GBP (10% movement) (5,075,963) 5,075,963 (12,778,919) 12,778,919 DJF (10% movement) 13,829 (13,829) 12,677 (12,677) SGD (10% movement) – – (111,720) 111,720 JPY (10% movement) – – (8,970,232) 8,970,232 THB (10% movement) – – (4,237,143) 4,237,143 Company 2020 2019 Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening LKR LKR LKR LKR EUR (10% movement) 757,360 (757,360) 19,805,594 (19,805,594) USD (10% movement) 86,315,706 (86,315,706) 92,684,358 (92,684,358) GBP (10% movement) 424,546 (424,546) 1,449,926 (1,449,926) DJF (10% movement) 13,829 (13,829) 12,677 (12,677) SGD (10% movement) – – (111,720) 111,720 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 281 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notes to the Financial Statements Equity price risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Treasury management monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in investment portfolio based on market indicators and manage risk through diversification of portfolio. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s Senior Management on a regular basis. The Group’s Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. 36.6 Capital management Capital management is financial strategy aimed ensuring maximum efficiency in a company’s cash flow. The Group’s objective of capital management is to maintain strong financial position healthy capital ratios in order to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to maximise shareholder value. Capital consists of share capital, reserves, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the Group. The Group’s Management and Board of Directors monitor the return on capital and dividends to ordinary shareholders. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches of the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing in the current period. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 March 2020 and 2019. 36.7 Distribution made and proposed The Company recognises a liability to make cash or non-cash distributions to equity holders of the parent when the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. A corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity. Non-cash distributions are measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed with fair value remeasurement recognised directly in equity. Upon distribution of non-cash assets, any difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the carrying amount of the assets distributed is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Distribution made and proposed are disclosed in Note 24.3. 282 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNEXES 284 OPERATING STRUCTURE 285 NINE YEAR SUMMARY 286 OUR STORY 288 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES 289 ABBREVIATIONS 291 DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 292 NOTICE OF MEETING THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Structure ´´Construction projects ´´Concrete production plants PMD i ´´Asphalt production plants ´´Aggregate production plants ´´Construction projects ´´Piling unit PMD ii ´´Mechanical a fabrication workshop ´´Scaffolding hiring unit ´´Concrete production plants PMD iii ´´Construction projects PMD iv ´´Construction projects ´´Project planning and development ´´Corporate communication Business ´´Tendering ´´Investor relations Development ´´Business promotion ´´Subsidiary management Structural ´´Structural and architectural design solutions Design ´´Design based value engineering solutions ´´Financial reporting and compliance ´´Working capital management Finance and ´´Budgets and monitoring ´´Tax planning and compliance Commercial ´´Procurement management ´´Fixed assets BOARD OF CORPORATE DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT ´´Treasury management ´´Internal control and compliance audit Internal ´´Process review audits Audit ´´Risk management audit ´´HR planning and recruitment ´´Performance management ´´Personal administration ´´Compensation and benefits Human ´´Policy development ´´Disciplinary management Resource Management ´´Employee grievances ´´Rewards and recognition ´´Training and development ´´Employee welfare and well-being ´´Corporate social responsibility Management ´´Management system and compliance audit Systems ´´Technical audits ´´Project progress monitoring Corporate ´´Legal and compliance Office ´´Premises management ´´IT systems management ´´Network administration IT Services ´´Help desk support ´´Information security support 284 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Nine Year Summary 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Highlights Revenue LKR Mn. 24,027 32,277 26,056 20,448 17,625 16,514 16,373 13,900 7,320 Gross profit LKR Mn. 3,808 5,184 4,061 4,732 3,977 3,815 4,186 3,061 2,121 EBITDA LKR Mn. 3,414 4,891 5,044 4,300 3,748 3,322 3,771 2,883 2,159 EBIT LKR Mn. 2,678 4,173 5,044 3,381 2,900 2,653 3,180 2,433 1,931 Net finance income/(cost) LKR Mn. (572) (651) (383) 150 95 110 136 239 102 Profit for the year LKR Mn. 928 2,245 2,463 2,746 2,551 2,424 2,902 2,412 1,737 Profit attributable to owners LKR Mn. 979 2,150 2,507 2,708 2,465 2,346 2,833 2,376 1,733 Statement of Financial Position Highlights Property, plant and equipment LKR Mn. 4,937 5,198 5,980 5,428 4,791 4,222 3,787 3,741 2,672 Total non-current assets LKR Mn. 19,705 20,144 21,171 16,074 12,357 9,155 7,349 7,579 6,641 Cash and cash equivalent LKR Mn. 2,164 2,486 1,394 950 504 1,918 1,521 703 1,641 Short term deposits LKR Mn. 1,269 2,210 2,041 2,922 6,792 1,048 1,140 1,371 883 Total assets LKR Mn. 50,078 48,062 44,439 36,046 30,343 22,328 20,204 16,642 14,284 Stated capital LKR Mn. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 Retained earnings LKR Mn. 12,365 11,936 10,388 9,590 8,362 7,169 5,815 3,486 1,670 Equity attributable to equity holders LKR Mn. 21,834 21,195 19,793 18,840 17,462 16,269 14,916 12,486 10,670 Loans and borrowings LKR Mn. 10,967 8,735 9,086 5,737 5,846 350 65 8 13 Total non-current liabilities LKR Mn. 2,953 7,533 7,528 5,680 5,603 514 359 259 174 Statement of Cash Flow Highlights Cash flows from operating activities LKR Mn. (2,191) 1,876 630 1,994 3,168 3,218 1,608 1,301 638 Cash flows from investing activities LKR Mn. (224) 302 (2,226) (1,327) (9,251) (2,337) (341) (1,721) (3,332) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities LKR Mn. 1,907 (851) 1,753 (87) 4,532 (737) (459) (513) 4,116 Key Financial Ratios EPS LKR 0.98 2.15 2.51 2.71 2.47 2.35 2.83 2.38 1.83 DPS LKR 0.50 0.50 1.20 1.50 0.75 1.00 0.50 0.50 0.27 Net assets per share LKR 21.83 21.19 19.79 18.84 17.46 16.27 14.92 12.49 10.67 Dividend payout % 51 23 47.86 55.39 30.36 43 18 21 15 ROE % 3.80 9.52 11.15 12.7 14.1 14.4 19 19.0 16.2 ROCE % 6.58 11.69 14.83 12.3 12.3 15.4 20.5 18.9 17.5 Gearing % 50.23 41.21 43.70 30.5 34.8 2.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 Current ratio Times 1.3 1.7 1.57 2.3 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.4 2.3 Quick ratio Times 1.0 1.3 1.16 1.7 2.3 2.1 2.3 1.9 1.8 Price per share LKR 13.20 13 20.50 23.8 20.8 19.2 22.5 19.7 26.7 Investor Highlights Total number of shareholders No. 8,832 7,226 5,816 6,119 5,757 4,610 2,196 2,153 1,838 Percentage of public holding % 42.84 41.93 42.31 39.59 37.92 37.92 35.53 36.52 36.52 Value of shares traded LKR Mn. 6,757 1,637 2,729 3,625 4,570 14,900 2,148 1,265 45 Number of trades No. 71,138 24,276 10,750 25,709 36,018 49,154 10,229 13,535 975 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 285 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Story Further, extending its presence in To cater to the growing demand the automobile sector AEL invested for infrastructure development in a 50% stake in SML Frontier following the end of a three Automotive (Private) Limited, decade long civil war and build who is the authorised distributor sufficient capacity for expansion for Land Rover and Range Rover AEL issued 180 million ordinary vehicles through Sathosa Motors shares raising LKR 4.5 Bn. in PLC. AEL entered into a 30% joint a private placement. For the venture with Shanghai Zhenhua first time in the corporate Heavy Industries Company Limited history of Sri Lanka the founder (ZPMC) of China, the world’s largest shareholders gifted LKR 3 Bn. port machinery manufacturer to worth of ordinary shares among commission, repair and maintain over thousand of its dedicated container handling equipment in AEL was awarded the employees. AEL became the Sri Lanka and overseas through highest accreditation first construction company in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) in many fields of civil Sri Lanka to become a part of Limited. AEL commenced operations engineering by the the world’s largest corporate in its first overseas project in Papua Institute of Construction sustainability initiative, the New Guinea to carryout specialised Training and United Nations Global Compact engineering work. Development (ICTAD) (UNGC). Integrating its operations which is the governing Access Realties backward AEL ventured into 2013 (Private) Limited, which body of the industry and the production of construction is the owner and the developed its Quality related material such as asphalt, managing agent of Management System ready mix concrete, crusher Access Tower, a 12-story (QMS) in conformity products, and quarry operations. modern A-Grade office to the requirements of ISO 9001:2004 to complex in the Central 2011 continuously improve Business District of 2012 Colombo became a the effectiveness subsidiary of AEL. and efficiency of its performance. 2008 2004 2009 2010 Following the successful private placement AEL became a public quoted company on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock AEL was incorporated as Exchange (CSE) through an Initial 2001 a public limited liability Public Offering of 20 million AEL developed company by the three AEL was accredited ordinary shares raising LKR 500 its Environment founder shareholders Sumal by the Institution Mn. Diversifying its operations Management System Perera, Christopher Joshua of Engineers to the automobile sector, AEL (EMS) in conformity and Ranjan Gomez with the Sri Lanka (IESL) as acquired 60% of the issued to the requirements prime objective of carrying an institution for capital of Sathosa Motors PLC, of ISO 14001:2004 to out civil engineering projects training of engineers the authorised distributor for manage the significant and was accredited as a for professional Isuzu vehicles. AEL was awarded environmental Major Specialist Contractor charter. its largest piling project to date impacts caused by the National Construction amounting to over LKR 3 Bn. by its construction Association of Sri Lanka In the Northern Section of the operations. (NCASL). Outer Circular Highway. 286 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Story AEL invested in 9.83% issued share capital of Harbour Village (Private) Establishing its footprint in the African Continent Limited [former Hotel 10 (Private) AEL opened its East Africa Branch in the Republic of Limited] for the construction of Djibouti. AEL’s joint venture, ZPMC Lanka extended 997 condominium apartment units its operations into overseas ports. Diversifying its in downtown Colombo. The newly operations into the promising real estate sector AEL built Access Tower II commenced invested in 50%, 100% and 92% of the issued share commercial operations adding capital of Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited, Horizon approximately 200,000 sq. ft. of Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited and Horizon A-Grade office space. 2019 Knowledge City Limited securing a land bank of over 20 acres in the education and information 2017 technology zone of Malabe. Taking advantage of the low interest rate regime that prevailed, AEL raised AEL acquired 100% of WUS LKR 5 Bn. in the debt market through an initial public offering of debentures on the CSE. 2018 Logistics (Private) Limited for the construction of 2015 For the second Sri Lanka's largest single consecutive year AEL roof warehouse for Camso was selected to the Loadstar. SML Frontier category of “Ten Best 2016 Corporate Citizens in Automotive (Private) Limited was renamed the Country” by The Access Motors (Private) Ceylon Chamber of Limited. For the third Commerce. consecutive year AEL was 2014 selected to the category of “Ten Best Corporate Citizens in the Country” by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. AEL invested in 50% issued share capital of Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited [former Blue Star Constructions AEL became the first construction (Private) Limited] for the company in Sri Lanka to integrate construction of 242 luxury business operations through an condominium apartment Enterprise Resource Planning units in Rajagiriya. SML Platform and commenced Frontier Automotive construction work on Access (Private) Limited was Tower II through its 100% owned appointed the sole indirect subsidiary Access Realties distributor for Jaguar 2 (Private) Limited. AEL acquired vehicle in Sri Lanka. 80% of issued share capital of Access Projects (Private) Limited an industry leader in interior and aluminium works. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 287 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Awards and Accolades NATIONAL AWARD – 2019 for Construction Merit (Residential Buildings – Urban Regeneration at Henamulla, Colombo 15) Value exceeding LKR 750 Mn. Awarded by CIDA BEST CORPORATE CITIZEN SUSTAINABILITY AWARD – 2019 PRESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENT (Sector Award – Winner) AWARDS – 2019 Awarded by The Ceylon Vehicle Servicing Chamber of Commerce Centre by Central (Ten Best Corporate Citizens) Environment Awarded by The Ceylon Authority Chamber of Commerce ANNUAL REPORT AWARDS – 2019 CMA EXCELLENCE IN INTEGRATED REPORTING (Construction Companies – Gold) AWARDS – 2019 Awarded by The Institute of (Best Integrated Report – Chartered Accountants of Trade and Commerce Sector) Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Awarded by CMA 288 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Abbreviations Short form Definition Short form Definition Short form Definition ABC Aggregate Base Course CIMA Chartered Institute of FY Financial Year Management Accountants ACA Associate Member of Chartered GBP United Kingdom Pound Sterling Accountants CISO Chief Information GDP Gross Domestic Product Security Officer ADB Asian Development Bank GHG Greenhouse Gas COO Chief Operating Officer AEL Access Engineering PLC GICS Global Industry Classification CSE Colombo Stock Exchange AFS Available for Sale Standards CSR Corporate Social Responsibility AGM Annual General Meeting GM General Manager DGM Deputy General Manager APL Access Projects (Private) Limited GoSL Government of Sri Lanka DI Ductile Iron ARL Access Realties (Private) Limited GRI Global Reporting Initiative DJF Djobouti Franc ASPI All Share Price Index HDD Horizontal Directional Drilling DLP Defect Liability Period AWPLR Average Weighted Prime HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene Lending Rate DMS Document Management System HR Human Resources BEAP Batticaloa Emergency DPS Dividend Per Share HRIS Human Resource Information accident Project E WASTE Electronic Waste System BIA Bandaranaike International Airport EBIT Earnings Before HSMS Health and Safety Management Bn Billion Interest and Taxes System BOI Board of Investment EBITDA Earning Before Interest, Tax, HTML Hyper Text Markup Language Depreciation and Amortisation BSc Bachelor of Science IAS International Accounting EBT Earnings Before Tax Standards CA Chartered Accountants ECLS Expected Credit Losses ICC International Chamber of CBSL Central Bank of Sri Lanka ED Executive Director Commerce/International CCPI Colombo Consumer Price Index construction consortium EIR Effective Interest Rate CEA Central Environmental Authority ICRA Indian Credit Rating Agency EMS Environment Management System CEB Ceylon Electricity Board IESL Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka EPF Employees’ Provident Fund CED Central Equipment Division IFRIC International Financial Reporting EPL Environmental Protection License Interpretations Committee CEO Chief Executive Officer EPS Earnings Per Share IIRC International Integrated CEP Central Expressway Project ERP Enterprise Resource Planning Reporting Council CFL Compact Fluorescent Light ESG Environmental, Social and IMF International Monetary Fund CFM Close Family Members Governance IOC Lanka Indian Oil Company CFO Chief Financial Officer ETF Employees’ Trust Fund IROCGS Interest Rate of Comparable CGIR Commissioner General of Inland ETR Effective Tax Rate Government Securities Revenue EU European Union ISO International Organisation for CGU Cash-Generating Unit Standardization EUR Euro CHEC China Harbour Engineering IT Information Technology Company Ltd. FCMA Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants JICA Japan International Corporation CICT Colombo International Container Agency Terminals FRICS Fellow – Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors JPY Japanese Yen CIDA Construction Industry Development Authority FTTH Fibre to the Home JV Joint Venture ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 289 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Abbreviations Short form Definition Short form Definition Short form Definition KMP Key Management Personnel PMD Project Management Division SLTC Sri Lanka Technological Campus KPI Key Performance Indicator PMP Project Management Professional SLTNTEC Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology KWH Kilowatt Hour PoS Point of Sales SML Sathosa Motors PLC LC Letter of Credit PPE Property Plant and Equipment/ Personnel Protective Equipment SMLF SML Frontier Automotive LCB Licensed Commercial Banks (Private) Limited PPP Public and Private Partnership LED Light Emitting Diodes PUC Projected Unit Credit SOP Standard Operating Procedure LKAS Sri Lanka Accounting Standards PVT Private SPPI Solely Payments of Principal LKR Sri Lankan Rupee and Interest QAQC Quality Assurance and Quality LTD Limited TAC Tax Appeal Commission Control LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate THB Thai Bhat QMS Quality Management System M&E Mechanical and Engineering TNA Training Needs Analysis R&D Research and Development MBA Master of Business Administration TOR Term of Reference RCC Reinforced Cement Concrete MD Managing Director TPH Tons per Hour RDA Road Development Authority MICE Modular Integrated UDA Urban Development Authority ROA Return on Assets Communication Environment UGC University Grant Commission ROCE Return on Capital Employed Mn Million UK United Kingdom MOH Ministry of Health ROE Return on Equity UN United Nations MSAN Multi Service Access Node RPT Related Party Transactions UNGC United Nations Global Compact N/A Not Applicable S & P SL 20 Standard & Poors Sri Lanka 20 UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply NBFI Non-Bank Financial Institution SAP Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing US United States NBT Nation Building Tax SEC Securities and Exchange USA United States of America NCI Non-Controlling Interest Commission of Sri Lanka USD United States Dollar NCPI National Consumer Price Index SGD Singapore Dollar USSR Union of Soviet Socialist Republics NED Non-Executive Director SGM Senior General Manager VAT Value Added Tax NP Net Profit SGT Super Gain Tax WECS Wind Energy Conversion System OCI Other Comprehensive Income SIC Standard Interpretations WEO World Economic Outlook OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Committee Assessment Series WEF With Effect From SID Senior Independent Director PAT Profit After Tax WFH Working From Home SL Sri Lanka PAYE Pay As You Earn YOY Year on Year SLAuS Sri Lanka Auditing Standards PDCA Plan-Do-Check-Act Cycle WTG Wind Turbine Generator SLFRS Sri Lanka Financial Reporting PIM Postgraduate Institute of Standards ZPMC Zhenhua Heavy Industries Management Company Limited SLSAE Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance PHI Public Health Inspector Engagements PLC Public Liability Company SLT Sri Lanka Telecom 290 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Directors of Subsidiary Companies Company Name Name of Director Sathosa Motors PLC S J S Perera J C Joshua D A R Fernando S D Munasinghe W A C O Wijesinghe R S Dahanayake M M N De Silva M Jayahsuriya L N T Arachchige K A P Perera Access Realties (Private) Limited S J S Perera J C Joshua R J S Gomez D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe S D Perera Access Projects (Private) Limited S J S Perera D D S Ferdinando D A R Fernando I N Pushpa Kumar Harbour Village (Private) Limited M Ahmad S J S Perera J C Joshua D A R Fernando Zhong Yuan Zeng Nanhai Zhang Xiaoqiang W U S Logistics (Private) Limited S J S Perera J C Joshua D A R Fernando I S N Fernando L N A Silva ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 291 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Ninth Annual General Meeting of Access Engineering PLC will be held at the Sri Lanka Foundation, No. 100, Sri Lanka Padanama Mawatha, Independence Square, Colombo 7 on Wednesday, 16 September 2020 at 3.00pm and the business to be brought before the Meeting will be: 1. To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company, the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 and the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To re-elect as a Director Mr D S Weerakkody who retires by rotation in terms of Article 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company. 3. To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year. 4. To reappoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. By Order of the Board Access Engineering PLC Sgd. P W CORPORATE SECRETARIAL (PVT) LTD. Director/Secretaries 31 July 2020 Colombo Notes: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote instead of him/her. 2. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 3. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. 4. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 2, not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the Meeting. 292 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC – ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Form of Proxy I/We the undersigned ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................……....................................................... NIC No. …................................................................................................. of ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. being a member/s* of Access Engineering PLC hereby appoint: .....................................................................................…………….................................................................................... of ……………………………………………………………........................................................………………………….………………........................................................................……… or failing him/her, Mr Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr Joseph Christopher Joshua of Colombo or failing him* Mr Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez of Colombo or failing him* Mr Shevantha Harindra Sudhakara Mendis of Colombo or failing him* Mr Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando of Colombo or failing him* Mr Saumaya Darshana Munasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Mr Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne of Colombo or failing him* Mr Suresh Dilhan Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr Dinesh Stephan Weerakkody of Colombo my/our* Proxy to vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 September 2020 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid Meeting and at any adjournment thereof: For Against Resolution 1 To re-elect Mr D S Weerakkody who retires in terms of Article No. 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company, as a Director Resolution 2 To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year Resolution 3 To re appoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. In witness my/our* hands this .......................................................................... day of .......................................................................... Two Thousand and Twenty. ............................................................... Signature of Shareholder/s * Please delete the inappropriate words. Instructions as to completion appear on the reverse. Form of Proxy INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION 1. This Form of Proxy must be deposited at No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 2 not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the Meeting. 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than a Director of the Company as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details in the space provided. 4. Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided, how your Proxy is to vote on the resolution. If no indication is given, the Proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. 5. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the Proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. In the case of a Proxy signed by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney must be deposited at The Secretaries’ Office [i.e. P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd., 3/17, Kynsey Road, Colombo 8] for registration. 7. In the case of joint holders the Form of Proxy must be signed by the first holder. Corporate Information NAME OF COMPANY AUDIT COMMITTEE BANKERS Access Engineering PLC N D Gunaratne – Chairman Bank of Ceylon Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Nations Trust Bank PLC D S Weerakkody Sampath Bank PLC REGISTERED OFFICE S D Perera Hatton National Bank PLC Access Engineering PLC Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Access Towers People’s Bank REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 278, Union Place, Colombo 2, DFCC Bank PLC Sri Lanka D S Weerakkody – Chairman National Development Bank PLC Phone: +94 11 760 6606 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Union Bank of Colombo PLC Fax: +94 11 760 6605 N D Gunaratne Seylan Bank PLC Web: www.accessengsl.com S D Perera Cargills Bank Limited Email: investor.relations@accessengsl.com CAC International Bank International Commercial Bank RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS LEGAL FORM REVIEW COMMITTEE SECRETARIES A public limited liability company N D Gunaratne – Chairman incorporated in Sri Lanka on 31 July 2001 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd. under the Companies Act No. 17 of 1982 D S Weerakkody 3/17, Kynsey Road, and re-registered under the Companies D A R Fernando Colombo 8, Act No. 07 of 2007 on 6 February 2008. Sri Lanka Phone: +94 11 464 0360 INVESTMENT AND SUBSIDIARY Ordinary voting shares are listed on the Fax: +94 11 474 0588 PERFORMANCE MONITORING Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. COMMITTEE AUDITORS Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable Prof K A M K Ranasinghe – Chairman Debentures are listed on the Colombo J C Joshua Messrs KPMG Stock Exchange. D A R Fernando Chartered Accountants N D Gunaratne 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, D S Weerakkody Colombo 3, COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER Sri Lanka PB 200 PQ Phone: +94 11 242 6426 STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE Fax: +94 11 244 5872 S J S Perera – Chairman BOARD OF DIRECTORS J C Joshua S J S Perera D A R Fernando J C Joshua Prof K A M K Ranasinghe D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe R J S Gomez Prof K A M K Ranasinghe N D Gunaratne S D Perera D S Weerakkody Produced by Smart Media (Pvt) Limited, a carbon neutral company that offsets its direct and indirect GHG emissions through verified sources.
