JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 I. A statement of continued support for the Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Julie Sandlau Vietnam continues supporting The Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this annual report, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Julie Sandlau Vietnam will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. 18th November 2020 Mr. Soren Roed Pedersen CEO/Julie Sandlau Vietnam 1|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 II. Introduction: 1. About Julie Sandlau Vietnam. Company : Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Address : Km 9, Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. Contact Person : Soren Roed Pedersen, General Director Soren@juliesandlauvn.com Reporting Period : 21th November 2019 – 17th November 2020 Membership Date : 08th November 2012 Sector : Producing & exporting high-end jewellry Number of employees : 186 2. Brief description of nature of business a. The Company Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Is 100% foreign owned factory from Denmark located at Km 9 Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. We are specializing in producing & exporting high-end jewellry. b. CSR Julie Sandlau Vietnam (JSV) has high focus on social responsibility and as a part of our Corporate Social Responsibility stratergy, we aim to be able to comply according to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles throughout the organization and collaborators. c. Julie Sandlau Vietnam CSR Vision Julie Sandlau Vietnam vision and intention is to act socially responsible both local and global based on the principle and intention of the UN Global Conduct and support the values within: 2|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 ❖ Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ❖ Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ❖ Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ❖ Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. d. Availability of this COP This COP is available online at www.unglobalcompact.org. It will also be distributed to clients and suppliers as well as being forwarded to any requesting parties. This is the eighth CPO report since 2013 when Julie Sandlau Vietnam joined the Global Compact. The annual CPO report is an opportunity for us to review and re-evaluate what we 3|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 have done during the year and to bring more incentives and motivation for our action plan next year. This report shows our continuous efforts to advance the SDGs by operating responsibly in alignment with universal principles and finding opportunities to innovate, to address societal challenges. From 2019 until now, the COVID-19 crisis is testing the world’s humanity and resilience at a time that is already marked by acute inequality. With the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic hitting vulnerable and marginalized groups particularly hard, JSV’s purpose of maintain stable jobs for all current workers, enhancing the safety and working environment, ensuring the interests of workers; and also using our best endeavour to promote responsible business practices into our supply chain. Throughout the year, we completed some remarkable works as follows: January (Focus on SDG#3: Good Health and Well-being) • Organized annual training courses on ‘Occupational safety and health’, ‘First Aid’ and ‘Fire fighting’ for all employees. • Provided new industrial protective clothings and specific equipments for production departments. April May (Focus on SDG#3: Good Health and Well-being) Develop an Infectious Disease Preparedness and Response Plan, implement preventive actions across the factory to cope with Covid 19. Until now, we have so far been successful in controlling, and there are no cases of covid 19 infection in the company. 4|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 September (Focus on SDG#12: Responsible Consumption and Production) • JSV implemented the OECD 5-Step framework as a management process for risk based due diligence for responsible supply chains to ensure that we source gold, silver, PGM, diamonds/colored gemstones responsibly, in a way that respects human rights and does not contribute to conflicts. When identifying any risk, depending on the type of impact identified we will decide to take appropriate action. Serious impacts will require immediate action, including disengaging the supplier, or temporarily suspending trade until the impact has been mitigated. • JSV also supported and contributed to efforts to eliminate money laundering where we identify a reasonable risk resulting from, or connected to, the extraction, trade, handling, transport or export of gold, silver, PGM, diamonds/colored gemstones. We neither tolerate nor profit from, contribute to, assist or facilitate the commission of: a. torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment; b. forced or compulsory labor; c. the worst forms of child labor; d. human rights violations and abuses; or e. war crimes, violations of international humanitarian law, crimes against humanity or genocide. October (Focus on SDG#3: Good Health and Well-being; Focus on SDG#5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls; Focus on SDG#8: Decent Work and Economic Growth) • Organized event and banquet for all worker celebrating Vietnamese women's day 20/10 5|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2020 • With our long term effort and contribution, JSV achieved the award from Trade Union and Hanoi Federation Of Labour, which provided facilities for our culture room, bringing the benefit and enhance cultured life to all workers in JSV. • We have signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of seven principles governing gender equality that sum up how women can be strengthened in the workplace, on the employment market and in the community. November (Focus on SDG#3: Good Health and Well-being) • Held periodical health checks for all our employees and came up with the result of no occupational diseases or infectious diseases. Finally, we pledge to continue to adhere to the principles of the Agreement and to never stop our effort on building a better Organization in good environment of corporate culture. 6|Page
