CSR REPORT 2019 Company Name: Udviklingsselskabet By & Havn I/S BY & HAVN’S AMBITION By & Havn develops new neighbourhoods in Copenhagen and runs the Port of Address: Nordre Toldbod 7 Copenhagen. Our ambition is to involve Copenhageners in creating high quality 1259 Copenhagen K healthy, sustainable and coherent new neighbourhoods with room for communities, the good life and a vibrant harbour. By & Havn’s activities finance public Country: Denmark infrastructure that makes it easier and more sustainable to be a Copenhagener. Contact: info@byoghavn.dk +45 3376 9800 Date: 2019 2 We support UN Global Compact Membership of UN Global Compact: October 2010 4 Who are we? Number of Employees: 121 6 Goals & efforts Sector: Real Estate Investment & Services Distribution of By & Havn’s cop: www.byoghavn.dk/csr 8 Energy efficiency 10 Green mobility 12 Urban green and blue spaces 14 Resource efficiency 16 Communities & urban life 18 Employees, health & safety and labour market 21 Anti-corruption & policies This report is carbon neutral and printed on recyclable materials WE SUPPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT As an urban development company, landowner and port premises and operations and maintenance work. By & Havn authority, By & Havn is in a unique position and holds engages in dialogue and inclusion which promotes shared a special responsibility in Copenhagen. The decisions ownership in the company’s projects and an understanding made by the company will affect current and future citizens, BY & HAVN’S THE 10 PRINCIPLES UN SUSTAINABLE of By & Havn’s sustainability approach. businesses and guests in Copenhagen for decades into CSR THEMES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT DEVELOPMENT GOALS the future. By & Havn wants to apply and support the principles of human BY & HAVN HAS A LONG-TERM rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Energy efficiency RESPONSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC The 10 principles of UN Global Compact provide great opporBy & Havn contributes to developing the city and housing tunities for us to systematise CSR efforts. of the future and therefore has a big responsibility in terms ENVIRONMENT of ensuring a differentiated and varied supply of housing that The primary focus of the company’s CSR work is aimed at meets the needs of the many Copenhageners who will be the environmental principles of UN Global Compact as this is moving in in the years to come. the area in which By & Havn can exert maximum influence in Green mobility relation to our business activities. However, in the day-to-day Copenhagen faces a series of challenges over the coming operations, By & Havn also focuses on securing human rights, years. More homes need to be built, the infrastructure needs labour rights and anti-corruption. ENVIRONMENT improvement, and climate adjustments will need to be carried out in the city. A potential new islet, Lynetteholm, in Copenhagen Port would help protect the city from future Urban green floods while at the same time enabling development and SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT and blue spaces infrastructure and creation of for future urban development IS A PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY near the city centre. By & Havn operates sustainable urban development in the ENVIRONMENT company’s urban areas via a holistic and long-term approach to the performance of the company’s work. Investments in sustainable initiatives and solutions which promote urban Resource efficiency BY & HAVN SUPPORTS UN GLOBAL life contribute to creating long-term additional value for the COMPACT AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE urban districts of the company and for the Copenhageners. DEVELOPMENT GOALS ENVIRONMENT The development of sustainable urban areas, renting properWith the membership of UN Global Compact, By & Havn ties, parking and port operations must be cost-effective, while intends to continue to support the 10 principles of social also providing for energy and resource efficiency, green Communities responsibility and sound business conduct which is stipulated mobility, Urban green and blue spaces, climate adjustments, & urban life in the programme. architectural quality and community and urban life. By & Havn is committed to strengthening the environment, energyENVIRONMENT By & Havn issues annual reports in accordance with the efficient solutions and climate adjustment in relation to Danish Company Accounts Act, and this report on social the company’s business activities. responsibility describes By & Havn’s work with the company’s Employees, health CSR risks and policies and how we work to fulfil and handle The planning stage includes systematic assessments of the our social responsibility. & safety and labour sustainability of the projects. To minimise risks, a basis of demarket cision is prepared at an early stage for infrastructure investHUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR By & Havn works with our social responsibility based on the ment and urban life projects which enable us to give priority 17 UN global sustainability goals, and we have chosen to focus to projects which contribute the highest value based on an on nine of the goals. In the years to come, we will specify and assessment of financial, environmental and social sustainaAnti-corruption develop the work with the global goals to ensure that our bility, and we initiate and facilitate processes and development efforts are optimised on an ongoing basis. and partnership projects to test and create new knowledge about sustainability and urban life. Large construction and ANTI-CORRUPTION development projects to promote urban life may also be imAnne Skovbro proved via financing by foundations. Managing Director, By & Havn The company also requests that partners apply a sustainable mindset in all aspects from master plans to construction and renovation projects, sales agreements, renovation of rental 2 3 WHO ARE WE? By & Havn develops new neighbourhoods in Copenhagen on a commercial basis. By & Havn’s ownership ensures and runs the Port of Copenhagen. Our ambition is to involve a long-term perspective for the company, and By & Havn Copenhageners in creating high quality healthy, sustainable ensures that the city is not developed plot by plot, but for and coherent new neighbourhoods with room for communithe future – district by district. ties, the good life and a vibrant harbour. By & Havn’s activities finance public infrastructure that makes it easier and more By & Havn is responsible for the development of the neighsustainable to be a Copenhagener. bourhoods and for the establishment of roads and canals, parking facilities, urban spaces and green spaces. By & Havn By & Havn contributes to ensuring that Copenhagen undersells plots to various investors and for general housing progoes sustainable development and that the city is an attractive jects and participates in urban life initiatives from the initial place to live and work. planning stages to the residents have moved in and the neighbourhood has come to life. By & Havn is a development and operations company which supplies long-term and holistic urban development and takes By & Havn is responsible for the port of Copenhagen. responsibility for creating coherent and successful urban disThe port consists of a commercial port with container and tricts such as Ørestad and Nordhavn. cruise terminals operated by Copenhagen Malmö Port AB and a vibrant recreational harbour with swimming facilities, Income from By & Havn’s activities is allocated to public aspleasure boats, tour vessels and other recreational activities. sets, e.g. funding of large infrastructure projects in Copenhagen, including the metro as well as urban spaces, quays, wharfs, parks and initiatives in the new urban districts. By & Havn is jointly owned by the City of Copenhagen (95 per cent) and the Danish Government (5 per cent) and is operated Not commenced In process GOALS & EFFORTS Delayed Goal not achieved Goal partly achieved Goal achieved GOAL ACTION/DESCRIPTION TIME STATUS Communities & urban life Establishment of Det Flydende Aktivitetshus in Nordhavn 2019 Agreement on establishment of Byens Hus in Ørestad Syd. Negotiations on CSR policy Specification of work with UN global goals 2021 Communities & urban life establishment of Byens Hus are ongoing. Agreement is therefore not expected (2019)2020 until 2020 CSR policy Update CSR policy and work with UN global goals 2024 Communities & urban life Construction of Byens Hus 2022 Development of strategy for temporary activities in By & Havn’s development Energy efficiency Re-insulation of the roof at Nordre Toldbod for energy efficiency purposes. Energy optimisation measurement 2019-2021 Communities & urban life 2020 areas Energy efficiency Active participant in Energispring and continued focus on optimisation of energy and water consumption Ongoing basis Communities & urban life Development and establishment of the exhibition site Simian in Ørestad 2020 Ensure that the adopted measures of the company in relation to the action plan Energy efficiency Mapping of preliminary results of energy optimisation in relation to Energispring 2020 Employees, health & safety and labour market 2018-2021 for physical and psychological environment is implemented and effectuated Ensure that the adopted measures of the company in relation to the action plan Energy efficiency Conversion of the ship Portus to alternative and energy-efficient fuel 2021 for physical and psychological environment is implemented and effectuated Development and implementation of a process for mapping and action-taking in Employees, health & safety and labour market 2019/2020 relation to work accidents and/or near misses. Structuring of registration of near Energy efficiency Establish the level for possible DGNB certification of future multi-storey car parks 2020 misses is carried out. In 2020, work will be carried out in relation to mapping and analysis of accidents/near misses Energy efficiency Test project with multi-storey car park for other and reusable purposes 2020-2023 Two to three trainees/apprentices under education. Fulfilled in 2019 Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market two technical design trainees, one finance trainee, one office trainee in 2019. basis Energy efficiency Establish the level for DGNB certification of existing warehouses 2020 Establishment of two-tree temporary jobs (e.g. business traineeship, wage Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market subsidy, etc.) Achieved in 2019 four business trainees, one employee in basis subsidised job Green mobility Drawing-up of analysis of future charging needs and charging patterns for electric cars 2020 Social clauses implemented for relevant tenders and work clauses for large Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market tenders. Achieved in 2019 basis Green mobility Development of strategy for increase in charging facilities in parking facilities 2021 Performance of external audits in relation to work clauses for relevant and large Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market tenders. Fulfilled in 2019 basis Green mobility Horizon 2020. Test of driverless transport 2019-2022 Performance of internal checks of work clauses at construction and follow-up Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market meetings. Fulfilled in 2019 basis Green mobility Sims. Survey of mobility patterns 2019-2022 Mapping of the company’s physical work environment in connection with Employees, health & safety and labour market 2020 restructuring process (mini-workplace assessment) Urban green Development of Naturpark Amager – Architecture competition 2019 and blue spaces Employees, health & safety and labour market Update of staff handbook 2020 Urban green Development of Naturpark Amager Qualification of winning project carried out for processing by authorities 2020 and blue spaces Employees, health & safety and labour market Development of joint standard of values 2020 Urban green Development of green solutions for port operations – participation in work group on planning of a shore 2019-2022 and blue spaces power system for Oceankaj Employees, health & safety and labour market Management development 2020 Urban green Development of green solutions for port operations – drawing-up of a model for shore power system 2019-2022 and blue spaces at Langelinie Employees, health & safety and labour market Development of joint management standard 2020 Urban green Development of green solutions for port operations – participation in work group “Plan for reduction 2019-2022 and blue spaces of emissions from harbour tour vessels” Employees, health & safety and labour market Development of project manager skills and new project model 2020 Urban green Implementation of port strategy – Establishment of partnership for a safe port 2019 Ongoing and blue spaces Employees, health & safety and labour market Max. 3.1 per cent absence due to sickness. Achieved in 2019 basis Urban green Implementation of port strategy – Start of Blå Råd (establishment of three different fora) 2019 and blue spaces Employees, health & safety and labour market Implementation of health insurance 2020 Urban green Implementation of port strategy Indication of interest in relation to user interests Ongoing basis Implementation of diversity policy. Ensuring that the efforts in the 2-year action and blue spaces Employees, health & safety and labour market 2020/2021 plan for diversity policy is implemented and carried out Resource efficiency Approval of pre-certification of Levantkaj. Levantkaj has achieved platinum certification 2019 Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market Gender equality throughout the organisation basis Resource efficiency Drawing-up of DGNB pre-certification of Vejlands Kvarter 2019 Ongoing Employees, health & safety and labour market Avoid reduction of the under-represented gender in the management group basis Resource efficiency Drawing-up of DGNB pre-certification of Stejlepladsen 2019 Evaluation of Supplier Code of Conduct for By & Havn’s partners. Anti-corruption 2019 The Code of Conduct was updated in 2019 Resource efficiency Drawing-up of DGNB pre-certification of Svanemølleholm. The ambition is platinum 2019 Anti-corruption Implementation of Supplier Code of Conduct (code of conduct for suppliers) 2020 Resource efficiency Approval of DGNB pre-certification of Vejlands Kvarter. The ambition is platinum 2020 Start-up and systematisation of audit of Supplier Code of Conduct/code of conduct Anti-corruption 2020 for suppliers Resource efficiency Approval of DGNB pre-certification of Stejlepladsen. The ambition is platinum 2020 Anti-corruption Implementation of code of conduct for employees and executive board 2020 Resource efficiency Approval of DGNB pre-certification of Svanemølleholm. The ambition is platinum 2020 Anti-corruption Update of supplier selection policy 2020 Ongoing Anti-corruption Reports to whistle-blower system. No reports in 2019 basis 6 7 ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENVIRONMENT It is By & Havn’s ambition to reduce energy consumption in BY & HAVN’S RENTAL PROPERTIES be carried out in the summer of 2020. The energy optimisation the new urban districts. This is in full accord with the goal of Energy renovation projects in the company’s existing will be measured after the re-insulation is completed. the City of Copenhagen to achieve carbon neutrality in 2025 as well as the Government’s ambition to reduce the carbon footOUR FOCUS and older business rental properties is an important focus area as existing and older buildings have a high energy By & Havn works with the City of Copenhagen in the partnerprint in Denmark by 70 per cent before 2030. Seen in a historiIn the development of the new urban areas, the consumption. In the years to come, By & Havn will work on ship Energispring, which was introduced in 2016. The purpose cal perspective, around 40 per cent of total carbon emissions planning of the districts can contribute to reducing the implementation of IT tools for mapping data regarding of the partnership is to promote energy savings in properties are caused by buildings, and measures are therefore required energy consumption in buildings. This is achieved energy consumption and behaviour. The mapping and subsein Copenhagen. The company registered seven rental properin this area in order to achieve the overall goals. by planning urban districts with new energy-efficient quent analysis will reveal the potential of the energy-efficienties in 2017, including four warehouses at Sundmolen and buildings and housing units with better use of residency measures. In connection with the building renovations, three administration buildings at Tulipangrunden. All the proEnergy-related renovation of buildings is an important focus tial space compared to traditional properties and in By & Havn will comply with the Building Regulations BR18 jects have focused on optimisation of heating plants. In 2018, area for By & Havn. By & Havn owns 250,000 m² of floorage let partnerships which look for new opportunities to reduand the future BR20. In the business strategy period, the further two buildings were registered in Århusgadekvarteret. in the form of business leases. The buildings undergo renovace the carbon footprint. The large number of new builwarehouses at Sundmolen will be renovated and converted tion on an ongoing basis to ensure maximum reduction of dings have a substantial environmental impact. It is into modern office leases. The warehouses will receive DGNB ENERGYLAB NORDHAVN – A PARTNERSHIP their carbon footprint. therefore important to apply new knowledge about, and certification. In 2020, the level to which the warehouses will Since 2015, By & Havn has been involved in the partnership to research into, energy-efficient new buildings. By & be renovated will be investigated. Energy-Lab Nordhavn, the purpose of which has been to test Havn also experiences a deMan for energy-efficient sustainable heating, cooling and electricity solutions in Nordbusiness leases and works strategically with the reFor some years, By & Havn has carried out energy-efficiency havn. In 2019, the partnership was able to present a series of furbishment of older buildings to ensure that the work in the old main building at Nordre Toldbod 7. The recommendations to politicians and authorities which is to company is competitive on the market for office lea150-­year-old building is listed, and energy renovation must clear the path to a faster green transition. ses and to ensure that the properties have a minitherefore be carried out with due respect for aesthetic and mum negative effect on the environment. listing considerations. In 2020/2021, general renovation will be carried out of the building, and re-insulation of the roof will DGNB CERTIFICATION OF NEW BUILDINGS of 100 percent LED bulbs, of which 2/3 switch off automati­ UN GLOBAL GOALS TO BE Since 2015, By & Havn has worked actively to incorporate cally with permanent lighting only in the central area of the WHAT IS DGNB? DGNB clauses in sales agreements, and the number of contracts which include a DNGB clause has increased steadily. building. A further energy reduction is achieved by leaving 50 per cent of the facades of the multi-storey car park open By & Havn works according to the IMPLEMENTED IN UN17 VILLAGE in order to reduce the use of artificial ventilation of the facility. sustainability certification DGNB. The building project UN17 Village will be built at the south2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2020, it will be examined if future multi-storey car parks DGNB assesses a building project ernmost tip of Ørestad, looking onto Naturpark Amager. UN17 Number of sales 4 20 18 9 10 can achieve DGNB and at which level. or an urban area based on its susVillage is the first building project in the world to convert the agreements concluded tainability in terms on environment, 17 UN Global Goals into concrete action, and it will have apof which DGNB clause 0 5 9 6 10 During the business strategy period (2020-2023), we will social and financial factors. DGNB prox. 370 housing units for approx. 830 residents. Further, the Per centage 0% 25% 50% 67% 100% investigate if multi-storey car parks can be constructed measures e.g. the life cycle of the project includes a bathing hut, a communal dining house and which can be used for other purposes in the future, entire construction project, the extent of the bicycle path an exchange central on a 15,000 square metre plot. It is a condition that the developer achieves minimum DGNB or if they can be constructed from recyclable materials, network, distance to public transport, social meeting gold in connection with the construction of buildings in the etc. Lower car ownership is expected in the future and points, waste management, energy and water consumpUN17 Village is divided into five blocks – each with communal company’s areas. However, in special cases, By & Havn has thus a reduced need for parking facilities. tion, green spaces and biodiversity. DGNB also assesses functions on the ground floor – and the roof surface will have accepted silver certification of a building. the process-related and technical qualities of a building a large greenhouse which functions as a communal room and or an area. meeting place. In connection with the construction of the company’s multistorey car parks, By & Havn imposes the same strict requireBy & Havn has worked with DGNB certifications since ments as for any other building in terms of environment and 2013 e.g. by introducing DGNB clauses in sales agreesustainability of the building and subsequently in the operaments stating requirements that developers must provide tion of the facility. For many years, By & Havn has focused on sustainability certification of their buildings to minimum building and operating multi-storey car parks with a view to DGNB gold certification. reducing energy consumption. Most of the multi-storey car parks are designed with central ramps in order to optimise the traffic flow at the facility. Further, energy-efficient lightning is used which consists 8 9 GREEN MOBILITY ENVIRONMENT The structural plans for Nordhavn and Ørestad will contribute PARTNERSHIPS FOR GREEN MOBILITY to the promotion of green mobility in Copenhagen. By & Havn By & Havn investigates sustainable energy solutions via contributes to the reduction of energy consumption in the transport sector by developing urban areas with good access OUR FOCUS strategic partnerships. Examples are the Horizon 2020 project AVENUE and the SIMS projects. to public transport and good facilities for pedestrians and The ways the Copenhageners move from A to B cyclists as well as short distances to shopping and activities, is under constant development. They use all kinds of • The Horizon 2020 project AVENUE tests driverless busses which will reduce the need for transportation. transport from scooters, electric bikes, bicycles and in Copenhagen, Genève, Lyon and Luxembourg over a metro to plug-in hybrid cars, driverless cars, etc. 4-year period. The test project in Copenhagen is carried out Urban planning must support easy access to – and in Nordhavn, where, supported by a series of partners, the opportunities to use – green means of transportation. company Holo and By & Havn connect Århusgadekvarteret New green mobility forms and the solutions necessary via sustainable, driverless mobility. to enable the citizens to use cars to a lesser extent and bicycles and public transport to a greater extent must • SIMS is a 4-year project on mobility patterns supported be investigated on an ongoing basis in order to take by Innovation Fund Denmark which compares the use of these factors into account in the urban planning procity bicycles, carpools and public transport in Nordhavn, cess. Otherwise there is a risk that the long-term Folehaven and Nærheden (in Høje Taastrup). A partnership plans for the urban districts will not be able to meet has been established between Aalborg University, the City the needs resulting from the constant development. of Copenhagen, Høje Taastrup Municipality and a number of operators. URBAN DEVELOPMENT 10 billion DKK M 2) AND METRO d 9 an 1 Since 2007, By & Havn has contributed to the sustainable (M development of the capital with approx. 15,000 new housing 8 et ro n M to (M3) 7 N units, 13,000 new jobs and approx. 20 billion DKK for susSy ord dh ha 6.9 ge av vn tainable infrastructure. Most of the amount was spent on rin ns (M 6 Fu rt m 4et ) r co-funding the construction of the Copenhagen metro. City he o (M rN 4 or ) 5 Met ro Co rrec d ha vn tio n met 4 4.0 B re se rve ro N if N ordurc s 3 or h at dh av io av ns n c STRATEGY FOR INCREASING ns ve ha tu j a m 2.9 nn n be CHARGING FACILITIES 2 et ro 2.4 el d r, 1.9 M 1,6 1.4 It has to be easy to own an electric vehicle in By & Havn’s 1 urban areas. That is currently not the case on all parameters. 0,7 0.9 0 By & Havn is therefore currently engaged in mapping the challenges facing owners of electric vehicles today and ensuring that it will be easier in the future. By & Havn is currently analysing the future charging needs and patterns which will become the framework of a strategy for the increase in charging facilities in By & Havn’s parking facilities. The strategy is expected to be finished in early 2021. 10 11 URBAN GREEN AND BLUE SPACES ENVIRONMENT By & Havn contributes to promoting green and blue spaces NATURPARK AMAGER in urban areas by establishing green recreational areas and Naturpark Amager is a partnership between the Danish urban spaces which can act as both climate adjustments and natural recreational areas as well as form the basis OUR FOCUS Nature Agency, the City of Copenhagen, Tårnby and Dragør municipalities and By & Havn for the purpose of developing of a healthy lifestyle for the Copenhageners. In the development of urban districts, it is important opportunities for leisure activities in the largest natural area that the districts are created with focus on quality of in Amager. The purpose of this initiative is to encourage By & Havn also develops the city’s urban blue space – life with the urban spaces forming the framework of more Copenhageners to use the area. In close dialogue with Copenhagen harbour. The development of urban green and a healthy life with room for community activities. If a users and citizens, By & Havn focuses on nature and outdoor blue spaces is always carried out via dialogue with residents, framework for urban life is not taken into account in activities and landscape connections between nature and associations and stakeholders. Frequently, the support and the city plans, and if future residents and local players the city e.g. by establishing three new main entrances where development of the urban green and blue spaces is carried are not included in the dialogue on this development, Ørestad borders the nature area and a number of blue out in partnerships. there is a risk that the urban districts will be considefacilities along the nature park and the waters surrounding red excluding and that they will not be perceived as Naturpark Amager. These facilities support By & Havn’s attractive areas in which to work and live. ambition to provide a new and improved framework for social communities and better access to (urban) green and blue spaces for the Copenhageners. BY & HAVN’S PORT STRATEGY PARTNERSHIPS FOR GREEN Copenhagen Port has undergone a gradual transformation SOLUTIONS FOR HARBOUR OPERATIONS from an active commercial port to also being a vibrant recreaGreen port operations solutions are a partnership between tional harbour. In 2019, By & Havn presented the port strategy, By & Havn, Copenhagen Malmø Port and the City of Copenhagen which will ensure that the people of Copenhagen are given for the purpose of improving the air quality for the residents and opportunities for social activities in a well-functioning and neighbours of Copenhagen Port and reducing emissions from safe framework in the areas around the port. By achieving cruise ships in the neighbouring districts. First, this will be done a good balance between urban life and recreational and by planning a shore power system for cruise ships at Oceankaj commercial activities, By & Havn aims to create a vibrant in Nordhavn, which is expected to be finished in 2021. Further, and sustainable port in close co-operation with its users. the partnership will investigate how emissions from harbour The strategy includes various targets, e.g. more blue facilities, tour vessels can be reduced and if a shore power system can a safe framework for the users and the promotion of a sound be established at Langelinie. Finally, there will be focus on port culture. In addition to the three targets, a series of lightestablishing a Nordic partnership aimed at achieving shore house projects will be launched. Among these are new port power in the ports in the Baltic Sea region. regulations, a port app, a port school, port-HUBs, safety and behaviour campaigns, etc. 12 13 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ENVIRONMENT Urban development requires resources. Resources are used CERTIFICATION OF both in the establishment of the urban districts and when SUSTAINABLE URBAN PLANS the districts are put into use. In By & Havn’s work with sustainable urban development, focus is therefore on better use OUR FOCUS By & Havn carries out sustainability certification to DGNB platinum in all new urban areas. By & Havn has decided to of resources. Among other measures, By & Havn does this One of the great challenges of the future will carry out certification according to the DGNB system because by making requirements to developers that buildings must be to utilise limited resources better in order this system offers an ambitious and holistic approach to be DGNB certified to minimum gold level. By doing that, By to ensure environmentally friendly use of resoursustainability. Not only are environmental efforts rewarded; & Havn also requires a life cycle assessment (LCA) for buildces. Resource efficiency and circular thinking the system also rewards financially sustainable development, ings, which includes focus on reducing carbon embodied in has great potential in the development of urban technical sustainability and efforts to create urban quality of the buildings. development. In co-operation with construction life, attractive urban spaces and a good process up to the end industry players, we will keep exploring and result is achieved. We work to promote modern waste management systems testing new methods in relation to e.g. materials and exchange facilities in the urban areas as a short distance consumption in building structures in order By & Havn has carried out DGNB pre-certification of Sund­ to recycling and local recycling facilities may contribute to to remain focused on reducing our overall molen, Trælastholmen and Levantkaj Vest to platinum level. ensure increased reuse of materials. By & Havn requires and environmental footprint. The halfway certification is expected to be carried out when allocates room for test projects in circular economy buildings, the metro opens. The project related to the new urban area e.g. Ressourcerækkerne and Upcycle Studios in Ørestad and at Levantkaj was submitted for pre-certification in April 2019. Provianthuset in Indre Nordhavn. Finally, three new urban areas are in the pipeline: Vejlands Kvarter, Stejlepladsen and Svanemølleholm. Screenings of In By & Havn’s urban areas in Nordhavn and Ørestad, extenthe three areas have been used as a background for the develsive joint parking facilities are established, and thus, the vehiopment of a sustainability strategy which highlights special cles do not take up space on the streets. These areas can areas in which efforts can be made to strengthen sustainable therefore be used for recreational activities. urban development for the respective areas. Pre-certification of these projects is expected in 2020 with an ambition to achieve platinum level. THREE VILLAGES SURROUNDED BY NATURE LAKES AND CANALS Three sustainable ’villages’, each with a local pond, The lakes and canals in Ørestad are distinctive for the will make up the future Vejlands Kvarter in Amager, district and is a living urban space for the residents. Copenhagen. Henning Larsen Architects won the comWater is a scarce and important resource. Even back petition for drawing a master plan for the area where in 2001, sustainable and resource-efficient solutions wood will be the dominant material of the buildings were incorporated in Ørestad. Underneath Byparken and where the facades will be in various materials in Ørestad City, a water purification plant is hidden away such as recycled materials and green facades. The from the public eye. This plant can transform approx. district will include dwellings for families, students 100,000 litres of road surface water into clear water per and senior citizens of Copenhagen, and 25 percent hour. The water supplies the canals in Ørestad, and the of the housing units will be subsidised housing. canal water is so clean that several species of fish thrive in the canals. The canal system has another practical function. In case of heavy rain, the rainwater is led directly into canal sections via concealed pipes. The canal sections are equipped with overflows which drain away the water. For example, in Ørestad Syd, surplus water is conducted to the port via ditches in Kalvebod Fælled. 14 15 COMMUNITIES & URBAN LIFE ENVIRONMENT The new urban districts are developed with an ambition to LEISURE SPORTS IN NORDHAVN create healthy and coherent high-quality urban districts with The leisure sports associations in Nordhavn is under continroom for communities, a vibrant urban life and a living port consistent with local interests and the Copenhageners. The OUR FOCUS ued development. In a partnership with DGI, the Danish leisure sports association, By & Havn has established Nordhavn number of families with children is growing in Copenhagen, It is By & Havn’s vision to create a framework for IF, an umbrella organisation for leisure sports in the area. and so is the number of single-person households and senior social life in the urban areas. However, the company Nordhavn IF has 13 member associations representing a total citizens. It is therefore important to develop urban spaces and is aware that this framework must be promoted and of 15,000 members. urban life which focuses on opportunities for everyday intergiven priority already at the planning stage. A coherent action between the residents of the local communities and urban district is not only about infrastructure and builthe Copenhageners in general. dings, but also very much about how the social dimenDET FLYDENDE AKTIVITETSHUS sion is included and about the distribution of housing In co-operation with Nordhavn IF and local residents, the By & Havn contributes to kick-starting communities by estabtypes to ensure that the districts includes varied and City of Copenhagen and the foundation Lokale og Anlægs­ lishing cultural and sports networks, communal facilities, diverse housing, associations and places to meet fonden, which supports the establishment of leisure facilities land-owners’ associations, etc. and by promoting different which enables the residents to cultivate relations and in Denmark, By & Havn has developed Det Flydende Aktivitethousing types and housing typologies to support and strengthcommunities with one another. shus, a floating activity facility at Sandkaj in Nordhavn. The en local cohesion and good neighbour relations. facility was opened in August 2019, and it supports leisure . activities at Nordhavn with focus on water access and social relations. Det Flydende Aktivitetshus is located at the edge of the bathing zone and includes leisure association facilities and public outdoor areas. The City of Copenhagen has taken over the ownership and administration of the facility in cooperation with the related associations in the area. BYENS HUS IN ØRESTAD SYD TUNNELFABRIKKEN Byens Hus is a residents’ and culture centre which will be Tunnelfabrikken is a novel concept which will be a central developed in close co-operation with residents and other ’player’ and destination in the development of Nordhavn users in the area. Byens Hus will have an area of 2,500 m², from a commercial port area to a cultural meeting point. and the project also includes day-care facilities and approx. It will include art, culture, play, innovation, events, retail trade 85 housing units. In addition to a communal facility for resiand youth housing. Diversity, sustainability and inclusion will dents, Byens Hus will also function as a culture centre for the be the foundation of Tunnelfabrikken. Here people will meet entire district. When the project is completed, By & Havn will and socialise in green surroundings. transfer Byens Hus to the association Foreningen Byens Hus free of charge. FROM BICYCLE PARKING TO EXHIBITION AREA WHILE WE WAIT FOR THE CITY With funding from the City of Copenhagen, funds from – STRATEGY FOR TEMPORARY ACTIVITIES Real­dania’s ”Underværker”, the Danish Arts Foundation, In the development of the new urban districts of Copenhagen, the foundation Det Obelske Familiefond, the foundation By & Havn has worked all along the way to activate temporary Augustinus Fonden, the Amager Vest Local Committee and areas. It is our experience that activation of areas can kickØrestad Home-Owners’ Association the exhibition site Simian start urban life in the areas and help gather experience which will open in 2020 in the old bicycle parking facility under can be used in the establishment of permanent recreational Kay Fiskers Plads in Ørestad City. The bicycle parking facility areas. In 2020, an overall strategy will be prepared for tempowas not used by cyclists, and now, the 1,500 m² room will rary activities in By & Havn’s development areas. Specifically, become a new rendezvous for people and art. we will apply our positive experiences from Ørestad to Nordhavn to initiate a series of temporary pilot projects in co-operation with selected stakeholders. 16 17 EMPLOYEES, HEALTH & SAFETY AND LABOUR MARKET HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR In its work, By & Havn focuses on human rights and labour It remains a target for By & Havn to work to maintain an equal rights, employee welfare, health, safety, diversity, good gender distribution in ther organisation and to avoid reducworking conditions and enhancement of employee skills. OUR FOCUS tions in the number of the under-represented gender in the management team. Further, the Board of Directors also has By & Havn depends on a highly qualified labour a nearly equal gender distribution. The Board of Directors is EMPLOYEE WELFARE market and a stable supply of labour in order to ensure appointed by By & Havn’s owners and employees. By & Havn considers our employees our most important the operation of the company. If we do not contribute resource in terms of achieving the company’s goals, and to the enhancement of skills in the labour market and The employee groups include of 96 salaried employees and the welfare of employees is important to ensure that the to employee welfare, there is a risk that the company 25 semi-skilled workers. The salaried employees are e.g. right resources can be recruited and maintained now and will not be able to recruit competent staff and that our economists, legal staff, urban planners, engineers, maritime in the future. tasks will not be carried out with commitment and staff, property inspectors, clerical staff, etc. The semi-skilled efficiency. staff carries out operations and maintenance of the company’s There is focus on health and safety and co-operation. One development areas and Copenhagen Port. of our employment policy targets is to ensure a high-level By & Havn is committed to social diversity. This comof employee welfare, commitment to their day-to-day tasks mitment should be expected from a public player of and good career development opportunities. By & Havn’s By & Havn’s size, and the company is also aware that goals in this area are described in detail in the staff handbook. cases which arise as a result of challenging basic rights or even breach of legis­lation would affect our To ensure focus on professional and personal development, reputation. annual employee performance reviews (MUS) are carried out. In 2019, internal control tools were developed and implemented to ensure clear direction, purpose, target and, if relevant, THE ENTIRE ORGANISATION skills development for each employee. 2017 2018 2019 HEALTH & SAFETY DIVERSITY In order to further improve the framework for improved By & Havn stresses the safety of employees as well as proBy & Havn believes that diversity in the workplace contributes welfare and to help us achieve our goals, a joint standard moting health and low absence due to sickness. Continued to the development and strengthening of skills. To us, 42% 45.5% 45.4% of values will be drawn up 2020. Joint efforts will be made to efforts are made to ensure a good physical and psychological diversity is to ensure equal opportunities irrespective of 58% 54.5% 54.6% determine – and subsequently adopt – the company’s values working environment in co-operation with the Health and gender, disability, age, skin colour, religion or faith, political for co-operation. Safety Committee and the Co-operation Committee. opinion, sexual orientation or national, social or ethnic origin. Man Woman A further path to improved welfare and a good psychological In 2019, the work on the company’s action plan in relation to In 2019, a diversity policy was issued to draw everyone’s attenworking environment will be developed via focus on managethe workplace assessment continued according to plan and tion to equal opportunities and to reduce the risk of violation ment development. In 2020/2021, a management development is expected to be concluded in 2020. Further, in 2020, the of legislation in this area by the company. scheme will be initiated, and the company’s management physical working environment as a result of significant MANAGEMENT TEAM team will develop and determine a management standard. restructuring of office workspace will also be mapped. The A 2-year action plan specifying the diversity effort of the 2017 2018 2019 work in relation to work accidents and near misses will concompany has been drawn up. The overall focus areas will Further, in addition to the company’s new business strategy, tinue in 2020. Systems have been established for registration be recruitment of staff, equal treatment and non-discriminathe skills of the staff have been developed and strengthened. of near misses, and the mapping and subsequent analyses tion in the organisation and general awareness of diversity in 45.5% 41.7% 36.7% To an increasing extent, a substantial part of the company’s of work accidents and near misses will continue in 2020. management and staff. 56.4% 58.3% 63.3% activities will be carried via project organisation. This will improve the results and efficiency of the company. The skills Via dialogue with employees, the Co-operation Committee At the end of 2019, By & Havn had 121 employees. The of the company have been strengthened, and a new project and ongoing recognition of absence due to sickness in the average age in the company was 48 years at the end of 2019; Man Woman organisation and a project model have been developed. company, there is focus on keeping absence due to sickness 56 were women, and 65 were men. The management team Specifically, a large group of employees is being trained at a low level. The executive board and the Co-operation Comof the company consists of 11 persons, 4 women and 7 men. in project management via an internal scheme. mittee has decided to offer health insurance to all employees By & Havn’s key figures show that there is an equal distri­ BOARD OF DIRECTORS in 2020. The health insurance scheme will provide increased bution of men and women in the entire organisation and security and faster assistance in connection with illness, and a close to equal distribution on the management level. 2017 2018 2019 the company expects that absence due to sickness will fall. Each employee will receive an annual statement regarding 37.5% 28.6% 37.5% absence due to their own sickness or due to sick children. 62.5% 71.4% 62.5% In 2019, the average rate of absence was 3.1 per cent, which is the company’s target. The target is normally based on the per centage of absence due to own sickness issued by the Confederation of Danish Industry. However, in 2020 the target Man Woman will be maintained at 3.1 per cent, which is lower than the target of the Confederation of Danish Industry. 18 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION & POLICIES ATTRACTIVE WORKING CONDITIONS In order to ensure compliance with the work clauses on an By & Havn’s objective is to act in a proper and responsible FOR THE SUPPLIER’S STAFF ongoing basis, internal audits are carried out, and two annual manner via open and transparent processes and decisions By & Havn supports labour rights in contexts which are relevant and possible for the company. By & Havn has chosen to external audits are carried out by an independent authority. In 2019, one deviation was found in one contract. In the case throughout the company’s portfolio. It is therefore important to us to make active efforts to counter risks of corruption and OUR FOCUS focus its efforts in relation to labour rights on making requirein question, a supplier’s sub-supplier was unable to submit nepotism. It is in By & Havn’s interest that employees and supments on suppliers and on enhancing the staff skills. relevant documentation, which constituted a formal breach pliers conduct themselves in a proper manner, and of the work clause. The principal supplier was ordered to pay In 2019, the executive board of By & Havn adopted a code of that By & Havn invites fair and unrestricted competitiBy & Havn wants to co-operate with suppliers who make a penalty. conduct for employees and the executive board which provides on in relation to the performance of By & Havn’s work. active efforts in terms of the influence which their business clear guidelines for their duties and behaviour on behalf of By activities have on society – including decent and good working & Havn. It is important to the company’s reputation that the conditions for their staff. surrounding world sees By & Havn’s processes as The code of conduct deals with the subjects of anti-corruption, open and transparent, and that the company is consiBy & Havn uses work clauses in all large contracts to ensure fair and unrestricted competition, handling of confidential dered professional and trustworthy. that suppliers offer decent employment conditions. This way, information, conflicts of interest, insider trading and the use By & Havn helps to ensure fair pay, hours and other working of e-mail and social media. The code of conduct will be impleconditions. The work clauses form part of agreements in all mented in 2020. relevant tenders for building and construction projects as well as services with a threshold value over DKK 1 million. By & Havn requests that suppliers and their sub-suppliers The use of work clauses is regulated in By & Havn’s ”Work avoid all types of corruption, including bribery and similar Clause Policy”. illegal methods, for obtaining unlawful influence or advantages ANTI-CORRUPTION in relation to their business. The company’s expectations of suppliers in relation to anti-corruption and bribery are described in the guidelines “Code of Conduct for Suppliers”. Further, the policy includes written guidelines for choosing The code of conduct for suppliers has been updated and will suppliers for procurements over DKK 300,000 which are not be implemented from the beginning of 2020. In that conneccovered by the EU tender regulations. tion, systematic auditing will be applied to ensure that the suppliers comply with the code of conduct. Finally, in 2016, the company implemented a whistle-blower scheme which enables employees and partners to report By & Havn’s procurement and construction work is covered suspected illegal actions. No reports were made under the by EU tender regulations and by the Danish Public Procurewhistle-blower scheme in 2019. ment Act and further includes a policy on the choice of suppliers which underlines the fact that suppliers must be chosen on a professional, objective and non-discriminatory basis. 20 21 SEE FILM ABOUT BY & HAVN’S WORK IN SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT
