Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019-2020 PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Table of Contents Letter of Commitment 3 RCP Advisors 4 Commitment to Responsible Investing 5 Human Rights 6 Labor 7 Environment 8 Anti-Corruption 9 RCP Advisors – Contact Information 10 PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 2 Letter of Commitment Founded in 2001, RCP Advisors, a federally registered investment adviser, is a private equity investment management firm that provides access to North American lower middle market private equity fund managers through funds-of-funds, secondary funds, and co-investment funds. Additionally, the Firm provides advisory and research services. RCP is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. With over $8 billion in committed capital and 53 full-time professionals as of June 5, 2020, RCP believes that it is one of the largest, most experienced and respected fund sponsors focused on the lower middle market segment of the North American private equity market. RCP continued to focus on our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives in 2019 – 2020. I am proud that ESG has become a critical principle of our firm and culture. Our “Green Team” heads internal ESG projects, motivating social and environmental progress firmwide. We feel our own imprint on this world can be managed, should be managed. Additionally, we have encouraged employees to consider the well-being of their community by providing them the opportunity to participate in volunteer/charitable giving activities as a group. ESG has been integrated into our investment process. We continue to offer and encourage use of our best practice templated ESG policies not only to our managers, but to all private equity firms. We are also creating research on how private equity ESG conforming deals have performed compared with non-ESG deals. We make the case that ethical decisions and profitability can, should, and do coexist. As much as ESG is an acronym, the three letters are intrinsically linked. As we think about the current environment, we are looking forward to progress on the S – furthering our diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in tangible and meaningful ways. There is much we have done on ESG. And still: there is much for us to do. As Maya Angelou said, “Nothing will work unless you do”. I am pleased to reaffirm RCP’s support of the UN Global Compact. Thank you for taking the time to read our report. Regards, Jon Madorsky Managing Partner ¹ Registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as an investment adviser does not imply a certain level of skill or training. ² Committed capital is calculated based on aggregate committed capital to all funds advised by RCP since the firm’s inception in 2001 (including RCP’s non‐discretionary advisory accounts as well as RCP Funds and advisory accounts that have since been sold, dissolved, or otherwise wound down or are otherwise no longer under advisement by RCP). Does not include assets managed or advised by Columbia Partners Private Capital or RCP’s ancillary products or services. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 3 RCP Advisors – Overview Specializing in North American Lower Middle Market Buyouts Since 2001 $8.5B+ 29 53 in committed capital1 RCP Funds2 full-time professionals3 RCP’S CORE INVESTMENT STRATEGY Invest in top-tier North American lower middle market private equity managers Target primary and secondary funds sized from $250M to $1B Target companies with enterprise values between $10M and $250M PRIMARY FUNDS-OF-FUNDS SECONDARY FUNDS-OF-FUNDS CO-INVESTMENT FUNDS Invest in 10 to 15 managers Purchase quality PE interests Co-invest alongside top managers and lead sponsors in niche market Commit $20M to $35M per manager Original commitments of ~$3M to $30M Target co-investments between $5M and $20M Diversified portfolios by industry, strategy, Target single assets and portfolio(s) of assets on and geography the secondary market Diversification by manager, industry, and strategy 1. Committed capital is calculated based on aggregate committed capital to all funds advised by RCP since the firm’s inception in 2001 (including RCP’s non‐discretionary advisory accounts as well as RCP Funds and advisory accounts that have since been sold, dissolved, or otherwise wound down or are otherwise no longer under advisement by RCP). Does not include assets managed or advised by Columbia Partners Private Capital or RCP’s ancillary products or services. Data as of 6/5/2020. 2. Refers to RCP’s discretionary funds. The figures set forth represent RCP’s preferred ranges with respect to such figures but actual figures may vary due to circumstances at the time of investment. For example, a primary commitment may be less than $20M based on a manager’s capacity for accepting new commitments. Diversification does not guarantee a profit or protect against a loss in declining markets. 3. As of 6/5/2020. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 4 Commitment to Responsible Investing RCP Strives to Align its Operations within Broader Societal Objectives, Including ESG Issues RCP Advisors has a fundamental ethical and investment belief in responsible behavior. We seek to execute this belief across our firm’s culture, general business practices, investment considerations, the general partners with which we invest, and the portfolio companies with which we interface. We have based our ESG Policy, which can be viewed on our website, on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, as delineated throughout this document. RCP has made great strides in ESG-related projects and research this past year. In line with our commitment to improving ESG practices within private equity investing, RCP became a signatory to the UN PRI in September 2019. Shortly thereafter, we distributed an ESG-focused whitepaper that leveraged RCP’s proprietary database to analyze the trends and return payoffs related to investing in ESG-beneficial firms. To activate the research, RCP distributed ESG policy templates to managers wishing to implement or improve their policies as part of RCP’s policy education program. RCP has also upheld ESG standards internally, implementing a composting program in Summer of 2019 and engaging employees in a variety of volunteering opportunities. We stay strongly committed to upholding both responsible investment practices and honest, forward-thinking firmwide policies. We are very happy with the remarkable progress we have made throughout the year, and look forward to improving and augmenting our large arsenal of projects focused on Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 5 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. RCP policies encourage a healthy, positive workspace RCP helps provide fresh, healthy meals to Chicago communities in RCP employees are provided with standing desks to ensure promotion of health, and are need AND minimizes food waste encouraged to walk or cycle during amenable weather conditions. Each employee is provided RCP periodically donates extra food from meetings and weekly lunches through the access to comprehensive health and dental insurance plans. Replate program. These trays are distributed to Chicago communities. Since inception of In November 2019, RCP Advisors hired a Human Resources Manager in order to maximize this relationship, RCP has donated over 300 lbs. of food. company transparency and employee benefits. Our manager has since distributed information regarding RCP’s profit sharing plan, an updated and comprehensive employee handbook, and RCP ensures that managers do not participate in human rights abuses scheduled a session of employee Harassment Prevention training. The HR Manager also pre-investment keeps employees up to date on any maintenance projects in the building to ensure worker awareness and safety. In May of 2020, employees were also invited to attend a 401k RCP works to obtain side letter provisions addressing ESG considerations, including Education Session in order to ensure that every RCP employee understands how to effectively Human Rights protections, with its underlying funds. Although there is no guarantee these invest for retirement. side letters will be granted, in 2019, RCP negotiated a side letter provision in one of our funds that prohibit investments in entities that have, among other things, been “legally or RCP encourages its employees to consider the well-being of our judicially proven in a court or competent jurisdiction to be involved in serious systematic human rights violations.” community by participating in quarterly volunteer activities In Summer 2019, RCP employees helped beautify a Chicago southside community underpass RCP Advisors uses a proprietary ESG tracking process to keep in partnership with the Green Star Movement, a local urban revitalization project. We have managers accountable to not participating in human rights abuses partnered with the Green Star Movement since 2018, and will continue to engage in beautification projects in 2020, contingent on Chicago recommendations surrounding COVID RCP has implemented an automated process that scans through portfolio company precautions descriptions for “trigger words” that categorize all relevant portfolio companies as an “ESG Concern” or “ESG Benefit”, further flagging all companies that may be of Social In Fall 2019, as part of a yearly partnership, we donated essentials and holiday gifts to families concern. Some relevant trigger words are as follows: “Casino”, “Gambling”, “Diamond”, in need as part of the Angel Tree program, and our Partners sponsored the luncheon during “Ivory”, “Para-military”. which we distributed gifts to participating families. Additionally, RCP held a book drive for the Open Books non-profit organization, which helps build libraries and various literacy programs All automatic categorizations are subsequently reviewed by an RCP analyst to eliminate in local schools and non-profits. false taggings or miscategorizations. This process serves as a tool for confirming manager strategy and measuring process with regards to ESG-related sectoral exclusion In Winter 2020, via Koala Hospital Port Macquarie, RCP adopted two koalas, Anwen and Paul, or inclusion. In 2019/2020, RCP expanded its library of trigger words to more accurately that were injured by the fires in Australia in order to help their recoveries. RCP’s Green Team flag potential social concerns. also circulated information about international relief efforts to its employees, encouraging people to connect to various organizations on a personal, voluntary basis. In Spring 2020, RCP hosted various engagement activities with its employees, including a competition for the “Best Quarantine Hobby”, gifting a gift card to local restaurants to the winner in order to help support local business. RCP’s Green Team also circulated information about ways to help support the local community in response to the negative economic effects of the COVID pandemic. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 6 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RCP encourages positive development of human capital through open, RCP stays flexible and responsive to employee needs transparent discourse across levels of management We keep the office plentiful but resource-efficient. Employees are provided with firmRCP holds firmwide Monday lunch meetings to give employees a forum for listening to teamsponsored Monday lunches, a fully-stocked kitchen, trials of snack products, and a variety of by-team updates and contributing to firmwide discussions. Additionally, RCP encourages its coffee options. Keeping environmental considerations in mind, we make sure to order only employees to listen in on its weekly investment committee meetings to ensure full as many options and amounts as employees feel they need, keeping open conversations transparency on its investment process. regarding environmental considerations, healthier alternatives, and changing preferences. Our employees participate in at least annual reviews to guarantee a one-on-one forum for For example, RCP Advisors no longer provides single-serve coffee pods in order to expressing their goals and ideas, learning about growth opportunities, and evaluating encourage reusable options, but we have left a Keurig machine available for use to compensation packages. employees that bring their own pods if they prefer a single-serve method. Each employee has full access to information regarding benefits via the Employee Handbook, RCP has developed a Health & Wellness Committee to ensure which was updated and distributed to all employees on April 20, 2020. Important additions to existing policies include Paternity Leave, Voting Leave, Military Leave, and Illinois Victims’ employees feel mentally and physically engaged Economic Security and Safety Act Leave. RCP implemented several Wellness days in 2019, encouraging employees to take a break from work and engage in various fitness and relaxation activities at a nearby gym. RCP RCP keeps frequent and transparent communication with its employees in continues to encourage wellness throughout the quarantine: since the beginning of workresponse to COVID shut-downs from-home, employees have submitted recipes for a ‘Quarantine Cookbook’ and received links for how to relax and unwind virtually. RCP was an early actor in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, recommending work-fromhome as of March 12, 2020 in order to ensure employee health, and officially closing the office RCP upholds a cooperative, equal-opportunity and discrimination-free on March 20, 2020. RCP worked diligently with its employees to guarantee that everyone had access to policies and technologies to ensure safe and productive work-from-home conditions. environment On April 6, 2020, the HR Manager distributed policies regarding the Families First Coronavirus RCP has enacted an Equal-Opportunity and Anti-Harassment policy that aims to ensure that Response Act, informing employees of emergency sick leave policies. RCP employees also RCP remains a safe and inclusive environment. Employees are encouraged, without received information about various insurance programs to help access healthcare through retaliation, to report instances of harassment or discrimination to their supervisor, virtual visits. RCP’s HR Manager has been working diligently with various team managers as department head, or head of compliance. RCP employees will also be receiving formal well as Building Services in order to institute a safe gradual reopening. Harassment Prevention training in 2020 in order to guarantee a safe and respectful working environment to each employee. RCP has not laid off any employees in response to COVID In addition, we have several Wellness Rooms in our office for taking an undisturbed break, RCP has not resorted to laying off or furloughing any staff during the economic downturn, taking personal calls, breastfeeding, etc. to encourage employees to tend to their needs in a actually adding two personnel to our full-time staff since March. discreet and healthy manner. As of June 2020, RCP is also ensuring that our website is ADA compliant. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RCP has formed a Green Team to head its ESG projects internally, RCP has implemented a climate policy to ensure long-term motivating social and environmental progress firmwide engagement on environmental issues The Green Team, formed in August 2018, is responsible for communicating projects and RCP implemented a Climate Policy in 2019. The Climate Policy is predicated upon three policies firmwide, getting employees involved in various volunteering opportunities, keeping upprinciples: Information, Education, and Action. RCP is committed to staying informed about to-date with local environmentally-focused programs, and implementing behavior-change climate-related rules and regulations, keeping familiar with work done by partner projects that help to reduce waste and increase resource efficiency. Upholding RCP’s organizations such as the UN Global Compact, and actively identifying risks and commitment to flexibility and efficiency, the Green Team actively sources ideas from the rest opportunities. RCP also plays a proactive role in increasing awareness of responsible of the firm. industry practices within both General and Limited Partners, making sure to set good examples as a firm. Finally, RCP takes steps to reduce its carbon footprint by encouraging resource-efficient practices and keeping RCP employees informed and engaged. RCP is committed to reducing waste and increasing efficiency Reducing Waste RCP Advisors uses a proprietary ESG tracking process to keep In 2018, RCP phased out water bottles and installed a water dispensing machine, saving a total managers accountable to not participating in environmental 36,803 plastic bottles to date. In addition, RCP no longer provides K-cups to its employees, instead encouraging use of our coffee carafes, cold brew dispenser, and espresso machine. In abuses 2018, RCP also implemented a double-sided printing default, installed more energy-efficient Refer to pg. 6 for full process explanation. Relevant “trigger words” for the “Concern” printers, and enrolled in R4 Services Green Initiative, a shredded paper recycling program. In categorization in the “Environmental” category include: “Fracking”, “Fuel”, “Mine”, Summer of 2019, RCP partnered with Healthy Soil Compost to replace one of RCP’s trash “Mineral”, “Pesticide”, “Oil”. Relevant triggers for “Benefit” categorization in the containers with a composting container. Within six months of use, RCP diverted 307lbs of “Environmental” category include: “Ecosystem”, “Preservation”, “Recycling”, “Renewable”, organics from landfill, resulting in 221 pounds of carbon emissions lessened and 230 gallons “Soil”, “Sustainable”. of water conserved. Seasonal Flexibility RCP Advisors communicates best practices pertaining to ESG In response to variability in resource demands predicated by seasonal changes, RCP has issues to its network of General Partners (GPs) instituted a number of practices in 2018/2019 to lower resource intensity and emissions. RCP has launched Summer Fridays – closing the office at noon on Fridays in the summertime – in In addition to distributing a research paper analyzing the trends and investment payoffs of order to reduce use of lighting, and other electronic devices. Employees are also encouraged to ESG-beneficial investments, RCP has distributed three sample ESG policies with the aim of lower blinds in windowed spaces in order to ensure more efficient operation of air conditioning helping GPs consider ESG issues in their day-to-day operations and investment processes. systems in summertime. The “Baseline” policy aims to introduce basic ESG procedures to GPs that have not yet considered the practice. The “Comprehensive” policy pushes GPs to be more thorough in Fuel Emissions their ESG-related operating and reporting efforts. The “Reach” policy is intended for GPs To facilitate reduction of fuel emissions by RCP employees, RCP continues to subsidize use of that wish to be industry leaders in ESG compliance and reporting. Each policy is public transportation, and encourages its employees to walk or cycle to work when weather accompanied by a comprehensive checklist of action items to help GPs place themselves conditions are suitable. within the appropriate policy framework. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 8 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RCP has implemented a robust Code of Ethics that prevents bribery, RCP conducts annual compliance training for its employees conflict of interest, and insider trading Employees receive training for various policies, including the Code of Ethics and Gifts and Contributions Cybersecurity, upon commencing work, and subsequently on an annual basis. The Code of Ethics limits the value of gifts that employees can give to and receive Employees must also take compliance surveys to test their understanding of from people or entities with which they have business relations. Employees are RCP’s policies. In 2020, RCP also conducted a presentation on insider trading to encouraged to contact the Chief Compliance Officer with any questions about ability ensure that employees are aware of policies and repercussions. to give or receive a certain gift. Further, gifts of cash or cash equivalents are RCP employees receive a briefing, both via email and during the weekly all-firm prohibited; provided that receipt of a gift card or certificate representing a cash value meeting, any time new policies take effect. Some policies that have been of $50 or less will not require prior approval of the Chief Compliance Officer. instituted or updated since Q2 2019 include the Books & Records Policy, which Employees are also required to receive pre-approval by the CCO prior to making any ensures that RCP employees maintain all investment, internal, and client political contributions. New employees are required to disclose contributions made communication records in electronic form; the Whistleblower & Anti-Retaliation over the previous two years. Policy, which sets the procedure for reporting of violations of RCP’s Code of Ethics; the Social Media Policy, which ensures that no business is done via Confidential Information social media sites; the Investment Allocation Policy, which clarifies the RCP implemented a Confidential Materials and Information Policy in December of allocation process broadly and details RCP’s approach to non-discretionary 2018 in order to ensure that no information within RCP’s purview is mishandled or advisory clients; and the Remote Office Policy, which ensures that workers used for wrongful purposes. The policy prohibits unauthorized use or disclosure of adhere to RCP’s policies and procedures while working in locations other than confidential information, which protects both RCP Advisors and its stakeholders. RCP’s Chicago office. Securities and Transactions RCP Advisors follows news on General Partners closely, recording Securities held by employees are reported annually, and ongoing transactions are any instances of corruption, neglect, or wrongdoing in our reported quarterly. In 2019, we began implementing a process to help employees report securities and transactions easily and reliably through an online portal. RCP database distributes an updated restricted securities list each time a company is added to To prevent doing business with unreliable GPs and discourage irresponsible and ensure that employees are always aware of and compliant with restrictions. unethical behavior, we keep up to date with news surrounding corruption, as well as violation of human rights, labor rights, and instances of material It is RCP’s policy to strictly comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Policies Act and all environmental events (fires, oil spills, etc.). Such events weigh negatively against other applicable laws against bribery and other improper payments. any future relationship RCP may have with a violating GP. PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 9 RCP Advisors – Contact Information CHICAGO ADDRESS: NEWPORT BEACH ADDRESS: DALLAS ADDRESS: 353 N. Clark Street, Suite 3500 1111 Bayside Drive, Suite 270 8214 Westchester Drive, Suite 950 Chicago, IL 60654 Newport Beach, CA 92625 Dallas, TX 75225 PHONE: PHONE: PHONE: Tel: 312.266.7300 Tel: 949.335.5000 Tel: 312.266.7300 EMAIL: EMAIL: EMAIL: rcp@rcpadvisors.com rcp@rcpadvisors.com rcp@rcpadvisors.com RCP VALUES Integrity Proven Returns through Unique Focus and Discipline Proactive, Tenacious, and Focused on Growth Family Orientation Intellectually Curious Client Centered and Transparent PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL – 6/12/2020 Your Private Equity Partner in the Lower Middle Market 10
