SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT Welcome to the Ashmore Group 2020 Sustainability Report. The aim of this report is to provide a comprehensive overview of Ashmore’s approach to sustainability across Ashmore’s business activities. The report is intended for all Ashmore stakeholders but will be of particular interest to clients. This report should be read in conjunction with Ashmore’s Annual Report which is available on the Ashmore Group website at www.ashmoregroup.com Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 2 Contents Foreword from Ashmore Group plc CEO, Mark Coombs 4 1 About Ashmore Group Ashmore’s business Ashmore’s approach to sustainability 5 6 2019/20 significant achievements 7 2 Corporate sustainability Human resources 8 9 Governance 11 Environmental impact 12 Greenhouse gas emissions reporting 12 Carbon offsetting 15 3 Climate risks & opportunities Governance Strategy 17 17 Risk management 18 Metrics and targets 18 4 Investment sustainability Responsible investing policy Investment process 19 20 20 Responsible investing governance 21 Public markets strategies 21 Responsible investing solutions 21 Alternatives investments 22 Stewardship 23 Proxy voting 24 Industry engagements 24 Negative screening 24 5 Societal sustainability Human rights and modern slavery Obsolete equipment 25 25 Ashmore investing in local communities 25 COVID-19 25 United Nations Global Compact 26 6 The Ashmore Foundation Social investing in Emerging Markets 27 28 Current partnerships 28 Emergencies funding 31 Impact first investing 32 Investing in the ecosystem 32 Sustainable development goals 33 Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 3 FOREWORD Ashmore Group plc CEO, Mark Coombs As an Emerging Markets focused investment manager, Ashmore's success has always been dependent on understanding sustainability in the markets in which it operates and invests. The last year has seen an acceleration in our work across the different pillars that encompass sustainability. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought sustainability issues to the fore and we have made significant progress on a number of sustainability and ESG related fronts. Ashmore's investment teams have continued Ashmore is proud to be a signatory to the to embed ESG into investment analysis. We United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). have strengthened our stewardship processes I am pleased to confirm that Ashmore reaffirms and I am pleased to be disclosing engagement its commitment to the ten principles of the activities in this report. The investment teams UNGC in the areas of human rights, labour, conducted a review of our approach to the environment and anti-corruption. Our investing in companies involved in the communications of progress is outlined in production and distribution of controversial this report. weapons, resulting in our updated policy Ashmore's societal sustainability has focused being published in early 2020. on our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At the corporate level, Ashmore became a Ashmore has made donations to support health supporter of the Task Force for Climate-related systems in the UK as well as civil society Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and has groups supporting those most severely committed to implementing the impacted. These remain unprecedented times recommendations. This is an important and and we will continue to assess how best we significant task, particularly given corporate can support efforts in the UK and across the disclosure in the markets Ashmore operates markets in which we operate. in. To set the direction, Ashmore published As we move forward in these uncertain times, a position paper on climate change setting out Ashmore will continue to evolve its approach its process for assessing climate-related risks to sustainability. and opportunities. As part of our broader efforts, Ashmore has established a carbon offsetting initiative in collaboration with the Ashmore Foundation. Mark Coombs Chief Executive Officer September 2020 Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 4 ABOUT ASHMORE GROUP 1 2 Ashmore’s business 3 As a specialist Emerging Markets manager, Ashmore has been dedicated to Emerging Markets investing for more than 25 years. During this time, it has established a diversified range of eight headline investment themes with focused strategies under each theme. 4 External debt Equities The Group’s products are available in a wide range of fund Invests in debt instruments Invests in equity and structures covering the full liquidity spectrum from issued by sovereigns and equity-related instruments daily-dealing pooled funds through to multi-year locked up quasi-sovereigns and including global, regional, structures. Ashmore provides investors with access to new denominated in foreign currencies. country, small cap and frontier opportunities. investment strategies as Emerging Markets continue 5 to evolve. Local currency Alternatives Ashmore’s eight headline investment themes capture the Invests in local currencies and Invests in private equity, broad range of investable and scalable investment opportunities local currency-denominated healthcare, infrastructure, available across the diverse Emerging Markets universe. instruments issued by sovereigns, quasi-sovereigns special situations, distressed debt and real estate 6 and companies. opportunities. Three factors will drive longer-term growth in the Group’s assets under management: Corporate debt Multi-asset • T he Emerging Markets will continue to develop and evolve, Invests in debt instruments Specialised and efficient with broader, deeper and more accessible capital markets issued by public and asset allocation across the contributing to the range and scale of investment private sector companies. full Emerging Markets investment universe. opportunities. • I nvestor allocations to Emerging Markets will increase from very underweight levels currently. Blended debt Overlay/liquidity • A shmore will continue to innovate in order to provide Invests in external debt, Separates the currency risk of local currency and corporate an underlying asset class in access to new investment strategies. debt assets, measured against order to manage it effectively tailor-made blended indices. and efficiently. AuM classified by mandate AuM as invested AuM by investor type AuM by investor geography 2020 (%) 2020 (%) 2020 (%) 2020 (%) n External debt 20 n External debt 38 n Central banks 11 n Americas 23 n Local currency 23 n Local currency 28 n Sovereign wealth funds 7 n Europe ex UK 28 n Corporate debt 14 n Corporate debt 17 n Governments 16 n UK 9 n Blended debt 27 n Equities 6 n Pension plans 29 n Middle East and Africa 17 n Equities 5 n Alternatives 2 n Corporates/financial institutions 22 n Asia Pacific 23 n Alternatives 2 n Overlay/liquidity 9 n Funds/sub-advisers 3 n Multi-asset 1 n Intermediary retail 11 n Overlay/liquidity 8 n Foundations/endowments 1 Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 5 ABOUT ASHMORE GROUP Ashmore’s approach to sustainability Sustainability has been at the heart of It is essential that operations are managed in 1 Ashmore’s philosophy since its establishment. ways that most effectively ensure the As an Emerging Markets focused investment continued wellbeing of the Group’s workforce. manager, understanding sustainability in the Ashmore seeks to ensure that employees work markets that we operate in has been critical in a positive environment, enabling personal to our success. and professional growth and development. 2 The last year has been significant for Ashmore, Ashmore seeks systematically to understand as we have sought to better understand sustainability and aims to ensure its actions are sustainability, what it means to us as a global appropriate, given the priorities and challenges actor, and how we ensure that we respond appropriately across the breadth of our faced across the breadth of its operations in 11 countries. 3 operations to the priorities faced in all the Ashmore’s approach to sustainability and markets in which we operate. Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) is that they should be integrated across the Ashmore recognises the role it plays in deployment of capital and the impact entire Company’s operations. The appointment 4 of a Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration this can have on the sustainability of our planet and the societies we live in. in late 2018 has supported this approach. The impacts of climate change are most acutely felt by companies and Having a resource dedicated to developing and communities in the markets in which we invest. promoting sustainability across the Company has enabled Ashmore to effectively integrate ESG, ensuring accountability for sustainability 5 Ashmore recognises the role it plays in is held across a range of departments. deployment of capital and the impact this can Last year we refined our responsibilities into have on the sustainability of our planet and the three focused areas of sustainability: societies we live in. The impacts of climate change are most acutely felt by companies and Corporate, Investment and Societal. While 6 these pillars are not mutually exclusive, they communities in the markets in which we have provided a framework through which invest. If, as a global community, we are to Ashmore can continue to evolve and advance meet the objectives set out by the United its objectives. Over the last year Ashmore Nations in the Sustainable Development Goals has been able to institute a number of (SDGs), the Emerging Markets hold the key initiatives at the operational and opportunities for the greatest gains. investment levels. Furthermore, Ashmore is acutely aware of the challenges that global inequality and wealth disparity cause. The social investments made by the Ashmore Foundation1 seek to empower Ashmore’s approach to sustainability and and benefit communities at the extreme lower Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) end of these disparities. is that they should be integrated across the As a corporate citizen, Ashmore understands entire Company’s operations. The appointment the responsibility it has to all its stakeholders, of a Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration including but not limited to staff, contractors, in late 2018 has supported this approach. third-party service providers, clients and the wider community. In recent months the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact has reinforced this belief. 1 T he Ashmore Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England (6444943) and is a registered charity in England and Wales (1122351). The Ashmore Foundation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Ashmore Group plc. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 6 ABOUT ASHMORE GROUP Sustainability governs our approach to investments, communities and the environment 1 Corporate Investment Societal Incorporating transparency, Enabling clients to deploy capital Social and impact-first investing fairness, accountability and integrity, in line with responsible investing locally in Emerging Markets into operations considerations communities 2 • Affiliations and membership • ESG factor analysis • Adherence to UK Modern Slavery Act • UNPRI (2013) • Assessment criteria and • UN Global Compact (2019) scoring process • Alignment/contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals 3 • ESG training for investment teams (SDGs) • Policies and processes disclosed • External research/third-party data • ESG • Local social initiatives • Proxy voting • ESG within the investment process • London Crisis at Christmas • Integrated approach • Engagement • Climate change position paper • Consistency across investment • New York Cares 4 themes • Employee volunteering • Environmental impact/climate change • One paid volunteering day • Carbon offsetting initiative • Stewardship/collaborations • Proxy voting and engagement • The Ashmore Foundation* • Recycling and waste management • Emerging Markets philanthropy • Continued energy efficiencies • Climate Action 100+ • Impact-first investing – 5 • Constituent of FTSE4Good Index Series • Climate change concessionary loans • TCFD recommendations • Impact investments • UK Stewardship Code compliant • Managing climate-related risks • Equal opportunities and diversity • Negative screening/exclusions • Employee wellbeing and • Controversial weapons 6 health and safety • ESG funds specific screens • Corporate governance • ESG governance 2019/20 highlights *The Ashmore Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England (6444943) and is a registered charity in England and Wales (1122351). The Ashmore Foundation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Ashmore Group plc. 2019/20 SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS Significant achievements over the past year in relation to sustainability and responsible investing: • Ashmore launches its first dedicated ESG Equity product, • Ashmore becomes a supporter of the TCFD Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund • Ashmore publishes its first position paper on • Ashmore subscribes to third-party ESG data provider Climate Change setting out its approach to reporting Sustainalytics aligned the recommendations of the TCFD • Ashmore publishes its Engagement policy in line with • Ashmore signs up the to the Carbon Action 100+ initiative the Shareholders Rights Directive II • Ashmore establishes a carbon offsetting programme to • Ashmore broadens its approach to involvement in offset its operational emissions controversial weapons and publishes its first controversial weapons policy Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 7 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 1 2 Ashmore’s approach to corporate sustainability recognises the role it plays in wider society and is underpinned by values of transparency, fairness, 3 accountability and integrity across the Group’s worldwide operations. Ashmore Group worldwide 4 • Ashmore office s Ashmore presence n Emerging Markets invested 5 306 employees 6 11 offices worldwide Stakeholder interests Last year the Board identified the following as the Company’s main stakeholder groups. For more information on how the board engaged and the outcome of those engagements, please refer to the Annual Report. Stakeholders Key Factors Clients Delivering investment performance for a diversified client base is critical to Ashmore’s success as a specialist Emerging Markets asset manager Shareholders The support of Ashmore’s shareholders, with an appropriately long-term investment horizon, is important to enable Ashmore to fulfil its strategic growth ambitions Employees Ashmore’s 306 employees are its most important asset, and the Group’s priority is to attract, develop, manage and retain employees to deliver the Group’s potential Society Ashmore recognises the impact its activities may have on wider society, and takes this responsibility seriously Regulators Ashmore’s business comprises global operating hubs and independent local asset management platforms, operating under a number of different regulatory jurisdictions Third-party service providers The efficiency and scalability of Ashmore’s operating platform relies in part on high-quality third-party service providers Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY The nature of Ashmore’s business as an investment manager and its consistent single operating platform mean that corporate sustainability can be considered and understood in a relatively small 1 number of areas, listed below and explained in more detail on the following pages. In recognition of its approach to corporate sustainability, Ashmore is a constituent of the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability equity indices. Human resources In a people business such as asset management, employees are a firm’s most important asset. Ashmore’s responsibilities to its 306 employees across 11 countries are well understood and 2 reflected in its commitments to diversity, career development, health and safety, including workplace benefits, and a remuneration policy that delivers a long-term alignment of interests between employees, clients and shareholders. Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a distinctive culture across the firm, with a strong 3 Governance ‘tone from the top’ that outlines clear expectations, standards and the importance of accountability to employees. In addition to the governance arrangements described in the Corporate Governance section and the Section 172 statement of the Annual Report, corporate sustainability is also underpinned by the following factors: A commitment to upholding high ethical standards across the Group’s operations, and to 4 minimising the risks associated with financial crime. The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management and control. This encompasses a wide range of principal and emerging risks, as described in the Annual Report, but importantly in the prevailing remote working environment it includes the Group’s assessment, monitoring and control of cyber security-related risks. 5 Ashmore has operations in multiple regulatory and tax jurisdictions and manages its business in a responsible and transparent manner. Environment Ashmore’s business is based primarily on intellectual capital so its direct impact on the environment 6 is limited. However, the Group manages the environmental risks it faces responsibly, and described below are specific developments in the areas of GHG emissions, recycling and carbon offsetting. Policy documents Human resources Ashmore has a number of policies and other Ashmore employs 306 people in 11 countries documents that support its approach to worldwide and its employees have always corporate sustainability. These include been its most important asset, at the heart of documents that are for employee use, that are everything it does. The Group’s priority is to made available to the Group’s clients, and that attract, develop, manage and retain this talent are publicly available on the Group’s website, in order to achieve its strategic growth such as those listed below. objectives and to create value for its • ESG policy stakeholders. The success of Ashmore’s • Climate change position paper approach to human resources and its support to corporate sustainability is reflected in the • Supplier Code of Conduct low levels of unplanned staff turnover • Slavery & human trafficking statement (FY2019/20: 8.6%). • Conflicts of interest statement Ashmore aims to have employee policies and • Complaints handling procedure procedures that reflect best practice within • UK Stewardship Code each of the countries where it has a presence, and Ashmore requires employees to act • UK tax strategy ethically and to uphold clearly the standards • Hampton-Alexander review data expected by the Group’s clients. This means having policies and practices that make Ashmore an attractive place to work in respect of the day-to-day operating environment and culture, and also in respect of medium to long-term growth for employees, personally, professionally and financially. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 9 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Diversity performance management is an essential tool Diversity is integral to Ashmore’s culture and in the effective management of its people and 1 therefore it is committed to providing equal business. The performance management cycle opportunities and to ensuring that its workforce comprises setting objectives and an annual reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity of performance appraisal against those agreed the many communities in which it operates and objectives. Output from this performance the 36 nationalities represented by its employees. process is used to assist with decisions on 2 remuneration, career development and progression. Diversity encompasses, amongst other things, experience, skills, tenure, age, geographical Ashmore is committed to internal progression expertise, professional background, gender, of its employees whenever this is possible, to ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation. ensure that it retains the most talented people. Ashmore’s culture is a meritocracy that values The diverse and global nature of its business 3 allows the Group to consider placing talented openness, fairness and transparency and individuals into different business and career therefore there is no discrimination because of opportunities within its worldwide office age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage network, in order to foster their development and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (which includes colour, nationality and and to benefit clients. 4 ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation or any other irrelevant factor. Health and safety Ashmore promotes high standards of health Ashmore recognises that the financial services and safety at work and has a comprehensive sector has historically been a male dominated industry. In attracting the best talent, Ashmore health and safety policy that highlights the 5 Group’s commitment to ensuring employees 36+ is particularly keen to promote gender diversity are provided with a safe and healthy working and seeks to attract female employees. environment. Ashmore tracks gender diversity across all its Number of nationalities offices globally and the Group’s gender balance For example, in London, Ashmore carries out represented across is currently 68% male and 32% female, and regular risk assessments of premises and 6 Ashmore Group across senior management and their direct provides staff with safety training including employees reports it is 82% male and 18% female. the provision of training to fire wardens and first aid representatives. Ashmore also engages Ashmore continues to provide data to the external consultants to carry out regular Hampton-Alexander review, a summary of which health and safety and fire assessments. can be found below and on the Group’s website. There have been no reportable accidents in the Ashmore ranked 96 in the Alexander-Hampton financial year in the UK or overseas premises. rankings of FSTE 250 companies in 2020. 68% Ashmore Group Ashmore operates a zero tolerance policy towards harassment and bullying and has a formal policy that documents the organisation’s Workplace benefits Ashmore recognises the diverse needs of its employees in managing the responsibilities of employees commitment to ensuring employees are their work and personal lives, and believes that treated with respect and dignity while at work. achieving an effective balance in these areas is beneficial to both Ashmore and the individual. Career development Employee health and wellbeing is vital to All employees are provided with a comprehensive sustained performance at work, and Ashmore 32% Ashmore Group induction on joining the business, providing an introduction to the Company’s structure, culture, operations and practices. This includes therefore operates a range of schemes to support employees' physical and mental wellbeing. For example, in the UK, Ashmore employees all elements of compliance issues, an operates an integrated healthcare approach understanding of the key business ethics whereby its private medical health provider and operating within the Ashmore Group, and occupational health clinics work hand in hand to up-to-date information on relevant regulations. promote wellness amongst employees. It also operates a mental health wellbeing scheme, Ashmore recognises that development is a and has a designated Mental Health First Aider. career-long activity and so also supports any professional development or qualifications that Similar healthcare arrangements are also offered will assist employees in maintaining and at many of Ashmore’s international offices. developing their levels of competence. As part of this, Ashmore believes that constructive Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 10 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Remuneration diligence requirements, identifying money Ashmore’s distinctive remuneration philosophy, laundering, suspicious activity and financial crime. 1 described in detail in the Annual Report, is a Ashmore is also committed to ensuring that critical factor in delivering corporate the identity of its customers is verified before a sustainability. It underpins the Group’s culture business relationship commences and is ongoing and achieves a long-term alignment between throughout the course of the relationship. employee remuneration and the interests of 2 clients, shareholders and other stakeholders. Cyber security risks Ashmore recognises that individuals have Information security (including cyber security) different personal requirements dependent on is identified as a key principal risk to the the stage of their life or career. In response to this, it provides employees with a range of business which is subject to Ashmore’s governance, policies and procedures and risk 3 benefits, both non-financial and financial, assessment. Ashmore assesses, monitors in addition to basic salaries. and controls data security risk, and ensures that there is adequate communication between the key stakeholders, which include senior Governance management and IT, human resources, risk 4 Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a management and control, and legal and strong corporate culture employing high compliance departments. standards of integrity and fair dealing in the conduct of the Company’s activities, compliance Ashmore has a layered security model, within with both the letter and the spirit of relevant which multiple complementary technologies and processes are employed. Ashmore staff 5 laws and regulations and standards of good Ashmore’s Board of Directors market practice in all jurisdictions where the undertake mandatory training in matters of maintains a strong corporate Group’s business is carried out. Information Security (including cyber security). Ashmore routinely deploys security updates culture employing high to its systems and undertakes regular standards of integrity and fair Ethical standards vulnerability testing of its networks and 6 dealing in the conduct of the The Board’s aim is to ensure that the Group is systems using a specialist service provider. Company’s activities, fit and proper to undertake its business, to The Ashmore Audit and Risk Committee compliance with both the safeguard the legitimate interests of Ashmore receives an annual report on the Group’s cyber clients and protect Ashmore’s reputation. security arrangements, and the Group has a letter and the spirit of relevant culture of continuous improvement that laws and regulations and While there have been no whistleblowing reports this year, Ashmore considers it important that means that improvements can and do occur standards of good market throughout the year. practice in all jurisdictions there is a clear and accessible process through which staff can raise such concerns. Therefore Ashmore also affirms and/or attests with where the Group’s business it has procedures in place to enable employees key partners on an annual basis that they have is carried out. to raise concerns confidentially regarding not been susceptible to cyber security attacks behaviour or decisions that are perceived to be and vendors have taken all reasonable steps unethical. This includes use of a third-party to continuously monitor and protect themselves agency to provide staff with an independent on cyber security weaknesses. whistleblowing channel and the Senior Independent Director acts as the nominated Tax strategy Board Director for whistle-blowing. As a large, multi-national organisation with a diverse geographic footprint, Ashmore seeks Financial crime risks to create value for its shareholders and clients Ashmore is committed to minimising the risk by managing its business in a commercial, that the firm is used for the purposes of tax efficient and transparent manner, within financial crime, including money laundering, the remit of applicable tax rules and bearing bribery and corruption, fraud and market abuse. in mind the potential impact of its actions To achieve this aim, Ashmore has adopted a on its brand and reputation. Ashmore aims to number of risk-based policies and procedures comply with all relevant tax laws and fiscal for each area of financial crime, as described obligations, including accurate calculation in the Risk management section of the Annual and punctual settlement of tax liabilities and Report. Training is provided to all employees in correct and timely lodging of relevant tax relation to anti-money laundering and countering returns and other required documentation terrorist financing, including customer due with relevant tax authorities. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 11 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Environmental impact Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Ashmore is an investment management In line with the Companies Act 2006 1 company whose business is based principally (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) on intellectual capital and it does not own its Regulations 2013, since 1 October 2013 all business premises. Therefore, the Group’s companies listed on the main market of the direct impact on the environment is limited London Stock Exchange have been required and consequently there are relatively few to report their greenhouse gas emissions 2 environmental risks associated with the (GHG emissions) in their annual report. In Group’s activities. Nevertheless, Ashmore has addition, effective from 1 April 2019, Ashmore a responsibility to manage these risks as Group PLC is also required to adhere to the effectively as possible. mandatory Streamlined Energy and Carbon The Group continues to promote energy Reporting regulation introduced by the 3 efficiency and the avoidance of waste UK government. throughout its operations. Ashmore’s largest occupancy is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, Operational control methodology London where it has a single floor of Ashmore Group has adopted the operational approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine control method of reporting. The emissions 4 storey multi-tenanted building. Electricity usage reported below are for the 10 offices around in London is separately monitored by floor, the world where Ashmore Group exercised with energy efficient lighting installed. direct operational control in the 2019/20 financial year. These office emissions, as well Ashmore acknowledges that air travel is its biggest source of carbon emissions. Its as emissions originating from their operations, 5 business model inevitably requires that are those which are considered material to investment professionals and other employees Ashmore Group. Ashmore acknowledges that travel to countries for research and monitoring purposes. However, wherever possible Emissions scopes air travel is its biggest source employees will avail the use of technology to Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions 6 of carbon emissions. Its minimise air travel. The COVID-19 pandemic associated with Scope 1 (direct emissions) business model inevitably restricted travel in the second half of the year, and Scope 2 (indirect emissions from requires that investment and this has had an impact on Ashmore’s total purchased electricity, heating and cooling) to professionals and other emissions for the year. Additionally, it has be reported. Revisions to the GHG Protocol, employees travel to countries enabled the use of video conferencing facilities, to which this reporting exercise adheres, which will be of benefit to the Group in the require organisations to calculate their Scope 2 for research and monitoring coming years. emissions both in terms of ‘market-based’ purposes. However, wherever Recycling programmes operate for appropriate emissions and ‘location-based’ emissions. possible employees will This information is set out below. avail the use of technology disposable materials. The Company seeks to minimise the use of paper and wherever It is not obligatory to report Scope 3 (indirect to minimise air travel. possible chooses paper stocks that have been emissions from the inputs and outputs to sustainably sourced and are Forest Stewardship the main business activity – i.e. supply chain Council® (FSC) or equivalently accredited. and consumer/end-user related emissions). Ashmore complied with the UK Government’s However, for completeness, Ashmore Group Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) will continue to report on some Scope 3 before the deadline of 5 December 2019, by emission categories in order to offer a wider commissioning a ‘display energy certificate’ picture to stakeholders and investors. assessment of the offices at 61 Aldwych, London. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Exclusions Whilst every effort has been made to collect full and consistent data from all international 1 offices, in some cases information was not available. The following approaches were therefore taken into account for this: • In those instances, where a full 12 months' data was not available, estimation techniques have been applied to estimate missing consumption periods. Where no country data was available for the current reporting year, previous years have been used to estimate 2019/20 2 consumption based on headcount numbers. • A number of offices were only able to provide data for the whole building in which they reside. No sub-metered data was available for each tenant in these cases. In these instances, the share of the total floor area occupied by Ashmore Group was used to apportion the total consumption. 3 • Missing, or anomalous, water data was estimated using an average consumption figure of 15m3 per full-time employee, as sourced from a UK-based water company. This figure is broadly consistent with the average ‘per employee’ consumption of those offices which were able to provide data. • For those offices where the landlord utilities charge was the only possible source of data, 4 energy and water consumption have been estimated using the average governmental utility prices for the respective countries. • Where offices were not able to provide any waste data for their buildings it was not deemed appropriate to estimate this, due to the uncertainties surrounding the varying nature of building sizes, modes of working and cities’ waste disposal infrastructure, amongst other 5 factors. It has also not been possible to make use of data supplied in litres, as the density of the waste is unknown. • Ashmore Group recharges partner organisations for 50% of the flights which are booked for the UK, Singapore and Japan offices. In order to account for this, only half of all the flight mileage booked by Ashmore Group for these offices is included in the GHG footprint. The 6 same methodology is expected to be applied in subsequent years. The USA office recharge rate was confirmed to be 49%. Methodology All data has been collected and analysed in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard2. UK Government 2020 emission factors3 have been applied for all calculations, except the international offices’ electricity consumption, for which the International Energy Agency’s 2019 emissions factors4 have been used. The data inputs and outputs have been reviewed by Ricardo Energy & Environment on behalf of Ashmore Group. 2 h ttp://www.ghgprotocol.org/ 3 All UK related emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by UK Government. https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-company-reporting#conversion-factors-2020 4 All international electricity emissions factors were taken from the International Energy Agency’s statistics report 'CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion' (2019 Edition). Purchased under license. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 13 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Ashmore’s consumption and emissions The overall GHG emissions decreased by 31.9% compared to the last year. This is primarily due 1 to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic which resulted in a reduction in office-based working and air travel. Analysis of the energy efficiency of the new offices demonstrates that more -31.9% energy efficient buildings are joining the portfolio, however the increase in full time employees overrides the potential emissions reductions. Air travel emissions decreased by 46% due to the effects of COVID-19 resulting in a significant 2 Reduction in Ashmore's reduction in air travel during March to June. This category, however, still remains the largest global greenhouse emissions compared contributor to Ashmore Group’s emissions breakdown with 407 tCO2e (59%). to last year The second largest contributor to the GHG footprint, purchased electricity, has decreased significantly this year, due to new offices being more efficient and large reductions in the electricity emission factors, and now accounts for 233 tCO2e or 34%. Waste, water and 3 refrigerants (based on the available data) account for the lowest levels of emissions. Ashmore’s emissions by scope Scope Source Tonnes Absolute Tonnes Absolute 4 CO2e tCO2e CO2e tCO2e 2018/19 2018/19 2019/20 2019/20 Natural gas 34.69 35.14 Scope 1 34.69 35.14 Refrigerants 0.00 0.00 5 Electricity (location based) 223.54 223.54 200.10 200.10 Scope 2 Electricity (market based) 5 223.80 223.80 233.35 233.35 Air travel 748.30 407.48 6 Scope 3 Water 3.93 754.71 3.78 421.25 Waste 2.48 9.99 Total (using market-based Scope 2 emissions) 1,013.19 689.73 Emissions have also been calculated using an ‘intensity metric’, which enables Ashmore Group to monitor how well it is controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in the levels of its activity. As Ashmore Group is a ‘people’ business, the most suitable metric is ‘emissions per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee’. Ashmore Group’s emissions per FTE are shown in the table below. Due to the overall increase in emissions, tonnes of CO2e emitted per FTE has also risen since last year6. Emissions per full-time employee Scope Tonnes CO2e/FTE 2018/19 Tonnes CO2e/FTE 2019/20 Scope 1 0.1 0.1 Scope 27 0.8 0.8 Scope 3 2.7 1.4 Total 3.6 2.4 5 T his figure is based on a combination of market based and location based emission factors. Market based emissions factors were provided for one Ashmore office: Japan. This figure uses the market based emission factor for this office. The UK and Ireland offices uses residual mix figures as supply specific emissions factors could not be obtained. All other offices’ Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the location based factor. This figure is hereafter referred to as ‘market-based emissions’. 6 FTE 2018/19 = 284.5 employees; FTE 2019/20 = 291.5 employees. 7 Using market-based emissions. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Emissions reduction Carbon offsetting Ashmore Group has continued to undertake As part of the Company’s wider efforts to 1 actions to improve the energy efficiency of develop and roll out its climate strategy, in 2019 our sites. This includes: Ashmore introduced a Carbon Offsetting • The continued roll-out of LED lighting Initiative, to compensate for the CO2 emitted replacements where appropriate: through its operational business activities. • Reviewing the weekend and out of hours Ashmore recognises that investing in offsetting 2 control of the plant to confirm nothing is initiatives will not in itself cancel out Ashmore’s mistakenly left on with no demand; environmental impact. Offsetting needs to be • Reviewing the boiler management settings implemented within a broader set of activities and controls to ensure they are set over the long term to reduce Ashmore’s appropriately with regards to the outside environmental impact and contribution to 3 temperature. (including the 2018 boiler climate change. replacement); Ashmore has committed to offset its • Practising good ‘switch off’ practices at emissions (Scopes 1-3) on an annual basis. This all times; report therefore relates to emissions reported • Reduction of air travel and development of in the 2019 Annual Report. Emissions disclosed 4 virtual meetings. in the current reporting year will be offset over the coming year. CO2 emissions at 61 Aldwych (London – Ashmore Group’s largest office) have Ashmore has set its internal carbon price based decreased by 22.2% for the period April 2019 on the recommendation of the High Level Commission on Carbon Prices which estimates 5 to March 2020 when compared to April 2018 to March 2019. 61 Aldwych has exceeded the that carbon prices of between USD 40 and 5% annual emissions reduction target. USD 80 per tonne of carbon dioxide (tCO2) are Furthermore, the CO2 emissions last quarter required by 2020 to cost-effectively reduce emissions in line with the temperature goals (January to March 2020) have decreased by 29.7% against the same quarter in 2019. of the Paris Agreement. Ashmore will review 6 Overall, the building is performing adequately, its internal carbon price on a regular basis with total energy consumption roughly as global best practice evolves. equivalent to the REEB ‘Typical Practice’ Ashmore’s carbon offsetting initiative is benchmark for this type of building. The overall implemented in collaboration with the landlord electricity consumption in Q1 2020 Ashmore Foundation. This approach has been has decreased by 20% when compared to taken because Ashmore believes that for such the same period in 2019. initiatives to deliver sustainable impact, they need to encompass both environmental and social indicators. Ashmore believes that the Ashmore Foundation, with its strong focus on social change, is able to identify and partner the most appropriate initiatives to deliver such objectives.8 8 This approach means that the Initiative is not verified by a third–party certification body. Ashmore will review the requirements for certification over the coming years. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 2019/2020 Initiative 1 IDEP Foundation This year, the carbon offsetting initiative will be implemented by the Indonesian 2 non-governmental organisation IDEP Foundation. Headquartered in Bali, IDEP Foundation develops and delivers programmes on community development through permaculture and disaster-risk management. IDEP have been engaged in agroforestry initiatives with communities living on the edge of forests and national parks, known as buffer zones, 3 for several years. Through this initiative, IDEP continues to expand their multi-approach conservation work in forest buffer zones. 4 The work comprises a mix of climate mitigation, community awareness, forest protection, renewable energy and food security. The specific objectives were to: 5 • Maximise use of 30 hectares of land around the West Bali National Park and protected forest areas for agroforestry • Increase protection and conservation of 330 hectares of protected forest within the buffer zone of 6 West Bali National Park • Increase communities’ skills and knowledge of climate change impact and agroforestry for sustainability • Establish commitment between forest administrators, local government and communities Targets Environmental Social • 3,000 indigenous tree saplings planted • 400 school children with improved knowledge on (Teak, Mahogany, Acacia, Sengon) conservation and climate change • 19.5 tonnes of CO2 absorbed through the planting of • 40 low-income families with improved incomes 3,000 tree seedlings in 30 hectares of forest • 20 families able to produce post-harvest food from (first 12 months only) kitchen gardens • 330 hectares of natural forest conserved • 300 families trained in permaculture and agroforestry over the year approaches and business management • 3,118 tonnes CO2 absorbed through forest conservation (first 12 months only) • 200 families identifying livelihoods alternative to timber activities Ashmore, in partnership with the Ashmore Foundation, is proud to be supporting the IDEP Foundation team in their work with communities to reduce climate-related impacts and develop more sustainable ways of living. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 16 CLIMATE RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES 1 2 Ashmore supports the aims of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), in seeking via voluntary disclosures to provide stakeholders with 3 consistent and reliable information relating to climate change and its effects. This is an ongoing process that will evolve over time. In accordance with the TCFD’s guidance, Ashmore considers climate-related risks and opportunities as they relate to both the 4 Group’s operations and its investment activities, and assesses its current activities and disclosures under the TCFD’s four thematic headings of Governance, Strategy, Risk management and Metrics and targets. Governance Operational The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy and through its corporate 5 governance framework it aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. This includes material climate-related issues. The Board has delegated authority to the executive management who in turn have formed a number of specialised committees with terms of reference to carry out the functions delegated to them. One such specialised committee is the ESG Committee, which has overall responsibility 6 for Ashmore’s sustainability and responsible investing framework across its corporate and investment activities, and has as one of its objectives to update the Board on ESG-related matters including those relating to climate. Investment Ashmore’s investment committees are ultimately responsible for the management of client portfolios. With the oversight of these committees, the Group has integrated the assessment of ESG risks and opportunities, including those related to climate, into its fixed income and equities investment processes. Strategy Operational Ashmore has limited direct exposure to material climate-related risks. Its GHG emissions, disclosed on pages 12 to 15, primarily relate to air travel and its offices and are relatively low given the asset management business model. Through the annual budget process and regular reporting of financial and other management information, the Board maintains oversight of the level of business travel and any changes in the office network. As the regulatory environment evolves, Ashmore will seek to adhere to the TCFD’s principles and to satisfy the requirements of its regulators and other relevant bodies as they relate to the assessment, management and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities. Investment Ashmore’s investment teams engage with sovereign and corporate issuers on a range of topics, both directly and in collaboration with other stakeholders, which include climate-related matters. Disclosure of climate-related data such as carbon emissions by Emerging Markets sovereign and corporate issuers is an evolving area and one in which Ashmore engages with those issuers. The Group is assessing the availability and use of carbon footprint data for client portfolios and relevant benchmarks within the relevant parts of its fixed income and equity investment themes. Ashmore will continue to review its ESG product offering in response to actual or potential client demand. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 17 CLIMATE RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES Risk management Operational Ashmore’s internal control framework provides an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 1 managing the Group’s emerging and principal risks. The principal risk framework includes climate risk and identifies associated controls and mitigants. Further detail is provided in the Risk management section of Ashmore’s Annual Report. Investment 2 Investment committees assess climate risks as part of the ongoing analysis of ESG factors. Ashmore’s fundamental analysis is primarily based on proprietary research, including engagement with issuers to identify potential investment opportunities. Additionally, the investment committees use third-party data to assist in the ESG scoring process. 3 Metrics and targets Operational As required by The Companies Act, Ashmore reports annually on its GHG emissions and the latest disclosures can be found on pages 12 to 15. 4 During the year, the Board examined ways to mitigate or to offset the Group’s carbon emissions. Recognising the importance of travel to its business model and the modest absolute levels of carbon emissions, it has provisionally decided to pursue a combined approach of seeking opportunities to reduce overall emissions levels with an offset strategy involving the Ashmore Foundation in order that any financial commitment can be used to support beneficial activities in 5 the Emerging Markets. This approach demonstrates Ashmore’s cohesive approach to sustainability. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic meant that business travel was significantly curtailed or cancelled in the second half of the financial year, with a commensurate reduction in the Group’s GHG emissions. Investment 6 Ashmore expects its analysis and reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities and associated metrics and targets for portfolio investments will evolve, particularly as Emerging Markets issuers increasingly adopt measures such as the TCFD recommendations. For example, reporting the carbon footprint of portfolios and benchmark indices requires further assessment due to the limitations of current issuer disclosure and the robustness of estimates currently available from third-party service providers. Timeline: recent and upcoming climate-related regulatory developments March 2020 FCA published climate disclosure proposal May 2020 Consultation on EU’s Non-Financial Reporting Directive closed October 2020 Consultation on FCA climate disclosure proposal closes Late 2020 FCA to publish climate-related disclosure requirements aligned to TCFD recommendations December 2022 EU to launch sustainability taxonomy Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 18 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY 1 2 Emerging Markets are commonly defined as any country considered by the World Bank as belonging to ‘low Income’ or ‘middle income’ 3 categories. Under this definition, Emerging Markets countries constitute approximately 80% of the world’s population. As a leading Emerging Markets fund manager, Ashmore recognises the impact its investments can have on the communities and societies in which they are made. 4 The assessment of ESG risks and opportunities has become an increasing area of focus for both asset owners and investment managers. There is increasing recognition that ESG risks and issues can have a material effect on the market value of an issuer’s debt or equity. Ashmore appreciates that industry standards and norms in this area continue to development 5 and that many investors are still evaluating the role that ESG will play in their strategies and portfolios. With over 25 years’ experience investing in Emerging Markets, Ashmore’s investment professionals have developed expertise in understanding broader non-financial metrics and indicators and their impact in generating financial returns they secure for clients. 6 Ashmore recognises that the impact of the investments will vary in breadth and depth across its investment themes. With client and industry focus on investment impact, Ashmore investment professionals continue to strengthen their impact analysis. Ashmore continues to use the spectrum of capital and investment approaches, below, as a framework for understanding impact and the relational link between Ashmore’s investments and the social and environmental impact of the socially-driven investments made through the Ashmore Foundation in countries where the Group has a presence. Traditional Responsible Sustainable Themed impact Impact first Philanthropy investing investing investing investing investing Financial returns driven ESG risk management Environmental and social impact driven Limited or no Negative screening Negative and Sectoral focus Sectoral focus Sectoral focus focus on ESG risks based on ESG risks positive screening addressing social addressing social addressing social or opportunities and/or personal and financial returns and environment and environment and environment in the underlying values drive investment challenges that challenges that challenges where investments selection generate commercial require financial a financial return growth return sacrifice cannot be generated Financial returns Financial returns Financial returns Financial and Social and Social and only and negative social/ and positive social/ positive social/ environmental and environmental environmental environmental environmental some financial returns only screens: assessment: returns: returns: • Weapons • Waste reduction • Clean energy • Social enterprises • Alcohol • Gender equality • Healthcare • Trading charities • Pornography • SRI funds • Microfinance • B-Corps • Gambling Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 19 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY Responsible investing policy Investment process Ashmore’s philosophy is underpinned by a Ashmore has explicitly integrated the analysis 1 fiduciary responsibility to its clients. Central to of ESG factors into its investment processes. Ashmore’s investment process is the ability Responsibility for ESG analysis lies with the to deliver returns in line with clients’ objectives. investment teams, and is undertaken alongside As an integral part of this, Ashmore is committed the traditional economic and financial to enabling clients to deploy their capital in a assessment of an issuer. 2 manner that most appropriately meets their With 98 investment staff dedicated to responsible investing considerations. Emerging Markets, Ashmore has always relied Ashmore has developed a number of core on its proprietary research and the approach to capabilities which are among its distinguishing features. These, combined with a rigorous ESG analysis uses a similar process. Portfolio managers use a variety of external secondary 3 analytical approach in the Group’s investment data sources, which are complemented by processes, can contribute to long-term research visits and meetings with issuers, sustainable returns. which add depth of understanding, and substantiate the secondary data. Ashmore’s ESG policy is available on its 4 website and is reviewed on an annual basis. In line with the process outlined above, in The policy applies to all public markets assessing issuers portfolio managers review strategies and sets out minimum standards. a range of environmental, social and The policy is based on current ESG norms governance factors, including those shown and outlines ESG assessment and engagement processes. Ashmore expects in the graphic below. 5 ESG scores for each issuer are challenged and its approach to evolve as access to robust reviewed during the relevant theme suband reliable data increases. investment committee meetings, where they Ashmore’s ESG policy is available on its are used to help make investment decisions. website. The ESG risk and opportunity is incorporated 6 into an overall view of an issuer through financial estimates and/or the valuation Integrated approach • E SG factor assessment fully integrated into Ashmore’s investment process • The portfolio manager undertaking the financial analysis carries out ESG assessment • Full incorporation of ESG risks and opportunities into decision-making provides a more comprehensive analysis of investments Proprietary methodology • U nified approach and scoring system by issuer in all global public markets strategies – sovereign, corporate debt and equities • Internal research (research trips and meetings with issuers) complemented by external data sources • Portfolio managers complete Enhanced Financial Analysis (PRI Academy CFA Certified) training to undertake ESG assessment Investment decisions • ESG  score for each issuer reviewed and discussed at the relevant theme sub-IC as part of investment approval • ESG scores are reviewed annually at the respective theme sub-IC. Additional reviews triggered on an event-led basis • ESG risk/opportunity is incorporated through financial estimates and/or the valuation assessment ESG governance • S ustainability and ESG integration across the firm led by the Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration • Integration approach and scoring methodology overseen by ESG Committee, chaired by the CIO with representation from each investment committee • Any ESG scores not reviewed for over 12 months will be flagged at the relevant theme sub-investment committee • Stewardship and engagement processes monitored by the Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 20 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY ESG Assessment Factors assessment. ESG scores are reviewed at a steward of clients’ capital. Portfolio managers minimum on an annual basis, but will also be score all issuers using a consistent set of 1 flagged for review on an event led basis. questions and data points to inform their view of an issuer’s current performance in comparison Environment The ESG scores help the investment to ESG ‘best practice’ alongside an assessment committee get a more complete picture of Corporate of the forward-looking performance. Portfolio the investment risk, and identify the instances Global impact and GHG where an improvement in ESG risk profile managers explicitly record their views in a 2 emissions, local impact and dedicated ESG scorecard. may present new investment opportunities. water and waste management, Practically, the ESG analysis of publicly listed incidents of environmental pollution, energy management, instruments takes the form of a scorecard that Responsible investing governance is completed and updated by the portfolio and use of green energy, policies and innovations to Overall responsibility for Ashmore's managers that are responsible for the coverage 3 limit negative impact. Responsible Investing activities lies with the of the specific issuer (more details on the score Board of Directors, which delegate day to day card are provided below). All the scorecards Sovereign responsibility to an ESG committee chaired have been harmonised across the investment Carbon emissions, clean by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). themes. When an issuer straddles different energy/climate adaption The ESG committee meets formally on a themes (e.g. corporate debt and equities), 4 strategies, natural disasters portfolio manager’s work together to complete risk and preparedness, quarterly basis, and has representation from the analysis and review the scores. resource use, and across the organisation, in particular the environmental regulations. Investment Teams, Risk Management, The investment thesis, including the ESG score, Operations, Investor Relations and Distribution. for an issuer is reviewed, challenged and Social Ashmore's integrated approach to ESG agreed at the relevant theme sub-investment 5 assessment means that reviews of all ESG committee. The ESG risk/opportunity is Corporate investment related activities are undertaken incorporated through financial estimates and/or by the Investment Committees and the the valuation assessment. Taken in combination Employee diversity and relevant theme sub-Investment Committees. with other macro and micro-economic risk drivers, inclusion, customer welfare, human rights and community The ESG Committee reviews and ensures the investment time horizon, liquidity considerations 6 relations, labour practices maintenance and integrity of all responsible and the investable universe, ESG risk assessment and health and safety, investment/ESG processes and procedures. therefore has a direct impact on investment supply chain management, decisions and portfolio construction. materiality of philanthropy spend, and product quality Public markets strategies and safety. Responsible investing solutions ESG risk analysis is explicitly integrated into In addition to the integration of ESG analysis Sovereign the bottom up research process across all across all its public markets strategies, Basic needs of population, fixed income and equity strategies. The Ashmore has launched dedicated responsible societal stability, human process is fundamentally driven and the issuer investing products. In February 2019, the development, economic analysis encompasses a multitude of factors, Ashmore SICAV Total Return ESG Fund was freedom, labour rights, including ESG. and inequality. launched. The fund seeks to maximise total Ashmore’s assessment of an issuer’s ability to returns while explicitly integrating ESG manage ESG risks successfully is integral to performance criteria into the strategy, and Governance the determination of fair value (equity) and excluding specific industries as well as poor Corporate fair spread (credit). Both governments and performers according to Ashmore’s proprietary corporate management teams that can assessment and scoring. Transparency and disclosure, demonstrate strong ESG credentials are more governance structure, minority In April 2020, Ashmore added to the range with likely to deliver better economic and financial interests fair representation, the Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity public listing and reporting, performance over time; for example by ESG Fund, which applies the same philosophy management accessibility, growing faster, reducing the cost of capital and and investment approach applied by the EM long-term incentive scheme generally managing risks better compared to All Cap sub-investment committee, but excludes KPIs, and strategies to mitigate their peers. Consequently, ESG factor analysis the impact of ESG risks. specific industries as well as poor ESG stock is integrated into the investment processes performers according to Ashmore’s proprietary in the same way as the assessment of Sovereign assessment and scoring. ESG practices are key macro-economic risk, financial performance components of a company’s sustainability and Progress to sustainability, and credit metrics. growth potential. Consequently, the strategy institutional strength, rule of law, democratic processes, It acts as both a form of risk management and target companies characterised by notably high and corruption. a source of alpha generation. Ashmore also and sustainable returns on capital and strong considers it part of its fiduciary duty as a predictable cash flow generation. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 21 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY Alternatives investments Ashmore’s alternatives theme covers a diverse range of real assets in private equity, healthcare, 1 infrastructure, special situations, distressed debt, and real estate opportunities. As such, the approach to ESG integration is tailored to the context of each market. Ashmore considers relevant ESG issues, and the investee company’s own ESG practices, as part of its due diligence process on prospective alternatives investments. 2 Ashmore’s approach is designed to provide superior risk-adjusted returns by mitigating potential risks and increasing asset value. Wherever possible, Ashmore uses proprietary ESG assessment frameworks, which align to internationally accepted standards, including the PRI and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. Furthermore, Ashmore’s investment teams seek to ensure that its frameworks comply with local regulations 3 and standards. The due diligence process includes identifying the risk category of the proposed investment, analysing specific potential material risks and impacts in ESG areas, documenting best practices within the proposed investment, and evidencing the capacity to implement the required risk mitigation measures considered relevant for portfolio investment. The process concludes with 4 the selection of ESG investment terms, which, once agreed, are written into the investment covenants. 5 AshmoreAVENIDA AshmoreAVENIDA is a real estate company AshmoreAVENIDA, incorporates ESG and acquired by Ashmore in 2018. In the Latin impact factors into investment decisions American region, as is the case in most of the and project management processes, as well world, the real estate sector generally employs as encouraging employees, business partners, large numbers of people at the base of the investors, and clients to tackle the those 6 pyramid. Likewise, it is one of the main challenges. It has developed a proprietary contributors to Greenhouse Gas (GHG) ESG impact framework as part of its due emissions. Thus, there are potential benefits diligence process for all portfolio projects. to be realised in terms of social and In line with Ashmore’s overall approach to environmental contributions from the ESG, the framework aligns with the United real estate industry. Nations Principles for Responsible Investing (PRI) and the IFC Performance Standards, and is integrated within in the general due ESG focus areas SDG alignment diligence process conducted for all portfolio projects. • Water and energy The framework has been designed to assess and mitigate materials risks at the project level, • Waste and recycling as well as maximise positive impacts on the •  Workers and occupation environment and surrounding communities. health and safety The ESG framework also assess ESG and •  Community impact considerations throughout the lifecycle •  Urbanism of portfolio projects, use consistent best practice approaches across target markets, •  iodiversity and protected B commit all third party development partners areas through ESG covenants, and consider risk, • Economic developmental return and impact through a data oriented value methodology. The framework has been designed to assure compliance with local regulations at one level, while in turn allowing the Fund to fill gaps with international best practice. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 22 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY Andean Launched by Ashmore Colombia in 2009, and headquartered in Bogota with an office in Peru, the Private Equity Fund Fund invests in infrastructure projects across the Andean region (Colombia, Peru, and selectively 1 in Panama, Ecuador, Guatemala, Costa Rica and El Salvador). It has made successful investments in subsectors, such as transport, energy, health, education, telecom, and logistics. The approach ESG is framed through Ashmore Group’s broader ESG policy, alongside the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards. Incorporation of ESG into the investment process is central to the funds due diligence and Investment management processes. 2 The due diligence process identifies, evaluates and quantifies ESG risks, which are then managed through a defined action plan. This is laid out in the ‘Environmental and Social Management System’ (ESMS) procedures. In 2019, the Fund’s investment in the education company Redcol, was awarded the best for its social and environmental impact by Colcapital. 3 Stewardship 4 Ashmore seeks to be proactive and engage A third of engagements and dialogues with with issuers, both government and corporate, investee companies centred on the need for to determine how they can improve their improved corporate disclosure of sustainability ESG outcomes. This is carried out as part of issues. In particular, the need for greater an ongoing dialogue with government officials disclosure on environmental metrics related to 5 and company management, and may involve climate change, which also featured in our other key stakeholders. engagements and dialogues on the environment. More recently, with the global This approach helps create a positive feedback spread of COVID-19, our dialogues with loop, whereby investors reward positive performance with a lower cost of capital, and companies have centred on understanding the 6 measures companies are taking to protect access to international capital markets, and Ashmore believes it to be staff and adapt their operations. penalise poor performance with the withdrawal beneficial to its investors to be of capital. Over time, such incentives should Across all alternatives investments, Ashmore active in promoting its brand lead to behaviour changes among issuers in seeks to engage those stakeholders affected locally by improving the favour of more sustainable economic by investment decisions as early on in the development and corporate management project as possible. This approach enables livelihoods of the employees models. As more asset managers implement investment teams to make the most effective in those companies where it similar investment processes, the changes impact, while maintaining Ashmore’s has a significant stake. in behaviour should accelerate across commitment to delivering superior risk-adjusted Emerging Markets issuers. returns. In many cases, Ashmore believes it to be beneficial to its investors to be active in In December 2019, in line with the promoting its brand locally by improving the Shareholders Rights Directive II, Ashmore livelihoods of the employees in those published its engagement policy. During the companies where it has a significant stake. reporting, our investment teams discussed ESG issues with over 80 companies through our public markets strategies. The chart below outlines the specific topics discussed. n Board and committees 11% n Business practices 14% n Disclosure 33% n Diversity 2% n Employee welfare 2% n Environment 21% n Minority protection 7% n Remuneration 10% Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 23 INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY Proxy voting In keeping with Ashmore’s policy on proxy voting, portfolio managers aim to vote on all proxies 1 presented to them. Where they have concerns, they seek to engage with company management and other key stakeholders to address these. Voting summary for the reporting year Total shareholder meetings at which votes were cast 293 2 Number of resolutions voted 2586 Percentage voted with management recommendations 83% Percentage voted against management recommendations 9% 3 Percentage of abstentions 7% Percentage of votes withheld 1% Industry engagements 4 Ashmore believes that to continue to develop best practice, there is a need to engage, collaborate with and draw upon the expertise of peers. Ashmore has been a signatory of the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UNPRI) since 2013. We seek to continuously improve our annual assessment score and deepen our engagement in PRI initiatives. Our 2020 PRI scores can be found below. 5 Category 2018 2019 2020 Strategy and Governance A A A Listed Equity – Incorporation B B A 6 Listed Equity – Active ownership C B A Fixed Income – Sovereign B B A Fixed Income – Corporate B A A Signatory of Property – B A Infrastructure – A A In 2020, signed up to the Carbon Action 100+ investor initiative that seeks to ensure the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters take necessary action on climate change. Ashmore looks forward to participating in the initiative in the coming years. We continue to identify appropriate initiatives that will enable us to meet global best practice on those issues and themes that are important to us and our stakeholders, as well as wider industry initiatives that contribute to better investment practices and global growth and development. Negative screening Ashmore believes that investments which do not meet minimum standards should be excluded from client portfolios. Ashmore seeks to comply with applicable government authorities, and, at a geographical level, screens across all investment against the UN Security Council and EU/UK Sanctions and the US Office of Foreign Assets and Control lists. Ashmore is able to customise client portfolios to meet specific requirements for geographic, sector and stock specific restrictions, such as alcohol, animal/food products, armaments manufacturers or dealers, gambling, pornography, tobacco and coal. Controversial weapons Ashmore restricts investment in companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and maintenance of controversial weapons. The scope and breadth of this restriction is outlined in Ashmore’s Controversial Weapons policy. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 24 SOCIETAL SUSTAINABILITY 1 2 Ashmore recognises that being a member of the global community brings with it responsibility to act in a manner that benefits wider society. 3 This responsibility is particularly acute in the markets in which Ashmore operates. As such, Ashmore seeks to behave in a manner that positively impacts not only its investors but also its employees and the communities in which it invests. 4 Human rights and modern slavery enabling employees to take one day annually to support charitable projects. Ashmore supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ashmore has developed a Supplier Code of Ashmore employees drive local volunteering initiatives and take part in a range of activities 5 Conduct that applies to all suppliers that to support disadvantaged communities in provide goods or services to Ashmore, and their local vicinity. outlines the basic ethical requirements that Ashmore continues to make an annual suppliers must meet in order to do business with the Group, including affording employees donation to homeless charity Crisis, in support 6 Ashmore employees drive of its Christmas card campaign, as well as the freedom to choose employment and not an annual donation of foreign coins and local volunteering initiatives using any form of forced, bonded or banknotes to the Alzheimer’s Society. and take part in a range of involuntary labour (including child labour). activities to support disadvantaged communities Obsolete equipment COVID-19 in their local vicinity. Ashmore provides obsolescent computers The emergence and rapid spread of the to Computer Aid International. Computer Aid COVID-19 pandemic saw unprecedented is a UK registered charity that aims to reduce changes to every facet of our daily lives. In poverty through practical ICT solutions. addition to prioritising the health, safety and Computer Aid sends these PCs to various welfare of employees globally, Ashmore projects across Africa and South America has sought to respond to societal pressures and furnishes Ashmore with details of where that the pandemic has surfaced. they are used. Any units that are not usable In the UK, where Ashmore is headquartered are disposed of in an environmentally and home to almost half of its employees, friendly fashion. a donation of £250,000 was made to NHS Charities Together to support the work of the Ashmore investing in local NHS, with a focus on frontline workers, communities patient care and community social services. Ashmore recognises the positive impact it can Additionally, Ashmore committed to matching have on the communities where it operates all employee donations made to charities and is committed to creating lasting benefits supporting the COVID-19 relief effort. Based on in those locations where Ashmore has a employee contributions, in the UK donations presence. Beyond support for the Ashmore were made to NHS Charities Together, Children Foundation, employees across all offices and in Need, and the Trussell Trust. In the US, subsidiaries are encouraged to engage with donations were made to New York Presbyterian, and support local community projects. This the Robin Hood Foundation, Jewish Support commitment is reflected in Ashmore’s policy Services, and Homes with Hope. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 25 SOCIETAL SUSTAINABILITY Ashmore India made donations to a number of vulnerable communities. Furthermore, a local Mumbai hospitals, in response to appeals number of investee companies have donated 1 to support the procurement of COVID related food (solidarity lunches and nutritional packages) medical equipment. This was supplemented by and biosecurity kits (masks, alcohol wipes, personal donations from individual staff. antibacterial gel) to the communities and authorities in their local areas. Ashmore Colombia made a donation to Colombia Cuida Colombia, which was used to Ashmore wishes to thank all employees for 2 support the Association of Food Banks of the generous donations made to support Colombia, which seeks to improve the those most in need at this time. distribution of food, goods and services to United Nations Global Compact 3 The UN Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The UN Global Compact is a voluntary initiative that provides a framework for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment 4 and anti-corruption. Ashmore became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2019. Ashmore's affirmation of its commitment in including in the CEO's foreword on page 4. Communication on Progress In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and 5 daily operations. Area of focus Description of actions Measurement of progress Human Rights • Supporter of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights There were no reports of incidents 6 (see p.28) of bullying or harassment during • Modern slavery and human trafficking statement the year. published on website There were no health and safety • Commitment to ensuring employees are treated with Incidents or breaches during respect and dignity while at work (see p.10) the year. • Commitment to ensuring employees are provided with a safe and healthy working environment (see p.10) Labour • Gender diversity tracking across all offices. Ashmore has appointed two Data submitted to the Hampton-Alexander review female Non-Executive Directors (see p.10) and continues promote gender • Supplier code of conduct to maintain a strong corporate diversity across the organisation. culture employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing published on website • Commitment to staff personal development through ongoing training (see p.9) Environment • Established initiative to offset all reported operational Ashmore has taken measures to CO2 emissions (Scope 1-3) (see p.17) reduce emissions at its largest • Supporter of the TCFD and disclosure aligned with location, this includes the TCFD recommendations (see p.18) installation of LED lights and efficient temperature management • Published position statement on climate change resulting in a 22% reduction in on website emissions. Anti-corruption • Policies and procedures covering each area of Staff receive ongoing training on financial crime (see p.11) various aspects of financial crime. • Whistle-blower policies and procedures in place There have been no incidents reported during the year. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 26 1 2 The Foundation was established in 2008 and seeks to make a positive and sustainable difference to disadvantaged communities in the 3 Emerging Markets in which Ashmore operates and invests. To achieve this objective, the Ashmore Foundation aims to develop long-term relationships with locally based non-government organisations (NGOs). 4 The Ashmore Foundation In September 2019, 33 Ashmore employees functions independently of from Dublin, Jakarta, London, New York, Ashmore and is registered in Singapore and Tokyo participated in the the United Kingdom as a Ashmore ‘Triathlon’. Split into three teams, charity and company limited they cycled, hiked/ran and canoed over 5 by guarantee. It is staffed by 168 kilometres in 12 hours raising over a full time Executive Director USD 109,000 in support of the Foundation who is responsible for and its charitable partners. managing the Foundation’s affairs. The board of trustees consists of seven Ashmore 6 employees, including a plc Board member, Jennifer Bingham, as well as one independent trustee. In addition to the board of trustees, Ashmore employees are encouraged to engage directly Above: in the governance of the Foundation through Team Asia having completed their trusteeships and involvement in sub-committees. Challenge at Siem Reap, Cambodia. Ashmore supports the Foundation’s charitable Top right: activities through the provision of pro-bono Team Europe at the summit of office space, administrative support and a Pen y Fan, Brecon Beacons, matched funding commitment for employee Wales. donations to the Ashmore Foundation. The Bottom right: Ashmore Foundation is supported solely by Team America at the start of their Challenge in the Catskill Mountains, Ashmore and its employees globally. Crucially, New York State. this support from employees extends beyond financial aid to active engagement with NGOs through mentoring and helping them expand their network of contacts. Ashmore employees organise a range of events from wine tastings to cake bakes to raise funds for the Foundation. Employees organise challenge events in support of the Foundation and over the years have summited the UK’s three peaks, Mounts Toubkal and Kinabalu, cycled from London to Paris and walked the length of Hadrian’s Wall. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 27 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION Social investing in Emerging Markets The Ashmore Foundation’s approach is The Ashmore Foundation supports civil society 1 underpinned by the belief that, while economic through social investments, grant donations growth continues in the Emerging Markets, and concessionary loans in those Emerging many communities, particularly those in rural Markets countries in which Ashmore Group and isolated locations, remain locked out of this invests and operates. The Foundation seeks to prosperity. Social and economic inequalities develop long-term partnerships with civil 2 continue to increase and communities lack the society organisations and does not accept skills and resources needed to participate fully unsolicited applications, preferring to identify in economic development. appropriate partnerships pro-actively. Civil society organisations typically receive between The Ashmore Foundation believes that with the right support, the most marginalised and USD 20,000 and USD 50,000 per year over a 3 two to three year period. disadvantaged communities can grow and prosper. The Foundation therefore focuses its All proposals for new partnerships undergo social investment strategy on programmes a rigorous assessment designed to review that aim to equip people with the skills and not only the proposed activities, but the resources they need to increase their livelihood organisation as a whole – taking into 4 opportunities, enabling them to meet their consideration management, governance, basic needs while also supporting economic strategy, resources and accountability. The level growth and beginning to address broader and depth of due diligence is proportionate to societal inequalities. the size of the grant under consideration. 5 Current Partnerships Since its inception in 2008, the Ashmore Foundation has dispersed over USD 6.7m to over 70 civil society organisations in 25 Emerging Markets countries. It has developed a 6 number of longstanding strategic partnerships; below are examples of organisations that received support during the year. Aangan Trust Studies have found that exclusionary practices cause children from socially and economically disadvantaged groups to drop out of school. Those who manage to remain in school experience Partnership established: 2013 discrimination and exploitation. Girls are at particular risk of dropping of formal education, Country: India adolescence is particularly risky for girls, caught between family and community pressures. Through this partnership, Aangan seeks to address the safety of school aged children through the establishment of school safety hubs in 124 schools in West Bengal. These hubs will work at the intersection of the school and the community, working with staff, families, adolescents and government officials in a coordinated effort to ensure children’s safety both in the school and in the community, transiting between home and school. Aangan hope to extend the programme to over 400 schools over the course of the next three years. Children Change Twenty percent of all young people in the Colombian penal system are located in Bogotá. Colombia The vast majority are from the most marginalised neighbourhoods, lacking support networks and experiencing violence. There are no guidelines to help young people access follow up Partnership established: 2017 support after release. In practice, neither state institutions nor the centre operators offer this Country: Colombia type of accompaniment. This project implemented in partnership with their local partner, Tiempo de Juego, prepare the young people for a safe and fulfilling return into families and communities, to reduce the risks of violence, substance abuse and involvement in crime, and overall to reduce the likelihood of returning to the institutions. It will do this by improving access to services within institutions, and improving links to services available upon release. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 28 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION CRRECENT Established in 2004, the Child Research and Resource Centre (CRRECENT) develops and Partnership established: 2017 implements programmes that promote the rights of children and young people across Ghana. 1 Since 2010, the organisation has been engaged in activities to improve the juvenile justice Country: Ghana system. In partnership with the Prison Service of Ghana and Ghana’s Department of Social Welfare they have been implementing a rehabilitation and reintegration programme for children and young people as they are discharged from Juvenile Correctional Centres. Through this partnership, they will work with children and young people as they are discharged 2 to help them reintegrate into mainstream society. They will support them to return to their families and communities where possible and help them to enrol into apprenticeship programmes or formal education. Through their schools programme they will also work with children at risk of entering the juvenile justice system. 3 Fair Trade USA Fair Trade is a market-based approach that connects producers, businesses and consumers to create shared value across the supply chain. Fair Trade USA’s goal is to advance income Partnership established: 2017 sustainability, well-being, empowerment and environmental stewardship in communities. Country: Philippines 4 In the Philippines, 41 per cent of the 3.5 million coconut farmers live below the poverty line (average household earns USD 355 annually). Yet coconut products are one of the country’s top exports with growing consumer interest in coconut water, oil, and beauty products. Global demand is rising at over 10 per cent per annum while regional supply is increasing at 2 per cent per annum. 5 Fair Trade USA began certifying coconut farmers in the Philippines in 2013, and to date have certified eight producer groups comprised of over 5,700. Through this partnership they will scale the programme to an additional producer group (over 1,000 farmers), support current farmers to maximise the impact of the programme, and increase sourcing commitments from processors, buyers, manufacturers and distributers. 6 Fundación Communities, and young people in particular, in the regions south of Bogota have been on IED-VITAL the frontline of the armed conflict, as well as drug production and trafficking industry for years. They have been abandoned by the national government and lack infrastructure and access to Partnership established: 2016 public goods and services. This has resulted in high poverty levels and a disempowered Country: Colombia population. The regions are rich in natural resources but without the necessary skills and opportunities, it is difficult for communities to tap into and capitalise on these resource to generate income. Through this partnership IED-VITAL works with 350 young people aged 16-24 years old, assessing skills and mapping current income activities. They work with young people to access formal accredited business skills training and support required to set up and grow their own businesses. Fundación Fundación las Golondrinas was established 25 years ago in Llanaditas, Medellin to improve the Las Golondrinas quality of life, development, and economic opportunity to support social transformation for communities. In Colombia, the conflict has resulted in the increased movement of people from Partnership established: 2017 rural to urban areas, seeking safety and opportunity. One such area is Villa Hermosa which lies Country: Colombia in close proximity to downtown Medellin on a hillside. It has a population of 136,000 with almost 60 per cent of the population between 16 and 46 years old. Unemployment is one of the biggest issues; it currently stands at 12.2 per cent. Fundación Las Golondrinas have been working with the municipal authorities to address unemployment levels. They are establishing a centre for technical training and entrepreneurship to enable people to prepare enter the employment market. They will develop and deliver four skills training programmes, set up job placements with local companies and support students to set up and grow their own small businesses. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 29 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION Lend a Hand India In rural India there is a significant disconnect between the education delivered and skills Partnership established: 2013 needed for the employment market. This programme aims to address this issue through the 1 use of a three-year skills development programme designed for students aged 14-17 years. Country: India The programme focuses on 40 skills covering four core areas of training. The programme results in improved school attendance and young people equipped with the right skills to get a job or set up their own business. Through this partnership LAHI will extend the programme to include an internship placements, offering students the 2 opportunity to get real life work experience. LAHI’s model not only challenges the rote method of learning applied across India but also imparts learners with broader comprehension and analytical abilities; it also provides rural young people with viable post-secondary career options, in turn reducing the need for rural to urban migration. The skills that young people learn 3 through the programme are also applied in the home and are often transferred to parents. LAHI’s approach is also helping to challenge entrenched gender stereotypes in rural communities. 4 Minga Perú Minga Perú work with communities in Peru’s Loreto region, spread across 37 million hectares in the Peruvian Amazon. Most of the region is remote with access limited to boats. Its isolation Partnership established: 2017 and lack of access to basic services has resulted in half the population living in extreme Country: Peru poverty. A quarter of all children under five are malnourished and 70 per cent of the population are unable to access adequate sanitation. Domestic violence, teen pregnancy, and gender5 based and sexual violence are widespread. In response, Minga Peru has developed and aired radio programmes addressing critical social issues. Through this partnership, Minga Peru will produce and broadcast 58 new programmes dealing with issues raised by listeners. They will run educational workshop and support 6 communities to develop income-generating activities. Nneka Youth Nneka Youth Foundation seek to address the issue of educational attainment of children in Foundation Ghana. Young people face multiple issues and have few opportunities that result in them discontinuing formal education beyond primary school. Currently, a third of all students Partnership established: 2017 enrolled in junior high school dropout. Country: Ghana Nneka works with young people to remove the obstacles that stop them from progressing, providing learning opportunities that build skills and resilience. They do this through the provision of educational and life-skills, building opportunities for young people who might be underserved, overlooked or otherwise at risk of falling behind in school. Nneka runs a series of programmes including summer camps, mentoring, teacher training, and financial literacy in Hohoe district. Salva Terra Salva Terra work to ensure food security and livelihood development for smallholder farmers and their families. They do this by providing farmers with technical knowledge and skills and Partnership established: 2017 raising environmental conservation awareness. The conflict in Colombia has played a key role in Country: Colombia the levels of poverty and inequality. Rapid gains have been made in reducing poverty in urban areas. However, approximately 42 per cent of the rural population continue to live below the poverty line. Working through government education centres, Salva Terra provide rural families with improved knowledge and understanding of nutrition, crop production and entrepreneurship. They work with smallholder farmers to increase their yields and will connect them to markets enabling them to get a better price for their produce. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 30 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION Visayan Forum Established in 1991, Visayan forum works to address modern day slavery and works with Partnership established: 2017 victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. In the Philippines, 60,000-100,000 children 1 are involved in prostitution; 80 per cent of which are girls under 18 years old. The country has Country: Philippines become a global hotspot for cybersex and online sexual exploitation of children and young women. There are approximately 2.1 million child labourers, 60 per cent of which work in hazardous conditions, suffering physical, sexual and psychological abuse. Trafficked from rural areas, they remain invisible, falling through government mechanisms. 2 For the last 26 years, Visayan Forum has been at the forefront of action against human trafficking and child labour in the Philippines. Through partnerships with government, Visayan Forum has rescued and sheltered almost 20,000 survivors and at risk young girls. Support from the Ashmore Foundation will enable them to continue operations, rescuing survivors and providing them with comprehensive support as well as pursuing legal action against abusers 3 and perpetrators. Unltd Indonesia Unltd Indonesia’s mission is to develop a support system that enables social enterprises in Indonesia to flourish. They provide financial and technical assistance to social enterprises 4 Partnership established: 2015 across Indonesia. They do this through an incubation programme where they work with early Country: Indonesia stage enterprises to help them to develop their business models, and put in places strategies and structures necessary to grow the organisation. Alongside this they provide the most promising organisations with short term loans for working capital. They also introduce social enterprises to potential investors and donors. Unltd Indonesia are also engaged in developing 5 the social enterprise ecosystem across the country and the Southeast Asia region. 6 Emergencies Funding In addition to the main partnership grants In order to support communities and civil programme, the Ashmore Foundation supports society partners, in April 2020, Trustees those communities in Emerging Markets approved a ring fenced sum of USD 100,000 countries that have been affected by natural to support former and current grantees as disasters and humanitarian emergencies. they are impacted and respond to COVID-19. Trustees will continue to assess the impact Since March 2020, the rapid spread of the of COVID-19 on plans for future periods. COVID-19 virus has significantly impacted the way people conduct their day to day lives. This is particularly the case for communities in Emerging Markets. Daily wage and migrant labourers have lost their livelihoods and disruptions to the supply chain mean that farmers have been unable to sell produce. Moreover, government restrictions have suspended or diverted the interventions of many of the Foundation’s civil society partners, severely impacting income. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 31 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION Impact first investing The Ashmore Foundation recognises that some social impact organisations will be generating 1 revenue through their activities. To achieve their objectives these organisations often require working capital to grow and scale. In 2016, the Foundation began making programme related investments in organisations whose work aligns with its charitable objectives. The Ashmore Foundation recognises that different types of capital deployed to a range of 2 organisations along the investment spectrum can generate positive impact aligned to its charitable objectives. To this end the Foundation has sought to identify appropriate impact first investment opportunities within both the public and private markets to enable it to deploy as much of its resources as possible to generating positive societal outcomes for Emerging Markets communities. 3 Impact first In 2016 the Foundation began making programme related investments in organisations whose investments work aligns with its charitable objectives. Information about Ashmore’s current impact first investments are listed below. 4 Root Capital Root Capital is a non-profit 501 (c)(3) registered organisation that seeks to improve the lives of rural farmers by connecting them with the formal economy. They supply agricultural Partnership established: 2016 Country: Various Latin America businesses with financial capital and training to help them grow. These businesses purchase 5 crops such as coffee, cocoa, or grains from thousands of smallholder farmers. They then and Africa connect members to formal markets and support them to improve their farming practices. CoSchool CoSchool SAS is a B-Corp operating in the education sector in Colombia. They seek to 6 develop socio-emotional skills so that young people feel, think and act in a collective manner Partnership established: 2016 empowering them to achieve their personal goals and lead positive change in their Country: Colombia communities. They design and deliver high quality education programmes based on innovation, social challenges and uniting different social backgrounds. The loan will enable CoSchool to scale their business. Unltd Indonesia In addition to the grant awarded to Unltd Indonesia during the year, a repayable grant was issued to support a loan scheme, providing short term working capital loans for the most Partnership established: 2015 promising social enterprises that they incubate. The repayable grant will be returned to Country: Indonesia The Ashmore Foundation at the end of the 12 month period. Investing in the ecosystem The Ashmore Foundation believes in the In the coming years, The Ashmore Foundation power of social enterprises and impact driven will continue to identify impact first investment organisation to drive social change. Since opportunities that enable it to support impact inception, The Ashmore Foundation has driven organisations to grow and sustain collaborated with enterprise incubators and themselves while actively benefiting broader accelerator programmes that enable societies in the Emerging Markets. The organisations to prove their model and Ashmore Foundation will continue to draw accelerate growth. The Ashmore Foundation upon the resources of Ashmore Group, and its currently partners with Unltd Indonesia to depth of knowledge of the Emerging Markets support early stage social enterprises. to support the implementation of its impact first investing strategy. Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 32 THE ASHMORE FOUNDATION Sustainable Development Goals To formalise its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 1 their achievement by 2030, Ashmore became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2019. Ashmore believes that its experience and engagement in the Emerging Markets enables it to contribute concretely to the achievement of a number of the goals. Ashmore recognises that global development and sustainability issues are complex and will 2 require continued investment and collaboration if they are to be achieved. To this end, Ashmore will continue to develop our process for assessing how we can most effectively contribute to their achievement. Set out below, are the ways in which Ashmore’s investments and social investments through the Ashmore Foundation over the last five years have contributed to the achievement of the SDGs. 3 Ashmore’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • USD 183k invested to provide over 1000 children • USD 100m investment in healthcare infrastructure 4 and their families with improved nutrition and in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia food security • USD 10m investment in oncology and • USD 500k to provide financial capital, training diagnostics clinics in Morocco to improve practices and access to formal markets to smallholder farmers across • USD 33m invested in healthcare infrastructure and facilities in Colombia 5 South America and sub-Saharan Africa • USD 164k to provide skills training for young • USD 135k invested to shelter over 100 young people living in informal settlements in Colombia girls rescued from online sexual exploitation 6 in the Philippines • USD 75m invested in education infrastructure in Saudi Arabia • USD 151k invested in safeguarding for girls travelling to and from, and while at, school • USD 10m investment in largest school network in Colombia with aggregate student body of 6,000 • USD 87.5k invested to support social • USD 149m invested in improving transportation entrepreneurs in Indonesia infrastructure across Colombia • USD 210k invested to improve technical and • USD 29m investment in the construction skills training and provide internship opportunities of 136km power transmission lines in for school aged children in India northern Colombia • 100 children and young people in Colombia • USD 63m investment in waste management supported to reclaim public spaces from gangs (reduction, recovery and recycling) in Saudi Arabia • 19,277 low income housing units built in Colombia Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 33
