Sustainability Report 2019 HEXPOL in brief We help customers worldwide to secure critical applications with advanced polymer solutions HEXPOL is a world-leading polymer group with strong global market positions and customers who impose rigorous demands on quality, security of supply and research and development. HEXPOL’s strengths are its locally rooted entrepreneurial spirit, excellent market awareness, cutting-edge knowledge and development capabilities in advanced polymer compounds and its global platform. The Group is organized into two business areas, HEXPOL Compounding and HEXPOL Engineered Products, which, between them, cover a total of eight product areas. HEXPOL generates annual sales of 15.5 billion sek and has 5,061 employees at 52 units in America, Europe and Asia. Most of the units are complete organizations with their own sales, product development and production. SALES 2019 OPERATING PROFIT* 2019 EARNINGS PER SHARE* 15,508 MSEK 2,242 MSEK 4.93 SEK (13,370 MSEK) (2,150 MSEK) (4.78 SEK) Sales Operating profit* MSEK MSEK 20,000 2,500 2,000 15,000 1,500 10,000 1,000 5,000 500 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Adjusted for non-recurring items. Table of contents Selected targets and outcomes 2019 ... 2 Environmental responsibility ......... 12 Polymers and other chemical products ....... 15 Corporate responsibility ..................... 4 Core technologies, products and Emissions to the atmosphere .................... 16 Focus on important issues .......................... 4 environmental aspects .............................. 12 Waste ...................................................... 17 Sustainability strategy ............................... 5 Environmental legislation ......................... 13 Good for the environment Environmental management systems ......... 13 – good for business .................................. 18 Open communications ................................ 6 Energy use ............................................... 14 Accidents and complaints ......................... 18 The basis for sustainability work ................ 6 Water consumption ................................... 14 Creating value for stakeholders ................... 8 Objectives and performance measures ........ 11 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO comments on the year CEO comments on the year Welcome to HEXPOL’s Sustainability Report 2019. It is our aim to present information in a transparent and informative way and therefore report according to best practices based. The report focuses on material topics and activities in line with stakeholder concerns. It describes policies, risks and results of the Group’s material topics regarding the environment, social issues, employees, human rights and anti-corruption. HEXPOL is a signatory to the UN Global Compact since industry is dependent on fossil raw materials, and it is 2017 and complies with its ten principles for responsible hard to foresee any paradigm shift concerning the business. The Sustainability Report is our annual composition of rubber materials in the near future. Communication on Progress about how we live up to, However, in our TPE business we can observe a rapidly and work with, these principles. growing interest among customers in bio-based and recycled compounds. Our products Dryflex Green and Integral part of business Dryflex Circular have been well received and I am convinced that this will create business opportunities. Sustainability cannot be seen as an independent part During the coming years we will continue to find ways of a business. Waste of natural and human resources is to reduce HEXPOL’s carbon footprint, and to actively the enemy of both sustainability and profitability, and contribute to other sustainability challenges. resource-efficiency is therefore integrated into all parts Finally, I would like to thank our employees, customers, of our business. For an industrial company, such as suppliers and shareholders for your confidence and HEXPOL, improved sustainability performance must be cooperation during 2019. Responsibility for environment seen as a stepwise process. Our raw materials and base and people is an important part of our continual devetechnologies do not change overnight, but in a ten years lopment process and an important part of our long-term perspective many small steps contribute to progress. business strategy. Just to mention a few examples; we use energy in a more efficient way, we use more and more fossil-free energy, Malmö, Sweden, March 2020 the use of recycled raw materials has increased, and bio-based raw materials have been introduced. Peter Rosén Acting CEO and CFO Challenges and opportunities The progress is, of course, positive and rewarding, but there are many remaining challenges. The polymer Social responsibility .......................... 20 Economic responsibility ................... 24 About the Sustainability Report .... 32 Employees ............................................... 20 Finance 2019 in brief ................................ 24 Scope and boundary ................................. 32 Human rights .......................................... 20 Sustainable development and finance ........ 24 Reporting principles ................................ 32 Diversity and equality .............................. 20 Combating corruption .............................. 25 GRI Index 2019 .................................... 34 Knowledge and skills ................................ 21 Financial value for stakeholders ................ 25 Global Compact Health and safety ...................................... 21 Sustainability-related risks ............ 26 – Communication On Progress ...... 38 Social involvement ................................... 22 Highlights during 2019 .................... 28 Definitions ............................................ 40 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 Targets and outcomes 2019 Selected targets and outcomes 2019 Clearly-defined sustainability targets demonstrate how the HEXPOL Group generates continuous improvements over time. The targets are well-rooted and have been integrated into the business units of the decentralized organization. Energy GWH/MSEK 0.04 The key figure GWh/sales shows how efforts to increase Target reduction energy efficiency are developing. 0.03 Comments on 2019: n Work involving energy surveys and measures 2019 -6% 0.02 to increase efficiency continued. n The installation of energyefficient production equipment, LED lighting, infrastructure and energy 0.01 monitoring equipment contributed to more efficient energy consumption. 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Climate Tons/MSEK 15 The key figure tons CO2e in relation to sales shows how efforts to reduce the impact on the climate from Target reduction energy consumption are developing. 10 Comments on 2019: 2019 -1 % n The use of biofuels, purchasing of green electricity and energy optimization are reducing emissions of 5 greenhouse gases. n These measures are partly being counteracted by increased operations in countries where purchased 0 electricity is derived from fossil sources. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Occupational accidents/ million worked hours Safe work environment 20 The key figures accidents resulting in absence from work Target reduction LWC/million hours worked shows how preventive work 15 environment efforts are developing. 2019 +1 % Comments on 2019: 10 n The preventive measures implemented in the operations in the US and Mexico have had a positive impact. 5 n Following the improvement in accidents frequency in 2018, the outcome of the year was basically unchanged. We are continuing our efforts to reduce the number of 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 accidents. 2 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Targets and outcomes 2019 Sustainability in a ten-year perspective Area Key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Environment Compliance Number of material breaches of laws and 3 2 3 1 2 2 4 1 3 0 permits during the year Energy Energy use (GWh) 417 379 379 355 309 313 275 258 264 147 Energy use/net sales 0.027 0.029 0.031 0.033 0.030 0.035 0.034 0.032 0.037 0.039 (GWh/MSEK) Climate CO2 emissions from 145,800 125,600 140,700 142,900 117,400 114,900 108,500 100,500 100,400 47,700 energy use (tons)* CO2 emissions/net sales 9.4 9.5 11.5 13.1 11.4 12.9 13.5 12.6 14.0 12.6 (tons/MSEK) Water Water consumption (m3) 1,106,300 718,000 734,800 884,300 700,300 684,100 570,700 450,200 452,100 394,600 Water consumption/ 71 54 60 81 68 77 71 56 63 104 net sales (m3/MSEK) Waste Waste (tons) 26,500 23,100 22,000 19,800 16,000 14,800 14,500 14,900 18,000 8,500 Waste/net sales 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.5 2.2 (tons/MSEK) Raw materials Recycled/biobased 8 15 15 18 1 3 2 2 2 3 polymers (% of total) Management ISO 14001 certified plants 76 97 92 89 93 96 88 88 62 81 system (% of total) People Employees Number of employees 5,061 4,454 4,326 4,028 3,858 3,493 3,411 3,112 3,41 2,133 (avarage) Compliance Number of material breaches of health and 3 0 0 1 0 2 0 1 2 0 safety legislation Health and Accidents – lost work safety cases (number/million 12.9 12.8 15.2 15.1 15.9 14.3 10.0 12.6 19.1 15.0 worked hours) Diversity Female on the Board (%) 57 57 57 43 29 29 17 17 17 14 Female in local 18 18 14 15 12 11 10 10 10 10 management teams (%) Training Training of employees 32 26 22 19 23 22 16 15 10 6 (hours/employee) Management ISO 45001 certified plants 9 11 11 9 7 7 7 0 0 0 systems (% of total) Code of conduct Reported breaches of human rights – 2 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 diversity (number) Economy Economic value distributed among 3,357 2,989 3,658 2,559 2,366 1,743 1,431 1,338 1,192 620 stakeholders (MSEK)** Taxes paid (MSEK) 466 516 441 515 550 388 306 294 253 97 * Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions according to the GHG Protocol ** Value distributed to suppliers, e.g. raw material expenses, is not included HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Through preventative and targeted efforts, we seek to reduce our environmental impact and meet stakeholders’ requirements and expectations with regard to sustainable development. The environment, employees, social commitment and business ethics are therefore natural components in our day-to-day work and strategic planning. We are convinced that investing in innovative products that have a reduced impact on the climate will generate environmental and business benefits. Focus on important issues The Materiality Analysis generates an understanding Within the framework of the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001/ of which areas are particularly important to our stakeISO 45001 and ISO 50001 standards, our manufacturing holders and for the Group’s business strategy. It forms companies endeavor to identify and manage issues relaa basis on which to set priorities, targets and plans ting to environment, health and safety, and energy. This of action in sustainable development. As in previous involves not only identifying risks, but also looking for years, the highest priority areas are the application of opportunities within sustainable development. Analyses good business ethics, meeting customers’ demands and of risks and opportunities, combined with requirements expectations in sustainable development, and ensuring and expectations from a range of stakeholders, provide that HEXPOL is a good employer. Other key areas include the basis for the Materiality Analysis. This is based on energy efficiency, climate impact and safe handling of sustainability reporting standards (GRI) and provides hazardous chemicals. Hidden within the topic “polymer the background for which areas are examined in greater products in a lifecycle perspective” is the current debate detail and which GRI indicators are used. The end of the on the role of plastic packaging materials in society. report (pages 34-37) contains a list of the GRI indicators The ambition here is to continue developing products to which we refer. containing a significant proportion of bio-based and/or Materiality analysis High 1. Good business ethics 2. Customer requirements in sustainable development 4 2 1 3. Attractive employer Significance for HEXPOL’s business strategy 4. Legal requirements in sustainable development 5. Use of chemical products 8 7 3 6. Polymers in a life-cycle perspective 18 9 7. Energy and climate 5 6 8. Secure and educational work environment 9. Sustainability issues in connection with acquisitions 14 11 10 10. Suppliers’ sustainability work 11. Social commitment 12. Emissions to air and water 15 16 13 12 13. Sustainability issues in developing countries 14. Equality, human rights 17 15. Soil contamination 19 16. Environmental impact of transport 17. Requirements from investors 18. Waste 19. Disruption to surroundings (noise, smells) Medium High Significance for HEXPOL’s stakeholders 4 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate responsibility recycled raw materials. For a handful of the key areas, Examples of activities Group-wide targets and key performance indicators are applied. HEXPOL influences and is influenced by its stakethat contribute to sustainable development holders (customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, society) who express requirements and expectations with regard to sustainable development. The perception of which stakeholders are significant, and what they 2014 n Supplier Sustainability Guideline introduced. consider important, builds on experience and business n Sustainability objectives updated. relations, as well as on events during the financial year. n Update of Materializing Our Values – whistle blowing. The dialogue with stakeholders takes several formats n Work to achieve environmentally compatible product and includes development interviews with employees, development continues. n Successful energy-efficiency projects implemented. customer satisfaction surveys, meetings with analysts The ISO 50001 energy management system introduced. and partnerships with customers, suppliers and contractors. n Additional units ISO 14001 certified. How HEXPOL adds value for its stakeholders is described n The use of biofuels is increasing. on pages 8–9. Strategy for sustainable development 2015 n Supplier Sustainability Guideline implemented and The strategy for sustainable development generates more than 800 suppliers evaluated. fundamental conditions for business operations. Lifen Energy-efficiency measures and continued introduction of ISO 50001. cycle perspectives on raw materials, processes and n Dryflex Green introduced – TPE from renewable resources. products, preventative environmental and work environn Carbon impact reduced through increased use of biofuels. ment measures, and the application of good business n Group-wide training in business ethics conducted. ethics, are examples of areas of strategic importance. An issue of increasing importance is the development of products with a reduced impact on the climate. The 2016 n Group objectives were linked to the UN Sustainable long-term strategy aims to: Development Goals. n Reduce the Group’s risks and costs through preventive n Focus on efficient use of resources – energy, materials, waste. measures, risk assessments and investments in effective n Community engagement through activities in local technical solutions. communities and contacts with schools and universities. n Generate business opportunities through responsible n Update to ISO 14001:2015 began. conduct, and by developing resource-efficient production n Continued education in business ethics. methods and products. n Apply a goal-oriented and systematic approach aided by certified management systems in the areas of the 2017 n HEXPOL participates in the UN Global Compact environment, quality, work environment and energy. at signatory level. n Good outcome from energy optimisation trough n Ensure we are an attractive employer and an active energy audits and technical measures. corporate citizen. n Increased use of fossil-free electricity and biofuel. n Ensure we apply sound business ethics and prevent n Several activities together with schools and universities. corruption. n Continued good results from the Health & Safety Program in USA/Mexico. n Safeguard open communications regarding targets and outcomes in sustainable development. Governance and follow-up 2018 n Environmental management systems updated according to ISO 14001:2015. Sustainable development is part of the Group’s strategic n Positive trends concerning energy efficiency and planning and budget process. The Corporate Board carbon footprint. frequently reviews the progress of the sustainability n Increased interest in DryFlex Green and other environment-friendly products. work and approves policies, strategies, and major n Update of the Code of Conduct – Materializing Our Values. investments in sustainability-related issues. The Chairn Reduced number of workplace accidents. man of the Board is responsible for the governance of sustainable development at the Board level. The CEO has the overall responsibility operational aspects of 2019 n The TPE product portfolio now contains Dryflex Green sustainable development. The practical work is decen(bio-based raw materials) and Dryflex Circular (recycled raw materials). tralized with managers within the Group’s companies n Update of the Supplier Sustainability Guideline. being responsible for policies, targets and results. The n HEXPOL:s sustainability work was scored high activities are followed up by Group management through by the financial journal Dagens Industri. dialogues with the companies’ management and through n Increased energy-efficiency at several plants. internal and external audits. In connection with the Sustainability Report, an in-depth analysis is conducted of compliance with legislation and how targets, performance HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Corporate responsibility and key performance indicators develop over the year. in commercial contacts with customers, suppliers, At the Group level, matters related to strategy, risks, competitors and distributors. Deeper guidelines are follow-up and sustainability reporting, as well as provided in a detailed Compliance Program, in which sustainability issues, are addressed in conjunction all managers in the Group confirm with their signatures with corporate acquisitions. that they are complying with the rules. The managers participate in compulsory training programs in the Open communications area. There is zero tolerance of non-compliance in HEXPOL aims to provide shareholders, and other players respect of business ethics. on the capital market, with relevant information that n Whistleblowing empowers all employees to sound the offers a basis for accurate valuation of the Group. The alarm, bringing irregularities concerning the Code of objective is to apply a candid and factual approach and Conduct to the attention of the Board of Directors and provide a high level of service in financial reporting. company management. This is aimed at strengthening confidence in the n The Global Compact entails the Group having undercompany among existing and potential shareholders. taken to support ten fundamental principles in respect The Group complies with customary accounting of human rights, labor conditions, environmental policies, applies internal controls and drives processes to consideration and anti-corruption. Global Compact ensure that accounting and reporting comply with legiis an initiative by the UN. slation, ordinances and listing agreements. We apply a n The Sustainable Development Goals are applied in policy of transparency in its reporting and, in line with formulating the Group’s targets. the Group’s Communication Policy, provides well-founded, n Management systems for the environment, quality, comprehensive information to the market. Corporate work environment and energy have been introduced governance is described in the Corporate Governance at the production facilities. The standard for social Report in the Annual Report 2019 on pages 57–63 and responsibility (ISO 26000) provides guidance in is available at www.hexpol.com. All published financial Group-wide sustainability work. information is also available on the website, as are n Supplier Sustainability Guideline guides the company’s presentations, press releases, financial statements, suppliers in environmental and work environment annual reports and sustainability reports. matters, human rights, business ethics and the supplier’s value chain. Reporting of sustainability performance GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is applied as a standard Materializing Our Values for sustainability reporting. In the area of climate, a HEXPOL’s most important business objective is to separate report is submitted in accordance with the create profitable growth and by doing that the long-term Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Reporting of climate success of the Group is ensured. To be able to grow and data is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). In develop the business we must demonstrate a responsible accordance with the requirement in the Global Compact, and accountable approach. The commitments in an annual report is submitted to the UN and sustainability Materializing Our Values are deeply rooted in our culture data (ESG: Environment, Social, Governance) is presented and strategy, meaning that we strive to limit the Group’s at the Nasdaq Listing Center. The sustainability work impact on the environment and to offer a secure and is reviewed regularly by independent institutions, stimulating work environment for all employees worlduniversities and investors, and expectations regarding wide. It is equally important that HEXPOL is associated transparency and measurable performance have increased with credibility and healthy values in the contacts with considerably in recent years. In the Swedish financial customers, suppliers and other interested parties. newspaper Dagens Industri’s ranking of “Sustainable companies 2019” HEXPOL placed second in the category “Materials”. The basis for sustainability work Laws, guidelines, standards, global objectives and voluntary initiatives form the foundation for sustainability work. The Group’s fundamental values are applied in the same way in all operations worldwide: n Materializing Our Values is the Group’s Code of Conduct and functions as an ethical compass in matters involving legal responsibility, accounting, conflicts of interest, working conditions, the environment, social responsibility and business ethics. The Code of Conduct also contains policies within the environment, work environment and other areas. n The Business Ethics Guidelines guide employees in Materializing Our Values is primarily based on the matters concerning what is and what is not permitted Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Inter6 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate responsibility national Guideline for Social Responsibility (ISO 26000). programs in the area. There is zero tolerance of We recognize the fundamental principles of Human non-compliance in respect of business ethics. Rights, as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Online training courses are implemented, which Rights (UN), the eight core conventions defined in the includes an examination on international legislation Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work (ILO Declaconcerning cartels, competition and prohibited forms ration), and other relevant conventions and guidelines. of business cooperation. So far, more than 150 managers Materializing Our Values is also based on laws and and employees in purchasing and sales attended the regulations that are applicable to public companies that training. are listed at the Swedish stock market. In a number of areas covered by Materializing Whistleblowing Our Values, a practice of zero tolerance is applied to The whistleblowing system empowers all employees to non-conformity. This applies, for example, to the need blow the whistle to bring irregularities concerning the to comply with legislation, to respect human rights, code of conduct to the attention of the Board of Directors the prohibition of bribery and other forms of corruption, and company management. and the fact that competition law must be complied During the year no cases were registered. with. In other areas, the code of conduct provides an approach that is based on preventive measures and Management systems continuous improvement, such as in the environmental The concept of continuous improvement is an integral and work environment areas. feature of the corporate culture and encompasses many The Board of Directors, the CEO and the Executive areas. Product quality is a key competitive factor, and Management Team have the overall responsibility for the systematic quality work is conducted in accordance ensuring that Materializing Our Values becomes a natuwith the requirements of the international standard ral feature of the way to work. In the daily operations, ISO 9001 and various industry standards. All units are the responsibility rests with managing directors and all certified according to ISO 9001 and continuous improveother managers at HEXPOL. The role of the individual ment is a fundamental requirement of the quality manaemployees in the practical application of the values is gement system. The purpose of quality work is to ensure very important. The Annual Report and the Sustainability the right quality, fulfil safety and legal requirements and Report outline how work related to these values is to exceed customer needs and expectations. For this reason, progressing. customers and suppliers are frequently involved in the Materializing Our Values – together with the package development of new products or changes in existing of policies and guidelines – provides guidance and products. support and shall be applied in the same way wherever we Within the management systems ISO 14001, ISO 50001 are in the world. You can find the document on our weband ISO 45001, continuous improvement is a core concept site www.hexpol.com. To order printed copies, please and the manufacturing units work systematically with contact the Group Headquarters at info@hexpol.com. targets and follow-ups. The Group also applies continuous improvement system such as 5S, Kaizen and Lean Business Ethics Guidelines manufacturing. Several of the units within Engineered This document guides the employees in matters concerning Products, is working according to the integrated manawhat is and what is not permitted in business contacts gement system HEPS (HEXPOL Engineered Products with customers, suppliers, competitors and distributors. Production System), a concept first introduced at the Deeper guidelines are provided in a detailed Compliance Group’s facilities in Sri Lanka. HEXPOL Compounding in Program, in which all managers in the Group confirm USA apply the HEXPOL Continuous Process Improvement with their signatures that they are complying with the Model. The system contains eight powerful components rules. The managers participate in compulsory training that helps us collaborate with customers to measure and MATERIALIZING OUR VALUES PEOPLE, ENVIRONMENT AND BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS ETHICS GUIDELINE* FINANCIAL IT DATA COMMUNICAINSIDER EQUAL ENVIRONHEALTH SUPPLIER POLICY** POLICY** PROTECTION TION POLICY AND OPPORTUNITIES MENTAL & SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY POLICY POLICY GUIDELINES POLICY POLICY POLICY GUIDELINE * Supported by a Compliance Program relating to Competition and Anti-trust law. ** Policies available for all employees but not externally distributed. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Corporate responsibility improve their process quality, productivity and perforSupplier Sustainability Guideline mance. This document informs our suppliers about the Group’s view on environmental and occupational health and Global Sustainable Development Goals safety matters, human rights and business ethics. We Within the framework of Agenda 2030, the UN published expect that the suppliers comply with the Guideline. its Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2017. Compliance is confirmed by self-declarations and/or The 17 goals provide a clear and useful framework for audits and inspections. An updated version of the meeting global challenges and has achieved considerable Guideline will be presented in 2020. impact in society. They also serve to inspire innovation and business opportunities in the area of sustainability. Creating value for stakeholders Private and public organizations have an important role The stakeholders’ requirements and expectations are to play and the business sector is expected to contribute important, and we actively participate in appraisals, responsible business, transparent reporting of its own dialogues and exchanges of views. The intention is to targets and results, as well as developing products and add value for the stakeholders and, with this in mind, services that contribute to sustainable development. the Group is working to: The Global Goals help us identify areas of importance n Fulfil customer requirements in respect of quality, within sustainable development and we have identified delivery precision, sustainable development and other seven Global Goals with a clear bearing on the Group’s areas. The relationship to our customers is characterized operations. Based on the Goals, we perceive opportunities by professionalism, a high service level, quality to both reduce the environmental impact and create awareness and good business ethics. business opportunities. We have therefore linked the n Subject the suppliers to relevant requirements and Group’s targets to seven of the Global Goals. An imporimplement constructive follow-ups. tant starting point for achieving the goals is to minimize n Communicate on a regular basis with the capital the Group’s use of resources. We bring this about by market, including shareholders, investors, analysts, working with innovations, efficiency enhancements, banks and media. investments in new technology, increased use of renewable n Listen to and co-operate with the Group’s approximately energy, and investments in bio-based and recycled plastics. 5,000 employees. This is accomplished through The Global Goals also inspire measures in social measures such as performance reviews and Human responsibility, social engagement and business ethics. Resources surveys. n Maintain good contacts with neighbors, authorities, mass media, schools, universities and other representatives of society. HEXPOL’s contribution to increased value for stakeholders Customers In addition to product-specific requireWith cutting-edge expertise in polymer ments such as the pace of innovation and materials and solid knowledge of applifunctionality, many customers impose cations, technical support and constant demands in terms of codes of conduct and development, we strengthen our custocertified environmental management mers’ competitiveness in their markets. systems. Other requirements concern the HEXPOL is convinced that being phasing out of hazardous chemical subambitious in sustainable development stances and sustainability issues being reinforces its relationship with customers. implemented in the supply chain. Interest In 2019, customer surveys and audits in products containing bio-based and/or were conducted at 23 (20) facilities. recycled raw materials increased in 2019. HEXPOL received positive reviews The HEXPOL Group’s sustainability efforts regarding its efforts. are assessed regularly by customers. 8 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate responsibility Employees It is important that HEXPOL retain and During the year, HEXPOL paid 2,069 msek develop employees, and also attract new (1,785) in salaries to employees. Following ones. For employees, health, safety, an improvement in 2018, the accident rate financial compensation, personal deveremained basically unchanged in 2019. lopment, social conditions and good The number of training hours was 171,400 business ethics are important. (118,200). 2,960 (3,200) employees participated in development interviews. Surveys regarding employee satisfaction in the workplace gave good results. Suppliers HEXPOL strives for open and long-term During 2019, the guidelines on sustainable relationships with its suppliers. The development for suppliers (Supplier objective is to guarantee suitable Sustainability Guideline) were updated. quality, financial stability and active In 2019, more than 500 suppliers were sustainability work for both parties. evaluated. An updated version of the guidelines will be presented in 2020. Shareholders For our shareholders, growth and The dividend to the shareholders dividends are central in generating amounted to 774 msek (671). Over value. The integration of sustainability the past five years, HEXPOL’s Class issues in the business strategy reduces B shares have had an average total risks and generates business opportunireturn of about 9 percent annually. ties through the development of During the year, dialogues were environmentally adapted products, conducted with investors and the resource-efficient production, as well Group was evaluated by several as investments in environmentally independent institutions. adapted technology. Society Social commitment is an important HEXPOL is affiliated to the UN Global aspect and is expected by local commuCompact and work continued on the nities in which the Group operates. UN’s global goals for sustainable As a global company, the Group is development. At the local level, the expected to take measures contributing Group collaborated with schools and to national and global goals for sustaiuniversities and contributed to health­ nable development. care, sports and culture. HEXPOL’s tax expense for 2019 amounted to 466 msek (515). Authorities Compliance with legal requirements is In 2019, no serious violations of laws essential for HEXPOL. and regulations occurred. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Corporate responsibility Sustainability requirements from customers PERCENT OF TOTAL NUMBER OF PLANTS REPORTING SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS Type of sustainability requirement 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Implementation of ISO 14001 54 71 61 58 48 Phasing-out of hazardous chemicals 50 60 61 65 59 Compliance with REACH 37 40 47 47 27 Environmental product declarations 61 57 64 50 45 Bio-based/recycled raw materials 26 Carbon footprint of products 22 Code of conduct 63 71 67 67 48 Conflict minerals 65 80 67 70 55 Code of conduct in own supply chain 46 37 31 21 3 Meeting customer requirements HEXPOL’s relationship to its customers is characterized of conduct. This year two additional categories were by professionalism, a high service level and quality assessed, namely requirements or demands of bio-based/ awareness. In accordance with Materializing Our Values, recycled raw materials and carbon footprint of products. HEXPOL focus on sound business ethics and thus competes It can be concluded that some of our customers show fairly in business activities, including marketing and interest in these areas. It is also likely that the customers advertising. HEXPOL complies with prevailing compewill increase their efforts to manufacture “greener” tition regulations in the geographical markets in which products. At 50 percent (57) of the manufacturing units, the company is active. Business decisions are taken in customers conducted evaluations (audits, questionnaires) accordance with the Group’s interests and are not based to check compliance with the requirements. The outon personal considerations or relations. come was positive and no material issues were revealed. Requirements related to sustainable development are Compared to previous years the frequency of plants presented by the majority of our customers, and in 2019, reporting sustainability requirements decreased in 2019. 87 percent (94) of HEXPOL’s companies reported various It should be noted that a number of recently acquired types of requirements. For example, ISO 14001, hazardous companies have not yet developed systems to register substances, product declarations, conflict minerals, social such requirements. responsibility and compliance with the customer’s code Flax fibers, coconut shells and agave fibers are just three of the bio waste products we utilize in RheVision, our line of bio fiber reinforced polypropylene. VISIT RHETECH.COM TO LEARN MORE 10 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate responsibility Objectives and performance measures HEXPOL has implemented Group-wide objectives to reduce Development Goals (page 8). Performance measures its environmental impact, to create safe and secure showing the trend are briefly presented in the table workplaces and to be a good corporate citizen. The work below. Additional details are found elsewhere in the is conducted in a systematic way and the objectives are Sustainability Report. linked to UN’s Agenda 2030 and the Global Sustainable Objective Sustainable Development Goals Outcome Continued measures Energy consumption (GWh/net Work involving energy surveys and Purchases of energysales) is to be reduced contimeasures to increase efficiency continued. efficient equipment, nuously. The production units The installation of energy-efficient produclighting and infrawork within the framework of tion equipment, LED lighting, infrastructure structure will continue. ISO 14001 and/or ISO 50001 with and energy monitoring equipment detailed targets for increased contributed to more efficient energy energy efficiency. consumption. In a five-year perspective, energy efficiency has increased and the key performance indicator for energy consumption has decreased by about 30 percent since 2010. Emissions of carbon dioxide The use of biofuels, purchases of green Energy efficiency (tons/ net sales) are to be reduced electricity and energy optimization reduce measures, as well as by 20 percent by the end of 2024 emissions of greenhouse gases. Currently, procurement of biocompared with the average for about 21 percent (24) of energy use consists fuels and fossil-free 2010–2011. The use of non-fossil of fossil-free electricity and biofuels. This is electricity, will continue. energy should increase. This being countered by increased operations The proportion of units target pertains to carbon dioxide in countries where purchased electricity is with proprietary emissions resulting from the use generated from fossil energy and where electricity production of energy (Scope 1 and 2). There opportunities to purchase fossil-free using photovoltaic cells are various types of local targets. electricity are not offered. will increase. All facilities are to have certified Two companies were certified during the Eleven companies are environmental management year and 76 percent of the plants are now planning for certification systems (ISO 14001). Acquired certified. However, companies acquired in in 2020-2021. companies must implement recent years are not ISO 14001 certified. The the environmental management process has been initiated and the longsystem within a period of two term opportunities of achieving the target years. are favorable. The use of hazardous chemicals Over the year, more than 15 substances The replacement of must be identified, controlled were replaced, including phthalates (plashazardous substances and, wherever possible, hazardous ticizers) and other substances that form is a long-term process substances are to be phased out. nitrosamines. and more than 15 substances, or groups of HEXPOL should be viewed as a The development of environmentally substances, are currently frontrunner in the polymer induadapted products continued during 2019, on the phase-out list. stry as a supplier of environmenparticularly in the area of TPEs, see page 19. The work will continue tally compatible products. for the foreseeable future. The vision is that no accidents The number of accidents resulting in From an industrial will occur at our workplaces. absence from the workplace increased perspective, the key The target is that the number compared with the preceding year, as performance indicator of accidents will be reduced. did the number of lost working days. The for occupational Systems for reporting near misses preventive measures implemented in the accidents is relatively are to be in place in all operations. operations in the US and Mexico have high. Additional action had a positive impact. The accident rate is required (technical remains high at several units. Systems for measures, training, reporting near misses are in place at about follow-up) to be able to 85 percent of the units and are being used meet the target. constructively. Supplier Sustainability Guideline The Group’s suppliers are expected to apply The Group’s guidelines is to be applied in the supply a code of conduct corresponding to the for suppliers were updachain. requirements in Materializing Our Values. ted in 2019 and are now Assessments are performed through linked more clearly to self-declarations, questionnaires, site visits the Global Compact. The and formal audits. Over the year, more than updated guidelines and 500 assessments were performed, of which an improved assessment approximately 70 were audits. model will be launched in 2020. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility The transition to a society with no long-term impact on the climate brings both opportunities and risks for HEXPOL. By increasing energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels, the Group’s carbon footprint is reduced. Measures also prepare the company for higher fees and taxes on activities that impact the climate. Increased use of recycled and bio-based raw materials are other measures that are positive from the perspective of climate. Environmentally compatible product development is another priority area in which the Group’s expertise and technology can contribute to the customers’ climate and environmental work. In the environmental area, we have several long-term targets, which are reported on page 11. Core technologies, products and TPE compounding environmental aspects The TPE market includes a number of material classes, each based on different chemistries and technologies. Rubber compounding The various classes display different properties and endWe manufacture advanced rubber compounds with an use applications. HEXPOL TPE Compounding offers TPE extensive product range for a wide range of customer compounds in the marketplace covering the following segments and application areas: technologies: n Rubber Compounding – development of custom n Styrenic block copolymers (TPE-S or TPS). compounds and recipes. n Polyolefin compounds (TPE-O or TPO). n High-Performance Elastomers, such as silicone and n Elastomeric compounds (TPE-V or TPV). fluoro-carbon rubber. n Thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPE-U or TPU). n Specialty Products – a comprehensive range of custom and standardized chemical additives and color concentrates. The expertise in this diversified TPE offering positions Curing envelopes and tubes for retreading. Products HEXPOL so that each customer can get the right with specific properties in terms of high temperatures, compound for their application or indeed multiple cooling, static electricity, electrical insulation. compounds from different classes. Mixing rubber in a closed mixer is what is termed as Thermoplastic compounding a batch process and, accordingly, all ingredients must In the major Thermoplastic Compounding market, there be prepared in compliance with the weight specified in are many different material areas that are based on the recipe or formula. The various weighing stages are different types of chemistry and technology. HEXPOL monitored by IT systems to ensure maximum precision Thermoplastic Compounding is specialized in reinforced and enable traceability of the entire batch. Since the formula polypropylene compounds (PP), high quality polyamide and the mixing process are both critically important to compounds (PA) and color additives. The productionsee product quality, our research and development engineers is highly automated with modern twin-screw extruders are responsible for creating the formulas and for the and efficient material handling systems. mixing process in accordance with the intended application, ingredients and quality requirements. Gaskets and Seals The rubber compounds that leave the production HEXPOL Gaskets and Seals is a product specialist for the plants are processed further by customers through, for manufacture of rubber gaskets for plate heat exchangers. example, extrusion, injection molding and compression The technology content is high and the end product is molding to give the components their final shape. characterized by high quality requirements. The gaskets Continuous or discontinuous vulcanization gives the consist of rubber and are delivered in a variety of sizes products their elastic properties. 12 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental responsibility from a few decimeters in length up to several meters n Energy audits were performed in accordance with the depending on the plate heat exchanger’s size. EU directive on energy efficiency. Temperature, pressure and media determine the n Supervisory authorities conducted inspections at choice of gasket type and rubber material in the heat 21 facilities. No significant deviations were identified. exchanger. Performance of the gasket is dependent n At three facilities, limits for pollutants in wastewater on the composition of the rubber material and the were exceeded. These events did not result in any geometric design of the gasket. legal action. There were administrative violations of environmental legislation at four plants. The penalty Wheels charges were marginal. HEXPOL Wheels offers a range of polyurethane wheels for electric-powered warehouse and hand pallet forklifts, Environmental management systems rubber wheels for castor wheel applications, as well as The international standards ISO 14001 (environment) tires and special wheels in natural rubber and thermoand ISO 9001 (quality) are implemented at the Group’s plastics. Five types of products are produced: manufacturing units. In addition to this, OHSAS 18001/ n Polyurethane wheels. ISO 45001 (work environment) and ISO 50001 (energy) n Thermoplastic wheels. standards are used at a number of sites. The standard for n Rubber wheels and tires. Social Responsibility (ISO 26000) provides guidance on n Solid rubber tires. the overall approach to sustainable development. n Various special products comprising the One of the Group objectives aims at certification of aforementioned materials. the environmental management systems at all operational units. Our experience of ISO 14001 is positive, with risks Environmental aspects and costs diminishing, while confidence among interested parties is rising. During 2019 two companies (in Poland Significant environmental aspects that affect our core and USA) were certified and the recently acquired technologies and operations include the use of resources MESGO Group, Preferred Compounding and Kirkhill in the form of mainly fossil-based polymer raw materials Manufacturing have initiated the implementation of (rubber, plastics), chemical products, energy and water. ISO 14001. Internal and external environmental audits Other significant aspects pertain to emissions into the are frequently conducted, and in 2019, 139 internal (146) atmosphere and waste generation. Indirect environmental and 46 external (48) environmental audits were carried aspects comprise the environmental impact of suppliers, through. transportation of raw materials and complete products, The standard applied for the work environment and customer use of the Group’s products. Further (OHSAS 18001) is implemented at two units in Sri Lanka, information about how environmental aspects are at one site in the USA and one site in the Czech Republic. ranked is found in the Materiality Analysis on page 4. In the coming years OHSAS 18001 will be converted to ISO 45001 at the certified sites. Two companies in Environmental legislation Germany, one in the Czech Republic, and the companies The Group is affected by national and international in Sri Lanka, are certified in accordance with the environmental legislation. The majority of the producing standard for energy management systems (ISO 50001). units require various types of permits and all the facilities All HEXPOL units are certified under the ISO 9001 in Sweden are subject to official approval or reporting quality standard. pursuant to the Swedish Environmental Code. The units in the Czech Republic, Belgium, Spain, Italy, the US, Certified management systems Mexico, Sri Lanka and China have environmental licenses PERCENT OF TOTAL NUMBER OF MANUFACTURING PLANTS that either cover all areas of their operations or that % apply to specific environmental aspects, for example, 100 emissions to the atmosphere. A few minor operations in the UK and one facility in Germany are not subject to any specific environmental permits. Compliance with 80 permits and emission conditions is monitored through measurements and inspections, and close to 40 units 60 submit specific environmental reports to supervisory authorities. Half of the units are planning to apply for minor updates of applicable permits in the near future. 40 Environmental legislation in the form of EU directives (REACH, RoHS, CLP, WEEE, energy optimization, sustai20 nability report, Atex; see Definitions), or other national or international legislation, affects most of the Group’s operations and products. Of the units, 14 are subject to 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 producer responsibility legislation for packaging. The following events related to legislation and ordinances ISO 9001 ISO 50001 occurred during the year: ISO 14001 ISO 45001 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 Environmental responsibility Energy use n Recirculation of dust collection air through HEPA filters back into facility to prevent heat/cooling loss to the The use of energy is a key environmental aspect for environment. Installation of timers on exhaust fans. HEXPOL. In 2019, 417 GWh (379) was used for our operations. The increase was primarily caused by the acquin Energy curtailment programs together with energy sition of twelve manufacturing plants during 2018-2019. supply companies. This reduces capacity costs. The energy cost was 280 msek (248) and the energy use n Replacing propane lift trucks with electric. caused emission of 146,000 tons (126,000) of the greenn Changes in internal processes to minimize change house gas carbon dioxide. Mixing equipment, presses, and over times. Lower unnecessary idle time when energy other heavy production equipment, have a major contriis being used. bution to the energy use, but, in this context, compresn Detecting leaks in the compressed air systems in sed air, cooling, lighting, ventilation and moving of order to reduce unnecessary energy losses. Installation materials are also important factors. Around 75 percent of energy-efficient air compressors. (73) of the energy use was based on purchased electrin Installation of cooling systems with improved energy city, 14 percent (16) on natural gas and the rest derived efficiency. from other sources. The use of biofuels and fossil-free n Installation of steam traps on presses and insulation electricity amounted to 21 percent (24). Solar panels are of furnaces. Switching off equipment that is not in use. installed at two plants in Italy. A couple of sites, located n Better control of the processes for mixing rubber and in UK, Mexico and USA, are investigating the possibility shorter cycle times reduced energy consumption at to install solar power. several units. Faster conversion of equipment when changing products. Maximizing batch sizes to Energy use increase throughput of mixer efficiencies. PreGWh GWh/MSEK heating of presses. 500 0.05 n Reducing energy consumption during peak periods on the electricity network. Surplus heat energy (185 MWh) sold to the local district-heating network in Gislaved, 400 0.04 Sweden. 300 0,03 Water consumption Access to good quality water is essential for HEXPOL, and with regard to the use of a natural resources, there 200 0.02 are many reasons for us to use water with care. Fortunately, the units are not located in areas suffering 100 0.01 from water shortage, or where the aquatic eco-system is threatened. The exception is two sites in California, 0 0.00 USA, where the area has suffered a severe long-term 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 draught and where companies are expected to implement water-saving measures. ENERGY USE ENERGY USE/SALES In 2019, around 361,000 m3 (340,000) of municipal water was consumed, 476,500 m3 (91,500) came from own wells, and 269,000 m3 (297,000) from rivers. The The aim is to use energy more efficiently and therefore increase in consumption was mainly caused by the several energy projects are carried out every year. The acquisition of twelve manufacturing plants during 2018key performance indicator for energy (GWh/net sales) 2019. Water is mainly used for cooling of manufacturing shows a downward trend. Continued measures include equipment and for sanitary purposes. To reduce the purchases of energy-efficient equipment, lighting and water consumption the majority of the sites have instalinfrastructure. During the year the energy saving led closed loop systems. However, at a handful of plants activities were continued, for example: water from wells and rivers are used in cooling systems n Installation of AC drives instead of DC drives provides without recirculation. To reduce the water consumption, better control of the speed (frequency control) of the actions are continuously implemented, for example, electric motors in the rubber mixing equipment, thus search for leaking pipes, awareness and housekeeping reducing energy use. programs, and technical measures. The total cost of n Replacement of lighting with LED lamps. Improved water was 5.3 msek (4.8). systems to control the lighting and to automatically Emissions to wastewater from the manufacturing turn it on and off. Increased use of daylight in some processes are limited and the indoor premises are warehouses. normally not fitted with sewers. Wastewater therefore n Energy audits according to the EU Energy Efficiency mainly consists of organic materials and nutrients from Directive. So far 15 plants have carried out audits and sanitary facilities and cleaning. Discharges of cooling two plants will carry out audits in the near future. water, that has not been in contact with raw materials n Certified energy management systems (ISO 50001) at and products, as well as rainwater from roofs and land five sites in Sri Lanka, Czech Republic and Germany. areas, occur. The manufacturing units are connected to municipal wastewater treatment plants or equivalent. 14 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental responsibility Water consumption Precautions such as oil separators, secondary containm3 m3/MSEK ment and spill-kits are installed at the units. Measurements of storm water and wastewater showed that the 1,200,000 120 concentration of pollutants mainly complied with the legal limits. However, the limits for pollution of was1,000,000 100 tewater were temporarily exceeded at two plants in USA and one plant in the Czech Republic. 800,000 80 Polymers and other chemical products 600,000 60 Environmental aspects of polymer compounds 400,000 40 Polymer compounds, such as rubber and plastics, are semi-finished products and can be seen as homogenous 200,000 20 mixtures of different ingredients that have previously been designed in a specific formulation or recipe. These 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ingredients, or raw materials, can be subdivided into the following main categories: polymers, fillers, plasticizers, WATER CONSUMPTION accelerators, cross-linking agents and many other special WATER CONSUMPTION/SALES products. Only the right composition and a perfect mixing process result into optimum properties of the final product. The rubber and plastic polymers used in HEXPOL interact with the environment in a number of ways. RIVERS AND PONDS 24% A certain amount of impact occurs at our plants, while other impacts occur during production of raw materials, transports and disposal of the waste that occurs in various places. The environmental impact WELLS 43% – in a life-cycle perspective – of polymers is shortly Sources described in the table below. of water HEXPOL’s manufacturing processes are mainly based on the use of rubber and plastic polymers and a large number of chemical substances. The rubber compounds include various types of synthetic rubber, process oils used MUNICIPAL 33% as softening agents, carbon black and other fillers, as well as chemicals and additives. Some compounds include natural rubber. In addition to that, significant amounts of polyurethane plastics, thermoplastic elastomer compounds (TPE), metals, solvents and dyes are used. Polymer compound Description Environmental impact Synthetic rubber About 60 percent of world production of synthetic The environmental impact from the production and use of synthetic rubber is used for tire manufacture. Synthetic rubber derives primarily from energy consumption, use of fossil raw rubber is a product of the petroleum industry materials, emissions to air and water, and waste products. The and HEXPOL’s experience is spread over a large positive environmental aspects of synthetic rubber are, for example, number of polymer types, for example, EPDM, SBR associated with products that contribute to energy saving and and NBR. reduction of noise and vibration. Natural rubber The rubber tree Hevea brasiliensis requires a The production process for natural rubber are associated with tropical climate. Today, more than 90 percent of clearing of forest, the use of energy, chemicals, nutrients and the natural rubber comes from South-east Asia, biocides, and from emissions to water. HEXPOL has no rubber although there are also plantations in South plantations of its own. America and Africa. Nearly 70 percent of natural rubber production is used in the tire industry. Thermoplastic Thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) are a family of Conventional TPEs are produced from fossil petroleum products and elastomers rubber like materials that combine the performance the main environmental aspects are the use of non-renewable raw of thermoset rubbers with the processing ease of materials, emissions of climate-changing gases and generation plastics, to deliver enhanced design possibilities of waste. One thing that TPEs have in common is that they are for a diverse range of markets including housecompletely recyclable. They can also be combined with natural hold, automotive, industrial, medical, construction, materials, for example, cork. Dryflex Green contains bio-based raw electronics, sports, toys and caps and closures. materials and Dryflex Circular contains recycled polymers. Thermoplastics A thermoplastic (TP) is a plastic material that can Conventional thermoplastics are produced from fossil petroleum be repeatedly softened by heating and hardened products (environmental aspects see above). Composite materials by cooling. Examples of thermoplastics include can be obtained from the combination of recycled thermoplastics polythene (polyethylene), polypropylene and and biodegradable waste, for example, rice husks and recycled polyamide nylon. Thermoplastics are fully cotton. Such composites exhibit a reduced environmental impact recyclable and in ideal situations thermoplastics compared to virgin thermoplastics. The RheVision line utilizes can be repeatedly melted and remolded into bio-fiber reinforced polypropylene and the result is a lower carbon new products. footprint compared to traditional thermoplastic products. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Environmental responsibility In terms of volume, synthetic rubber polymers are HA oils predominant, but TPE, polyurethane plastics and olefins In the rubber industry HA (highly aromatic process oils) are used to a considerable extent. The use of natural extender oils are used to facilitate the processing of the rubber accounted for about 10 percent (11), and recycled rubber compounds. They are also an essential component polymers for about 8 percent (15) of the total polymer for the technical performance of tires and in particular consumption. The natural material cork is used in certain for the road adherence (or grip) properties. Polycyclic TPE applications. In the product series, Dryflex Green aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are, however, present and RheVision, bio-based raw materials are included. in aromatic oils and the European Union has classified eight PAHs as carcinogenic. In EU there are since 2010 RECYCLED PLASTIC restrictions in the use of PAH in tires for vehicles. AND RUBBER 8% The threshold limit is maximum three percent of NATURAL RUBBER 10% PAHs in the extender oil. At HEXPOL in Europe such oils are phased out but, as they are allowed in China, Mexico and USA, HA oils Polymer above the European limit are still used. In a global permaterials spective more than 95 percent (89) of the extender oils in HEXPOL have a low PAH concentration and we strive to convince PERCENT OF TOTAL customers that more environment-friendly options are PLASTICS INCLUDING TPE AND TP 22% available. SYNTHETIC RUBBER 60% Solvents, metals and conflict minerals For the manufacture of polyurethane wheels around 100 tons of solvents, 20 tons of paint and 3,500 tons of metals are used per year. According to the legislation Safe chemical management concerning conflict minerals (see Definitions) we get Thousands of recipes are used to mix compounds with requests from many customers to guarantee that such various technical specifications. This leads to a signifimaterials are not present in HEXPOL’s products. Conflict cant use of chemical substances with various purposes minerals are not used in our operations. – fillers such as carbon black, accelerators, antioxidants, curing agents, flame-retardants, solvents and softeners, Emissions to the atmosphere just to mention some categories. The Group’s objective for safe chemical management is that chemicals that are Climate changing gases classified as hazardous for humans and the environment As a primary step, we take actions to reduce the are to be substituted, or that other relevant risk reducing emission of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide from measures must be implemented. The EU chemicals energy consumption (Scope 1 and 2 according to GHG legislation (REACH), and other legislation concerning Protocol). The emissions are results from the use of labelling and risk information, is crucial for the longfossil fuels (oil, natural gas and propane) and purchased term strategy for how we manage chemicals in a safe electricity. During 2019 the emissions were 146,000 tons way. Equally important are the requirements that are (126,000), of which 16,700 tons were related to Scope expressed by our customers. 1 and 129,200 tons to Scope 2. The indirect emissions through purchase of electricity dominated and accounted Precautionary work for 89 percent (89) of the total amount of carbon dioxide. A number of chemicals, or groups of chemicals, that are In a five-year perspective the key performance indicator identified in the REACH SVHC List (Substances of Very for carbon dioxide emission (tons CO2e/net sales) has High Concern Candidate List), are used in HEXPOL. As been reduced. The indicator is impacted by both positive a part of the environmental management systems there and negative factors, for example: are procedures in place to identify hazardous chemicals. n The on-going energy-efficiency projects contribute to Precautionary activities have high priority and during a lower carbon footprint. 2019 more than 15 chemicals were phased-out, or had n The increased use of fossil-free electricity (Sweden, their usage reduced. Future efforts to reduce the risks Germany, Belgium, Czech Republic, UK), and use of involve, for example, chemicals such as cyclic siloxanes, biomass (wood, sawdust; Sri Lanka), reduces the carcinogenic nitrosamine generators, certain phthalates, emissions of carbon dioxide. ETU and dichloromethane. n Installation of photovoltaic cells reduces the carbon Since there is no global harmonised chemical legislation footprint. Currently solar energy is captured at two the substitution work can be complicated. Substances plants in Italy. A couple of plants plan to install solar that are banned in one country may be accepted in parts power during the coming years. of the worlds. Regardless of this, we strive to offer n Increased production, increased use of energy, and customers recipes that are less hazardous for humans increased number of acquired facilities, will affect the and the environment without negative impact on the carbon footprint in a negative way. Significant parts technical performance of the final product. of the production take place in USA, Mexico and 16 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental responsibility Carbon dioxide emissions per employee 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TONS CO2 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 USA Germany Czech Poland Mexico UK China Belgium Sweden Sri Lanka Spain Italy Republic Carbon dioxide emissions TONS TONS/MSEK OTHER 1% 150,000 15 ITALY 2% UK 4% GERMANY 4% SRI LANKA 4% 120,000 12 CZECH REPUBLIC 4% 90,000 9 CHINA 8% Carbon dioxide emissions per country 60,000 6 PERCENT OF TOTAL MEXICO 8% 30,000 3 USA 65% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION/SALES China. As a result, our indirect emissions are highly Waste affected by electricity that is produces from fossil By minimizing scrap, improving waste sorting at source sources (coal, fuel oil) in these countries. and reducing the overall amount of waste, the plants are using raw materials in a more efficient way. Examples of Other air emissions actions that are beneficial from an environmental point Energy consumption caused 16 tons (13) of atmospheric of view include internal recycling of process waste and emissions of sulfur dioxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxides carbon black from dust filters. (NOx). The emissions have been reduced in recent years During 2019, the total volume of waste was 26,500 tons and are a result of the reduction of the use of heavy fuel (23,100), of which hazardous waste accounted for 1,760 tons oil at the units in Sri Lanka. Emissions of VOC (Volatile (1,041). Hazardous waste is transported to approved Organic Compounds) from paint and solvents were treatment facilitiees by permitted transport companies. around 53 tons (57) and were caused by the manufacture In a five-year perspective, the KPI for waste (tons/sales) of polyurethane wheels. The total amount of installed shows an unchanged situation. However, a significant cooling agents is approximately 1,1 ton. No material increase in the amount of waste that is externally emissions of such ozone-depleting gases (fluorinated recycled, as energy and materials, can be observed. The gases; F-gases) occurred during the year. amount of landfilled waste has increased during the past five years and the main cause is increased number of manufacturing plants in USA. The cost of external waste management amounted to 21.2 msek (21.0). (Graphs on next page.) HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Environmental responsibility Amount of waste many applications, such as the automotive industry. TONS TONS/MSEK TPEs combined with natural material, such as cork, 30,000 3.0 produces technically interesting properties and reduces the use of fossil raw materials. TPEs can also 25,000 2.5 replace PVC in certain applications. n RheVision is a line of bio fiber reinforced poly20,000 2.0 propylene which use renewable natural fibers, for instance ground wood and coconut shells instead of 15,000 1.5 traditional reinforcements such as talc, minerals and glass. All of the bio fibers used in RheVision are true waste products that are either traditionally burned or 10,000 1.0 buried. The natural fibers can be combined with a proportion of certified post-consumer polyolefin 5,000 0.5 resin waste which takes the recycled content above 50 percent. The RheVision compounds are light0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 weight, environmentally friendly with a very unique AMOUNT OF WASTE aesthetic quality. The natural fiber products are also AMOUNT OF WASTE/SALES processed at lower temperatures which furthers the green footprint. RheTech sees a growing demand for OTHER 11% these environmentally friendly products that help us further reduce the carbon footprint of thermoplastics. HAZARDOUS WASTE 7% WASTE TO EXTERNAL During the year, the RheTech products wan business RECYCLING 36% in automotive industry by replacing a plastic compound that contained nonrenewable mineral with renewable Waste natural fiber and uses recycled resins. Cellulose fiber WASTE TO ENERGY categories reinforced polypropylene was commercialized for the RECOVERY 16% PERCENT OF TOTAL use in drinking cups. Ground rice reinforced polypropylene was molded for use in utility vehicles. n Rubber gaskets that are used in plate heat exchangers saves energy worldwide. The gaskets also contribute to energy saving, less climate impact and secure WASTE TO LANDFILL 30% handling of chemicals and food products. n The product group Hexlite (micro-dense materials) meets the requirements from the automotive industry Waste categories by external treatment methods concerning weight reduction. The density of the rubber TONS profiles is reduced up to 30 percent. This contributes 30,000 OTHER to lower fuel consumption in vehicles. RECYCLING n Envelopes for re-treading of automotive tires from 25,000 ENERGY Robbins prolong the life of tires and thereby reduce RECOVERY the environmental impact. Re-treading reduces the 20,000 INCINERATION amount of oils, materials and energy to produce a tire. LANDFILL n EPDM rubber with low electrical conductivity is 15,000 HAZARDOUS something the automotive industry demands. The WASTE reason is that the risk of electrolytic corrosion occurs 10,000 when the use of light aluminium and magnesium alloys increase in cars. Door strips containing this 5,000 type of EPDM reduce the risk of corrosion. n Recycled polymers are used in materials in mud flaps, 0 mats and bumpers for the automotive industry. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Another environmental innovation is non-halogen fire protection mixtures out of the Hex-Flame product family, which are also an alternative for non-halogen Good for the environment – good for business building applications. A number of HEXPOL’s customers are implementing n HEXPOL Engineered Products manufactures polyprograms to improve the environmental performance urethane wheels with long service life, thus reducing and reduce the carbon footprint of their products. Our the need for replacement wheels. This lowers the capability to develop environment-friendly polymer consumption of materials and the amount of waste. compounds creates business opportunities, for example: n Dryflex Green and Dryflex Circular are members of a Accidents and complaints family of thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) compounds There were no cases of significant accidents or containing raw materials from recycled or bio-based uncontrolled environmental emissions in 2019. raw materials (see page 19). Two complaints were registered from local residents n In general, TPEs are easy to recycle and are used in regarding disruptive noise levels. 18 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental responsibility SOFT – SAFE – SUSTAINABLE Dryflex Circular contains recycled plastics “Awareness of how plastics affect the environment “Dryflex Circular is available in a number of different is increasing and a shift is occurring in the polymer hardness grades with a recycled content that can industry in which sustainable development has become amount to as much as 80 percent by weight. Dryflex a key concept. Consumers’ attitudes to plastics are PCR is currently available as black blends, with changing and this is affecting our customers,” says examples of applications including exterior vehicle Kirsty Wood, Development Technologist and components and lawn mower wheels. The recycled Sustainability Lead at HEXPOL TPE in the UK. polypropylene plastic (PP) comes from sources “An increasing number of enquiries are being including scrapped cars. The Dryflex PIR products are received from customers about recycled raw materials available in natural colours and are suitable for many in our TPE mixes, reflecting the ambition of contribudifferent uses, such as sports equipment and other ting to a circular economy. One trend is that customers consumer products,” says Klas. set their own sustainability goals aimed at increasing the use of products with lower environmental and Sustainability was the theme at the fair climate impact.” “The K2019 plastics and rubber fair in Düsseldorf, “Our environmentally adapted TPE portfolio already Germany is one of the largest in the world. At the fair, includes Dryflex Green, which contains bio-based we presented Dryflex Circular for the first time and plastics, och Lifocork, a bio-composite in which we our entire stand was built around the theme of combine raw materials from cork oak with TPE. We sustainability,” says Jill Bradford, Marketing & PR support our customers’ ambitions in sustainable Manager HEXPOL TPE. “Among other things, the development and are now introducing TPE containing white counter tops and bar were made from discarded recycled plastic – Dryflex Circular. The entire product yogurt packages, the food was organic and the beer family is gathered under the heading ‘Soft – Safe – was made from old bread. We took the impact on Sustainable’,” Kirsty continues. the climate into account with regard to travel, our giveaways and the materials chosen for the stand. In Traceability important total, we saved 8 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.” “It is important to be able to show where the recycled plastic comes from. Accordingly, we have structured our Dryflex Circular products into categories based on the sources of the recycled materials. Traceability is based on the ISO 14021 international standard for ecolabeling and environmental declarations. Accordingly, we report both on what is described as PIR (Post Industrial Recyclates), which arise in industrial processes but not in our own production, as well as on PCR (Post Consumer Recyclates), which is plastic waste collected at the consumer stage,” explains Klas Dannäs, Global R&D Manager HEXPOL TPE. “Using recycled raw plastics is nothing new for us. The first blends were produced as early as in 2005 and were a result of the increasing demands on the automotive industry to increase the recycling of components when cars are scrapped. Since then, technologies in the plastics and recycling industries have evolved and, for us, Dryflex Circular is an important step on the road to a circular plastics industry.” HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 Social responsibility Social responsibility Materializing Our Values applies in the same way worldwide and the Group aims to be a good corporate citizen applying sound business principles. As part of the strategy for sustainable development, the Code of Conduct helps attract, develop and retain committed and skilled employees. Work environment efforts are focused on preventive measures with the vision of zero accidents occurring. Employees political opinions or origin. During the year, no deviAt the end of the financial year, the number of employees ations attributable to human rights were registered at was 5,061 (4,640), of whom 3,665 (3,211) worked in the Group’s units, or among suppliers. The training of HEXPOL Compounding and 1,390 (1,424) in HEXPOL employees on Materializing Our Values continued with Engineered Products. The Parent Company had 6 employees focus on new associates. In total, around 60 percent of (5). HEXPOL is a global Group and 93 percent (93) of the the workforce participated in training on human rights employees work outside Sweden. Of the employees, and corporate values. 47 percent work in the United States/Mexico, 28 percent Our values recognize the employee’s right to be in Europe and 25 percent in Asia. represented by trade unions or other employee representatives, as well as the right to collective bargaining and Human rights agreements. The extent of coverage by collective agreements varies depending on local political and cultural Materializing Our Values has its background in interconditions in the countries in which the Group is active. national agreements and guidelines concerning human At about a third of the units, all employees are covered rights, social responsibility and sustainable development, by collective agreements and this applied to Sweden, Sri including the UN Global Compact and the Standard for Lanka, Germany, Spain and China. For other units, the Social Responsibility (ISO 26000). The Group’s requireaffiliation to trade unions is between 0 and 75 percent. ments are that workplaces should be safe, facilitate development and comply with occupational health and safety and labor legislation. No employee may be Diversity and equality discriminated due to gender, religion, age, physical We encourage diversity and distances itself from all or mental disability, sexual orientation, nationality, forms of discrimination. Questions regarding equal Number of employees per country USA USA Sri SriLanka Lanka Mexico Mexiko Sweden Sverige China Kina UK Storbritannien Czech Republic Tjeckien Germany Tyskland Italy Italien Spain Spanien Belgium Belgien Poland Polen Turkey Turkiet Luxembourg Luxemburg 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 20 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility rights have been decentralized and formal equality plans During the year, employee surveys were conducted at exist at 61 percent (64) of the units. The employees are 18 units (17). Examples of views and wishes expressed entitled to form and join trade unions and have the right by employees concerned personal development, training, to collective bargaining. They also have complete insight internal communications and planning of working hours. into and the right of co-determination in accordance with the provisions of national legislation. Work environment Health and safety efforts focus on preventive measures and include risk The vision is that no accidents will occur at our workanalyses, training programs and technical improvements. places and the target is that the number of accidents will In the Group, 86 percent (86) of the employees are be reduced. Systems for reporting near misses are to be men. A change currently in progress involves an increase in place in all operations. The management of health in the proportion of female employees in Sri Lanka. and safety issues focuses on preventive measures and Although this is from a very low level. The proportion of includes risk analyses, training programs, registration of females is 57 percent (57) on the Board of Directors and incidents and technical improvements. Creating a good 17 percent (17) in Group management. The proportion work environment and wellbeing are the responsibilities of females in the local management teams averaged of executive management and improvement programs 18 percent (18). There is a Group-wide equal opportunity are conducted in cooperation with employees and their policy, and this serves as a clear message from Group representatives. Close to half of the units have incentive management to strive for a higher proportion of females systems in place for improvements made in the environin connection with external and internal recruitment to mental and working environment fields. various positions. During the year, nothing arose that During 2019, there were 135 occupational accidents showed that the Group had breached the guidelines (124) resulting in more than one day’s absence from concerning equal opportunities or diversity. work. Around 25 percent of the sites reported zero workplace accidents during the year. Total absence due Knowledge and skills to accidents amounted to 2,282 days (1,042). UnfortuNetworking efforts and participation in project organately, a handful of accidents led to long absence from nizations help bring employees from different cultures work. There were no fatal accidents. During the previous together to share their knowledge and experience. In five years, the average accident rate for absence per addition to this, formal skills development is conducmillion hours worked was 14.4. The outcome of 2019 ted at the Group companies and the number of training was below average and amounted to 12.9. The frequency hours over the year was 171,400 (118,200). This correscan be compared to other types of heavy manufacturing ponds to 32 hours (26) per employee. About 2,960 people industry and the causes of accidents consist primarily of (3,170) participated in development talks or equivalent falls, equipment-related, manual handling and cuts. activities. Work satisfaction, personal development, Seven accidents involving contractors (0) were reported salary and career opportunities are important factors for and 13 work-related illnesses (12) were confirmed. many employees. The Group offers remuneration that, Impaired hearing, allergies and injury to muscles and at a minimum, meets the minimum requirements in skeleton are examples of illnesses that occurred during the legislation and is fully adapted to the market in the the year. countries where HEXPOL operates. Variable performanceThe following activities contribute to the objective based compensation occurs in parts of the Group. In 2019, that the number of workplace-related accidents should salary costs were 2,069 msek (1,785). be reduced: HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 Social responsibility n Safety committees: The safety committees are important HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES 8% drivers for preventive measures and such organizaCUTS, ENERGY tions exist in 87 percent (89) of the facilities. AND OTHER HEAVY LIFTING, CAUSES 13% n Risk analyses and workplace monitoring: Risk analyses, REPETITIVE TASKS 29% occupational health and safety monitoring (e.g. dust, noise, fumes), technical measures, training, health Causes of checks and safety rounds are frequently carried out at occupational the plants. Special health checks of the workforce are accidents conducted at the units handling isocyanates. Other PERCENT OF TOTAL types of recurring health checks are common in the FALL AND Group, for example hearing tests. SLIP 24% n Training and awareness: Training programs involving MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT 26% the environment, occupational health and safety are conducted regularly and amounted an average of 15.8 hours (9.6) per person during 2019. The programs included firefighting, emergency procedures, ergonoAccidents at work 2015 – 2019 mics, safe management of hazardous substances, use Year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 of personal protective equipment, hot work, first aid, Lost Work Cases and much more. A key target group for the training (LWC) 135 124 138 127 111 program is new employees. Lost Work Days Near-misses: Systems to record near misses are 2,282 1,045 1,672 2,319 2,058 n (LWD) implemented in 91 percent (89) of the units and are LWC/million worked 12.9 12.8 15.2 15.1 15.9 being used in an efficient way. A total of 811 near hours misses (503) were registered, resulting in preventive LWD/million 219 108 184 275 295 and remedial measures to reduce the risk of accidents. worked hours n Management systems: OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 (occupational health and safety management system) is implemented at two plants in Sri Lanka, one plant in Social involvement USA, and one plant in the Czech Republic. The majoHEXPOL engages in social activities throughout the rity of the companies manage health and safety in a world. These include activities for employees and systematic way within the legal frameworks of their their families, contacts and projects with schools and respective countries. universities, and financial support for sports, health care n HEXPOL Compounding Americas Safety Program: The and associations. During 2019 the following activities building blocks of the Program are: Awareness and can be recognized: communication, corrective action process, preventive n Schools: Many of the manufacturing sites are active in action process, cardinal safety rules, and internal contacts with local high schools, for example, for site safety audits. Weekly conference calls are conducted tours and educational seminars. In total, more than where every site is represented. The discussion revolves 300 students participated in activities at the Group’s around all safety incidents which have been reported units in Sweden, Sri Lanka, Belgium, Germany, Italy, in a safety database. What happened, what action was USA and Mexico. taken, and what “look across” actions can be taken at n Universities: HEXPOL units participated in research each site to prevent reoccurrence? Every month, each collaborations with universities, for example, internsite conducts a monthly safety communication ship programs, research programs, and practical meeting with all associates. This is a campus wide industrial training. The Group collaborates, since meeting where all prior month Americas recordable long, with the International Institute for Industrial injuries, near-miss safety incidents, internal safety Environmental Economics (IIIEE) at Lund University audit results, and any other applicable safety topics, in Sweden. are presented to help educate the work force. n Sponsoring: HEXPOL provides financial support for schools, health care, sports associations and social The Ohio campuses, which includes Burton, Middlefield activities, and in many cases our involvement is longand Mogadore, received the prestigious honor of being term and Group employees contribute in different selected for the 2019 Top Workplaces for the best plaways. ces to work in Northeast Ohio among midsize companies (150 to 499 employees). 22 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 Economic responsibility Economic responsibility Finance 2019 in brief Sustainable development and finance The HEXPOL Group’s sales (incl. the acquired operations of Kirkhill Rubber, Mesgo Group and Preferred Compounding) Investments, costs and savings increased by 13 percent to 15,508 msek (13,770) during During 2019 the sustainability-related investments the period. Acquisitions increased the sales by 16 percent amounted to 40.2 msek (38.6). Areas for investments and exchange rate fluctuations by 6 percent, while the were, for example, related to energy-efficiency, equiporganic sales decreased by 9 percent. ment, air emissions and health and safety. The overall cost for environmental and workplace measures amounted to 33.3 msek (32.8). The costs include, for example, Key figures 2019 2018 2017 administration, operation of emission abatement equipSales, MSEK 15,508 13,770 12,230 ment, and fees to authorities and certification bodies. Operating profit (EBIT), MSEK 2,242* 2,150 1,986 The cost for management of waste accounted for Operating margin, % 14.5* 15.6 16.2 64 percent (64) of the total costs. Environmental and Profit after tax, MSEK 1,542 1,646 1,527 work environment-related measures resulted in savings of 7.2 msek (5.5). Increased recycling, solar panels, Earnings per share, SEK 4.93* 4.78 4.44 separation of waste, and energy-efficiency projects, Equity/assets ratio, % 56 59 68 contributed to the savings. Savings were also as a longReturn on capital employed, % 15.2 22.5 25.1 term result of investments in previous years. * Adjusted for non-recurring items. HEALTH AND SAFETY 22% Sustainabilityrelated OTHER 57% investments ENERGY EFFICIENCY 13% PERCENT OF TOTAL REDUCTION OF AIR EMISSIONS 4% WASTE AND WASTEWATER 3% PROTECTION OF SOIL AND GROUNDWATER 1% OTHER 1% ABATEMENT EQUIPMENT 2% FEES TO AUTHORITIES 3% EXTERNAL COSTS 4% ISO 14001 AND OHSAS 18001 9% Sustainabilityrelated costs ADMINISTRATION 17% PERCENT OF TOTAL WASTE 64% 24 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economic responsibility Combating corruption Financial value for stakeholders Under “Materializing Our Values”, and the tenth principle HEXPOL affects a broad range of stakeholders. The of the UN Global Compact, integrity and responsibility Group has an economic impact on society and create shall characterize our business practices. We take a opportunities for customers, suppliers, employees and zero-tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and society. The business generates a financial value that is cartel formation. For a global company, these matters distributed among the various stakeholders. Sourcing are complex and the perception of “normal business represent a large expenditure item, wages and pension practice” varies between countries and cultures. The plans generates value for our employees, and by paying following methods for governance and monitoring of taxes and employing people the company contributes to corruption-related issues are used: local societies in the countries where we are active. n HEXPOL spread shared values in the form of During 2019, the Group had net sales of 15,508 msek Materializing Our Values. Group company manage(13,770) of which 3,357 msek (2,989) was distributed ment teams are responsible for further conveying the according to the table. The Group’s tax expenses values in their organization. As mentioned above, amounted to 466 msek (515), which corresponds to senior executives are targets for an advanced a tax rate of 23 percent (24). on-going training program. n We monitor costs, expenditure and revenues on an Distributed value for stakeholders on-going basis. (MSEK) n Particular attention is paid to ethical issues in our Stakeholder* 2019 2018 2017 Comments relationships with partners. Standard business Employees 2,069 1,785 1,569 Salaries and benefits practice must be observed in each individual country, Shareholders 774 671 1,635 Dividend but if business practice does not comply with Creditors 48 18 13 Interest expenses Materializing Our Values, we must refrain from Total reported tax doing business or take alternative relevant actions. Society 466 515 441 expenses n As a part of the sustainability-reporting scheme, Total 3,357 2,989 3,658 management at every company must reflect on actions that have been taken to reduce the risk for corruption. * Value distributed to suppliers, e.g. raw material expenses, is not included. The questions are based on a questionnaire from Global Compact. No breaches concerning corruption were identified during 2019. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Sustainability-related risks Sustainability-related risks Risk management HEXPOL’s strategy includes continuously minimizing For significant risks, there are procedures for accepting, operational risks through active and planned risk manareducing or eliminating the risk. HEXPOL’s Annual gement, while still capitalizing on the business opporReport for 2019 provides detailed information about tunities that controlled risk-taking brings. The main operational and financial risks. In terms of sustainfeatures of risk management are identification, evaluaability, we have identified a number of risks of potential tion, governance, reporting, monitoring and control. importance to the Group’s financial position. Risk Risk management Environmental The on-going development of environmental legislation and The Group is working systematically to analyze and legislation environmental policies impacts HEXPOL on a short-term implement the news and changes in the environmental and long-term perspective. Climate change represents an legislation. We don’t foresee any unexpected requirements area in which it is likely that additional legal and financial that will impact the business operations. For the individual means of control will be introduced. With respect to other manufacturing facilities, it is important to comply with relevant environmental legislation, it is mainly REACH that existing emission conditions and be prepared for more creates challenges and opportunities for HEXPOL. The stringent future environmental requirements. The facilities legislation includes requirements to phase out certain have valid environmental licenses in place and just ordinary hazardous substances or restrict their use in certain appliupdates of conditions and permits are expected in the near cations. We use chemical substances that are registered on future. REACH’s Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). These substances have a specific function in the Concerning REACH, the R&D departments have reformupreparation of our products, including certain phthalates lated a number of recipes and the use of several substance (softening agents) and accelerators. has been terminated or reduced. Risk-reducing measures should, of course, be implemented as required by the legislation, customers’ specifications and the Group Policies. Business opportunities are created by our aim to be a leading company in environmentally compatible products. Health and safety HEXPOL has operations in many countries with different HEXPOL’s assessment is that its operations, in all material legislation health and safety requirements. Legis-lative amendments respects, are conducted in accordance with the applicable and changes in government regulations resulting in more laws and regulations concerning health and safety. HEXPOL stringent requirements or revised terms and conditions is continuously monitoring anticipated and implemented pertaining to health and safety, or a trend toward stricter changes in legislation in the countries where the Group application of laws and regulations by the authorities, operates. HEXPOL has a health insurance system in the could require additional investments and lead to increased US, whereby the employees are offered compensation for costs. Legislative amendments and changes in government health care. The Group’s expenses are maximized to a fixed regulations could also impede or limit HEXPOL’s operations. amount per individual and year. Contaminated soil Many of the Group’s facilities are built on land that was not Regular assessments of the risk for soil contamination and previously used by contaminating operations. No emissions other environmental damage are made in conjunction with or accidents of significance to land and groundwater were acquisitions. Where it is considered necessary, sampling of registered in 2019. Adjacent to a leased property in Gislaved soil and ground-water is conducted. Through risk analysis (Sweden) there are signs of historical soil con-tamination and preventative actions, for example, within the framework from petroleum hydrocarbons. Another property in Gislaved, of ISO 14001, the probability and the consequences for owned by Gislaved Gummi, has been examined with uncontrolled emissions are minimized. respect to contaminations according to the Method for Invento-ries of Contaminated Sites (Mifo) in Sweden. The property was classified as Risk Class 2 and the assessment was based on the previous use of the solvent trichloroethylene in the facility. No emissions of this solvent have been registered and it is unknown whether the authorities will demand further soil and groundwater sampling. One of the units in the US is exposed to the risk of limited site contamination caused by earlier operations. Although remediation of the site is reported by the former owner, this has not been fully confirmed. However, there are no legal requirements for remediation of this land that affect the Group. 26 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability-related risks Risk Risk management Hazardous The roofs of some buildings are constructed of Eternit tiles Regular assessments of the presence of asbestos and PCB substances in that contain asbestos fibers. The risks are considered minor are made in conjunction with acquisitions. In accordance buildings and and do not require actions to be taken until the roofs are to with the legislation in different countries inventories has installations be re-placed. According to legislation in Sweden, the Group been carried out and relevant precautions have been taken. performed an inventory of the properties with respect to Further actions are currently not applicable. PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls). Some small amounts of PCB were found in window sealing in a number of buildings and the compound will be remediated as the windows are gradually replaced. The risks to humans and the environment are very low. PCB is also found in a couple of transformers at sites in Spain and UK. Climate-related Three of the units have identified flooding as a climateThe Group keeps itself informed of risk analyses on risks related risk and certain precautions have already been climate changes that are performed in countries in taken. Five facilities are located in areas that could be which it has operations. Climate related risks are taken exposed to extreme weather, for example, tornadoes. into account during acquisitions of companies and evaluation of suppliers. Environmental The interest for environmentally adapted products is The Group is taken an active role within the area and is adaptation of increasing in many industries and many of the customers offering knowledge that contributes to environmentproducts sets requirements regarding phase-out of hazardous friendly product development. The Group’s “green” substances and other properties that have importance products have the potential to create good business to health and environment. If the requirements are not opportunities, for example Dryflex Green and Dryflex met, there is a risk that the deal will be lost. Circular. Human rights The risk for any violation of the human rights at the HEXPOL’s code of conduct (Materializing Our Values) production facilities is considered low. The main part specifies the view of human rights. The code of conduct of the Group’s suppliers of raw material is global chemical is supplemented by the commitments in the UN Global companies and the risks around human rights are consiCompact. The system with whistleblowing gives the dered as low. HEXPOL has identified suppliers of natural employees the opportunity to blow the whistle and draw rubber as a potential risk area. Formal sustainability attention to possible irregularities. In the collected data audits have therefore been performed at natural rubber for the annual Sustainability Report, all companies must plantations in Sri Lanka. The situation around human take a stand on questions regarding human rights in their rights was assessed as good. own operation and among the suppliers. Any significant deviations have never been registered. Anti-corruption The Group has operations in both industrialized and Global Compact and the business ethic guidelines are developing countries. No matter where the operations guiding the employees in questions regarding what is are, there is a risk that sound valuation principles are not and is not allowed in the contact with business partners. applied. In the Materiality Analysis (see page 4) good In the Compliance Program the managers confirm, through business ethics is given very high priority. The message their signature, that the rules are followed. Managers and from the Group management is that zero tolerance is employees within sales and marketing are part of the applied for anti-corruption and lack of business ethics. mandatory educations within the area. In the collected data for the annual Sustainability report, all companies must take a stand on how they have worked against corruption during the year. The questions originate from Global Compact. Any significant deviations have never been registered. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 Highlights during 2019 Highlights during 2019 During the year the commitment to continuous improvement was demonstrated by a number of small and big steps towards sustainable development. Some examples, from HEXPOL’s units all around the world, are found below and other examples are found elsewhere in this Sustainability Report. Belgium Germany n The Eupen site has started to implement the n The Lichtenfels sites improved in energy-efficiency. procedure ”Accord de branche”. The aim is to achieve As a result, additional electrical air conditioning was energy savings and the program is financially not installed in the production facilities. Instead a supported by the state. very effective ventilation system with controlled natural circulation was chosen. China n The Hückelhoven unit installed an automatic antin Gislaved Gummi in Qingdao made improvements such tack dosing on line three to save water and chemicals. as no injuries and accidents during the whole year In cooperation with blue collar workers a procedure and investment in air filter to reduce emissions of to detect and solve safety issues was introduced. curing fumes. The company was awarded best tax A concept to increase efficiency of heating system contribution to local government. to reduce oil consumption and recover the heat form n Stellana in Qingdao established a safety standardization air compressors was initiated. system and passed the examination by the safety supervision department. Energy consumption was Mexico decreased by 10 percent per sales. n The unit in Aguascalientes continued with the mentor n The Foshan unit conducted the annual occupational safety programme and the safety rate was improved. risk factor audit. The company reported 627 days without recordable workplace accidents. Czech Republic n At the Querétaro unit environment and safety training n The Unicov company reduced production scrap and was given to all employees. continued to show a low number of accidents at work. n The San Luis Potosi site increased its focus on safety n Lesina’s management systems (IATF 16949, ISO 14001, by improved communication and demanding all ISO 45001, ISO 50001) were successfully re-certified. personnel to be accountable for reducing incidents The working conditions were improved, for example, while increasing awareness. upgrade of open mill, automatic weighing line for materials from big bags, and renovation of break room and kitchen. 28 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Highlights during 2019 Spain United Kingdom n The unit in Barcelona closed a contract for supply n The HEXPOL TPE unit in Middleton launched the of fossil-free electricity. Accidents at work were Dryflex Circular TPE range (recycled content; see reduced. Electric forklifts replaced diesel forklifts. page 19). Continued the launch of the Dryflex Green LED lamps were installed. product range. At the unit additional LED lighting was installed. Sri Lanka n Berwin in Dukinfield made major improvements n Elastomeric (Horana site) three quality circle teams of site traffic control and management of chemicals won the Gold quality awards at Sri Lankan Quality (COSHH). Communication and awareness of health Award competition. By applying virtual technology for and safety issues was improved by the forming of product design, modeling and simulation the use of a monthly H&S Committee meeting. Reduced the raw materials is reduced. amount of waste to landfill. n The Bokundara site expanded buildings to make space n Berwin in Lydney has sourced fossil-free electricity for another 16 presses. for the coming four years. Additional LED lamps were installed. Sweden n FlexiCell in Dukinfield reached zero waste to landfill n Gislaved Gummi introduced biogas and thereby in 2019. Energy-efficiency was increased. significantly reduced the carbon dioxide emissions. Two days of safety training was conducted for Italy managers and key personnel. n The Carobbio and Garlago sites have started the n Stellana in Laxå showed continual improvements in implementation of ISO 14001. Workplace conditions areas such as energy efficiency, carbon footprint and were improved by substitution of talc powder a liquid the amount of waste. anti-tack solution and improvements of machines n The Åmål site responded to the increased interest and equipment. regarding bio-based material by participation in n At the Garlasco unit dust filters were installed reduce several fairs during 2019. The purpose was to put dust exposure in small batches department. sustainability and plastic on the agenda. The internal n The Grigno site reduced its amount of waste with focus was on health and safety. The work with Life30 percent compared to previous year. Cycle Analyses (LCAs) continued. Turkey n The site in Istanbul implemented ISO 14001 and was certified in January 2020. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 Highlights during 2019 Poland n The Kennedale unit reduced scrap rate of mixer n The MESGO site in Tomaszow Masowiecki was through HPS Project. Changed water chillers from certified according to ISO 14001. R22 to R410. n The Dyersburg campus implemented a wellness USA program focusing on mind, body, and spirit, to help n At the Statesville unit best practices concerning educate the associates on their health, with a goal to secondary oil containment protection were introduced. reduce insurance cost is going strong. Participation The Health & Wellness Program continued. Job safety in the NAFTA safety team, safety topics in all analyses were carried out. Social performance, respect communication meetings, as well as structured safety and humility were discussed monthly with associates. team of associates. The company continues the plan n The Jonesborough site installed a new and improved to become landfill free. The use of dynamic cooling sprinkler system throughout the entire facility – a on mixers remains a priority to aid in the reduction major improvement for safety. To prevent scrapping of water usage. Continues with presence in the material into landfill an outlet for off-spec material community through numerous contributions and was identified. volunteers donating time to work. n The Muscle Shoals unit improved its Safety Mentor n The Stellana site in Lake Geneva reduced hazardous Program. Reduced consumption of water by 25 percent, waste by 48 percent through removal of air filters. natural gas by 15 percent, and electricity by 5 percent. Implemented noise reduction project by changing The recycling program was improved. Installed new air nozzles to low volume units change from 110 dB energy efficient air compressor that has reduced to 81 dB. electricity consumption and eliminated water n Once again the Burton site received the prestigious consumption. The ongoing installation of LED lighting honor of being selected for the ”2019 Top Workplaces is reducing energy usage. No workplace accidents for the 5th year in row as one of the best mid-sized during the year. companies to work for in Northeast Ohio. Continued n At Valley Processing in City of Industries the number to stress the importance of safety thru monthly of workplace accidents was reduced. communication meetings covering Cardinal Rules (LOTO, Trailer Entry, Hot Works, Arc Flash, Confined Space). 30 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Highlights during 2019 n At Gold Key in Middlefield the safety culture is driven n RheTech Colors successfully launched safety by NAFTA Safety Committee with the aim to share presentations by employees building safety culture best practices and drive initiatives across all campuses. and cultivating future leaders. Continued implementation of the safety mentor n The Kirkhill site in Long Beach made progress in program to improve safety focus and audits of all areas concerning safety and ergonomic issues, for processes in production. Cooperative education example, mandatory pre-shift ergonomics stretching, program and implementation of the rotation program reduced forklift truck speed, installation of blue lights that gives students the opportunity to spend time on forklifts, and placement of safety mirrors on blind working at different HEXPOL campuses. The recycling spots. and energy-efficiency programs were improved. n The Preferred Whitewater, Tallapoosa, Huntingdon Numerous social responsibility activities with focus and Barberton campuses increased their focus on on schools, police, fire brigade, veterans and hospitals. safety by improving communication and demanding n The Kardoes site was certified according to ISO 45001. all personnel to be accountable for reducing incidents The implementation of an employee-driven riskwhile increasing awareness. based Safety Management System reduced the incident rate significantly. n The RheTech Whitmore Lake and Fowlerville sites voluntary conducted PFAS testing in soil and groundwater (performed by state of Michigan). Zero PFAS detected. More fuel-efficient company vehicles were purchased. ISO 14001 surveillance audit was passed. Awarded production business at automotive industry replacing a plastic compound that contained nonrenewable mineral with renewable natural fiber and uses recycled resins. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 About the Sustainability Report About the sustainability report The purpose of this report is to provide an overview of HEXPOL’s sustainability performance during the calendar year of 2019, and, where practicable, provide a comparison to the performance during previous years. The report describes our impacts on our environment, people, our local communities and the economic contribution the company makes in the areas in which we operate. The aim is to provide a focused report that supports the needs of HEXPOL and its stakeholders. Scope and boundary primary quality-assurance of the data provided. The second level of quality control is carried out at the head The Sustainability Report covers performance relating office, where incoming information is reviewed and to the environment, health, safety and social condition compared with data from previous years. Additional at the production units worldwide. Operations that assessment of sustainability data is carried out during belonged to the Group for most of the fiscal year were visits at selected units during the year. included in the report. A total of 46 (35) manufacturing Emissions of carbon dioxide (Scope 1 according to sites throughout the world contributed to the report. GHG Protocol), sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide from One small site in HEXPOL Silicone Compounding was not direct energy use have been measured using conversion included in the report. Companies located at the same factors based on the energy content and quality of the site are reported as one unit. The table shows all units fuel used. CO2 emissions from indirect energy use (Scope that formed the HEXPOL Group by the end of 2019 and 2) are measured based on emission factors from Carbon to which extent they are included in the Sustainability FootprintTM (2018) for the countries in which HEXPOL Report. conducts operations. In cases where energy suppliers present specific information regarding the energy mix, Reporting principles the supplier’s measurement models are used. InformaThe annual reporting cycle is shown in the figure. Each tion about VOC emissions is primarily based on mass unit supplies data to the corporate head office in accorbalance calculations. dance with the Group’s questionnaire for sustainability reporting. All unit managers are responsible for the Annual reporting cycle 1 Reports from all sites BER JANU CEM ARY 2 Quality assurance of data DE R FE Questionnarie sent out to all sites 7 BE BR M NO Y VE AR U 3 Sustainability section in HEXPOL Annual Report OCTO RCH Preparations for new report 6 BER MA 4 Mandatory sustainability report, SEPTE IL GRI report, COP report to UN, A PR CDP report MB ER AU G U AY ST M JUL Y JUNE 5 Follow up and review of sustainabilty data 32 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 About the Sustainability Report Building Production EnvironIncluded in No of area capacity mental Sustainability Operating unit Location employees (m2) (tons) licence Report HEXPOL Compounding – North Carolina Statesville, USA 91 3,400 20,000 Yes Yes GoldKey Processing Middlefield, USA 198 13,900 40,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Burton Burton, USA 270 20,800 55,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Dyersburg Dyersburg, USA 213 45,700 136,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Jonesborough Jonesborough, USA 112 9,800 50,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Kennedale Kennedale, USA 83 7,200 18,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Aguascalientes Aguascalientes, Mexico 132 6,500 24,600 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Querétaro Querétaro, Mexico 188 12,100 53,000 Yes Yes Kardoes Rubber La Fayette, USA 16 13,700 59,000 Yes Yes VALLEY Processing City of Industry, USA 91 6,700 56,000 Yes Yes Kirkhill Rubber Long Beach, USA 94 14,950 48,000 Yes Yes RheTech Compounding Whitmore Lake, USA 106 10,900 65,000 Yes Yes RheTech Compounding Fowlerville, USA 37 5,700 38,000 Yes Yes RheTech Colors and HEXPOL TPE North Sandusky, USA 58 6,500 4,500 Yes Yes America Preferred Compounding –Barberton Barberton, USA 94 12,700 20,300 Yes Yes Preferred Compounding – Huntingdon Huntingdon, USA 90 5,900 22,700 Yes Yes Preferred Compounding –Whitewater Whitewater, USA 59 4,270 8,000 Yes Yes Preferred Compounding –Tallapoosa Tallapoosa, USA 150 11,150 34,100 Yes Yes Preferred Compounding – San Luis Potosi San Luis Potosi, Mexico 153 10,840 36,300 Yes Yes Robbins Muscle Shoals, USA 50 22,600 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Belgium Eupen, Belgium 74 4,200 20,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Germany Hückelhoven, Germany 68 6,300 35,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Sweden Gislaved, Sverige 67 11,500 19,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Czech Republic Unicov, Czech Republic 119 7,900 35,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Lesina Lesina, Czech Republic 121 7,350 35,000 No Yes FlexiCell Dukinfield, UK 12 2,100 1,200 No Yes Berwin Rubber Dukinfield, UK 95 7,300 30,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Spain Barcelona, Spain 88 12,500 30,000 Yes Yes Berwin Industrial Polymers Lydney, UK 76 5,900 21,000 Yes Yes MESGO S.p.A Gorlago, Italy 47 6,200 10,000 Yes Yes MESGO S.p.A Carobbio degli Angeli, Italy 54 10,800 15,000 Yes Yes MESGO IRIDE COLORS S.r.l Garalasco Garlasco, Italy 45 7,600 8,000 Yes Yes 3A MCOM S.r.l Grigno, Italy 18 10,300 20,000 Yes Yes Tomaszow Masowiecki, MESGO POLSKA Sp. Z o.o 17 3,200 3,000 No Yes Poland MESGO ASIA KAUCUK Sekerpinar, Cayirova, Turkey 10 2,000 2,000 No Yes HEXPOL TPE Germany Lichtenfels, Germany 147 7,210 35,000 No Yes HEXPOL TPE Sweden Åmål, Sweden 78 5,300 20,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL TPE UK Manchester, UK 48 4,500 13,000 No Yes HEXPOL Compounding Qingdao Qingdao, China 63 5,950 20,000 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding/TPE Foshan Foshan, China 63 4,950 25,500 Yes Yes Stellana US (Wheels) Lake Geneva, USA 73 7,500 Yes Yes Stellana Sweden (Wheels) Laxå, Sweden 92 11,800 Yes Yes Stellana China (Wheels) Qingdao, China 58 3,500 Yes Yes Gislaved Gummi (Gaskets and Seals) Gislaved, Sweden 100 8,500 Yes Yes Gislaved Gummi Lanka (Gaskets and Seals) Bokundara, Sri Lanka 421 9,850 Yes Yes Gislaved Gummi Qingdao (Gaskets and Seals) Qingdao, China 121 8,400 Yes Yes Elastomeric (Wheels) Horana, Sri Lanka 525 11,800 Yes Yes HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 GRI Index 2019 GRI Index 2019 The organization GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) has drawn up voluntary global standards for how companies and other organizations should report on activities relating to the concept of sustainable development. GRI Standards place requirements on reporting sustainability data in terms of economic, environmental and social performance indicators. According to GRI, sustainability reporting should provide a balanced and reasonable picture of the organization’s results within the field of sustainability, including both the positive aspects and the negative aspects. GRI Standards The following table shows the degree to which HEXPOL The Sustainability Report 2019 was not audited meets reporting requirements in accordance with the by any third-party organization. However, as GRI Standards. Concerning Management Approach we sustainability issues constitute a section of the refer to the overarching principles that are described on Board of Directors’ report in the HEXPOL Annual pages 4–11. Descriptions of the Management Approach Report 2019, the financial auditors have verified are therefore not repeated for every separate Material that the section fulfills the Swedish legislation on Topic. Sustainability Reporting. This legislation is a result The following table shows the degree to which of the EU Directive on Non-Financial Reporting. HEXPOL meets reporting requirements in accordance Contact person for the Sustainability Report is with the GRI Standards. This report has been prepared Torbjörn Brorson (info@hexpol.com). in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. AR in the table below refers to page numbers in the HEXPOL Annual Report 2019. SR refers to this Sustainability Report. 34 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI Index 2019 General Standard Disclosures GRI Indicator Description Comment/Page Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization HEXPOL AB 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services AR 26–35 102-3 Location of headquarters Malmö, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations AR 24–25; SR 33 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 6–7 102-6 Market served AR 26–35 102-7 Scale of the organization AR 24–25 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 45, 77 102-9 Supply chain SR 8–9 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR 16 102-12 External initiatives SR 22, 28–31 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 2 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior SR 6–7 Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR 57–61 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 8–9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement SR 20 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 4–5 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 4–5, 8–9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 8–9 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements SR 33, AR 91 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR 32 102-47 List of material topics SR 4 102-48 Restatement of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting 11 acquired plants added 102-50 Reporting period Full year 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 32 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Torbjörn Brorson 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 34 102-55 GRI content index SR 34–37 Board of Director’s 102-56 External assurance Report in AR Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR 4–8 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 4–8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 4–8 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 GRI Index 2019 Topic-specific Standards GRI Indicator Description Comment/Page Economic Material topic GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 25 Material topic GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 25 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None Material topic GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and monopoly practices SR 7 Environment Material topic GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 15–16 301-2 Recycled input materials used SR 15–16 Material topic GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR 14 302-3 Energy intensity SR 14 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 15, 28–31 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements of products and services SR 18 Material topic GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR 14–15 Material topic GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 16–17 103-2 Indirect (Scope 2; energy) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 16–17 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 16–17 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 11, 16–17 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SR 17 306-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions SR 17 Material topic GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 14–15 306-2 Waste by type ands disposal method SR 17–18 306-3 Significant spills SR 18 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SR 17 Material topic GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 13 Material topic GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 9 GRI Indicator Description Comment/Page Social Material topic GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committee SR 20 36 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI Index 2019 Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and work-related 403-2 SR 21–22 fatalities Material topic GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 21 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SR 21 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 404-3 SR 21 reviews Material topic GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 20–21 Material topic GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 20–21 Material topic GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of child labor SR 20 Material topic GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor SR 20 Material topic GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 20 Material topic GRI 413: Local communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 413-1 SR 22, 28–31 programs Material topic GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR 9 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 Global Compact – Communication On Progress Global Compact – Communication On Progress Ten principles on responsible business practice: In 2017 HEXPOL joined the UN initiative for responsible business – Global Compact. This means the Group is a part of a global network of more than 9,900 businesses in 162 countries. HEXPOL participates at the signatory level. By participating in the Global Compact, HEXPOL Communication On Progress endorses ten basic principles in the areas of human Organisations that have endorsed the Global Compact rights, working conditions, the environment and must produce an annual Communication on Progress anti-corruption. These ten principles are based on (COP) detailing how they meet the ten principles. In various UN conventions, such as the Declaration of HEXPOL’s case, we use the information provided in the Human Rights and the Convention against Corruption. Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. Together, The 17 Sustainable Development Goals presented by these reports provide a fair presentation of HEXPOL’s the UN in autumn 2015 are now also connected to support of and compliance with the Global Compact the Global Compact. In 2016, HEXPOL linked its principles. In order to simplify COP, we use GRI Indisustainability goals to the Sustainable Development cators and the table of cross-references below shows Goals. which indicators that are relevant in the context. The booklet Materializing Our Values, which includes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an important internal document, guiding and coordinating employee activities in line with the ten principles. Group companies’ compliance with the Code of Conduct is evaluated on a regular basis. In the introduction to the Sustainability Report, HEXPOL’s CEO comments on the company’s Global Compact work during the year. 38 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Global Compact – Communication On Progress The Global Compact Principles GRI Indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. 103-2, 412-2, 413-1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 103-2, 414-1 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 103-2, 102-41, 407-1 of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 103-2, 409-1 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. 103-2, 408-1 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 103-2, 102-8, 406-1 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 103-2, 102-11, 301-1 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 103-2, 301-1, 302-4, 302-5 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 103-2, 301-2, 302-4, 305-5 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 103-2, 102-16, 205-2, 205-3 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 Definitions Definitions ADC Azodicarbonamide is a chemical blowing agent for rubber and ENERGY EFFICIENCY DIRECTIVE The EU Directive that was introduced plastics. in 2015 and that, among other things, covers energy audits at large companies. HEXPOL is subject to the directive and conducts energy ATEX EU Directive concerning potentially explosive atmospheres. audits. Explosive atmospheres in the workplace can be caused by flammable gases, mists or vapours or by combustible dusts. Explosions can cause ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS The parts of an organization’s activities, loss of life and serious injuries as well as significant damage. products or services that interact with the environment. BIOFUEL Renewable fuel from wood and process residues. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The part of the overall management system that includes the organizational structure, BOUNDARY The boundary for a sustainability or corporate responsibility planning, activities, distribution of responsibility, practices, procedures report refers to the range of entities whose performance is covered in and resources for developing, implementing, performing, reviewing the organization’s report. and maintaining the organization’s environmental policy. ISO 14001 is CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) Carbon dioxide is formed in all carbon used as the environmental management standard within the Group. combustion processes, such as fossil fuel combustion. Emissions ETU Ethylene thiourea is a rubber accelerator that may cause cancer. of carbon dioxide increase global warming (the greenhouse effect). FLUORINATED GASES Gases containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary system for reporting hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and pollutants containing fluoride have the environmental impacts caused by businesses. The primary target negative impacts on the environment as a result of their ozonegroup is international investors that can refer to information on climate depleting properties and their effect on the climate. These gases risks when making investment decisions about companies. are called F-gases because of the fluoride content and these types CHILD LABOR Refers to the employment of workers who do not meet of gases have been regulated in the EU since 2015 by the F-gas the applicable national minimum legal age requirement. regulation. These gases may be found in cooling and heat pumps, fire protection equipment and circuit breakers. CLP Classification, Labeling and Packaging is an EU legislation that addresses dangers posed by chemical substances and mixtures and FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Refers to the right of employees to how users should be informed about them. These regulations were lawfully join associations of their own choosing, peacefully associate, introduced in 2015. organize or bargain collectively. CLIMATE CHANGE Also defined as global warming. Human activity 5S The name of a workplace organization methodology that uses a contributes to the warming of the global environment and its resulting list of five Japanese words which are seiri, seiton, seiso, seiketsu and effects, which range from higher temperatures to eccentric weather shitsuke. Transliterated or translated into English, they all start with patterns and melting of the ice caps. the letter ”s”. The list describes how items are stored and how the new order is maintained. The decision-making process usually comes from CODE OF CONDUCT The behavior code for HEXPOL’s employees is a dialogue about standardization which builds a clear understanding called Materializing Our Values. Supplemented by policies relating to among employees of how work should be done. It also promotes finance, information, environment, equal opportunities, IT and health ownership of the process in each employee. and safety. GHG Greenhouse gases. The emission into the Earth’s atmosphere of CONFLICT MINERAL Tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten are referred to any of various gases, for example carbon dioxide, that contribute to the as conflict minerals if they originate from the Democratic Republic greenhouse effect. of Congo and neighboring countries. The term arose because of the armed conflicts in the region, where mining operations often contribute GHG Protocol Greenhouse Gas Protocol. GHG Protocol establishes to continued conflicts and lead to human rights abuses. comprehensive global standardized frameworks to measure and manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from private and public CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ Corporate Responsibility is sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions. a term that encompasses how companies handle issues concerning the environment, social responsibility, financial responsibility and GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of business ethics. Often used in the same sense as the term ‘sustainable Chemicals. development’. GLOBAL COMPACT A UN initiative in the area of corporate social DETU N,N’-Diethyl thiourea is a rubber accelerator that is hazardous to responsibility. Participating organizations agree to adhere to ten health and the environment. principles in the areas of human rights, labour conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Global Compact is reflected in “Materializing DINP Diisononyl phthalate (DINP) is a phthalate used as a plasticizer. Our Values”. During 2017 HEXPOL joined Global Compact. At present, according to a EU Directive, DINP is banned in toys and childcare articles that children can put into their mouths. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative has established voluntary comprehensive standards for how companies DOTG N’N-di-ortho-tolyl guanidine is an accelerator in polyacrylate and other organizations should report their sustainability activities. rubber compounds. The substance releases o-toluidine emissions that are associated with health risks. GRI PRINCIPLES The GRI guidelines consist of principles to define report content and quality. The principles defining report content are: ENERGY USE HEXPOL reports both its direct energy use (use of fuel in Materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and its own energy facilities) and its indirect use (purchased electricity and completeness. The principles defining report quality are: Balance, district heating). comparability, accuracy, timeliness, reliability, and clarity. 40 HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Definitions GWH Gigawatt-hour, unit of energy measurement; 1 GWh corresponds PVC Polyvinyl chloride, one of the most common types of plastics. to 1 million kWh. REACH European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization HA OILS Also called extender oils, softening oils and process oils. and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is a EU Regulation adopted to High Aromatic oils contain several chemical substances (polycyclic promote safer handling of chemical substances. Chemical substances aromatic hydrocarbons, PAHs) that are carcinogenic and often are to be registered for a particular use. Substances of very high concern resistant to degradation in the environment. may be subject to restrictions. HCFC/CFC Substances that deplete the atmospheric ozone layer. ROHS Restrictions of Hazardous Substances. EU legislation restricting the use of certain substances that are hazardous to the environment ISO 14001 International standard relating to environmental manageand health. ment systems that was introduced in 1996. Over 360,000 organizations globally are currently certified according to ISO 14001. In 2018, an STAKEHOLDER (INTERESTED PARTY) Is a party that can affect or updated version of the standard (ISO 14001:2015) replaced the be affected by the actions of the business as a whole. Could include previous standard. employees, communities, shareholders, suppliers, customers, trade groups to name a few. ISO 26000 International standard that provides guidance on how organizations can deal with social responsibility issues. This standard SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Development that “satisfies today’s was introduced in 2010 and provides the backdrop to HEXPOL’s Code needs without jeopardizing future generations’ possibilities to satisfy of Conduct. their needs”. Sustainable development encompasses ecological, social and economic sustainability. ISO 45001 International standard relating to health and safety that was introduced in 2018. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) At the UN summit in 2015, the world’s heads of state adopted 17 Sustainable Development ISO 50001 An international standard relating to energy management Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Sustainable system. Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda aim to eradicate poverty and KPI Key Performance Indicator. hunger, ensure the rights of all people are respected, achieve equality and empowerment for all women and girls and ensure lasting protecLANDFILL Solid waste material sent to a landfill. tion for the planet and its natural resources. The SDGs are integrated and indivisible, and they balance the three dimensions of sustainable LEAN MANUFACTURING A systematic method for the efficient manadevelopment: economic, social and environmental. gement of resources. Lean manufacturing aims to identify all the factors in a production process that do not create value for the customer. SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED COSTS These are costs related to measures for preventing, reducing or repairing environmental damage directly LWC Occupational accidents causing at least one day’s absence (Lost associated with operations. The corresponding measures taken with Work Case). regard to health and safety in the workplace are also included. The MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet. In some countries called Safety Data costs reported include, among other items, administration and external Sheet (SDS). consultancy expenses, fees to authorities, costs for introducing and maintaining environmental management systems, costs for waste and NGO Non-governmental organization. charges for external inspections and audits. NITROSAMINES Chemical substances that can be generated in the SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED INVESTMENTS These are investments in cross-linking (vulcanization) of rubber. Nitrosamines are associated with assets designed to prevent, reduce or repair damage to the environan increased risk for cancer and nitrosamine-free curing systems have ment associated with operations. The corresponding investments made now become established in many parts of the rubber industry. with regard to health and safety in the workplace, are also included. NOx (NITROGEN OXIDES) Gaseous oxides formed during combustion SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Under an EU Directive, the Swedish governprocesses through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful to health and the ment has decided that as of 2017 it is mandatory for large companies to environment and cause acid rain and eutrophication. publish a sustainability report. The sustainability report should contain the nonfinancial disclosures required to understand the company’s OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE A work-related disease is a disease caused by performance, position, results and consequences of its business long-term exposure to a particular factor in the occupational environoperations, including information on issues concerning the environment. Examples are noise, dust and solvents. ment, personnel and social matters, respect for human rights and the OCCUPATIONAL INJURY A work-related injury is a sudden incident combating of corruption. (accident) attributable to work that gives rise to a wound or other injury. VULCANIZATION A chemical process for converting rubber into more Typical injuries in the polymer industry are cuts, falls and injuries caused durable materials with the addition of sulphur or other “curative” by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. HEXPOL reports occupational agents, for example peroxides. These additives modify the polymer injuries as an accident that causes more than one day of absence, by forming crosslinks between individual polymer chains. called Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is gauged by the number of occupational injuries per million hours worked. SO2 (SULFUR DIOXIDE) Sulfur dioxide is formed when petroleum products are burned. SO2 contributes to the acidification of lakes, OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and safety in the workplace. streams and soil, and causes coniferous trees to shed their needles. Latest in 2021 it will be replaced by ISO 45001. Large concentrations in the environment are harmful to human health. PAH Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, often abbreviated as PAHs, are TPE Thermoplastic elastomers are rubber-like materials that combine a group of environmentally and health hazardous substances arising the properties of vulcanized rubber with the process benefits of thermofrom such products as black coal and petroleum. plastics. PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group of industrial chemicals that VOC Volatile Organic Compounds are a group of organic compounds are hazardous to health and the environment. Use of PCBs is prohibited that easily vaporize at room temperature. The occurrence of the volatile since many years ago, but they are still present in installations, buildings hydrocarbons in the atmosphere has an adverse impact on health and and equipment. They are also present in the environment due to their the environment, including formation of ground-level ozone. long degradation time. WEEE The EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive aim POLYMERS Chemical compounds comprising very long chains to reduce the amount of electronic waste being disposed of and require made up of small, repeating units (monomers). Plastic and rubber producers to pay for its reuse, recycling and recovery. are examples of polymer materials. The Sustainability Report is produced by HEXPOL with graphic design by G-byrån Sverige in Anderstorp. This sustainability report is printed on Munken Kristall paper from Arctic Paper Munkedals AB, one of the most environmentally friendly paper mills in the world. The Company is ISO 14001 certified. The paper is made from raw materials from sustainable forestry and meets the requirements for both FSC, PEFC and the EU Ecolabel. Printed by Exakta in Malmö – which has ISO 14001 certification and holds the Nordic Swan environmental certification. The Swan is the official ecolabel of the Nordic countries. They review the environmental impact of goods and services through-out the lifecycle, from raw material to waste, and sets requirements in terms of function and quality. HEXPOL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 HEXPOL is a world leading polymer group, with strong global positions in advanced polymer compounds, gaskets for plate heat exchangers and wheels made of plastic and rubber materials for forklifts and castor wheel applications. Customers are primarily global suppliers to the automotive and engineering industries, the construction and civil engineering industries, and in sectors such as transport, energy, oil/gas and consumer products, as well as the cable and wire industry and medical technology manufacturers, plate heat exchangers and forklifts. The Group is organized into two business areas, HEXPOL Compounding and HEXPOL Engineered Products. The HEXPOL Group generated sales of 15,508 msek in 2019 and the Group has some 5,100 employees in 14 countries. HEXPOL AB (publ), Skeppsbron 3, SE-211 20 Malmö, Sweden Tel. +46 (0)40-25 46 60 www.hexpol.com
