ESG Report 2019 Landsbankinn‘s ESG Report for 2019 was published in electronic format to the Bank‘s website on 27 march 2020. Contents Welfare for the future.................................................................................................................................... 4 From the Chief Executive Officer..........................................................................................................................................................5 About the Report............................................................................................................................................................................................7 About Landsbankinn...................................................................................................................................................................................9 GRI Index........................................................................................................................................................................................................11 Future Vision.................................................................................................................................................. 12 Strategy............................................................................................................................................................................................................13 Responsible banking and the SDGs..................................................................................................................................................16 Goals..................................................................................................................................................................................................................20 Equality and responsible investment...............................................................................................................................................24 Controversies and partnership.................................................................................................................. 28 Controversies.................................................................................................................................................................................................29 Stakeholders..................................................................................................................................................................................................35 Collaborators.................................................................................................................................................................................................36 Publication......................................................................................................................................................................................................41 Indicators........................................................................................................................................................ 45 Economy..........................................................................................................................................................................................................46 Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................................50 Social.................................................................................................................................................................................................................54 Financial institutions...............................................................................................................................................................................64 Appendix.......................................................................................................................................................... 71 Landsbankinn 2020 3 Welfare for the future From the Chief Executive Officer Landsbankinn focuses on integrating sustainability in the Bank’s core operation. Sustainability should be integral at all levels, from policy to daily decisions. Landsbankinn’s policy is to contribute to sustainability in Iceland, to be a dynamic force in society and operate in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance. Ranked 6th out of 376 banks operation. This was a gratifying bankinn shows that steady and acknowledgement of the work the on-going effort to achieve sustaBank has done and, in addition, a inability and ESG goals leads to In 2019, Landsbankinn got good ESG risk rating can facilisuch goals becoming an integral its first ESG risk rating from tate banks’ access to funding. part of all decision making, both an independent party. Invein the short and long term. stors increasingly demand such independent verification of ESG Practice long-term thinking In fall 2019, Landsbankinn risk. International rating agency signed new Principles for ResponSustainalytics reviewed Landssible Banking at the UN General bankinn for ESG risk and the One of the challenges companies Assembly in New York. The PRBs Bank received an excellent score, face in relation to sustainability will support our work to interanking 6th out of 376 European is a business environment that grate the Paris Climate Agreebanks assessed by Sustainalytics. is often too focused on quarterly ment and those three of the UN’s The review is comprehensive, results. This is not a new chalSustainable Development Goals encompassing all of the Bank’s lenge but critique of short-term that Landsbankinn has chosen activities, and the results show thinking has grown with increain the Bank’s operation. It was that Landsbankinn is well on sed awareness of sustainability enjoyable to see so many parties its way to integrating ESG and harmonising with operating pertake on long-term responsibility sustainability concerns in its core formance. Experience at Landson the sustainability platform Landsbankinn 2020 5 130 banks signed the PRBs on the Leader in social responsibility occasion. Participants must set specific, Landsbankinn publishes an measurable and time-bound goals annual ESG report based on the and regularly publish informprinciples of the Global Reporting ation about their progress. LandsInitiative (GRI). This report has bankinn has set three such goals, been prepared in accordance with presented in this report. These the GRI Standards: Core option goals involve assessing emissions and also functions as a Communfrom Landsbankinn’s credit and ication of Progress report to the asset portfolios, developing green Expertise in green bonds UN Global Compact. Landsbanklending, and working to close the inn will continue to support the gender-based wage gap and in so Global Compact and adhere to its doing boost gender equality in Over the past two years, the Bank guidelines. the labour market. has worked to develop expert knowledge of green bonds and As both the interest in and onus sustainable financing wheon corporate sustainability Landsbankinn develops metreby funding is channelled to grows, it becomes increasingly hod to measure emissions eco-friendly and social projects. important to publish accessible Landsbankinn co-ordinated information about the impact the issuance of green bonds by of activities on society and the Another key challenge to banks Municipality Credit Iceland, environment in order to faciliis measuring the environmental which concluded successfully in tate monitoring of developments, and social impact of banking February 2020. For the first time comparison and boost transpthrough credit and asset portfolin Iceland, green bonds were arency. The report provides inios. Banks throughout the world issued at better terms than tradiformation on the varied projects have struggled with measuring tional bonds issued at the same the Bank is engaged in under such indirect impact effectitime, demonstrating that invesocial responsibility, from ensurvely and systematically. In 2019, stors are engaged and willing ing equality in the workplace, Landsbankinn joined an internato participate in projects run on implementation of the methodotional venture that aims to devethe sustainability platform. The logy of responsible investment lop and implement a harmonized proceeds from the bond offering and wide-reaching social projects. approach to assess and disclose will go towards financing enviThe importance of sustainability greenhouse gas (GHG) emissronmentally-friendly municipain corporate activity continues to ions for financial undertakings. lity undertakings that minimise grow and Landsbankinn intends The method is intended to allow climate change. to continue to lead in the field. banks to measure emissions from projects to which they lend funds or invest in. 6 Landsbankinn 2020 About the Report Landsbankinn now publishes its ninth ESG Report based on the GRI Standards. The Report also functions as a Communication of Progress report to the UN Global Compact. The Report reflects the Bank’s knowledge of the subject matter at the time of its publication. Publication of this Report does not imply that the Bank is fully cognisant of its social impact nor that sustainability has been fully implemented in the Bank. The Report endeavours to provide an insight into accomplishments, identify room for improvement and discuss controversies. Information in the Report is are merely reviewed shortly in prepared by the Bank’s emplothe index. Where indicators are yees in various divisions and an not discussed in full it is because outside consultant reviewed discinformation is insufficient or has losure with regard for compliance not been available in comparable with the GRI Standards.1 In 2019, form. To avoid repetition, the a CSR expert was hired2 to a 50% index in some instances refers to position. The CSR expert edits other media and reports from the and supervises reporting. Bank, as applicable. An index accompanying the The advancement of social resReport sets out the extent of discponsibility and sustainability at losure on each indicator. This ReLandsbankinn can be tracked Report focuses on the activities port contains detailed discussion through perusal of the Bank’s of Landsbankinn and not its subof some indicators while others previous ESG reports. This sidiaries, unless otherwise stated. Landsbankinn 2020 7 Regard was had for the following in determining the scope and approach of the Report. » While this year’s Report includes the same indicators as previous ones, they were updated to reflect changes from GRI G4 to GRI Standards in 2018. » The selection of indicators was based on reports by comparable financial undertakings in the Nordic countries, as well as stakeholder views. reviewed by Landsbankinn’s » A review during the employees and a materiality preparation for this Report » The GRI 103 table outlines analysis carried out. Once ensured that no changes the approach to managethe material topics of the had occurred since 2018. ment of material topics by GRI Standards had been the Bank and the person or identified based on LandsAll information in the Report is division responsible. The bankinn’s operation, the for the calendar year 2019. Landstable was initially prepared responsibility for managebankinn encourages readers of in 2018 to reflect changes ment of each standard was the Report to contact the Bank from GRI G4 to GRI Standidentified by division. with any comments on the Bank’s ards reporting. The table social involvement, as well as responds to the GRI 103 » The table shows material suggestions for improvement of standard in that it shows topics, or GRI Standards, the Report. management’s approach to on the y-axis. The Bank’s material topics. divisions are arranged on the x-axis and management 1. Finnur Sveinsson, sustainability » In order to identify material of each standard recorded in consultant. topics in the Bank’s operathe table’s columns. 2. Aðalheiður Snæbjarnardóttir, sustainability expert. tion, the standards were 8 Landsbankinn 2020 About Landsbankinn Landsbankinn hf. was established on 7 October 2008, with roots going back to 1886 through its predecessor, Landsbanki Íslands hf. (now LBI hf.). Landsbankinn is Iceland’s largest bank. The Bank provides individuals, corporations and investors with sound, universal financial services based on long-term business partnerships. Landsbankinn provides traditioAt year-end 2019, the National ing. Gallup surveys show that nal lending and deposit services Treasury of Iceland held 98.2% of confidence and satisfaction with plus market transactions, fund shares in Landsbankinn. Landsthe Bank’s services has increased management through subsidiary bankinn owns 1.56% of own shain the same period. Landsbréf, corporate finance, prires. Other shareholders, current vate banking and asset manageand former employees of LandsThe Bank, including subsidiaries, ment services. Landsbankinn bankinn and former guarantee had 943 employees in 893 fullhas been headquartered at capital owners of the savings time equivalent positions at the Austurstræti 11 and surrounding banks Sparisjóður Vestmannaend of 2019, 60% female an 40% buildings since its establishment. eyja and Sparisjóður Norðurlands male. The gender balance is uncIn 2017, the Board of Directors of (other than the state), hold 0.24%. hanged between years. Landsbankinn decided to construct housing for the Bank’s operaGallup surveys show that LandsAll Landsbankinn employees in tion at Austurbakki 2, Austurhöfn bankinn held a 37.2% share in the banking jobs are members of the in Reykjavík. The Bank does not retail market in 2019. LandsbankConfederation of Icelandic Bank operate outside of Iceland. inn has held the highest share of and Finance Employees (SSF) the retail market six years runnand work in accordance with the Landsbankinn 2020 9 collective bargaining agreement of the Confederation of Icelandic Employers (SA) and the Confederation of Icelandic Bank and Finance Employees (SSF). Landsbankinn a model of good governance The governance structure of Landsbankinn forms the foundation for solid relations between shareholders, the Board of Directors, executives, employees and other stakeholders and encourages objectivity, integrity, transparency and responsibility in the management of the Bank. Landsbankinn adheres to recognised guidelines on corporate governance and regularly reviews the Bank’s compliance with such guidelines. In April 2019, the Centre of Corporate Governance renewed its recognition of Landsbankinn as a model of corporate governance. The award is organised by the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland, the Confederation of Icelandic Employers and the CCG at the University of Iceland. The award is based on a review of the Bank’s governance practices, carried out by Deloitte ehf. 10 Landsbankinn 2020 GRI index This ESG Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The Report is edited by Landsbankinn’s sustainability expert1 with information from the Bank’s divisions and its suppliers. An outside sustainability consultant2 reviewed disclosure with regard for compliance with the GRI Standards. In instances where indicators are not reported or partly reported, this is because information is missing or has not been available in an accessible or comparable format in the Bank’s 1. Aðalheiður Snæbjarnardóttir, sustainability expert. information systems. 2. Finnur Sveinsson, sustainability consultant. Landsbankinn 2020 11 Future Vision Strategy Sustainability vision Development Goals (SDGs) and new Principles for Responsible Banking from UNEP-FI. The latLandsbankinn is focused on inteter are intended to link banking grating sustainability in its core with the UN’s SDGs and the Paris operations. Climate Agreement. Landsbankinn’s policy on social More detailed coverage of the responsibility is to contribute Principles for Responsible Bankto sustainability in Iceland, to ing from UNEP-FI is presented be a dynamic force in society alongside information about the and operate in accordance with Bank’s sustainability policy in the principles of good corporate the chapter Responsible banking governance. and the SDGs. nership Policy, Landsbankinn has been an active participant of the The Bank will take the initiIn addition, Landsbankinn has UN Global Compact, a member of ative to form partnerships with adopted measurable and timeUN PRI, a founding member of companies, institutions and bound goals based on UNEP-FI’s the Iceland Sustainable Investorganisations to develop econoguidelines to work to achieve ment Forum (IcelandSIF), as mic activity and infrastructure the SDGs and the Paris Climate well as Festa, Centre for Corpowhich will contribute to incAgreement. These goals are prerate Social Responsibility, and reased sustainability in Icelandic sented in the chapter on Goals. publishes an annual ESG report industry and society with the based on the principles of the aim to utilise as best as possible Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). the available opportunities for Policy on sustainability the maximum future benefit of Landsbankinn approved a CSR Icelanders and Iceland. A joint Policy in 2011 and that Policy effort can create new business The State Ownership Policy for has since been under constant opportunities that emphasise Financial Undertakings states development. The focus is on sustainability. that financial undertakings shall integrating sustainability in the adopt environmental and sustaBank’s core operation. In 2019, Landsbankinn focuses especially inability policies, as well as a CSR Landsbankinn became a signaon three of the UN’s Sustainable policy. To comply with the Owtory of new Principles for ResponLandsbankinn 2020 13 sible Banking, obliging the Bank to set goals that enable it to work to further the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and Paris Climate Agreement in its activities. In shaping these goals, the Bank utilised guidelines from UNEP-FI and involved executives, employees, various stakeholders, customers and the general public in the process. For more details on the goals and their shaping, turn to the chapter Goals. The Bank’s strategizing, including sustainability policies, is the purview of the Executive are benchmarks that measure world to measure carbon emissBoard and the Board of Directors a company’s management of ions in a scientific and co-orof Landsbankinn. the environmental impact of its dinated manner. Landsbankinn operation, its treatment of human participates in PCAF’s developresources, suppliers, customers ment of the international method Landsbankinn ranked 6th out and society. which is a 3-year project. of 376 banks by Sustainalytics Landsbankinn contributes to Strong emphasis on cyber carbon accounting method security In October 2019, Landsbankinn received an ESG risk rating from Sustainalytics, reflecting an inIn 2019, Landsbankinn joined Landsbankinn takes cyber secudepth assessment of the Bank’s PCAF, a global partnership of rity extremely seriously and risk exposure to material ESG financial undertakings that work participates in various collaboraissues. ESG stands for environtogether to develop and impletions with organisations and mental, social and governance. ment a harmonized approach to institutions in the field, both in Landsbankinn received an assess and disclose greenhouse Iceland and abroad. The Bank’s excellent score, ranking 6th out gas (GHG) emissions. The carbon experts are active participants of 376 European banks assessed accounting method is intended to in debate about these issues and by Sustainalytics. Landsbankinn allow financial undertakings to scored 17.5 points on a scale of 0 measure and analyse emissions to 100 which means that exfrom their credit and asset portposure to financial risk from ESG folios. The initiative originated issues is deemed low. in the Netherlands and since then, open-source methodoloThere is increasing demand gies to measure carbon emissions for third-party verification of have been developed for banks in companies’ ESG issues and seveNorth America. Work is currently ral investors require independent under way to develop an internaevaluation of the Bank’s sustational method to allow financial inability platform. ESG issues undertakings throughout the 14 Landsbankinn 2020 produced accessible educational Corporate governance IcelandSIF in 2017. The objecmaterial published to Umræðan tive of IcelandSIF is to promote and to social media in 2019. The awareness among investors of the Bank considers such instruction Landsbankinn intends to be a methodology of sustainable and and training to be part of its efmodel of good corporate goresponsible investment and to forts under social responsibility. vernance and complies with boost debate. guidelines issued by Nasdaq In 2019, the Bank’s cyber security Iceland, the Iceland Chamber of Paris Climate Agreement. In experts participated in around 30 Commerce and the ConfederaNovember 2015, Landsbankinn events on cyber security, hosted tion of Icelandic Employers. For signed a declaration on climate well attended meetings and more information, see the chapter issues, joining over a hundred educational events for companies. About Landsbankinn. Icelandic companies and institutions in a collaborative venture of the City of Reykjavík and Festa. Customer rights and proCollaborative ventures on cessing of personal data sustainability UNEP-FI Principles for Responsible Banking. In September 2019, Landsbankinn committed Landsbankinn respects the Landsbankinn participates in the to implement and comply with legally protected rights of custofollowing sustainability collathe Principles for Responsible mers provided for in the Act on borations: Banking. They are intended to Personal Data Protection and in link banking with the UN’s SDGs keeping with the Bank’s policy on Festa, Centre for Corporate Social and the Paris Climate Agreement. data protection and the processResponsibility. Landsbankinn Landsbankinn focuses on three ing of personal information. Indiwas a founding member of Festa of the SDGs in its operation: No. viduals can use the Bank’s data in 2011. 5, gender equality, no. 8, decent rights portal to request access to work and economic growth, and their own personal data that the United Nations Global Compact. no. 12, responsible production Bank uses in its operation, and Landsbankinn has been a signaand consumption. request correction or deletion of tory of the UN’s Global Compact certain personal data from the since 2006. Platform Carbon Accounting FinBank’s systems. ancials (PCAF). In 2019, LandsUnited Nations Principles for bankinn joined PCAF, a global In 2019, Landsbankinn proResponsible Investment (UN partnership of financial undertakcessed 44 applications for access PRI). UN PRI is an association of ings that work together to develop to information, 21 applications investors, funds and analysts that and implement a harmonized to delete data and 1 request to aims to include environmental, approach to assess and disclose transfer data to another service social and governance (ESG) crigreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. provider. The Bank’s Data Protecteria in investment decisions. The carbon accounting method is tion Officer did not receive any intended to allow financial undercomplaints about the treatment United Nations Environment Protakings to measure and analyse of the personal data of customers gramme Finance Initiative (UNEPemissions from their credit and or others in 2019. FI). Landsbankinn was a founding asset portfolios. member of UNEP-FI in 1992. The chapter Collaborators contaIceland Sustainable Investment ins more details about LandsForum (IcelandSIF). Landsbankbankinn’s collaborations in the inn was a founding member of field of sustainability and CSR. Landsbankinn 2020 15 Responsible banking and the SDGs International sustainability Taking place at the start of the they have the greatest impact – guidelines for banks UN General Assembly, the ofin their core business – and set, ficial launch of the Principles for publish and implement ambitious In September 2019, Lilja Björk Responsible Banking marked the targets to scale up positive and Einarsdóttir, CEO of Landsbankbeginning of the most significant address any negative impacts in inn, signed new Principles for partnership to date between the line with global and local goals. Responsible Banking at the UN global banking industry and This is the first global framework General Assembly in New York. the UN. The Principles were that guides the integration of Landsbankinn thereby joined developed by 30 international sustainability across all business a coalition of 130 banks from banks under the auspices of the areas of banking activity. around the world. The Principles United Nations Environment are intended to strategically align Programme Finance Initiative The Principles set the global financial activity with the UN’s (UNEP FI) of which Landsstandard for what it means to be a Sustainable Development Goals bankinn is already a member. By responsible bank and will ensure and the Paris Climate Agreement. signing them, the banks commit that banks create value for both to focusing their efforts where their shareholders and society. 16 Landsbankinn 2020 Alignment: Align the business ducts and services on individuals strategy of banks to be consistent and the environment. with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, Customers: The banks shall as expressed in the Sustainable work responsibly with custoDevelopment Goals, the Paris mers to encourage sustainable Climate Agreement and relevant practices and enable economic national and regional framactivities that create shared proeworks. It is important that banks sperity for current and future concentrate their efforts where generations. they have the greatest impact. Stakeholders: The banks shall Impact: The banks shall seek take the initiative to responsibly to increase their positive impact consult, engage and partner with while reducing the negative relevant stakeholders to achieve impact of their operation, prosociety’s goals. Landsbankinn 2020 17 Governance & target setting: The banks shall implement their commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking, demonstrating ambition and accountability. Key targets and the impact of this work shall be made public. Transparency & accountability: The banks shall periodically review their individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for their positive and negative impacts advanced as regards sustainabion responsible consumption and and contribution to society’s lity, this is a good platform for production. The chosen SDGs goals. peer learning. all relate to the Bank’s activities and as such allow the Bank to Further information on the maximise the positive impact of six Principles for Responsible SDGs a part of sustainability its work on the environment and Banking. policy the community. Commitment to the Principles for Responsible Banking means Landsbankinn is committed to The UN’s SDGs that Landsbankinn must set adhering to the UN’s Sustainable measurable and time-bound goals Development Goals in its operabased on guidelines from UNEPtion. Emphasis will be placed on The United Nations presented FI to work to achieve the SDGs in working to achieve three of the their Sustainable Development its operation. Landsbankinn had SDGs: Goal 5 on gender equaGoals (SDG) in 2015 as replacepreviously disclosed which three lity, goal 8 on decent work and ment for the Millennium Deveof the SDGs it intended to focus economic growth, and goal 12 lopment Goals (MDG), set around on. This work will be reviewed the turn of the century. The SDGs annually to increase the likeliare more numerous and specific hood of achieving success. For than the MDGs and focus on the more details on the goals and their pressing challenges facing the shaping, turn to the chapter Goals. entire world. Below is a review of each SDG and their sub-goals. The banks that endorse the Principles also agree to assist each other and share information Goal 5 Gender equality about effective methods. As the banks in the group operate in widely different locations througLandsbankinn has over many yehout the world and are variously ars made a point of ensuring that 18 Landsbankinn 2020 To reduce the emission of compounds and chemicals into the atmosphere, water and soil, Landsbankinn has offered retail customers favourable terms on funding of ecofriendly vehicles and reduced its own fuel use and greenhouse gas emission, uses men and women receive equal estate companies, construction ecolabelled cleaning products pay for equally valuable work and companies, holding companies, and sanitary towels, offers tranenjoy the same job opportunities. the travel industry, commerce, sportation grants to employees Landsbankinn has twice been services, IT and telecommunicaand offsets carbon emissions awarded the golden seal of PwC’s tions. Landsbankinn contributes from all work-related employee Equal Pay Audit and, in March to the improvement of access to travel both domestically and 2019, the Bank achieved legally banking and financial services abroad. required equal pay certification. for all with the country’s largest branch network and most ATMs. Landsbankinn promotes sustaA detailed coverage of equality at Landsbankinn’s community inable practices in its procureLandsbankinn is presented in the grants and scholarships support ment and takes its business to chapter on Equality. local culture. local suppliers, with 89% of the Bank’s suppliers in 2019 being local. Goal 8 Decent work and Goal 12 Responsible conseconomic growth umption and production The chapter Indicators in this Report contains details about environmental aspects of the Goal 8 promotes sustained and Goal 12 focuses on ensuring Bank’s operation; development sustainable economic growth, sustainable consumption and proof paper use, waste treatment, full and productive employment duction patterns. Landsbankinn fuel use, carbon offsetting and and decent work for all. Landscontributes to responsible consother environmental concerns. bankinn supports this goal in umption and production through Landsbankinn has published ESG various aspects of its operation. various aspects of its activities reports annually since 2011, in Landsbankinn signed a sevenand has a wide-reaching effect on compliance with the standards of year loan agreement with the the community. the Global Reporting Initiative Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), (GRI). The trajectory of the Bank’s the terms of which provide that In its efforts to reduce food waste, efforts under CSR and sustainabiLandsbankinn re-loan the funds general garbage production, lity can be tracked through the to small and medium-sized boost recycling and decrease yearly reports. enterprises and environmental waste in general, Landsbankinn projects in Iceland. has made rapid headway towards Landsbankinn is working to becoming a paper-free bank, reduce GHG emissions through Landsbankinn has approved reduced waste and garbage from SDG 12. By supporting responsector policies that incorpoits operation and now runs a Norsible consumption and prorate guidelines on sustainabidic Swan ecolabled canteen. duction, a behavioural pattern lity for the following industemerges that leads to lower GHG ries: fisheries and seafood, real emissions. Landsbankinn 2020 19 Goals Landsbankinn’s sustainabi» Assess emissions from • Work on this goal will be lity and ESG goals Landsbankinn’s credit based on the PCAF carand asset portfolios bon accounting method. • This is a 4-year goal, i.e. Mapping emissions from Landsbankinn has adopted the the aim is to publish incredit and asset portfolios following goals to enable it to formation about emissis a complex and difficult work systematically towards the ions from Landsbankinn’s task. Development of the UN’s sustainable development credit and asset portfolios PCAF carbon accounting goals (SDGs) and the Paris Cliin the ESG report for method aims to enable mate Agreement through its core 2023 (to be published in banks to measure emissoperation. For a more detailed early 2024). ions in a scientific and discussion of the SDGs, go to Rescomparable manner. ponsible banking and the SGDs. 20 Landsbankinn 2020 » Develop green lending • The goal is to develop a green credit framework in 2020 and use it to establish in realistic terms the percentage of green loans in the Bank’s credit portfolio by 2025. • Developments will be Methods used to develop the • The results will be communicated annually goals published in Landsbankthrough Landsbankinn’s inn’s ESG report for 2020, ESG report. to be published in early Landsbankinn used draft guideli2021. These goals support SDGs 5, 8 nes from UNEP FI, published in and 12; the three SDGs LandsSeptember 2019, Impact Identi» Work to close the genderbankinn is working to promote fication & Assessment for Bank based wage gap and boost through its core operation. Two Portfolios, in the development gender equality in the of Landsbankinn’s goals also phase of its own goals. labour market support SGD 13, on climate • The Bank has worked action, and the Bank has always In preparation for the project, towards this target throconsidered its work in connecLandsbankinn’s sustainability ugh its efforts to promote tion with SDG 8, on responsible expert reviewed the methodology equality in recent years production and consumption, and of the guidelines with the assby making it its policy 12, on responsible production and istance of an outside consultant1 to ensure at least 40% consumption, to constitute action for the purpose of analysing the representation by either against climate change. guidelines and preparing an gender in the Bank’s action plan. management teams. Landsbankinn has set these This has been achieved goals in order to work effectiThe first step was to identify the in the Bank’s executive vely, measurably and against a main impact of Landsbankinn’s board and future efforts set schedule to achieve the PRBs, operation in Iceland using UNEPshall focus on balancing comply more fully with the GRI FI’s impact radar. This included the gender ratio in other Standards and the targets the careful review of the following areas and to maintain the agreement on climate action the steps of the guidelines: positive progress already Bank has signed with Festa and made. the City of Reykjavík, and which » Significant impact area is in line with the Paris Climate » Impact identification Agreement. » Impact assessment Landsbankinn 2020 21 » Impact needs » Customers, retail the interviews and which fell » Impact performance » Customers, partners under SDGs 5, 8 and 12 were » Impact targets » Customers, SMEs drawn out. The sub-goals of » Bank impact profile » Customers, large enterpriSDG 13 were also considered as » Impact management ses compatible with the targets of the Paris Climate Agreement, An attempt was made to involve Data from the interviews was and as the Bank was seeking as many of Landsbankinn’s stakeused to analyse Landsbankinn’s means of working towards better holders as possible and the folimpact on Iceland, as the country integrating the Agreement in its lowing parties were interviewed: is defined as the Bank’s operatiooperation. nal area. The overall impact was » Landsbankinn’s Executive broken down into impact from The next step was a survey, sent Board the following operating units: to members of the public and » The Consumers’ Union Landsbankinn’s employees. The » Landvernd, the National » Commercial banking survey was performed by EMC Association for the Protec» Corporate banking rannsóknir and aimed to identify tion of the Icelandic Envi» Investment banking the issues that are most impronment » Capital markets ortant to the public and emplo» Festa, Centre for Corporate yees. The survey also asked what Social Responsibility. In order to focus on Landsbankactions the respondent’s bank inn’s core operation and the SDGs could take to promote sustainabiData from the interviews, in the Bank has chosen to emplity and ESG. Respondents among which respondents were asked hasise, in addition to the targets the public were 603 and 367 from about sustainability and ESG in of the Paris Climate Agreement, among Landsbankinn’s emplorelation to Landsbankinn, was regard was had for the sub-taryees. used to elucidate the Bank’s gets of the SDGs considered most impact on Icelandic society. 17 applicable to Iceland. Information Results from both surveys were individuals in the following cafrom the interviews was analysed very similar and identical in the tegories were interviewed for this based on these sub-goals. The three top issues identified as purpose: sub-goals most emphasised in most important for Iceland. 22 Landsbankinn 2020 » Adopt a circular approach in ions by adopting circular appall consumption and producroaches and in so doing lessen tion to ensure that resource their impact on the climate. This utilisation does not exceed goal supports SDG 12 and the natural tolerance. Paris Climate Agreement. » Ensure equal opportunities Development of green loans and equal pay for the same encourages companies to optimwork. ise their operation through green projects. This goal supports SDGs » Work to reduce climate 8 and 12 and the Paris Climate change and its impact on Agreement. Once a green credit nature. framework has been developed, the extent of which such proParis Climate Agreement, work to Thus, the three goals of Landsducts can support companies in attain these goals will allow the bankinn were shaped in collagreen endeavours will be easier Bank to fulfill many GRI Standboration with both internal and to assess. More information will ards even more thoroughly. The external stakeholders and with be published at a later date, as it goals will impact the following regard to international guideliis too early to make any claims at GRI indicators: nes. The goals are linked to the this stage. SDGs and/or the Paris Climate The goals will be reviewed annuAgreement in the following Work to reduce the gender-based ally and developments disclosed manner: wage gap and boost gender equain Landsbankinn’s ESG report. lity in the labour market supports By identifying emissions from its equal opportunities and equal credit and asset portfolio, Landspay for comparable work. This bankinn can assess its effect goal supports SDGs 5 and 8. on the climate and encourage reduced emissions. Companies In addition to contributing can achieve a reduction in emissto SDGs 5, 8 and 12, and the Landsbankinn 2020 23 Equality and responsible investment Equality certification shall be based on the 2015, first of the domestic banks. Equal Pay Standard ÍST 85. The Landsbankinn wants to ensure key aim of equal pay certification that men and women receive Landsbankinn has over several is to counteract a genderequal pay for equally years placed great emphasis on based wage gap and boost valuable work and has ensuring equal pay and equal job gender equality in the set itself the goal of opportunities. In 2019, the focus labour market. Impleensuring at least 40% on equality was sharpened even mentation of an equal representation by further with Capacent’s Equality pay standard at Landseither gender in the Indicator and the Bank received bankinn in fact means Bank’s management equal pay certification. that the Bank has enacted teams. a control system which ensures that handling and decisions about Landsbankinn’s Gender EquaEqual pay certification wages is based on objective faclity Policy is reviewed regularly legally required tors, free of gender-based discand an equal rights committee is rimination. active in the Bank. Landsbankinn is a signatory of the Women’s Landsbankinn attained legally Empowerment Principles – Equarequired equal pay certification Emphasis on SDG No. 5 lity Means Business (WEPs), in March 2019 and has since Gender equality an international venture by UN operated in accordance with a Women and UN Global Compact. certified equal pay system. The By signing WEPs, Landsbankinn gendered wage difference in Landsbankinn is focused on committed itself to further genthe Bank is calculated working to attain der equality within the company regularly and in 2019 it three of the UN’s and conduct its business in has ranged between 1.4Sustainable Developaccordance with the principles of 1.8%, in favour of male ment Goals (SDGs), corporate social responsibility. employees. Regression including goal 5, on analysis of December gender equality. Prior 2019 wages reveals a to gaining legally Conference on workplace 1.5% gender-based wage required equal pay equality difference. certification, the Bank had twice been The Act on Equal Pay Certificaawarded the golden seal of PwC’s In November 2019, Landstion from 2017 provides that Equal Pay Audit, initially in bankinn hosted a conference on 24 Landsbankinn 2020 equality in the workplace along analyse the status of equality with Landsvirkjun and Alcoa within the Bank in detail. All Fjarðaál. The conference was held Bank employees were involved in in Egilsstaðir in East Iceland and the project which began in 2018. was very well attended. The focus During implementation of the was on the importance of empequality indicators, goals were bullying, gender-based discrimhasising equality in business. set in 6 categories leading up to ination, sexual harassment and Lilja Björk Einarsdóttir, CEO the year 2022. violence (EKKO) was introduced of Landsbankinn, spoke at the to employees during the year. conference and participated in Several actions were undertaken A register has been maintained panel discussions. in 2019 to work towards these of the gender ratio of applicants goals. A development and mentor in all hiring processes, logging system was created to help interview calls and information Equality boosted with Capaemployees strengthen their job about final hiring decisions. Macent’s Equality Indicator development trajectory. Reprenagement was instructed on the sentation on behalf of the Bank in pervasiveness of subconscious media and conferences was regprejudices and ways and means of Landsbankinn is a member of istered. This proved effective and counteracting them. Capacent’s Equality Indicator, a a gender balance was attained at wide-reaching undertaking to year end. A contingency plan for Landsbankinn 2020 25 Goals for 2022 set based gender ratio in all levels of of UN PRI oblige themselves to on Capacent’s Equality management. publish a Communication of ProIndicator gress report on their adherence to the guidelines and the Bank has Responsible investments done so in recent years. UN PRI » Development and menrequires members to demonsttor system, establishing rate clear progress. The progress solutions to help employees In recent years, Landsbankinn reports are intended for investors, strengthen their job devehas worked to implement a Policy customers and stakeholders and lopment trajectory. on Responsible Investment. Empare published on the websites of hasis is placed on the integration PRI and Landsbankinn. » Role models, the gender of sustainability in core operabreakdown of representions. The integration of environmentatives of the Bank. tal, social and governance (ESG) Landsbankinn’s Policy on Resfactors in the investment process » Culture, ensuring that proponsible Investment reflects work has a positive impact on return cesses related to EKKO are practices that have been shaped on investment in the long term clear and credible and that in recent years, as well as the and reduces operational risk. The employees receive regular challenges the future holds. The business environment is changinstruction about EKKO. next steps for Landsbankinn will ing and a company’s stance on include integrating ESG issues sustainability and social respon» Education, events on equain the process of investment sibility has begun to factor in risk lity issues and educational decisions in a structured manner, assessment, as well as in the evacampaign for employees. both as relates to listed and unluation of growth opportunities. listed equities and bonds. » Hiring process, work In engaging in an active dialogue towards eliminating The Policy on Responsible Investon ESG and sustainability with unconscious prejudices in ment has regard for the United other companies, Landsbankinn personnel appointment. Nations Principles for Responwishes to focus on mitigating acsible Investment (UN PRI) of tion and ensure long-term bene» Equal gender representawhich the Bank has been a memfits for the Bank and investors. As tion, achieving a 40/60 ber since early 2013. Members regards responsible investment, 26 Landsbankinn 2020 Landsbankinn’s practices build In 2019, Landsbankinn Markets Supplementary guidelines on active communication wheworked with Municipality Credit for investment analysis reby exclusion is a rare exception. Iceland towards the certification of its green bond framework. By offering green loans, the MCI Landsbankinn Economic ReseExpert knowledge of green aims to encourage municipalities arch has in the past couple of bonds to more selectively choose enviyears gathered strategic informronmentally friendly projects that ation about the operation of minimise climate change. The listed companies with regard for Over the past few years, the framework has been reviewed by sustainability and social responBank has developed and built Sustainalytics, a leading global sibility. This work is based on a expertise in green bonds. Green provider of ESG ratings. standardized questionnaire that bonds allow for the financing of pertains to the main elements of environmentally friendly projIn July 2019, Reitun ehf., LandsESG issues. The questionnaire ects. Interest in green bonds has bankinn and Landsbréf signed a represents Landsbankinn’s first increased steadily in Iceland in service agreement providing for steps to gathering information recent years, in line with expLandsbankinn and Landsbréf to about how listed companies apploding interest abroad. Increased obtain ESG ratings for issuers of roach these matters. Responses awareness of climate and enviequities and bonds in portfolios to the questionnaire were made ronmental issues and pressure under management by the two available to investors via Econofrom the public has encouraged companies. This agreement is the mic Research’s website in 2017. countries, municipalities and prinext step towards introducing To date, the responses are only vate companies to place greater procedures for responsible investfor the attention of investors and weight on these issues. Landsment, continuing along the path the department does not evaluate bankinn has endeavoured to build which the Bank and its subsidiary the answers. In the long term, knowledge of so-called sustaLandsbréf have set for themselves the aim is to give more weight inable bonds, i.e. green bonds, in recent years. to these issues in the evaluation red bonds (issued to fund social of investment opportunities. The commitments) and blue bonds aim is to implement sustainabi(issued to finance ocean-friendly lity principles in general analysis projects). work in the future, in line with the Bank’s obligations under the tenets of responsible investment. Landsbankinn 2020 27 Controversies and partnership Controversies Corporate and public awareness of what sustainability means continues to grow and controversies regularly arise. Landsbankinn’s ESG reports for recent years have focused on development in the Bank’s branches, sexual harassment in the workplace, sale of companies by the Bank, supply chain responsibility, interest margins and pricing. The reports have also focused on changes in the banking environment, the new directive on payment service and data protection laws, challenges relating to human resources, cyber security and increased demand on sustainability from the investor side. companies to pay serious attenactivities. It is necessary to adopt This year’s report will focus on tion to these matters. Banks are a long-term approach in corpotwo issues; the measures banks no exception and demands that rate processes to achieve the can take to be socially responthey demonstrate progress have best results for the environment, sible and the sustainability certigrown, both from the public and society and operations. fication of Landsbankinn’s new from investors. facilities. The main challenges banks face Challenging to measure the in the integration of the ideology impact of banking activiIs it possible to assess banks and methodology of sustainabities through credit and asset based on sustainability and lity in their operation is to portfolios ESG factors? identify areas where they can most effectively achieve results through core operations. It is Until recently, banks were conIn recent years, public awareness also challenging for companies sidered to have a small environabout sustainability has increato practice long-term thinking mental footprint as their activised with concomitant pressure on and apply that vision in business ties were not thought to produce Landsbankinn 2020 29 GHG emissions to any significant more information on the project, their impact by integrating sustadegree. As standards evolve and click here. inability in core operation. ESG requirements become more sophisticated, it is now generally There are several avenues open In order for the public to learn accepted that banks have a high to banks to measure the impact about banks’ actions and their impact on their environment and of their credit and loan portsustainability platforms, it is produce emissions through their folios, such as TCFD, CDP and the important to tend to annual credit and asset portfolios. Banks aforementioned GHG Protocol, reporting and to publish detailed must contribute to society’s efbut each bank must decide which information on non-financial fort to achieve the goals of the method best suits its operation. aspects of activities, so-called key Paris Climate Agreement and the It is nonetheless important to information. opportunities lie in the projects consider the methods and standthey choose to finance and invest ards selected by other banks and in rather than in direct activity. financial undertakings, as inveRobust disclosure builds Such indirect emissions are diffistors need to be able to review trust cult to identify and measure. information that is comparable across financial undertakings. The Partnership for Carbon It is important to review the impAccounting Financials (PCAF) is In addition to environmental act of operation on the environworking to develop a harmonized factors, banks must consider ment and society every year and approach to assess and disclose social factors and governance to publish comparable figures greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions practices when evaluating the to track progress between years. for financial undertakings. The impact of their operation through The aim of reporting on sustacarbon accounting method is incredit and loan portfolios. This inability and ESG is to create tended to allow financial underis increasingly done through transparency and build trust. takings to measure and analyse sustainable financing, whereby emissions from their credit and funding is systematically chanVarious standards have been asset portfolios. Landsbankinn nelled to environmentally and designed to ensure comparabiparticipates in the development socially positive projects. There lity of reporting from year to of the method. The project origare indications that investors are year, most notably the Global inated in the Netherlands and prepared to fund environmentally Reporting Initiative Standards PCAF carbon accounting systems friendly projects on more favoand the Nasdaq ESG reporting have already been developed for urable terms than other projects. guide. Both the GRI Standards domestic financial undertakings In order for sustainable financing and Nasdaq’s guide include an and North-American banks. The to be successful, ESG must be index that is comparable between PCAF ideology is primarily based an integral part of a bank’s core reports to facilitate comparison of on the GHG Protocol, adapting operation and daily decisiondisclosure between companies. that methodology to the credit making. It is key to banks, as to and asset portfolios of banks. For other companies, to maximise 30 Landsbankinn 2020 Third-party review and international commitments reduce “greenwashing” Rumours of so-called “greenwashing” tend to follow discussion of corporate sustainability and work to further ESG concerns. This refers to the practice of talking the talk of social responsibility in order to reap the benefits without doing any real work to implement and develop the methods of sustainability. Both the GRI Standards and Nasdaq’s guide require verification of ESG reports by a third party to ensure information quality. Investors increasingly insist on independment (PRI) and the Principles gress. Failure to do so will lead to ent review of the entire operation for Responsible Banking (PRB), dismissal from the project. Such of banks to determine their ESG both under the auspices of UNEP projects are a valuable platform risk. Analysts who undertake FI (United Nations Environment for peer-to-peer learning, to share such reviews include SustainalyProgramme – Finance Initiative). success stories and allow for tics, ISS, S&P Global, MSCI, etc. PRI has been around for several comparison between banks. By The benefit of obtaining an ESG years and the decision was reparticipating in these projects, risk assessment of operations is cently taken to rescind the membanks show their long-term comthat good ratings facilitate access bership of companies who have mitment to sustainability. to favourable funding. not shown any development in their ESG reports. The PRBs were As interest in ESG and sustalaunched in fall 2019 as a means Long-term vision crucial inability grows along with the of assisting banks to align their demand for actual engageoperation with the Paris Climate ment, the ways and means by Agreement and the UN’s SDGs. To the general public, it may be which banks can implement Participants are required to set difficult to maintain an overand monitor ESG in their operaspecific, measurable and timeview of the commitments and tion become more specific and bound goals based on the Paris projects available to banks and numerous. This includes the Climate Agreement and the SDGs which projects it is important for Principles for Responsible Investand report annually on their probanks to participate in to further Landsbankinn 2020 31 sustainability and ESG issues. ment in the construction sector continuation of the Bank’s curIn order to help the public gain is one of the largest challenges of rent efforts under CSR and sustainsight into such work and track our time. inability. The Bank continuously ESG development between years, aims to improve its operation and it is important that banks publish Landsbankinn is currently environmental concerns are of annual reports. One of the main engaged in constructing a multihigh importance. challenges faced by banks when purpose commercial and office it comes to sustabuilding at Austurinability is the tradibakki in central Why sustainable buildings? tion of prioritising Reykjavík. The new quarterly results over building will be rated long-term success. under the BREEAM It is sensible to invest in buildAs a result, one of the standard. BREEAM ings that support well-being and key challenges banks is the world’s leading consume less energy, require less must address is to sustainability assessmaintenance, have a longer lifadopt a long-term viment method for etime and utilise less amounts of sion in their processes to achieve construction projects and the harmful substances. The health the best possible results for the assessment system most used and well-being of the building’s environment, society and their in Iceland, with nigh on thirty users is vital, regardless of own operation, for the future. domestic projects currently rated whether a building is for business or in the process of being rated by or residential purposes, and facClimate change is a powerful and BREAAM. The aim is to achieve tors that support good in-use and present challenge. The environan “excellent” rating, most noa healthy environment should be mental impact of construction tably for design and construction emphasised. projects is considerable, with the of the Bank’s building, matching construction sector responsible the highest ratings given in The aim of sustainable design is for as much as 40% of energy Iceland. to systematically boost quality indirect CO2 emissions and 36% and reduce negative impact. The of the world’s energy consumpThe sustainability certification main scope for creating value tion. Construction also generates of Landsbankinn’s new building during the various stages of a the highest waste volume in most supports and aligns with the building’s lifetime is during the countries. Sustainable developBank’s CSR policy. It is the logical preparation and design phase, 32 Landsbankinn 2020 where strategic decisions are Sustainability certification of can be constructed without made. Design of sustainable buildings aims to increase quaundergoing formal sustainability buildings must consider the lity, reduce the negative impact of assessment. Experience nevertimpact of their entire life cycle, construction on the environment, heless shows that a formal rating from resources used and producproduce health-promoting and system removes the risk of relaxtion of building material, to the safe constructions and reduce the ing requirements. While initial construction process, operation overall cost of buildings during intentions are good at the outset and, finally demolition and waste their lifetime. The motivators for of many projects, requirements treatment. choosing sustainable construcare quite often relaxed during the tion are environmental, financial process and in the end, little may A sustainable building must and health related. remain of the factors that were be based on the methodology intended to result in a sustainable of sustainable development building. As a result, there is real that seeks to fulfil the needs What are the advantages value in achieving recognised of current generations witof certification over simple sustainability certification. hout reducing the possibilities emphasis on environmental of future generations to do the factors? Such value may be financial and same. Sustainable construction involve more favourable funding is based on eco-friendly methods, terms for the project. Value can effective use of resources and Is it not enough to emphasise also relate to image and marreducing negative environmental eco-friendly options in construcketing, as a sustainability rating impact throughout the entire life tion projects without seeking ofallows companies to actively cycle of the building. ficial sustainability certification? demonstrate environmental and Certainly, sustainable buildings social responsibility. Landsbankinn 2020 33 “Green leases” and sustainable data and research on the cost place higher demands on desigbuildings are becoming incof sustainability certification. ners, contractors and buyers. reasingly popular internatioAvailable information about the nally. Environmental awareness energy consumption of domestic The intended benefit of sustacontinues to grow and companies, buildings is limited. Attempts inability certification of buildings institutions and private parties have been made to assess the cost involves favourable funding, loincreasing place value on enviof sustainability certification of wer operating costs and healthier ronmental and social responsibibuildings. The cost involves on environments. While certificality. Adherence to a recognised the one hand direct expenses tion on its own does not guaransustainability assessment system linked to documentation, adtee quality, the process facilitates is an effective and acknowledged ministrative cost and the cost of effective work. Certification sysmethod of achieving sustainabiwork by the design team, conttems encourage rigour in design, lity goals and reducing the negaractors and owners, and on the construction and operation, and tive environmental impact. other hand, additional costs of guide undertakings and indibuilding linked to equipment and viduals on the right path yet they Sustainability certification rematerials. Increased initial cost are no replacement for common quires a great deal of documentaof sustainability certification has sense and realistic assessment of tion. It is vital to analyse and been estimated at 2-3% of constactual circumstances. assess projects and their scope to ruction cost. Such additional select a certification system that costs can however frequently be Landsbankinn is guided by envisuits each undertaking. Largegained back through lower operonmental, social and economic scale sustainability certification rating cost during the lifetime of concerns in its operation. By systems are less suited to smaller the building. seeking sustainability certificaundertakings, at least in current tion of its new building at Austurform. bakki, Landsbankinn actively Gains shows responsibility. Landsbankinn aims to contribute, as the Cost of certification does environment concerns us all. it pay? Awareness of environmental issues and sustainability has increased greatly in recent years and There is little concrete informmore demands are made of CSR ation to be had about the scope and responsible investment. The and nature of the Icelandic construction sector has underconstruction sector and there gone a considerable change in is also a dearth of accessible attitude, as public authorities 34 Landsbankinn 2020 Stakeholders Landsbankinn regularly consults with key stakeholders to familiarise itself with their expectations and views on the Bank’s operation. Such dialogue is intended to support product and service development, aligning it with the needs of customers and the community. Stakeholders are divided into Landsbankinn has not performed a significant increase between internal and external parties. a stakeholder analysis based on 2017 and 2018, with a rise from Internal parties include custoESG factors but avails itself of 4.22 to 4.35 out of 5. In 2019, the mers, employees, shareholders, various methods, such as open figure was 4.34 out of 5. Emplosuppliers and the community. meetings, comment systems, suryees have also been asked to rate External parties are the authoriveys, focus groups and interviews overall job satisfaction in recent ties, regulators, media, investors, with employees and customers. years and job satisfaction rated interest and lobbying groups. The chapter on collaborators dis4.4 out of 5 in 2019, remaining cusses Landsbankinn’s partnersunchanged from 2018. hip with several stakeholders. In recent years, EMC rannsóknir has asked the public whether Attitude they consider their bank to be sustainable. The question was most recently asked in November For the past six years, Landsand December of 2019 and scored bankinn has measured emplo2.6 on a scale of 1-5. The highestyees’ attitude towards the Bank’s scoring bank got 2.8 on the same sustainability platform with scale and the lowest-scoring 2.4. a survey that includes a quesThe survey included 89 of the tion about its importance to the country’s largest companies and Bank’s operation. Sustainability the average score was 2.7. Landsand ESG have been considered bankinn’s score thus compares to important all six years. There was the average company. Landsbankinn 2020 35 Collaborators Landsbankinn supports and participates in numerous social initiatives that encourage development and progress in the community. The Bank supports varthe Icelandic Association for ious causes with grants from its Search and Rescue (ICE-SAR). Community Fund, through direct The Bank wishes to contribute support from branches to local to effective rescue service and ventures and mutually beneaccident prevention throughout ficial partnership arrangements. Iceland. ICE-SAR is a national Landsbankinn endeavours to incassociation of rescue and prevenrease direct participation in the tion squads and one of Iceland’s community by employees, incgain experience of shaping new largest volunteer associations. luding by providing expert advice business ideas and operating a The aim of ICE-SAR is to prevent on finance and innovation. company. As part of the comaccidents and save human lives petition, participants are offered and valuables. Emphasis is placed on ensuring courses, advice and specialist varied support and that the assistance with everything from Bank’s contributions beneshaping a business idea to budEducation of economic and fit many people. Through the geting to communication with financial issues diverse projects, Landsbankinn’s investors. support reaches rescue service and accident prevention efforts, art and culture, sports, education Rescue squad Landsbjörg and the campaign for LGBTQI+ rights. Landsbankinn is a main sponsor of Slysavarnafélagið Landsbjörg, Gulleggið The department Business Landsbankinn sponsors GulleggSolutions in Private Banking ið, an annual innovation competihandles financial instruction to tion hosted by Icelandic Startups. private individuals and supports The key goal of the competition efforts to increase financial is to create a platform for young literacy. Extensive coverage entrepreneurs to practice and and education of economic and 36 Landsbankinn 2020 financial issues also takes place Iceland handle instruction in their through Umræðan, Landsbankcommunities. An effort is made to inn’s content and news site. ensure that younger employees of Landsbankinn handle instruction Over a span of several years, to upper secondary school studLandsbankinn has emphasised ents in order to take advantage of providing financial instrucpeer mentoring. tions to young people in upper secondary school, both younger Landsbankinn is an active students just embarking on their participant in the project FjárThe Fintech Cluster course of study and those about málavit, education material to finish school. This instrucin financial literacy for older tion is intended to contribute to elementary school students. The Landsbankinn is one of the increased financial literacy and project is under the auspices of founding members of the Finprepare students for the future. the Icelandic Financial Services tech Cluster along with 62 The programme is available to all Association and the National other companies, universities, upper secondary schools and is Association of Pension Funds organisations and other enticarried out in collaboration with in collaboration with members ties. The aim of the Fintech the schools’ representatives. and their employees throughout Cluster is to promote innovation Iceland. Over a hundred emploin finance and work to improve In 2019, 48 visits were made to yees from financial institutions, and facilitate business transac13 schools throughout Iceland. insurance firms and pension tions of all kinds. The Cluster is A total of 1300 students received funds participated in the project a community of actors in finance financial instruction. The Bank last year, thereof 25 from Landswho wish to encourage increased does not promote its products or bankinn. Around 3000 10th value creation, competition and services in financial instruction grade students participated in the improve daily life. visits to school, only providing project in 2019. Since its launch general financial advice. five years ago, Fjármálavit has The Fintech Cluster will host reached 20,000 students. events, such as meetings about Employees in the Bank’s Custothe various aspects of financial mer Service Centre have handled technology (fintech), promote financial instruction in the capital start-ups, fintech meet-ups and area and employees in rural more. The Cluster will further the Landsbankinn 2020 37 interests of fintech in other ways, such as by fostering connections between foreign enterprises and clusters, possible partners and various specialised projects. Future programmers The fund Future Programmers is a social initiative that aims to promote programming and technical education in Iceland’s elementary and secondary schools. The main goal is for programming to become a part Skólahreysti Fit for School Cluster initiative in tourism of the elementary and secondary school curriculum. The Fund supports schools in their endeavour Landsbankinn is the main Landsbankinn has participated to offer programming courses, sponsor of Skólahreysti, a sports in a tourism cluster initiative donates computer equipment tournament for elementary schosince the project was launched to schools and advises on prools, and an active supporter of the in 2012. The key goal is to incgramming education and traintournament. The aim of Skólarease competitiveness and value ing for teachers. Landsbankinn is hreysti is to encourage children creation in the travel industry one of the Fund’s backers along to participate in a comprehensive and the project is guided by the with the Icelandic Banks’ Data sports experience based on the cluster methodology espoused by Centre (RB), the Ministry of tenets of physical education. The Michael Porter. Key companies Education, CCP, Icelandair and popularity of Skólahreysti incin the travel industry, public entiothers. reases every year. ties and companies in tourism The competition was held for the 15th time in spring 2019 and 100 elementary schools from around Iceland participated. Skólahreysti is also sponsored by the Ministry of Culture and Education, the Nordic Council of Ministers, Toyota and the Icelandic Sports Union and Olympic Committee. 38 Landsbankinn 2020 In 2017, the collaboration was enhanced with the establishment of the Pride Parade Fund. The aim of the Pride Parade Fund is to support individuals and smaller groups to prepare floats and appearances in the Pride Parade and thus to encourage participation in Reykjavík Pride. Kraftur Towards the end of 2019, Landsbankinn presented Kraftur with a support branches or collaborathe Fund the other half, ensuring financial donation in the name of tive sectors all join forces in the easier access to funding to female 876 companies deemed excepcluster. business operators and increastional by Creditinfo. Kraftur is a ing the opportunity for women support society for young cancer to establish companies. The patients and their next of kin. Svanni Women’s Loan partnership agreement is part of Every year, around 70 individuals Guarantee Fund Landsbankinn’s efforts to boost aged 18-40 are diagnosed with Icelandic industry and encourage cancer and Kraftur provides both innovation domestically. financial and emotional support Landsbankinn and Svanni to the patients and their families. Women’s Loan Guarantee Fund collaborate to grant credit to Gay Pride women in business. The Fund and the Bank jointly guarantee the loans. Landsbankinn guaranLandsbankinn supports the Icelantees half of loan amounts and dic campaign for LGBTQI+ rights and has been a proud sponsor of Reykjavík Pride since the beginning. Reykjavík Pride marked its 20th anniversary in 2019 with the grandest festival yet. Landsbankinn 2020 39 varied marine-related operations in Iceland are formally a part of the Cluster. The Vigdís International Centre In 2019, Landsbankinn supported The Iceland Ocean Cluster the Vigdís International Centre IcelandSIF which operates out of Veröld Vigdís’ House. The Vigdís Landsbankinn is a partner of International Centre for MulIceland Sustainable Investment the Iceland Ocean Cluster, which tilingualism and Intercultural Forum (IcelandSIF) was estaaims to boost the competitiveUnderstanding was in November blished in Iceland in November ness and value creation of Icelan2011 authorised to operate under 2017. The aim of IcelandSIF is dic companies who utilise marine the auspices of UNESCO. to promote awareness and disresources, directly or indirectly. cussion about the methodology Since its establishment, the Icelof sustainable and responsible and Ocean Cluster has contribuinvestment. Landsbankinn is one ted to development and innovaof 23 founding members of Icetion in the sectors in the Cluster landSIF. IcelandSIF is intended to in cooperation with corporates function as an independent forum and educational institutions for discussion and education and published various research about responsible and sustainable and analysis papers. Around 60 investment. companies and institutions in 40 Landsbankinn 2020 Publication Landsbankinn publishes varied content on economic and financial matters in the broadest sense to its news and content site, Umræðan. Such publication refers to and is part of the Bank’s aim to be a dynamic presence in the community. Subjects covered in 2019 include the travel industry, changes in financial services, young adults and finances, green funding and cyber security. A podcast from Economic Research was added to the wide variety of content published by Landsbankinn in 2019. Interesting content on Umræðan Umræðan has grown since it was launched in 2016. Content is presented in an accessible manner and covers trending topics in finance as well as social developments. Material is published in a myriad of formats, as text, photos, graphic statistics, informative videos and podcasts. In 2019, Umræðan covered various topics as usual. Several articles focused on developments piece on PSD2 in Europe, good reThere was a strong focus on in banking and finance, incception of the first A2A payment sustainability. Articles that luding What direction is banking solution and Apple Pay. Another focused on CSR included green taking? which discusses changes article reviewed how financial financing by municipalities, a in banking services brought on activity has increasingly moved discussion about how companies by open banking. There was a to smartphones. are evaluated based on CSR and Landsbankinn 2020 41 occasion of Gay Pride, describing the Pride Parade as an important family festival and another article reviewed the Politeness Prize Landsbankinn and KSÍ present to junior football leagues. A contributor wrote about how Polish nationals living in Iceland appreciate being able to get bank services in their native tongue. There was a review of how new technology impacts the life of individuals with disabilities, a the UN’s Sustainable Developconsideration that was taken into ment Goals (SDG) as they relate concern in the entire design and to Landsbankinn’s sustainabidevelopment of Landsbankinn’s lity targets. Cyber security was app. another topic that maintained top position for another year. The There was in-depth coverage Bank has placed strong emphasis of young adults and finances, on informing customers about incorporating interviews with the issue. Articles explained sexseveral young adults on savings tortion, a type of Internet fraud, Icelandic seafood and fisheries and advice from Landsbankinn’s and presented free solutions to face from altered commercial specialists. A similar piece secure email communication. The practices was reviewed. Some of focused on young adults and the calculated psychological warfare the topics covered on Umræðan housing market. perpetrated in cybercrime was have links to the community and discussed, as was investor fraud, the Bank’s partners. This includes Dedicated websites were set up which increased greatly in 2019. a retrospective on Iceland Airwaunder Umræðan on the occasion ves with a review of thirty videos of larger publications by EconoSome good advice was extended Landsbankinn has produced in mic Research, as in previous regarding the establishment and collaboration with young muyears. A detailed analysis of the operation of charities and the sicians performing at the festival. travel industry was published in opportunities and challenges An article was published on the September and the department’s 42 Landsbankinn 2020 Economic Research discuss their take on and analysis of listed companies and review recent economic and market developments. The podcast is accessible and the aim is to boost interest and discussion of the equity market. The Markaðsumræðan podcast was launched in October. The main focus is on securities and domestic market developments without forgetting general information about economics, the economy and influencing factors such as the travel industry. A toMacroeconomic forecast was puthe real estate market, the inflatal of five podcasts aired in 2019 blished in October. The websites tion outlook etc. Regular column on a wide variety of topics. employ interactive graphs, viIcelandic Economic Weekly deos, photos and interviews with includes market information, a stakeholders in industry to illustreview of the previous week and rate the points made in Economic a calendar for upcoming financial Research’s analyses. Recordings events, publication of statistics, and slides from conferences financial statements, etc. held in connection with publications are published to dedicated websites. Markaðsumræðan, Economic Research’s podcast Landsbankinn Economic Research publishes its regular bulletin on economic affairs, Hagsjá, on UmMarkaðsumræðan is a new podræðan, with a focus on economic cast on Umræðan in which equity developments, public finances, analysts with Landsbankinn Landsbankinn 2020 43 and global economy. The title of the 2019 conference was: “The economy comes in for a soft landing”. There was special coverage on the housing market and Jamie Rush, Chief European Economist for Bloomberg Economics in London, discussed the economic ramifications of populism. Analysts from Economic Research were prominent in domestic media in 2019, personally answering questions on the economy and their written publications Landsbankinn Economic Resebeing quoted. Economic Research publisarch is a prolific producer of hed 353 analyses in 2019 research and analyses of economic developments. The department plays a key role in shaping Economic Research published a Landsbankinn’s stance on devetotal of 353 analyses in 2019 and lopments and outlook in the ecohosted several events and informnomy, both in Iceland and abroad. ation meetings on the economy. The department publishes macroThe department produced an economic and inflation forecasts, in-depth review of the status and prepares sector analyses and outlook in the travel industry and handles other specialised tasks. presented the results to a wellEconomic Research also prepares attended conference in Harpa in analyses and price valuations of October. Economic Research then listed companies. presented its annual macroeconomic forecast, Þjóðhagur, in Harpa in November and it was published on Umræðan. It is composed of in-depth analytical articles on various aspects of the Icelandic 44 Landsbankinn 2020 Indicators Landsbankinn 2020 45 Economy 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Landsbankinn has not assessed risk from climate change especially. The Bank nevertheless deems it necessary to closely monitor climate developments, both in relation to business opportunities and impact on customers. Toward the end of 2016, Landsare already working on sustaIn recent years, emphasis on bankinn Economic Research inability issues and the response sustainability and corporate began gathering responses from has been good. Responses to the social responsibility has increacompanies listed on Nasdaq questionnaire were made avased greatly, both in Iceland and Iceland’s main list to a simple, ilable to investors via a dedicated abroad. The business environstandardized questionnaire that Landsbankinn website. To date, ment is changing and performpertains to the main elements the responses are only for the ance in these matters is beginnof sustainability, environmental attention of investors and Econoing to affect risk assessment in issues and gender equality. The mic Research does not evaluate corporate operation, as well as questionnaire represents Landsthe answers. The questionnaire the assessment of growth opbankinn’s first steps to gathering is a tool investors can utilise to portunities. New research shows information about how listed evaluate companies’ performance a positive correlation between companies approach these matin ESG matters. In the long term, companies’ emphasis on sustaters and analyse developments in the aim is to give more weight to inability and profit. Landsbankthe domestic market. these issues in the evaluation of inn’s partners also increasingly investment opportunities. demand that the Bank evaluate The questionnaire was intencustomers with respect of sustationally simple in order to elicit inability, both in the lending the basic elements of companies’ 201-3 Defined benefit plan and investment process. There is sustainability work and encoobligations and other retirevery indication that emphasis urage them to review such matement plans on sustainability will continue to ters. The questionnaire and other grow in coming years. information gathering will deveIn addition to paying mandalop over time. Most companies tory pension premiums, Lands46 Landsbankinn 2020 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Landsbankinn defines Iceland as its local community and endeavours to do business with Icelandic suppliers in so far as this is economical. In rural areas, the Bank endeavours to do business with local providers, provided they fulfill the requirements of the Bank’s Procurement Policy. bankinn pays the equivalent State’s holding in the Bank is not The total number of suppliers of 2% of employee wages to a considered a government grant. to Landsbankinn with over ISK personal pension fund for the 500,000 in turnover in 2019 is first three years of employment 697. Domestic suppliers are 606 and 7% for subsequent years. The Market presence right to this payment is subject to the same rule as other seniority rights for employment at other 202-2 Proportion of senior financial undertakings. No other management hired from the future liabilities due to pension local community plans are on the Bank’s books. No future liabilities due to incentive Landsbankinn defines Iceland as systems are on the Bank’s books. its local community. All Directors of the Board are Icelandic and all but one reside in Iceland. The 201-4 Financial assistance CEO and managing directors are received from government Icelandic and reside in Iceland. The National Treasury is Landsbankinn’s largest owner, holding 98.2% of shares in the Bank. The Landsbankinn 2020 47 and 46 thereof have a contract ation technology and main Landsbankinn’s Rules of Procedwith at least a 1-year term. Intexpenditures are as follows: ure and its Covenant of Ethical ernational suppliers are 91, 53 of Conduct. which have contracts with over 1-year terms. These suppliers Anti-corruption The Bank’s Compliance function represent 100% of the Bank’s carried out a risk assessment of procurement, as all significant fraud actions to combat money suppliers have a contractual rela205-1 Operations assessed laundering and terrorist financtionship with the Bank. for risks related to corruping in the Bank’s key divisions in tion 2019. Total payments to suppliers in 2019 amounted to ISK 6,994 Landsbankinn has a policy on million. Procurement in Iceland measures against bribery and 205-2 Communication and is in Icelandic króna and accouncorruption. The policy provides training about anti-corrupted for 89% of total purchases by for effective organisational and tion policies and procedures the Bank in 2019. These figures managerial processes to miare on a group basis. nimise the risk of corruption and New employees at Landsbankinn bribery in Landsbankinn’s operareceive special instruction and Procurement from abroad is for tion and in relations with custotraining about the Bank’s main the most part linked to informmers, employees, regulators and rules, including rules on conflict other authorities, shareholders, of interest, notification of misauditors, competitors and other conduct and actions to combat stakeholders. money laundering and terrorist financing. This policy reflects the United Nations Convention against corThe Board of Directors and the ruption, enacted in Iceland in CEO receive special instruction March 2011, Article 264 (a) of the and training at the outset of General Penal Code No. 19/1940, employment as part of prepara48 Landsbankinn 2020 tion for their eligibility assessand the compliance risk policy. ance receives notices of employee ment, carried out by the Financial Landsbankinn’s rules on conmisconduct and handles such Supervisory Authority of the flict of interest set out the Bank’s cases in cooperation with InterCentral Bank of Iceland. Managmain measures to mitigate risk nal Audit. ing directors undergo a similar of conflicts of interest damaging eligibility assessment carried out customer interests. The rules Landsbankinn has also adopted by Compliance. Landsbankinn’s also identify possible conflicts of rules on protection and support policy against bribery and corinterest that may arise between for whistle blowers, which are ruption extends to the duty of customers, between customers regularly presented to employees. superiors to inform and instruct, and the Bank, and within the as such instruction shall aim to Bank. Landsbankinn’s rules on measincrease employee awareness of ures to combat money laundering measures against bribery and Landsbankinn has also set and terrorist financing provide corruption and information about various other special rules to for the Bank’s main actions to how to respond to suspicion of prevent conflict of interest, inccombat such practices, through bribery and corruption. luding rules on the separation due diligence on customers, of operating segments (Chinese ongoing monitoring, the obligawalls) and access to facilities, tion to report suspicion of money 205-3 Confirmed incidents rules on employees’ securities laundering, internal processes, of corruption and actions transactions, as well as general control and instruction to those taken rules on work procedures that units within the Bank that are provide for employees’ participasensitive to money laundering, Landsbankinn has set policies tion in business ventures and conflict of interest and fraud. intended to support the Bank’s board membership, and gifts and measures against bribery and hospitality trips. Employees receive regular instcorruption, including the policy ruction on actions to combat on conflict of interest, the policy The Bank has processes and work money laundering and terrorist on actions to combat money ladescriptions in place with regard financing. undering and terrorist financing to employee misconduct. CompliLandsbankinn 2020 49 Environment Raw materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Cleaning Dagar handles cleaning of just under 30,000 m2 of the Bank’s premises. In 2019, Dagar used 174 litres of cleaning agents and 98% of the agents used are ecolabelled, either by the Nordic Swan or the EU Ecolabel. Dagar has been certiTotal paper use in 2019 was 7.15 Printed material fied by the Nordic Swan. tonnes, plus envelopes which measured 920 kilos. In 2019, 87% In addition to daily cleaning, of printed material in the Bank Use of paper in published maDagar handles various special was greyscale and 77% was dupterial amounted to 14.6 tonnes, assignments.1 A 120 litres of lex.2 All paper used was ecolabel12.6 tonnes of which were printed non-ecolabelled cleaning agents led Nordic Swan or EU Ecolabel, on ecolabelled paper, or 86% of were used in these special asas was 96.1% of the envelopes. At published material. The amount signments. year-end, the Bank had 138 printof printed material thus amounts ers, down by 34 since 2018. All to 112 grams per customer. In addition, 425 kg of sanitary printing devices are labelled in towels were purchased, all ecolaaccordance with German ecolabel All printed material published by belled, and 1,279 litres of cleanDer Blaue Engel. Landsbankinn is printed by Noring agents for indoor use, 96% of dic Swan ecolabelled printers. which was ecolabelled. 1. For 2018, information was not available for special assignments carried out for Landsbankinn by Dagar. In 2018, 13 litres of cleaning agents were used, Use of paper 76.8% Nordic Swan ecolabelled. 2. The ESG Report for 2018 did not include information on the percentage of greyscale and duplex printing. That year, The Bank continues to work 88% of printed material was greyscale towards its goal of becoming a and 93% was duplex. paper free bank. 50 Landsbankinn 2020 5,532 MWh for these square metres. The Bank does not have adequate information about electricity use in rented housing where electricity is included in the rent or other operating expenses. Total electricity consumption is estimated at 6,109 MWh, or 129 kWh/m², which is an 11.8% increase from the previous year. Hot water consumption Energy Continued reduction in fuel consumption between years has Information about hot water consbeen achieved by switching to umption is subject to the same 302-1 Energy consumption electric cards instead of fossillimitations as information about fuel reliant cars and encouraging electricity use as it is sometimes Vehicles in use by Landsbankinn use of bicycles and public tranincluded in rent or other expenses. at year-end 2019 numbered 19 sport over cars. Heating utilities state consumpand total use is estimated at 260,613 km during the year, or an 302-2 Energy consumption average of 13,716 km per vehicle. outside of the organization Driven kilometres with taxis in 2019 were 9,370, an 18% reducElectricity consumption tion from the previous year when 11,432 km were driven in taxis. A total of 1,352 car trips were Landsbankinn has access to driven in 2019 as compared with exhaustive information about use 1,591 in 2018. of electricity for 43,019 m² or 91% of total square meters occupied. Fuel consumption, measured in Electricity consumption was kWh, has decreased from 247,490 kWh to 218,497 kWh, or by 12% between years. Fuel consumption due to employee driving was as follows: Landsbankinn 2020 51 tion in cubic meters of water but not energy content. This impedes any comparison as water temperatures can vary greatly between areas. This excludes heating utilities in parts of Iceland where geothermal resources are scarce, where water is heated with electricity; there, heating is measured in terms of energy content. This further complicates comparison between heating utilities. Landsbankinn has information about hot water consumption for 35,490 m², or around 75%, of total square meters occupied. Meas305-5 Reduction of GHG ured water consumption was just emissions under 167,000 m³, putting estimated average use at 4,7 m³ per total square meters occupied. Transportation agreement Emission 305-4 GHG emissions intensity The aim of the transportation agreement is to provide emplo305-1-2-3 GHG emissions GHG emissions amounted to yees with more numerous comscope 1, 2, 3 317.4 tonnes in 2019, which is a muting options, allowing them to 20% decrease from the previous In 2018, Landsbankinn changed year. Emissions amount to around its reporting from GRI G4 to GRI 355 kg per full-time equivalent Standards. Reporting under 305position. This equals 154 litres 1, 305-2 and 305-3 has now been of petrol per FTE. Landsbankinn simplified to facilitate year-overoffset GHG emissions for 2019 year comparison. with Kolviður. The cost of carbon offsetting emissions in 2019 was Emission of CO2 equivalents was ISK 698,280, for the purchase and as follows: planting of 3,174 trees. Kolviður’s calculator was used to calculate The emission factors of the Envithe offset amount. ronment and Food Agency were used to calculate GHG emissions for 2019. Figures for fuel from the previous year were updated using the same parameters for the sake of comparison since the Environment and Food Agency has altered its emission factors since 2018. 52 Landsbankinn 2020 avail themselves of the transport method best suited to each occasion, to take advantage of eco-friendly modes of transportation yet have access to a car when necessary. The transportation agreement entails that employees oblige themselves to use other forms of transportation than a private vehicle in 60% of their daily commute. The Bank repays out-ofpocket expenses up to ISK 96,000 per year, or ISK 8,000 in monthly instalments. from the previous year. 89% of Effluents and waste waste was sorted in 2019, up from At year-end 2019,1 408 emplo68% in 2018. The Bank is workyees had active transportation 306-2 Waste by type and ing to increase waste sorting in agreements, or 44.1% of all disposal method its operation. employees. Of the active participants, 58.8% are women and 41.2% Total waste amounted to 173.2 men, which corresponds to the tonnes in 2019, a 14% reduction gender breakdown of the Bank’s employees. Landsbankinn exchanges all light bulbs with LED lighting when they need replacing and eco-friendly vehicles are purchased when there is any renewal of the Bank’s cars. 1. Information about the transportation agreement was not included in the ESG Report for 2018. That year, there were 408 active agreements at year end. The gender balance was 59.3% women and 40.7% men, which is comparable to the overall gender ratio of employees in 2018. Landsbankinn 2020 53 Social 102-43 Approach to stakebusiness relationship between the CE11 survey, the name was holder engagement customers and their main bank changed in 2019. At year-end of business based on satisfaction, 2019, Landsbankinn and another In 2019, customer satisfaction trust, loyalty and pride in the bank shared the top place with vis-à-vis Landsbankinn was relationship. Previously called the same score of 3.9, up by 0.2 measured in three surveys: since 2018. Gallup’s CE4 poll, the Icelandic Performance Satisfaction Index EMC rannsóknir carries out a and EMC rannsóknir’s survey on survey in which members of the social responsibility. public are asked how socially responsible they consider 89 of the Gallup carries out a CE4 survey country’s largest companies on that measures the quality of the the scale of 1-5. 54 Landsbankinn 2020 note of the regulation on investor protection and the business conduct of financial undertakings No. 995/2007, the purpose of which is to ensure that information on investment funds is presented clearly and correctly. No comments or legal complaints were received in 2019. Employment Landsbankinn scored 2.6, keting, marketing personnel is 401-1 New employee hires ranking second of the four banks subject to guiding ethics of the and employee turnover included in the survey. Society of Icelandic Advertising Agencies and the guidelines of At year-end 2019, Landsbankinn The below image shows the the Consumer Spokesman and had 925 employees working in spread of scores in EMC rannOmbudsman for Children on marthe equivalent of 875 full-time sóknir’s survey. The median was keting targeting children. Furtpositions. Of that number, 58% is published in 2018; not so in 2019. hermore, Landsbankinn takes university educated. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Landsbankinn’s Covenant of Ethical Conduct stipulates that staff is to act professionally and honestly by seeking information, abiding by law, rules, accepted work procedures and other criteria applying to their work in each instance. In addition to obeying general legislation on consumer protection and marLandsbankinn 2020 55 New hires were 39% male, 61% female. Trial employees are beginning their employment at Landsbankinn. They receive permanent employment after 3 to 6 months. In 2019, one permanent employee resigned. Employee turnover in 2019 was 5.6%, as compared with 9.2% in 2018. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Landsbankinn employees receive benefits under the collective bargaining agreement between the Confederation of Icelandic Banks and the Confederation of Icelandic Employers, from the Landsbankinn Employee Association and Landsbankinn hf. The terms vary depending on whether employment is trial or permanent. In some instances, trial employees can enjoy the same benefits as permanent employees. All employees, both trial and permanent, have access to a consulting physician, lunch, accident insurance, parental leave as well as a sickness fund. All permanent employees have life assurance, receive disability grants, study grants and hobby reased by 6% compared with the payments if needed and are paid grants. Further information previous year while the decrease a part of the difference between about benefits available to emplowas 8% with men. Both women wages and payments from the yees is available on the Bank’s and men took shorter parental parental leave fund. website. leave in 2019 as compared with 2018. In addition to the above, emplo401-3 Parental leave yees enjoy various benefits, such Three employees, all male, chose as access to summer cottages, In 2019, the number of women not to return to work following sports grants, transportation who took parental leave decparental leave. 56 Landsbankinn 2020 Number of sick days Employees of financial undertakings have considerably extensive rights in illness. These are linked to length of employment, based Labour/Management relaNo complaint was received in on a 12-month period and are as tions 2019 regarding bullying, sexual follows: harassment, gender-based discrimination or violence. Trial employees have a right to 402-1 Minimum notice full wages for 30 days and ½ periods regarding operatioAn equal rights committee and wages for 30 days. nal changes an ethics committee are active within the Bank and employees Permanent employees have a The general notice period is as can bring matters to the attention right to full wages for 3 months follows: of these committees if they are and ½ wages for 3 months. concerned about potential violaTrial employees – 2 months. tions of the Code of Ethical ConAfter 10 years of employment the duct or the Bank’s equality policy right to full wages is for 4 months Permanent employees – 3 by other employees or the Bank and ½ wages for 4 months. months. itself. Neither the equal rights committee nor the ethics comAfter 15 years of employment the Permanent employees with more mittee received any complaints right to full wages is for 6 months than 10 years’ work experience in 2019. and ½ wages for 6 months. at a financial undertaking or at least 45 years of age 6 months. 403 Occupational health and After 20 years of employment the safety right is 12 months of full wages. Processes and number of comments on human resource issues Landsbankinn has an occupatioWork related illness is not reand their handling nal health and safety committee corded separately as such illness as provided for in Act No. 46/1980 is most frequently musculosIn the event of dispute or other on Facilities, Health and Hygiene keletal problems which may also problems requiring attention, the Procedures and Safety in the be caused by factors outside the proper course is for employees to Workplace. The Bank appoints working environment. turn to their immediate superior two persons and the employees’ who is responsible for resolving association elects two other The average number of sick days the matter or escalating it to persons to the committee. The was 8.1 in 2019 and 8.7 in 2018. Human Resources if necessary. If committee meets regularly and Long-term illness of employees the dispute is centred on the relaparticipation by representatives (absence for more than four contionship between the employee of the employees’ association secutive weeks) was 8.1% in 2019. and his/her immediate superior, ensures collaboration with union Less long-term illness, the avethe employee can turn directly representatives throughout the rage number of sick days was 5.1 to Human Resources. Landscountry. day in 2019. bankinn’s contingency plan for bullying and/or sexual harassThe average number of absences ment has been updated and preto due to child sick days was 1.2 sented to staff. days in 2019 as compared with 1 day in 2018. Landsbankinn 2020 57 In 2019, the focus was deepened by introducing and instructing on the skills that will be desirable and sought after in the changing work environment of the future. A project titled effective job development was initiated in 2019, whereby the Human Resources department advertised for upand-coming leaders or experts interested in participating. A total of 45 applications were submitted and 18 individuals were invited to participate. Participants receive personal exTraining and education demands increased awareness ecutive coaching and assistance about personal job trajectories in creating a job development from employees and that they plan. They participate in courses 404-1 Average hours of receive support and opportunities and workshops designed to empotraining per year per emploto seek necessary knowledge at wer employees both professioyee each time. The Bank’s education nally and personally. Participants programme emphasises support built skills in areas classified as for a robust culture of learning. so-called 21st century skills. The Challenges relating to Employees have been offered project was a success and will be human resources work and study counselling, enarepeated. bling them to analyse their own position and make plans for job A series of lectures titled 21st Financial undertakings will development. This counselling century skills was organised in face several challenges relating focused on information, educa2019. The focus was on digital to human resources in the near tion and guidance about useful literacy, one of the three skills future and Landsbankinn is no study courses and continuous classified as 21st century skills. exception. The Bank must ensure learning. Digital literacy consists of inthat it is a desirable workplace formation literacy, media litefor coming generations and also racy (news and social media) and attempt to bridge the demogNew skills introduced throtechnical literacy. Individuals raphic gap that may form in the ugh education who possess these skills should workforce. Jobs are changing as be able to identify key points a result of automation and the and use content appropriately. skills and competencies of emploAt Landsbankinn, employees Lectures in the series focused on yees must be developed to ensure have access to a varied educachildren and the Internet, persoappropriate qualification and tion programme. The offering is nal data on the Internet, fake expertise for each position. based on the Bank’s strategy at news and the future of democany given time and the aim is to racy, and cyber security. Landsbankinn is focused on offer education and training that empowering employees to will help move the Bank toward develop and grow in their work. set goals. Employees also have Online education In 2019, the Bank continued the option of studying with other underlining the importance and continuing education providers, benefit of pursuing knowledge. through courses, conferences and Electronic study channels have This focus was first introduced lectures. multiplied in recent years and a in 2018. The job environment new education system makes it 58 Landsbankinn 2020 Education programme in numbers In 2019, the Bank’s education programme included around 166 educational events which were attended by around 3139 partieven easier for the Bank to offer complete the course that provides cipants. Each employee attended online content. As a result, emploan overview of all key informan average of 3 events on the yees can take advantage of the ation a new employee must programme. Bank’s education offering where familiarise themselves with in and whenever it suits. Employees the first weeks and months of Dividing the courses into categoare increasingly taking advanemployment. The course consists ries reveals that most offerings tage of this option. In 2019, the of 9 online sessions about general fall under job-related skills. This education programme included rules of procedure, the Code refers to education directly or 42 online courses which were of Ethical Conduct and other indirectly linked to the Bank’s completed by 4800 employees. information about the Bank’s operation. The prominence of this Each employee completed 5 onrules. Managers have access to category is explained by emphasline courses on average. the system and are responsible is on EKKO instruction (bullying, for ensuring that new employees sexual harassment, gender-based In 2019, an online course, under them complete the entire violence and violence) and on 21st training for new employees, was course. century skills. added to Torgið, Landsbankinn’s Internet education platform. New employees are required to Participation in education The education programme includes courses that are obligatory for employees. Not counting obligatory instruction, 89% of employees attended some jobrelated instruction offered by the Bank. Participation rate by division There is a high degree of participation in education across all divisions. Participation is highest at the CEO’s Office (96%), Risk Management (94%) and in Corporate Banking (93%). The participation rate was lowest in Markets (84%) and in Personal Banking (83%). The participation rate reflects education and electronic instruction that is not mandatory yet on the Bank’s Landsbankinn 2020 59 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Management training Education and training for management is a large part of the Bank’s education programme. In recent years, managers have participated in extensive training with follow-up. Managers are offered individually-oriented executive training with personal coaches as well as tailored education programme. It also tion in education by job title and courses. includes outside education paid gender. The number of employees for by the Bank. with the option of participating in education in 2019 shows that women are more active than men. Equal education opportuniThe participation rate is highest ties among women who are managers in the main office and with women managers in branches. Participation in education by Male managers of branches are job title and gender equally active in education as are women with the same job title. Training of new employees The Bank endeavours to ensure Considering all managers within that men and women enjoy equal the Bank, women are more active education opportunities. The in education than are men. Employees beginning work for table below shows participathe Bank are required to complete certain training and instruction. New employees complete an online mandatory course within eight weeks of commencing work. Otherwise, training takes place on the job. Summer employees who have not previously worked for the Bank attend a full-day training seminar that reviews all key aspects of the Bank’s operation and focuses on encouragement, team building and team work. The education programme also contains some courses aimed at summer employees. 60 Landsbankinn 2020 well as shorter courses attended compared with 12 in 2018. The outside of work hours. A total of education programme includes 64 employees received financial regular courses on pension support to study alongside work issues, open to all employees. In in 2019, a similar number as in 2019, 107 employees participated 2018. 480 employees received in the course Pension for Pergrants to attend shorter courses, sonnel, held eight times in 2019 double as many as in 2018. in response to demand. The same course was held twice in 2018 for Increased awareness of the impa total of 18 participants. ortance of preparing for retirement Quality certification of education programme Education for front-line Course about retirement and employees pension issues Landsbankinn’s education programme is certified under the The job of front-line employees Every year, employees planning European Quality Mark (EQM), has changed alongside the incto go into retirement in the next a quality assurance mark for all rease in digital service solutions two years are offered the opportproviders of non-formal learning for the Bank’s customers. Instunity to attend a retirement cothroughout Europe. Landsruction and training for front-line urse. The aim is to assist emplobankinn is the only financial employees emphasises the Bank’s yees in preparing for a turning undertaking in Iceland to receive products, new work procedures point in their lives, contributing quality certification of its educaand processes and changes in the to better health, satisfaction and tion programme. Certification regulatory environment. Workwell-being after retirement. Attsupports the Bank’s aim for its place has become an important endance has increased between education programme to be as tool for the Bank to share new years, with demand in 2019 high effective as possible. information, especially to frontenough to warrant two courses, line staff. In recent years, there one in spring and another in fall. has been an increase in organised A total of 35 employees attended group study sessions and meeta retirement course in 2019 as ings where front-line employees learn and share knowledge on a peer basis. Employees in rural areas can participate via weblink. Study and continuing education grants Landsbankinn’s employees can apply for grants to fund their studies or continuing education. There are grants for longer courses of study, such as university entrance diplomas, university diplomas or legal certification, as Landsbankinn 2020 61 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Performance interviews at Landsbankinn are carried out by individual managers in line with the Bank’s policy of boosting management independence. Performance interviews are carried out by each employee’s immediate superior who is the cipated in performance interbankinn only. The ESG report for responsible party. As a general views in 2019. 2018 included the CEO in figures rule, there are three performfor the Executive Board for the ance interviews per annum, each first time and this year, the Mafocusing on a different area. The Diversity and equal opnaging Director of Landsbréf is number and focus of interviews portunity no longer included in the figures. may vary depending on the The reason for this change is that manager and job in question and other figures in the chapter apply may be combined in one compre405-1 Diversity of governto Landsbankinn’s employees hensive annual interview. The ance bodies and employees only. As the rest of the chapter Bank does not have information does not reflect the Group, merely about how many employees partiThese figures represent Landsthe parent, it was natural to remove the Managing Director of Landsbréf from the figures. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men The figures show a comparison of salaries paid to males and females in 2019 by job title. No regard is had for duration of employment, experience, education or other factors. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria The Bank distributes a security and quality survey to main suppliers at 18-month intervals. The survey is in the form of a questionnaire divided into categories, such as governance, security and social issues. When a supplier has responded to the questionnaire, the Bank evaluates the answers against pre-determined 62 Landsbankinn 2020 parameters. If the Bank deems 417-3 Incidents of nonthe supplier’s responses insufficicompliance concerning marent, either in a particular cateketing communications gory or overall, the Bank’s liaison to the supplier is informed of the The Environment and Food results. The liaison contacts the Agency monitors promotional supplier, both to seek clarificagoods and found that reflectors tion and to communicate requests handed out by Landsbankinn for improvement, if deemed contained certain dangerous necessary. The Operational Risk chemicals subject to restriction a. Complaints from external pardepartment is then informed of under regulation No. 888/2015, ties, confirmed by the Bank. the results of such follow-up and on the registration, evaluation, the information communicated to authorisation and restriction b. Complaints from authorities. the Operational Risk committee. (REACH) of chemicals, and reThere is currently no requirement gulation No. 945/2013, on persis2. Total number of confirmed for suppliers to respond positively tent organic pollutants (POP). data leeks, theft or loss of to questions about sustainability Landsbankinn responded to this business data. and ESG. That being said, Landsfinding by recalling the reflectors bankinn considers questions with an announcement to media The aim of 418-1 is to elucidate at about the issues and the conand on its website, in Icelandic, which point customers’ privacy versation with suppliers who fail English and Polish. Parents is violated or loss of control of to pass muster in the category to and guardians of children who personal data occurs. In order strongly indicate that this is an received the reflectors were asked to provide as accurate an image area the Bank emphasises. The to cease use of the product and as possible, complaints will in process is still under developreturn them to a recycling station future be disclosed in accordance ment, and the procedure Security as plastic or to a local Landsbankwith these definitions. and quality appraisal of suppliers inn branch. The Environment and sets out rules on the scope of the Food Agency saw no reason to In 2019, Landsbankinn received survey. Several suppliers have retake further action and closed the 43 complaints from customers ceived the questionnaire annucase on 24 May 2019. regarding searches for their Id. ally since it was first sent out in Nos. All searches were for natural 2016. The questionnaire was sent business reasons except one, to international suppliers for the Customer privacy which was in breach of the Bank’s first time in 2019, leading to a rules. The employee in question rather large number of first-time received a reprimand. Two custorespondents. 418-1 mers submitted complaints about handling of their personal data All new suppliers are required to In recent years, all complaints to the Data Protection Authority. complete Landsbankinn’s secureceived by Landsbankinn have Landsbankinn awaits the Autrity and quality appraisal before been disclosed under the GRI hority’s conclusion in both cases. a business relationship is esta418-1 indicator. It would be more blished. accurate to publish statistics for: Six personal data breaches were recorded, whereby customer In 2019, 23 suppliers responded 1. The total number of complaints information was transmitted to to Landsbankinn’s security and involving confirmed exceptions unconnected parties. The Data quality appraisal, with the followfrom customers’ privacy, broken Protection Authority was ining results from ESG questions: down to: formed of all six instances, in accordance with the Act on Data Protection and the Processing of Personal Data. The Authority did not remark on the reports. Neither data leeks nor theft of customer data occurred in 2019. Landsbankinn 2020 63 Financial institutions FS1 Policies that involve including climate risk. Sector FS3 Processes to monitor analysis of environmental policies are in place for the folcustomer implementation and social factors lowing industries: fisheries and of and compliance with the seafood, real estate companies, environmental and social A general sector policy for lendconstruction companies, holding provisions of contracts or in ing through the Bank’s Corporate companies, the travel industry, business transactions Banking division was approved commerce, services, IT and teleby the Board of Directors in 2017 communications. Landsbankinn and general sustainability prinsupports customers’ efforts to Supplementary guidelines ciples in lending to corporates reduce GHG emissions in order for investment analysis were approved by the Board of Dito have a positive impact on their rectors in 2018. Landsbankinn’s environment. Support from the sector policies contain guidelines Bank is primarily in the form of Landsbankinn Economic Reseon sustainability and ESG factors, lending to investors. arch gathers information about 64 Landsbankinn 2020 the activities of listed companies Next steps tionally, use of such ratings in with regard for sustainability investment decisions has been and social responsibility. This growing strongly and domestic work is based on a standardized Landsbankinn and Landsbréf investors are rapidly adopting questionnaire that pertains to the have signed an agreement with them. An ESG rating assesses main elements of corporate social Reitun, providing for the Bank how companies perform with responsibility, environmental and Landsbréf to obtain ESG regard to environmental aspects, matters and equality. While the risk ratings of issuers of equities sustainability and governance, responses have been available to and bonds in portfolios under showing their strengths and investors since June 2017, Economanagement by the latter two weaknesses, with a quantitative mic Research does not evaluate companies. rating enabling their comparison the answers. In the long term, with others. Reitun’s services in the aim is to give more weight to Landsbankinn and Landsbréf providing ESG ratings will be sustainability and ESG concerns have adopted an ambitious strabased on digital solutions as well in the evaluation of investment tegy for responsible investment, as traditional analytics. opportunities. This is in line with taking into account environmenthe Bank’s commitments under tal and social factors as well as G4-FS8 Goods and services responsible investment. governance (ESG) in investment intended to achieve environdecisions. The objective is to remental benefits duce risk and deliver sustainable Developing expertise on reslong-term returns. Landsbankinn and the Nordic ponsible investment Investment Bank (NIB) signed a This agreement is the next step 7-year loan agreement in October towards introducing procedures 2018 under which Landsbankinn Experts and analysts from the for responsible investment, contborrows USD 75 million to Bank and Landsbréf have systeinuing along the path which the finance small and medium sized matically attended courses held Bank and its subsidiary Landsenterprises (SMEs) and environby IcelandSIF. Representatives bréf have set for themselves in mental projects in Iceland. of the Bank and Landsbréf also recent years. attended the annual general NIB is an international finmeeting of PRI. The Bank has ESG rating has been a collaboraancial institution owned by eight also collaborated with the Unitive project of Reitun, Klappir member countries: Denmark, versity of Iceland in carrying out Green Solutions and Thröstur Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, specific analysis of the status of Ólafur Sigurjónsson, associate Lithuania, Norway and Sweden. responsible investment at Landsprofessor at the University of The Bank finances private and bankinn. Iceland, aimed at developing public projects in and outside of and providing ESG ratings for the member countries. the domestic market. InternaLandsbankinn 2020 65 auditors adhere to standardised practices in their information gathering for audits of the Bank’s consolidated financial statements. This includes review of internal control that applies to the preparation and credible presentation of accounts. Finance FS11 Ratio of assets analysed to determine environmental or social impact adjusted to specifically assess Supervison environmental or sustainability policies. Emphasis on the integration FS9 Scope and frequency of of social responsibility in reviews and risk assessment Internal Audit is part of the core operations procedures Bank’s risk management platform and of its internal moniLandsbankinn has a docutoring system. Internal Audit Landsbankinn’s Policy on Resmented process to assess operaassesses the Bank’s operational ponsible Investment is based on tional risk. All divisions undergo efficiency, compliance with the United Nation’s Principles annual operational risk assessexternal and internal rules, for Responsible Investment (UN ment. Operational risk is subseand presents its findings to the PRI). Landsbankinn emphasises quently mapped on the group Board of Directors. Internal integrating social responsibility level. Where risk is higher than Audit covers all divisions of the in the investment decisions taken provided for in the Bank’s curBank, including operational risk by its asset management team. rent risk appetite, mitigating and the audit process. InternaThe Bank has been a member of and preventative measures are tional standards body BSI group UN PRI since early 2013. Memapplied and monitored. Assessreviewed the Bank’s compliance bers of UN PRI oblige themselves ment of operational risk extends with ISO 27001, an international to publish a Communication of to all components of operational standard for information security Progress report on their adherrisk, including insufficient or management. The Bank also reence to the guidelines and the failing internal processes, human gularly performs internal checks Bank has done so in recent years. or systemic factors or external to monitor compliance with the PRI further requires that memevents. The assessment is not standard. The Bank’s external bers show development from year 66 Landsbankinn 2020 to year, in the implementation of their social responsibility policies. Having regard for ESG factors in the evaluation of investment objectives supports positive returns in the long term and reduces operational risk. The business environment is changing and a company’s stance on sustainability and social responsibility has begun to factor in risk assessment, as well as in the evaluation of growth opportunities. In addition, customers increasingly pressure companies to adhere about responsible investment. credible, effective, transparent to policies of responsible investThe Bank has also endeavoured and in line with guidelines issued ment. to build knowledge of so-called by the International Capital sustainable bonds, i.e. green, red Market Association (ICMA). By Maintaining a dialogue with and blue bonds, and its emplooffering green loans, MCI aims securities issuers on sustainabiyees now possess considerable to encourage municipalities to lity can support preventative expertise of these issues. more selectively choose envimeasures that ensure future ronmental-improving projects benefit for the Bank and inveThe market has responded positithat minimise climate change in stors. Landsbankinn’s responsible vely to green issuance and there accordance with the MCI’s enviinvestment practices thus build are clearly many opportunities ronmental policy. on active communication with in the field in Iceland. Capital issuers whereby exclusion is a markets are ideally placed to Landsbankinn and Landsbréf rare exception. support environmentally friendly have concluded a service agreeundertakings and to make a posiment with Reitun ehf. that Landsbankinn has emphasised tive contribution. Landsbankinn provides for the risk assessment developing expertise in responcollaborated with Municipality of ESG factors with issuers of sible investment in the domesCredit Iceland on a green bond both equities and bonds. For more tic market and was one of the framework in 2019. The framinformation about ESG rating, founders of IcelandSIF, Iceland ework was created to issue green scroll up to FS3 Next steps. Sustainable Investment Forum, bonds and has been reviewed by in 2017. IcelandSIF is intended to Sustainalytics, a leading ESG function as an independent forum risk rating firm. According to the for discussion and education review, the MCI’s framework is Landsbankinn 2020 67 G4-FS13 Access to banking Electronic solutions continue increase access to such solutions services to multiply alongside general in the Bank’s branches. In Landstechnological advances and bankinn’s branches, customers All main general banking changes to the Bank’s branch are offered instruction in the use services are now accessible via network should reflect those of electronic solutions and ATM self-service channels. As a result, developments, as well as the cash services. Landsbankinn’s customers have increased offering of self-sernigh on 24-hour access to general vice solutions. Solutions based Landsbankinn has the most banking services through the on electronic authentication of extensive branch network of any Bank’s app and online banking, customers and electronic conIcelandic bank, with 37 outlets which both support user intsent are under constant deveand branches located throughout erfaces in three languages. Cash lopment. Already such solutions the country. Further information services are in many locations have multiplied self-service on the Bank’s branch network, available on a 24-hour basis throchannels which improves access outlets and service visits is avaugh ATMs and cash machines. and allows customers to tend ilable on its website. to banking business anytime Landsbankinn operates the and anywhere. An example of G4-FS14 Specialised customost extensive ATM network such services is that customers mer service in Iceland, with 88 ATMs in 63 can now alter credit card limits locations throughout Iceland at themselves through online In addition to self-service year-end 2019. In recent years, banking or the Landsbankinn solutions and the services Landsbankinn has added ATMs app. Systematic efforts are under provided in outlets and branches, that allow for both withdrawals way to instruct customers in the Landsbankinn makes service and deposit. All branches in use of self-service solutions and visits to certain locations. The the capital area have FX ATMs, and FX ATMs are also located in Akranes, Akureyri, Höfn in Hornafjörður, Reykjanesbær and Smáralind. 68 Landsbankinn 2020 Bank has sought new means Landsbankinn’s content and news rural Iceland handle instruction of ensuring customer access to site. in their area. An effort is made to certain banking service, such as ensure that younger employees of through cash withdrawal agreeOver a span of several years, Landsbankinn handle instruction ments with stores. Regard is had Landsbankinn has emphasised to upper secondary school studfor special needs or situation of providing financial instrucents in order to take advantage of customers, such as distance to tions to young people in upper peer mentoring. nearest branch/outlet, transport secondary school, both younger and the special position of certain students just embarking on their Landsbankinn is an active customer groups, such as senior course of study and those about participant in the project Fjárcitizens and individuals who canto finish school. This instrucmálavit, education material not easily seek service at nearby tion is intended to contribute to in financial literacy for older branches or outlets. increased financial literacy and elementary school students. The prepare students for the future. project is under the auspices of This instruction is available to all the Icelandic Financial Services Customers upper secondary schools and is Association and the National carried out in collaboration with Association of Pension Funds the schools’ representatives. in collaboration with members G4-DMA (FS16) Action to and their employees throughout improve financial literacy by In 2019, 48 visits were made to 13 Iceland. Over a hundred emplotarget group upper secondary schools througyees from financial institutions, hout Iceland, reaching 1300 studinsurance firms and pension The department Business ents. The Bank does not promote funds participated in the project Solutions in Private Banking its products or services in finlast year, thereof 25 from Landshandles financial instruction to ancial instruction visits to school, bankinn. Around 3000 10th private individuals and supports only providing general financial grade students participated in the increased financial literacy. advice. Employees in the Bank’s project in 2019. Since its launch Extensive coverage and education Customer Service Centre have five years ago, Fjármálavit has of economic and financial issues handled financial instruction in reached 20,000 students. takes place through Umræðan, the capital area and employees in Landsbankinn 2020 69 70 Landsbankinn 2020 Appendix Concern CEO / Board of Directors Finance Corporate Banking Markets Risk Management IT Personal Banking Human Resources Internal Audit / Compliance Other details 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Landsbankinn’s capital structure policy Landsbankinn’s capital structure policy Remuneration policy CSR policy 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Climate change project of Festa Sustainable banking PRI IcelandSIF Sustainable banking Own operations Rules of the Financial Supervisory 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Landsbankinn’s remuneration policy Collective bargaining agreements Authority of the Central Bank of Iceland on bonus systems 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Laws and regulations 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Equal pay policy The Blue Bank Gulleggið innovation competition 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Fintech cluster ESG policy Branch network Policy on 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Policy on outsourcing of projects and Procurement outsourcing of Branch network services projects and services 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Procurement Landsbaninn’s rules on actions Policy on actions to combat money Rules on operational to combat money laundering and 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption laundering and terrorist financing, and policy on conflict of interest risk terrorist financing Policy against bribery and corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Code of Ethics Policy against bribery and corruption Landsbankinn’s rules to prevent 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken misconduct Policy against bribery and corruption Landsbankinn’s policy on competition 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices practices 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume CSR policy 301-2 Recycled input materials used CSR policy 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 302-3 Energy intensity Climate change project of Festa CSR policy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate change project of Festa CSR policy 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Legislation 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Montreal Protocol CSR policy 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations CSR policy 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Procurement 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Unknown 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover HR policy 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Collective bargaining agreements HR policy 401-3 Parental leave Gender equality policy Act on Parental Leave 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Laws, collective bargaining agreements Landsbankinn Employee 403-1 Governance of health and safety Security policy Security policy HR policy Association (FSLÍ) Governance of health and safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety HR policy Health policy 403-6 Promotion of worker health Access to doctor Other benefits, such as physiotherapy, health checks 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Social security system 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Education policy HR policy 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Equal rights legislation Gender equality policy 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Code of ethics Code of ethics Code of ethics 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Legislation 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Procurement 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Procurement Sector policies 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Branch network 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Procurement Sector policies 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Article 6 of Act No. 162/2006 on the Financial Affairs of Political 415-1 Political contributions Organisations and Candidates and Their Duty to Provide Information Policy against bribery and corruption 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Landsbankinn’s Covenant of Ethical Conduct Guiding ethics of the Society of Icelandic Advertising Agencies. Rules on proper and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling sound business practices and customs of financial undertaking and insurance agencies. Rules of the Consumer Spokesman and Ombudsman for Children on marketing targeting children. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Regulation on Investor Protection and Good Business Practices of Financial Undertakings No. 995/2007. Act No. 90/2018, on the Protection of 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy as regards the Processing of Personal Data. Act No. 161/2002, on 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Act No. 161/2002, on Financial Undertakings; Act No. 161/2002, on Financial Undertakings; Act No. 161/2002, on Financial Act No. 108/2007, on Securities Transactions. Financial Undertakings Act No. 108/2007, on Undertakings Securities Transactions. Reasons Nasdaq GRI content index 2019 Reporting Notes for UN’s SDGs ESG omissions metrics Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization yes Landsbankinn hf. Activities, brands, products, 102-2 yes www.landsbankinn.is and services Austurstræti 11, 155 102-3 Location of headquarters yes Reykjavík 102-4 Location of operations yes About Landsbankinn 102-5 Ownership and legal form yes About Landsbankinn 102-6 Markets served yes About Landsbankinn 102-7 Scale of the organization yes About Landsbankinn Information on employees 102-8 yes About Landsbankinn S4, S5 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain yes Economy Significant changes to the 102-10 organization and its supply yes About Landsbankinn chain Precautionary Principle or Responsible banking and 102-11 yes approach the UN’s SDGs Strategy Collaborative ventures on 102-12 External initiatives yes sustainability Collaborations StrategyCollaborative Fulfilled in ventures on Data 102-13 Membership of associations part sustainability missing Collaborations Strategy Statement from senior From the Chief 102-14 yes decision-maker Executive Officer From the Chief Executive Officer Key impacts, risks, and 102-15 yes Responsible banking and opportunities the UN’s SDGs Goals Ethics and integrity Values principles, Website Covenant of 102-16 standards, and norms of yes G5, G6 Ethical Conduct behavior Mechanisms for advice and Economy, indicators: 102-17 yes concerns about ethics 205-1, 205-2 and 205-3 Governance Corporate governance 102-18 Governance structure yes statement 2019 1 Landsbankinn 2020 Corporate governance 102-19 Delegating authority yes E8, E9 statement 2019 Policy on Social Responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for Landsbankinn’s Executive -level sustainability policy, the responsibility for economic, 102-20 yes CEO for its organisation E8, E9 environmental, and social and Human Resources topics for implementation. A sustainability expert works out of Human Resources. Policy on Social Responsibility Strategy Future vision Consulting stakeholders on in sustainability 102-21 economic, environmental, yes Goals Methods used and social topics during preparation of the goals Composition of the highest Corporate governance 102-22 governance body and its yes G2 statement 2019 committees Annual report Board of Chair of the highest 102-23 yes Directors and Executive G2 governance body Board Nominating and selecting Corporate governance 102-24 the highest governance yes statement 2019 body Corporate governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest yes statement 2019 Role of highest governance Corporate governance 102-26 body in setting purpose, yes statement 2019 values, and strategy Corporate governance Collective knowledge of statement 2019 102-27 yes highest governance body Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors Evaluating the highest Corporate governance 102-28 governance body’s yes statement 2019 performance Identifying and managing Annual report Risk 102-29 economic, environmetnal, yes management E8, E9 and social impacts Strategy Effectiveness of risk Corporate governance 102-30 yes E8, E9 management processes statement 2019 Review of economic, 102-31 environmetnal, and social yes Annually E8, E9 topics Highest governance body’s 102-32 role in sustainability yes HR Manager reporting Corporate governance Communicating critical Fulfilled in Data 102-33 statement 2019 concerns part missing Landsbankinn’s rules 2 Landsbankinn 2020 No critical concerns the Bank is obligated to report on under Nature and total number of 102-34 yes GRI Standards were critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body during the year Remuneration Committee Annual financial 102-35 Renumeration policies yes G3 statement Notes to the consolidated financial statement Remuneration Process for determining Committee 102-36 yes remuneration AGM of Landsbankinn 2019 Stakeholders’ involvement 102-37 N/A in remuneration Annual financial Annual total compensation Fulfilled in statement Notes to the 102-38 S1 ratio part consolidated financial statement Annual financial Percentage increase in Fulfilled in statement Notes to the 102-39 annual total compenstion part consolidated financial ratio statement Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups yes Stakeholders Collective bargaining 102-41 yes Social indicator 401-2 G4 agreements Stakeholders Identifying and selecting Fulfilled in Goals Methods used 102-42 stakeholders part during preparation of the goals Stakeholders Approach to stakeholder Fulfilled in Goals Methods used 102-43 engagement part during preparation of the goals Goals Methods used Key topics and concerns 102-44 yes during preparation of raised the goals Reporting practice Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial yes About the Report statements Defining report content and 102-46 yes About the Report topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics yes About the Report Restatements of 102-48 yes About the Report information 102-49 Changes in reporting yes About the Report 102-50 Reporting period yes Calendar year 2019 3 Landsbankinn 2020 102-51 Date of most recent report yes Calendar year 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle yes Annually Contact point for questions samskipti@ 102-53 yes regarding the report landsbankinn.is Claims of reporting in From the Chief 102-54 accordance with the GRI yes Executive Officer Standards 102-55 GRI content index yes GRI index 102-56 External assurance yes GRI index G10 Management Approach Explanation of the material 103-1 yes About the Report topic and its Boundary E7, S6, S8, The management approach 103-2 yes About the Report S9, S10, G5, and its components G6 Evaluation of the 103-3 yes About the Report management approach Economic Performance Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Direct economic value 201-1 yes Economy generated and distributed Financial implications and other risks and Responsible banking and 201-2 yes opportunities due to the UN’s SDGs climate change Defined benefit plan 201-3 obligations and other yes Economy retirement plans The State Treasury is the Bank’s largest owner Financial assistance with a 98.2% share and 201-4 yes received from government the endowment capital has not been considered a government grant. Market presence Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 202-1 no compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior 202-2 management hired from the yes Economy local community 4 Landsbankinn 2020 Indirect Economic Impacts Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Infrastructure investments 203-1 yes Collaborations and services supported Significant indirect 203-2 no economic impacts Procurement Practices Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Proportion of spending on 204-1 yes Economy local suppliers Anti-corruption Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Data missing about the number of Operations assessed for Fulfilled in 205-1 Economy operating risks related to corruption part units assessed during the year. Lacking adequate data about Communication and employees training about antiFulfilled in and partners 205-2 Economy corruption policies and part who procedures received instruction during the year Confirmed incidents of No incidents occurred 205-3 corruption and actions yes during the year taken Anti-competitive Behaviour Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, 206-1 yes No instances in 2019 anti-trust, and monopoly practices 5 Landsbankinn 2020 Environmental topics Materials Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Materials used by weight or 301-1 yes Environment volume Recycled input materials 301-2 N/A used Reclaimed products and 301-3 N/A their packaging materials Energy Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Energy consumption within 302-1 yes Environment E3, E5 the organization Energy consumption Fulfilled in 302-2 Environment E3 outside of the organization part Fulfilled in 302-3 Energy intensity Environment E4 part Reduction of energy 302-4 no consumption Reductions in energy 302-5 requirements of products no and services Water and Effluents Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Interactions with water as a 303-1 N/A shared resource Management of water 303-2 N/A discharge-related impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal N/A 303-4 Water discharge N/A 303-5 Water consumption N/A E6 Biodiversity Management approach yes About the Report disclosures 6 Landsbankinn 2020 Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjancent to, protected 304-1 N/A areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of 304-2 activities, products, and N/A services on biodiversity Habitats protected or 304-3 N/A restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 N/A species with habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Direct (Scope 1) GHG 305-1 yes Environment E1 emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) Fulfilled in 305-2 Environment E1 GHG emissions part Other indirect (Scope 3) Fulfilled in 305-3 Environment E1 GHG emissions part 305-4 GHG emissions intensity yes Environment E2 Reduction of GHG 305-5 yes Environment emissions No cooling agents Emissions of ozonewere used in 2019 and 305-6 yes depleting substances (ODS) therefore no emissions to report Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 305-7 N/A other significant air emissions Effluents and waste Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Water discharge by quality 306-1 N/A and destination Environment Environment. Emission Waste by type and disposal figures for 2018 have 306-2 yes method been updated based on the changed coefficient for 2019 7 Landsbankinn 2020 306-3 Significant spills N/A Transport of hazardous 306-4 N/A waste Water bodies affected by 306-5 water discharges and/or N/A runoff Environmental Compliance Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Non-compliance with 307-1 environmental laws and yes No fines or violations regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report New suppliers that 308-1 were screened using no environmental criteria Negative environmental 308-2 impacts in the supply chain no and actions taken Social Employment Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report New employee hires and 401-1 yes Social S3 employee turnover Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not 401-2 yes Social provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave yes Social Labor/Management Relations Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Minimum notice periods 402-1 regarding operational yes Social changes 8 Landsbankinn 2020 Occupational Health and Safety Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Occupational health and Fulfilled in Data 403-1 Social safety management system part missing. Hazard identification, risk Fulfilled in 403-2 assessment, and incident Social part investigation Occupational health Fulfilled in 403-3 Social services part Worker participation, consultation, and Fulfilled in Data 403-4 communication on Social part missing occupational health and safety Worker training on Data 403-5 occupational health and no missing safety Landsbankinn’s health 403-6 Promotion of worker health yes policy only available in Icelandic Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 403-7 safety impacts directly N/A linked by business relationships Any health or security Workers covered by an related impact on 403-8 occupational health and yes employees at work are safety management system covered by the Icelandic social security system 403-9 Work-related injuries N/A S7 403-10 Work-related ill health N/A Training and Education Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Average hours of training 404-1 yes Social per year per employee Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 yes Social dtransition assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular Fulfilled in 404-3 Social performance and career part development reviews 9 Landsbankinn 2020 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Diversity of governance 405-1 yes Social S4, G1 bodies and employees Ratio of basic salary and 405-2 remuneration of women to yes Social S2 men Non-discrimination Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Incidents of discrimination 406-1 no and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report As Landsbankinn operates only in Iceland it is assumed that Operations and suppliers in there is a low risk of which the right to freedom Fulfilled in 407-1 violations of employee of association and collective part rights concerning the bargaining may be at risk right to collective wage bargaining and freedom of association. Child Labor Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Operations and suppliers at 408-1 significant risk for incidents no of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 409-1 no of forced or compulory labor Security Practices Management approach N/A disclosures 10 Landsbankinn 2020 Topic-specific disclosures N/A Security personnel trained 410-1 in human rights policies or N/A procedures Rights of Indigenous Peoples Management approach N/A disclosures Topic-specific disclosures N/A Incidents of violations 411-1 involving rights of N/A indigenous peoples Human Rights Assessment Management approach N/A disclosures Topic-specific disclosures N/A Operations that have been subject to human 412-1 N/A rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on 412-2 human rights policies or N/A procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts 412-3 that include human rights N/A clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 no impact assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential 413-2 no negative impacts on local communities Supplier Social Assessment Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report New suppliers that were Fulfilled in 414-1 screened using social Social part criteria Negative social impacts 414-2 in the supply chain and no actions taken 11 Landsbankinn 2020 Public Policy Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report 415-1 Political contributions yes No donations were made Customer Health and Safety Management approach N/A disclosures Topic-specific disclosures N/A Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 416-1 N/A product and service categories Incidents of noncompliance concerning the 416-2 N/A health and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labeling Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Requirements for product 417-1 and service information and no labeling Incidents of noncompliance concerning 417-2 yes No known violations product and service information and labeling Incidents of non417-3 compliance concerning yes Social marketing communications Customer Privacy Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 418-1 yes Social G7 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance Management approach yes About the Report disclosures Topic-specific disclosures yes About the Report 12 Landsbankinn 2020 In 2019, Landsbankinn was not penalised in Non-compliance with laws the form of fines for 419-1 and regulations in the yes violations of rules and social and economic area laws on products or use of products and services Sector Specific Indicators for the Financial Services Sector Society Local Communities Access points in lowG4-FS13 populated or economically yes Financial institutions disadvantaged areas by type Initiatives to improve G4-FS14 access to financial services yes Financial institutions for disatvantaged people Product Responsibility Product and Service Labeling Policies for the fair design G4-DMA Website Covenant of and sale of financial yes (FS15) Ethical Conduct products and services Initiatives to enhance G4-DMA financial literacy by type of yes Financial institutions (FS16) beneficiary Product Portfolio Policies with specific G4-DMA environmental and social yes Financial institutions (FS1) components applied to business lines Procedures for G4-DMA assessing and screening no (FS2) environmental and social risks in business lines Processes for monitoring clients’implementation G4-DMA of and compliance with yes Financial institutions (FS3) environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency G4-DMA to implement the Fulfilled in No processes are in (FS4) environmental and social part place policies and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/ investees/business partners G4-FS5 regarding environmental no and social risks and opportunities 13 Landsbankinn 2020 Per (e.g. Micro/SEM/large) and by sectorcentage of the G4-FS6 no portfolio for business lines by specific region, siz Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social G4-FS7 no benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific G4-FS8 yes Financial institutions environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess G4-DMA implementation of yes Financial institutions (FS9) environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Active Ownership Landsbankinn has not Voting policy(ies) applied adopted a voting policy to environmental or social that applies to social G4-DMA issues for shares over which yes concerns at AGMs where (FS12) the reporting organization the Bank holds voting holds the right to vote rights or advises on shares or advises on voting voting Percentage and number of companies held in the This has been done institution’s portfolio in some cases but no G4-FS10 with which the reporting yes figures have been organization has interacted collected. on environmental or social issues Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative G4-FS11 yes Financial institutions environmental or social screening 14 Landsbankinn 2020
