United Nations Global Compact C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 9 APRIL 2019 – MARCH 2020 S TAT E M E N T O F C O N T I N U E D S U P P O R T B Y OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER To Our Stakeholders: I am pleased to reaffirm that Abt Associates is deeply committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact across the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this, our second Communication on Progress, we detail our actions and measured outcomes associated with the continual integration of the Principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. All activities disclosed in this report were undertaken from April 1, 2019 to March 30, 2020 (Fiscal Year 2020, or FY20), unless otherwise noted. Abt is committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communications. Guided by our mission, to improve the quality of life and economic well-being of people worldwide, Abt has made tremendous strides in integrating the spirit of the Principles into our values, operating strategy, and culture. Respect for human rights, dedication to ethics, transparency, governance, and a reverence for the natural environment aren’t just policies and words—this is how we live our mission as we help people to move from vulnerability to security worldwide. Kathleen L. Flanagan President and Chief Executive Officer Abt Associates Learn more at abtassociates.com About Abt Founded in 1965, Abt Associates is a consulting and research firm that works on U.S. domestic policy and international development. Abt uses data and bold thinking to improve the quality of people’s lives worldwide. From increasing crop yields and combatting infectious disease, to ensuring safe drinking water and promoting access to affordable housing—and more—we partner with clients and communities to tackle their most complex challenges. Our diverse staff of more than 3,600 operate on the ground in more than 50 countries alongside our clients, enabling us to tailor our solutions to meet their needs and the needs of those they serve. Our Values In FY20, we refreshed our corporate values. We undertook the refresh with a commitment to meaningfully engage our staff around the world so that our core values continue to reflect the diverse, collective values of our global staff. This is critical to fostering ownership of the culture we all want for Abt Associates, and to driving meaningful change across the company. More than 1,000 employees participated in conversations, focus groups, and a global survey. Across these engagements, the message was clear: our values only matter if we live them; we are all responsible for the culture of One Global Abt. In our commitment to these new values, we are dedicated to intentionally creating the work environment we all want to share. 2 I am driven by Abt’s mission to improve the lives of people worldwide. MISSION I contribute directly to and positively affect our financial health to expand our mission and sustainable impact around the world. I approach my work with discipline and rigor while seeking opportunities for continuous improvement and development. EXCELLENCE I set high expectations for myself and others, and take responsibility to coach and teach others. I actively build a diverse Abt community that collaborates with and reflects those we serve. DIVERSITY I empower and create opportunity so all voices are heard regardless of background and experiences. I work to earn, build, and sustain trust. I treat people with respect regardless of their position RESPECT or their agreement with me. I do the right thing, even when no one is looking. INTEGRITY I am accountable for my choices and actions, and I honour my commitments. I can flex when I work, where I work, or how I work to meet both personal and professional commitments. BALANCE I must balance all of Abt’s stakeholders’ interests in my decision making. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S HUMAN RIGHTS 1 PRINCIPLE Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2 PRINCIPLE Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Mission continues to be our first value, as it U.S. government, Australia Department of Foreign has been since our company was established Affairs and Trade (DFAT), and U.K. Government 55 years ago. We partner with our clients contractual clauses and requirements related to and communities to advance our mission—to international and domestic human rights policies. improve the quality of life and economic wellbeing of people worldwide. Abt employees are driven by this mission and the aspiration to expand our mission impact around the world. Respect for human rights is fundamental to furthering this mission. We believe that every person deserves to be treated with dignity, respect, and compassion within our workplaces and programs globally. It is an ethical obligation for all Abt employees, and anyone who represents the interests of Abt anywhere in the world, to comply with our zero tolerance corporate policies around trafficking in persons, use of child labour, forced labour, procurement of commercial sex acts, harassment, and retaliation. Abt remains compliant with all of our 4 Abt requires all employees globally, including field staff, to complete formal training on human rights-related topics. Abt U.S. employees, both domestic and international field staff, complete annual training on human rights, trafficking, child protection, reporting harassment, investigations, and retaliation. In FY20, Abt’s U.S. Freedom from Harassment training expanded to include more actionable training around recognising, preventing, and reporting sexual exploitation and abuse. Abt Australia and Abt Britain conduct formal training on child protection, fraud, and sexual harassment within three months of an employee’s start date and provide through conversations when appropriate. Currently, refresher training to all staff annually. In FY20, the Peer Advocate Network is being piloted in formal trainings on modern slavery and human eight countries—Bangladesh, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, trafficking were developed and rolled out to Abt Nepal, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda—with plans Australia and Abt Britain staff, with to expand this network in FY21. a training completion rate of 100 percent. As a global professional services firm, the Abt requires all employees performance of our suppliers and alignment of supplier conduct to high business standards is globally to complete human crucial to our ability to honour our ethics policies rights training. and deliver on our mission. To this end, in FY20 Abt began developing a global Supplier Code of In January 2020, Abt launched the Peer Advocate Conduct to reflect our commitments to human Network Pilot. Peer Advocates are field-based rights, the environment, health and safety, employees with an active commitment to the business ethics, and the development of a diverse preservation of an inclusive environment free and sustainable supply chain. The spirit of the from harassment, exploitation, and abuse. Peer UNGC’s Ten Principles are interwoven throughout Advocates act in a regional capacity to offer Abt’s draft Supplier Code of Conduct. Specifically, guidance, remediation, and support. Examples the draft code notes that trafficking includes, include advising on how to report incidents, the “the recruitment, harbouring, transportation, difference among reporting options, sharing provision or obtaining of a person for labour or information about the Employee/Work Life services, through the use of force, fraud, or Assistance Program with a colleague seeking coercion for the purpose of subjection to help with personal issues, modelling appropriate involuntary servitude, peonage, debt, behaviours, and addressing mediation with others bondage, or slavery and sex trafficking.” 5 OUR WORK Bringing Countries Closer to Self-Reliance in Stopping HIV/AIDS Abt worked with the Government of Vietnam to manage the transition from donor funding to a domestically financed HIV response. We partnered with government agencies to add HIV/AIDS services to the country’s social health insurance (SHI) scheme. We helped centralize procurement of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs and integrate HIV outpatient facilities into the public health system so that they would be eligible for SHI reimbursement. As of 2019, the percentage of people living with HIV enrolled in SHI has reached 90 percent. Copayments and premiums are subsidized to provide financial protection to the most vulnerable groups, and 99.7 percent of the country’s outpatient treatment facilities have been integrated into the public health system. Domestic funding for HIV/AIDS has grown from covering less than a third of the program to covering more than half in 2019. Project: USAID Sustainable Financing for HIV Funder: U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Empowering Local Response with Data to End Homelessness Abt Associates is recognized for our expertise in homelessness and housing. We pioneered the methodology to measure homelessness across the United States, and since 2007 we’ve collected and analysed data for the Annual Housing Assessment Report (AHAR) to the U.S. Congress. The 2019 AHAR revealed mixed findings. Although family homelessness declined by 5 percent, the number of individuals without shelter increased sharply, by 9 percent. Communities on the front lines of the response to homelessness depend on localized data to make informed decisions. Working with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Abt developed a data visualization tool, Stella Performance, that depicts how the system is serving people experiencing homelessness. The tool examines data on length of time homeless, exits to permanent destinations, and returns to homelessness, thus enabling the local response to be better targeted and more effective. Project: Stella Performance Data Indicator Funder: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Improving Early Grade Reading Outcomes in Malawi In Malawi, Abt is working with the Ministry of Education, Science, and Technology to address the country’s education challenge—after two years of formal schooling 75 percent of students are still unable to read a single word. Supporting Malawi’s National Reading Program, Abt is training the country’s 47,000 primary school teachers, developing classroom assessments aligned with reading curriculum, and developing targeted remediation approaches and assessment training to help teachers gauge their students’ progress. The standardized literacy assessment methodology is now used at scale in all 5,476 primary schools in the country, and the 2019–20 academic year is the first in which teachers nationwide are implementing our reading assessments and remediation activities in the classrooms. Project: Yesani Ophunzira (YESA) Activity Funder: U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) 6 Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 7 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S LABOUR 3 PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5 PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6 PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. It is the policy and practice of Abt Associates In FY20, Abt had zero incidents of policy breach to comply with all applicable local, state, and or misconduct related to the UNGC Principles federal laws and regulations affecting employee of Labour. The UNGC Principles of Labour are compensation, including minimum working age similarly integrated into Abt’s draft Supplier laws. We abide by all applicable international Code of Conduct. In it we establish that all regulations and contractual obligations related to suppliers representing Abt Associates must our company’s status as a government contractor. provide a safe and healthy working environment Abt does not tolerate trafficking in persons, use of that complies with local laws and minimises child labour, use of forced labour, or procurement occupational hazards. Additionally, suppliers of commercial sex acts by an Abt employee, should adopt practices to minimise health subcontractor, or supplier as stated in the Human and safety risks, safeguard the welfare of their Rights section of this document, above. 8 employees and other impacted individuals through the implementation of a Continuous or entities, support accident prevention, and Performance Management process and tool. ensure safe workplaces free from harassment. Continuous Performance Management places a greater emphasis on regular check-ins, Abt Associates is committed to a workforce consistent feedback, and tracking goals and and workplace free of harassment and activities over the course of the year, allowing unlawful discrimination. We are an affirmative employees to document achievements as they action and equal opportunity employer and happen and request or provide timely feedback compensate our employees fairly, without on performance. discrimination. Abt celebrates different perspectives, cultures, expertise, and points of view. We believe that diverse teams deliver Gender Equality, Diversity, better solutions for our clients. and Inclusion We are committed to fostering the development Abt is a community. We don’t just believe in of our staff. Annually, employees in all locations making a positive impact through our work; worldwide go through performance evaluation we believe in making a positive impact at work, in which they are provided with feedback, where staff are encouraged to contribute, a rating for goals and competencies, and grow, and model what we want to see in the the opportunity to create a professional world. In FY20, Abt made tremendous strides in development plan with their supervisor. In developing our diversity and inclusion strategy, October 2019, Abt enhanced this process including explicitly identifying Diversity as one of our six global core values. We are each responsible for living our Diversity value and are guided by the following statements: I value individuals of all races, ethnicities, religions, genders, sexes, sexual orientations and identities, ages, mental and physical abilities, and nationalities. I actively build a diverse Abt community that collaborates with and reflects those we serve. I empower and create opportunity so all voices are heard regardless of background and experiences. 9 We recognise gender equality as a development objective in its own right, as well as a key approach to accelerate progress towards other development goals, such as health and economic well-being. In June 2019, Abt Associates was awarded the Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE) certification, becoming the first U.S. government implementing partner to meet the prestigious global business standard for gender equality. Abt is one of just 20 organizations in the U.S. to attain EDGE certification. EDGE certification is considered the leading global assessment methodology and business certification standard for gender equality. The process included an intensive audit of Abt’s gender equity practices, policies, and employee perceptions, and benchmarking Creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive them against other organisations. Abt further workplace is vital to achieving our mission. In achieved global EDGE certification in the fall January 2020, Abt announced the launch of of 2019, following the certification of Abt Employee Networking Groups (ENGs). ENGs are Australia. This certification includes both Abt’s voluntary, company-wide, employee-led groups Australia and Britain entities, certifying One that focus on shared identities, life experiences, Global Abt at the Assess level. or demographic factors. ENGs provide opportunities for personal and professional development through knowledge-sharing, mentoring, networking, leadership development, and community involvement. ENGs are uniquely positioned to foster an environment of belonging and to generate ideas for improving the employee experience. Examples include LGBTQIA+, Young Professionals, and Health and Wellbeing. 10 OUR WORK Abt’s Emerging Impact Program In 2019 Abt continued to expand its new Emerging Impact program, an internal initiative aiming to advance staff’s professional development while serving a mission-aligned non-profit at no cost. In the second cohort of this program, Abt employees are partnering with Men Stopping Violence, an Atlanta-based social change organization taking action to end violence against women. The team applies Abt’s cutting-edge skills to conduct formative research to help in messaging and build a foundation for future research to examine the impact of their communications work. Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 11 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ENVIRONMENT 7 PRINCIPLE Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8 PRINCIPLE Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9 PRINCIPLE Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In 1970 our founder, Clark Abt, pioneered the Abt Associates committed to decarbonising concept of corporate social responsibility at all operations by 2050. To ensure success, we Abt by launching an annual audit of the set interim greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction company’s social and environmental impact targets, the first of which was a 25 percent from corporate operations. Today, Abt Associates reduction in emissions by 2021 from the continues to apply our creativity, technical 2012 base year. We met our 2021 reduction expertise, and collective efforts to reduce our target four years ahead of schedule and have own environmental footprint and the footprint externally verified our 2018 calendar emissions of the services we offer our clients. to confirm a reduction of 35 percent over the 2012 base year. Abt is committed to minimising the creation of pollution and waste. We further strive for Although Abt has been externally verifying its continual improvement in environmental GHG emissions inventory since 2012, the 2018 performance through the active involvement of calendar year, verified in 2019, represents an our employees and partners to exceed all relevant important milestone. In 2018 we expanded legislative and contractual requirements. In 2015, the scope of our inventory to include global 12 emissions from Abt Australia and Abt Britain Integration of environmental responsibility into operations. 2018 was also the first year for Abt’s supply chain management represents a attaining external verification for indirect significant opportunity for Abt, especially on emissions related to air travel, employee issues relating to climate change mitigation commuting, and data centre colocations. The and risk-reducing adaptation strategies. development of Abt’s next interim target for Abt’s draft Supplier Code of Conduct details 2026 has commenced, and will feature a global measures suppliers must take to minimise scope and a science-based methodology that their use of natural resources and the potential aligns with limiting warming to 1.5°C. negative impacts of their operations on the environment. Steps include compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, Abt has reduced its GHG hazardous substance and waste management, emissions by 35 percent resource efficiency, and environmental and GHG from the 2012 base year. accounting. Suppliers must demonstrate to Abt a clear understanding of the environmental risks, impacts, and responsibilities associated To date, Abt has implemented comprehensive with the products and services they provide, recycling services in all U.S. offices and and must have formal environmental policies in composting services in three major locations, place to actively measure, manage, and mitigate which serve more than 50 percent of our U.S. these risks. staff. In the two largest U.S. offices, located in Maryland and Massachusetts, we track waste generation data and have set landfill diversion goals of 80 percent by the end 2020. Activities implemented across our U.S. offices in January 2019 to enhance our waste-diversion rates have resulted in significant improvements. These activities include the standardisation of recycling signage, implementation of mobile compost bins for catered events, and enhanced employee engagement and education activities. These advancements contributed to our Massachusetts office achieving an 83 percent landfill diversion rate in 2019, beating our 2020 goal. Abt will be making it a priority in the upcoming year to scale tracking and implementation strategies around waste in our Australia and Britain offices. 13 OUR WORK AWS Public Safety & Disaster Response Competency In 2019 Abt achieved Amazon Web Services (AWS) Public Safety & Disaster Response Competency status. This differentiates Abt as an AWS Partner Network (APN) member that provides specialized, demonstrated technical proficiency and proven customer success with implementing work focused on Disaster & Public Safety Data and Analytics Tools and Disaster & Public Safety Infrastructure Recovery Tools. Abt is dedicated to helping national and local leaders develop resilience through strong climate science and deep expertise modelling all the areas impacted by disaster, including transportation, health, housing, and energy. AWS provides Abt the tools and services we need to deliver highly precise predictive models and decision tools for decision makers at all levels. Powering Grids with Clean Energy in the Lower Mekong Delta Across Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Vietnam we are encouraging power-sector investments in environmentally friendly, clean energy sources, including bringing more renewable energy into electricity grids. Our approach is enabled by the public sector and led by the private sector to integrate flexible activities that strengthen power systems within and across borders. Leading Clean Power Asia, we are facilitating the deployment of renewable energy through the power grids of the Lower Mekong Delta. We have improved planning tools, fostered supportive policies, and mobilized the private sector. More than 400 developers, bankers, and others have been trained in project finance and modelling to invest in solar and wind technologies. To date, $346 million has been invested to achieve 287 megawatts in renewable energy. Project: Clean Power Asia Funder: U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Quantifying Public Health Benefits of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Air pollution from fossil fuel-powered electricity damages public health and leads to increased respiratory and cardiovascular illness and premature death. Quantifying public health benefits of energy efficiency and renewable energy (EE/RE) is critical to facilitating the transition to clean energy. Working with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Abt developed benefit-per-kWh (BPK) values that can help estimate the monetized public health benefits of investments in EE/RE in different regions of the U.S.. The BPK values represent estimates of the monetized annual public health benefits resulting from emissions reductions associated with EE/RE projects, programs, and policies. There are different values for each combination of region, EE/RE intervention type (such as wind and solar), and discount rate, and the values reflect energy, air quality, and health benefits. Project: Estimating the Public Health Benefits perFunder: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency State (EPA) Kilowatt of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy and Local Energy and Environment Program 14 Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 15 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLE Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The highest standard of integrity is expected corruption laws, and applicable international in all of Abt’s business dealings. We expect anti-corruption conventions. Any and all that all employees and representatives of Abt, forms of corruption, extortion, bribery, and including our suppliers, conduct business in embezzlement are strictly prohibited and may an ethical manner in all countries of operation. result in immediate contractual termination and Both Abt’s employee Code of Conduct and legal action. the draft Supplier Code of Conduct state that all aforementioned parties shall abide by all Abt provides procedures for complying with applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations, the global anti-bribery laws and training on our including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, internal anti-bribery policy. We have a strict the U.K. Bribery Act, Australian anti-bribery and non-retaliation policy to protect from reprisals anyone who raises a concern or participates in an investigation. In addition, Abt maintains anonymous helplines that include a secure web-based portal for reporting any potential misconduct to Abt’s management or the Board of Directors. Abt’s draft Supplier Code of Conduct further details requirements across the topics of conflict of interest, anti-competitive behaviour, trade, and data privacy and security. It is Abt’s intent that by accepting any buyside contract from Abt Associates, suppliers will have to acknowledge their acceptance of the principles of decent business conduct as described by the code and their intention to comply with its requirements. 16 Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 17 Founder Clark C. Abt, Ph.D. Year Founded 1965 President & CEO Kathleen L. Flanagan Employee 3,600+ Locations Atlanta, GA l Baton Rouge, LA l Boulder, CO Brisbane, AU l Cambridge, MA | Canberra, AU Chicago, IL l Durham, NC l London, UK New York, NY l Rockville, MD Program Offices in More than 50 Countries Australia & Asia-Pacific | Latin America & Caribbean Middle East & North Africa | North America South & Central Asia | Sub-Saharan Africa UK & Europe abtassociates.com
