The world is changing. As climate issues intensify, here’s how we’re working toward a sustainable future. Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People 2019 Impact Report Approach Message from Mike 03 About this report 04 About Bloomberg L.P. 05 Governance 06 Stakeholder engagement 07 Materiality assessment 08-09 Sustainability strategy 10 2020 progress 10-11 Risk management 12 Climate scenario analysis 13-16 Thought leadership Case study The need for speed 17-19 Beyond Bloomberg 20-21 Products Highlights 22-30 Case study Putting it all together 31 Operations Highlights 32-39 Performance summary by department 40 Case study Partnering to scale 41 People Highlights 42-47 Case study Leading from the front 48-49 © 2020 Bloomberg L.P. All rights reserved. 2019 Impact Report 2 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Message from Mike. As 2019 came to a close, a period of enormous upheaval was just beginning. The past few months have been extremely difficult for communities all over the world and More businesses and investors want to take similar steps — and to help them, we have for businesses in every industry — and most of all, for those who have lost loved ones to continued to expand the environmental, social and governance (ESG) data and in-depth coronavirus, or who have lost their jobs because of it. The pandemic has brought about research we provide, and we’re working to make that data and information easier to access the most severe economic downturn the world has seen in many years, but it can also be a and put to use. In 2019, we released new tools that help our clients visualize risks and turning point that propels us forward — including in the fight against climate change. opportunities and incorporate ESG data into their existing decision-making processes. We also created Bloomberg Green, a new global multi-platform media brand fully dedicated to As governments in every region pursue policies to get their economies back on solid footing, covering climate change, which launched in early 2020. we have an unprecedented opportunity to make smart investments that accelerate our transition to a 100 percent clean energy economy and lay the foundation for strong and We have also formed coalitions of business and civic leaders to make financial markets more sustainable growth in the years ahead. transparent and help them price in climate risks. Two industry-driven organizations that Bloomberg helped launch — the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the The fact is: Fighting climate change and growing the economy go hand in hand. Investments Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) — are that reduce carbon emissions also create jobs and protect businesses and investors from providing guidance on assessing climate-related risks. Meanwhile, the Climate Finance risks. Because much of the world’s carbon emissions and air pollution are produced by the Leadership Initiative (CFLI), which I chair, is mobilizing private finance to address climate same sources, actions to address climate change also clean the air, which helps cities attract change in ways that also spur economic growth. more private sector investment. People want to live where they can breathe clean air — and where people want to live, businesses want to invest. Clean air also leads to better health and Virtually all of our company’s profits go to fund the work of Bloomberg Philanthropies, which less vulnerability to respiratory illnesses like COVID-19 — as well as chronic conditions like continues to expand its efforts to drive action on climate change. In June, we launched asthma and lung disease. So fighting climate change brings immediate benefits that can save Beyond Carbon, a coordinated national campaign to speed the adoption of clean energy. lives and make our communities stronger and more resilient. And in 2019, Bloomberg employees contributed more than 158,000 volunteer hours in cities and countries around the world, including projects that are helping us protect the At Bloomberg, we’re committed to doing our part. We are a member of RE100, a global environment and cut carbon emissions. coalition of companies committed to using 100 percent clean energy. In 2019, just under 50 percent of the power our company used came from renewable sources, ahead of our original Climate change, like the coronavirus, is a global challenge that no country or industry can target of 35 percent clean energy by 2020. We have also improved the energy efficiency of defeat alone. But by working together and forming partnerships, we can build a stronger our operations by nearly 50 percent. These steps don’t just benefit the environment — they economy and a healthier planet for the generations to come. have saved us over $120 million since 2008. And over the next year, we will develop a new set of strategic targets across our business to raise the bar for sustainability in the years ahead. GRI: 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7 2019 Impact Report 3 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People About this report. Bloomberg L.P.’s 2019 Impact Report The report features content about business, environmental and social issues that have a direct and significant impact on our company, our employees and/ or our strategic partners as well as about issues that our organization has a provides an overview of our efforts unique opportunity to influence. We identified these issues through a materiality assessment we initially conducted in 2015. to promote sustainable finance Our business units and operational divisions provided content and data for and business practices through this report. The annual data presented online and in our highlights report covers our 2019 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2019). our products, our operations, This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards; the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards and our people and our partnerships. its industry-specific accounting standards; the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations; and select content from the CDP. In addition, we consulted with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to ensure that our 2019 Impact Report follows sustainability reporting best practices. Bloomberg is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI). The sustainability data, disclosures and claims in this report have been verified by Cventure LLC. What do those small gray numbers on the bottom of each page mean? Where the report fulfills specific GRI or SASB standards, we note the standard on the corresponding page. 2019 Impact Report 4 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People About Bloomberg L.P. Bloomberg, the global business and Our products Bloomberg Professional Services financial information and news leader, Bloomberg Professional Services — the Bloomberg Terminal® and our enterprise data management and integration services — provide real-time data, breaking news, in-depth research, powerful analytics and world-class execution capabilities to help gives influential decision makers a critical financial professionals make smarter, faster and better-informed decisions. edge by connecting them to a dynamic News & media Bloomberg Editorial & Research draws on the work of 2,700 journalists and analysts across 120 countries. Bloomberg Media, the company’s consumer-facing media network of information, people and ideas. organization, delivers a suite of content, products and strategic marketing services that connect audiences to ideas and intelligence across every platform — digital, TV, streaming video, radio, print and live events. Our company Our operations Bloomberg L.P. is a privately held Limited Partnership headquartered in New York City. We have nearly 20,000 employees based in 172 locations Our business operates in 5 million owned and leased square feet of space in around the world, with primary offices in the United States, the United Kingdom, 72 countries, including 3 significant data centers crucial to our operations and Germany, Japan, China, Hong Kong (SAR), Singapore, Australia, Brazil, India customers, 10 television studios, 12 radio studios and 6 printing facilities. We publish and the United Arab Emirates. two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, printing and distributing almost 31 million copies globally in 2019. Our employees travel almost Our business philosophy 200 million miles a year. Since its founding in 1981, Bloomberg has been guided by the principle that Our people transparent markets empower investors, fuel entrepreneurs and support economic growth. Better data leads to better decisions. Moving forward, the Our nearly 20,000 employees include engineers, developers, data scientists, world needs sustainable economic growth, and we have evolved our mission to product designers, journalists and professionals in corporate roles. provide our clients with the data they need to navigate the changing landscape and successfully transition to a low-carbon economy. This includes decision-useful To learn more about Bloomberg, visit bloomberg.com/company. sustainability data, analytics and news. The vast majority of the profits from Bloomberg L.P. goes to Bloomberg Philanthropies, which works to improve the lives of millions of people around the world. GRI ; 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; 102-8 SASB: TC-IM-000.A; SV-ME 000.A; SV-ME-000.B; SV-PS-000.A 2019 Impact Report 5 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Governance. Financial Products Data Scores Indices Analytics Editorial & Research News Our company’s leaders drive Workplace Bloomberg Intelligence BloombergNEF Operations Bloomberg Green our sustainability efforts. Building efficiency and resiliency Media Renewable energy QuickTake by Bloomberg Facilities & data centers Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg TV Waste management Bloomberg’s Management Committee oversees corporate Bloomberg Live strategy and operations. The Management Committee has Employees Supply chain Bloomberg Industry Group seven members: the company Founder, Chairman, Vice & Community Products Bloomberg Government Chairman, Global Head of Finance, CEO of Bloomberg Investing in people Delivering ESG Bloomberg Law information, tools, Bloomberg Tax Philanthropies and Co-Chief Operating Officers (Global Head Corporate Philanthropy research & news of Engineering and Global Head of Financial Products). Best of Bloomberg employee volunteer program In 2019, Bloomberg evolved its governance structure Diversity & Inclusion Talent Development to embed sustainability into relevant business units, including Workplace Operations and our newly formed Benefits Sustainability Sustainable Finance Solutions group in our Financial Products division. Each business head is responsible for at Bloomberg formulating the company’s sustainability strategy for their Sustainability is integrated business unit, including addressing climate-related risks and throughout the opportunities. The Management Committee is consulted Bloomberg ecosystem. and updated on a regular basis and provides direction and resource allocation. Climate-related governance Bloomberg Government Bloomberg considers short-, mediumand long-term Philanthropies Relations & Policy climate-related risks and opportunities at the Management Taking action to protect the planet Scaling up transparency & Committee level. Internal sustainability professionals climate finance Beyond Carbon develop climate-related targets and strategies to mitigate America’s Pledge Task Force on Climate-related American Cities Climate Challenge Financial Disclosures (TCFD) risks and foster opportunities across the organization. Global Coal and Air Pollution program Climate Finance Leadership Initiative Operations develops infrastructure that will be resilient Sustainable Cities (CFLI) in the face of physical risks posed by climate change. Vibrant Oceans And business units identify opportunities and develop Michael R. climate-related products and content in response to Bloomberg a market in transition to a low-carbon economy. Founder, Bloomberg L.P. We disclose our governance around climate-related Chair, TCFD, CFLI risks and opportunities in accordance with the President of the Board, recommendations of the FSB Task Force on C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). GRI: 102-18; 102-20; 102-21; 102-22; 102-23; 102-26; 102-27; 102-29; 102-31; 102-33 2019 Impact Report 6 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Stakeholder engagement. Collective wisdom Our stakeholders help shape our sustainability efforts by sharing valuable feedback on new ideas, best practices, emerging technologies and industry trends. Channels Examples Customers Bloomberg Professional Services annual customer survey; In 2019, we formed an ESG advisory council of 12+ asset owners and managers to market research; customer education; help desk tickets; sales visits; get feedback on our overall ESG product and future offerings. In the EMEA region, market-led initiatives and events. we established a sustainable finance working group with 20 clients to help us better understand customer needs around new climate-related regulations expected in 2020. Employees Events and training; emails and newsletters; Diversity & Inclusion Bloomberg holds quarterly Sustainability Squad meetings to gather feedback from Communities; Sustainability Squads, employee ambassador groups employees engaged in sustainability issues in 25 offices across the globe. The squads also that promote sustainability activities locally. complete an annual survey to weigh in on strategic issues to tackle in the coming year. Suppliers Our Supplier Code of Conduct; sustainability requirements in We require our events vendors to follow our green events guidelines, which cover practices relevant requests for proposal and master service agreements. such as venue selection, printing and shipping, food, waste reduction and more. In 2019, we worked closely with our vendors and suppliers for our large-format employee events to incorporate additional sustainability elements such as reusable bamboo cups, composting demonstrations, zero-waste goals and on-site renewable energy. Nongovernmental Nonprofit and industry group consultation and collaboration; In July 2019, Bloomberg dedicated its annual Intern Day of Service to supporting organizations (NGOs) sustainability conferences, newsletters and other publications. the Missing Maps Project, an initiative to improve maps of remote regions used by humanitarian organizations. Some 126 employees and 251 interns at Bloomberg offices around the world worked from satellite imagery to trace roads and nearly 41,000 buildings in Honduras, Chad, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). These updated maps will help Doctors Without Borders (MSF) workers better coordinate dengue-fever prevention, anti-malaria and maternal and child health programs. GRI: 102-13; 102-29; 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 2019 Impact Report 7 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Materiality assessment. Our approach to sustainability begins The full picture We use the following frameworks and standards in an integrative fashion to identify and report with a question: What environmental, on material issues. social and governance issues are relevant to our business and our stakeholders? A company’s impact on economic, environmental or social issues Impact on financial performance Defining the issues that have the most impact on our business — our most “material” issues — through a materiality assessment helps us shape our sustainability strategy, set meaningful targets and prioritize our activities. CDP TCFD How a company impacts a FSB Task Force on ClimateIn traditional financial reporting, material issues are those that have a significant related Financial Disclosures A company’s range of environmental issues impact on a company’s operating performance. From a sustainability perspective, and is positioning itself to exposure How material climatematerial issues are those that have a significant impact on how a company address future climate-change to climate-related related issues could impact issues affects the environment and society. Our materiality assessment includes both scenarios a company’s financial of these perspectives. performance We believe data is most useful if it is market-relevant, consistent and comparable, so we have based our current materiality assessment on concepts of materiality drawn from the major sustainability reporting frameworks used by public companies around the world. GRI SASB Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Accounting How a company impacts Standards Board A company’s a range of economic, exposure to How material sustainability environmental and social a range of issues impact sustainability issues a company’s financial issues performance Primary audiences: Cities, government, investors & companies Financial market participants GRI: 102-12; 102-46; 102-47; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 2019 Impact Report 8 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Materiality assessment. High–impact issues Potential material issues for Bloomberg, viewed through the lens of: We conducted our original materiality assessment in 2015 in conjunction with GRI 1 SASB 2 CDP TCFD employees, customers, vendors and external sustainable business experts. Our initial Customer privacy / Data security • • assessment focused on environmental issues. Our efforts to protect our customers’ privacy and data can attract and retain business. Failing to provide quality products and services with responsible business practices Since then, we have expanded the scope of may result in fines, legal settlements and a loss of business. our sustainability reporting to reflect a much broader array of potential material issues, Economic / Financial • • soliciting input as needed. Our ability to continually innovate to deliver products and services to customers with evolving needs impacts our company‘s financial health and long-term viability. Our materiality assessment identifies material It also impacts the transparency and efficiency of local, national and global markets. issues and categorizes them as highor medium-/low-impact. Employee engagement / Diversity & inclusion • • Our efforts to ensure the well-being of our employees and develop our talent improve High-impact issues are likely to impact our ability to recruit, retain and engage a high-quality and diverse workforce while our company and our employees from increasing productivity and innovation. a business, environmental and/or social Energy • • • • perspective. Our energy consumption contributes to climate change. Reducing our energy use and sourcing energy from renewables mitigates our impact on the environment and helps us Medium-/low-impact issues are not likely avoid operating costs. to impact our company directly, but may impact our strategic partners and the Professional / Ethics / Competitive behavior • • wider community. Maintaining a culture of integrity, transparency and accountability helps us retain highquality employees and attract customers. Negative behaviors like conflicts of interest, Our annual Impact Report focuses on our anticompetitive activity and corruption can result in costly legal actions, fines and high-impact issues. settlements and can damage our reputation. Risk management / Compliance • • • • More online: Read our 2019 GRI Content Index Managing risks to our business, including climate-related risk and supply chain risk, and SASB disclosure at bloomberg.com/impact. reduces long-term costs and enhances our company‘s resilience. 1 GRI topics: Standard 2 SASB industries: Professional & Commercial Services, Internet & Media Services, Media & Entertainment GRI: 102-12; 102-46; 102-47; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 2019 Impact Report 9 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Sustainability strategy. We manage our business better Beyond Bloomberg As a financial information and technology company with a relatively small by integrating environmental, operational footprint, some of our most significant impact comes from serving as an innovator and a champion for new sustainability solutions — pioneering new technologies, promoting new ideas and leading collaborative efforts with business social and economic considerations and civic partners to develop sustainable best practices. We seek out, invest in and lead opportunities to advance the sustainability conversation. into everything we do. 2020 Strategy Products Our founder’s ethos of We provide timely, reliable and actionable information on financial risks and “If you can’t measure it, opportunities related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. you can’t manage it” Operations is at the core of progress. We strive to decouple our growth from environmental impact by incorporating sustainability considerations into all aspects of our operations and increasing everything we do. our sourcing of renewable energy. People We engage our employees to address social and environmental issues that are relevant to our business and the communities in which we live and work. Climate-related strategy Our strategy positions our business for success not only today, but also in a future that may be transformed by the transition to a low-carbon economy. We are improving the sustainability of our operations and optimizing our products In 2013, we announced 17 sustainability goals for our people, products and to capture related opportunities and mitigate risks. Our agility allows us to adapt operations that we aimed to reach by 2020. These targets were achievable goals to changing markets and provide solutions as markets evolve. To help us assess that kept us focused on advancing our sustainability strategy and helped us identify our resilience and plan for potential climate scenarios, we conduct scenario analysis. areas where we were falling short and needed to rethink our approach. (Read our climate-related scenario analysis on pages 13-16.) We disclose the actual The chart on the following pages shows goals we have achieved, goals we continue and potential impacts of climate change on our strategy in accordance with the to actively pursue and goals on which we have pivoted as our internal business or TCFD recommendations. external environment has changed. This is the last year we expect to report on these goals. We plan to undergo a strategic exercise in 2020 to develop the next phase of our company’s sustainability strategy and set new goals and targets for 2025 and beyond. GRI: 102-26; 102-15; 201-2 2019 Impact Report 10 Category Goal Progress against target Goals we previously achieved & continue to monitor Products Expand sustainability analysis into all major We now have 3 industry products (Bloomberg Law, Tax & Accounting and Government) with sustainability embedded in each. industry products and services Operations 20% return on investment on capital projects We achieved a 65% ROI on 2014-2015 capital projects. Since then the focus has been on expanding the LEED/BREEAM certifications (39 in total) throughout our portfolio, and we have not executed any capital projects that were not part of a larger build or refurbishment. People Expand sustainability analysis into all major Diversity & Inclusion, Wellness, Corporate Philanthropy and Sustainability programs rolled out in March 2015 to all major offices and have been industry products and services maintained since launch. Global campaigns like Earth Day and International Women’s Day spark interest in our programs throughout the year. Establish employee ambassadors to embed In 2017, we relaunched our Sustainability Squads; the program has since grown to 25 offices. Squad members promote sustainability activities engagement programs into our culture and identify opportunities to partner with local businesses and communities. Additional ambassadors promote Corporate Philanthropy and Diversity & Inclusion activities. Drive participation in our skills-based service Since meeting our goal in 2015 and offering projects across 20 offices, we have continued to offer skills-based opportunities via strategic program in all major offices partnerships with select organizations across the globe. Complete 50 skills-based service projects In 2018, we achieved our target of 50 projects completed since 2013. Our overall volunteering strategy has evolved to incorporate more skills-based volunteer projects. Incorporate employee engagement into We determined that the diversity & inclusion metrics we incorporated into the evaluation process for team leaders and managers in 2016 the management evaluations system are the most relevant engagement metrics for business performance. There are no plans to incorporate additional engagement metrics into our management evaluations. Extend reach of employee engagement In 2019, 2,317 friends and family members joined Bloomberg employees to help with service projects. initiatives to Bloomberg families (target: 50% increase from 2013 baseline of 1,700 friends and family) Goals we achieved in 2019 Products Be the leading voice on sustainability in business Over time we have become a leading voice on sustainable finance in the investment industry and are making continued progress in policy and across news and media platforms business coverage. In 2019, we launched the ESG Daily newsletter for BPS users and began developing Bloomberg Green, an ambitious new global, multi-platform editorial brand focused on the business, science and technology of climate change. Bloomberg Green launched in January 2020. Operations Reduce emissions 20% vs. 2007 baseline 2019 market-based emissions are down 30% vs. our 2007 baseline, exceeding our 2020 target. (metric tonnes of CO₂e) 35% of electricity from renewables Achieved 48.5% of electricity from renewable energy in 2019, exceeding our 2020 goal. However, our ultimate goal is to achieve 100% by 2025 per our RE100 target. Clean energy projects developed In 2018, Bloomberg and four other companies formed the Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group and collaboratively entered into by our partners (target: 10MW) a virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA). In January 2019, the Group closed a deal for 42.5MW of a 100MW North Carolina solar project. People Increase engagement from 50% to 90% of the 95% of our employees engage with at least 1 of the following programs: Diversity & Inclusion, Corporate Philanthropy, Sustainability, Wellness. global employee population participating in at least one Bloomberg program and initiative Goals we have not met Products Integrate sustainable finance across asset classes 3 out of 5 asset classes (commodities, equities, fixed income) are integrating sustainable finance; these are the most relevant asset classes represented in the Terminal for assessing ESG criteria. Operations Institute an internal price on carbon and allocate While we recognize there is an intrinsic price of carbon based on our carbon-emitting activities (electricity consumption, travel, etc.), we have across business units for planning purposes not implemented a carbon-pricing structure that is incorporated into internal decision making and have no current plans to pursue this. Ensure that suppliers abide by Bloomberg’s As of 2018, we require compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct in master service agreements. To date, we have focused our audit efforts sustainability policies & standards on our core product manufacturers and have ensured compliance with our policies and standards for 86% of this vendor pool, based on desktop audits. We are currently revising our vendor management process. Cost savings/avoidance of $100 million Achieved $66 million in cost avoidance in 2014-2019. While we have been successful in realizing financial savings from our operations during from 2014-2020 this period, lower energy prices, while a positive for our overall energy purchases, have limited savings on certain key projects. People Increase engagement from 20% to 75% of We’ve engaged 51% of our employees in 2 or more groups and continue to offer opportunities across the firm for employees the global employee population participating to get involved and make an impact. in two or more programs and initiatives 2019 Impact Report 11 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Risk management. We identify, assess and manage risks Operations Climate risk for our products, operations and people As the climate changes, natural disasters such as hurricanes, droughts and wildfires are becoming more common, sea levels are rising and ecosystems are being disrupted. These physical risks present our business with potential threats to enhance our sustainability. to assets and infrastructure needs that must be addressed. Bloomberg assesses risks to existing facilities and potential new locations. We implement appropriate mitigation and resiliency measures to ensure the safety of our employees and Here’s how we manage risk around some of our key material issues. uninterrupted service to our customers. Additionally, we manage our internal operational risk by resource utilization reduction, infrastructure upgrades and Products renewable energy procurement. Data security People Bloomberg’s Chief Information Security Office, a division of the Chief Risk & Compliance Office, aims to minimize the likelihood and impact of cyber-attacks Business ethics and data incidents on Bloomberg systems. Three teams manage threats. Product The Bloomberg Global Core Guide provides employees with information about Security conducts security code and architecture reviews, testing and training their employment terms, benefits and responsibilities. These clear and transparent to ensure that Bloomberg products and systems are built to reduce the number ethical standards serve as the foundation for our work culture and severity of vulnerabilities. Threat and Vulnerability Management continuously and create an environment in which our employees can do their best work. identifies, assesses and reports on vulnerabilities, working with stakeholders across the organization to prioritize and guide remediation efforts. And the Cyber Behavioral standards Security Operations Center monitors cyber security events and provides incident Bloomberg requires employees to conduct themselves and our business at the management services, including security event triage and escalation. highest ethical level, with integrity and within guidelines that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest or the perception of impropriety. The Bloomberg Data privacy Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics, part of our Global Core Guide, sets out the Bloomberg is committed to compliance with our privacy obligations throughout standards we expect our employees to follow. the world. We respect the privacy rights of our users and are strongly committed to protecting our users’ information. Bloomberg keeps all personal information Human rights it collects from users on secure servers. We restrict employee access to this Bloomberg complies with all applicable laws and regulations protecting information, allowing access only if the data is required for carrying out employees’ employees’ rights to unionize in the workplace as well as laws on modern-day roles and responsibilities. The privacy notices we provide explain our personal slavery, including forced and child labor. We strive to ensure there is no modern data collection, use and disclosure practices. slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or any part of our business. GRI: 102-16; 102-29; 201-2; 205-1; 205-2; 205-3; 206-1; 308-1; 308-2; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1; 414-1; 414-2; 418-1; 419-1 SASB: TC-IM-220a.1 — a.6; TC-IM-230a.1 — a.2; SV-PS-230a.1 — a.3 2019 Impact Report 12 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Considering climate. Climate change poses both risks Bloomberg scenario analysis In 2019, we looked at the viability of Bloomberg’s strategies under two divergent and opportunities for business. climate scenarios; see the following two pages for details. The scenarios we considered were: Bloomberg first conducted climate scenario analysis in 2017; we review and update Low-carbon future (1.5° Celsius) it annually to better understand the potential effects of climate change on our a rapid transition to a low-carbon economy where technological advances and company and help us determine the best paths forward for our business in a range policy changes limit the warming of Earth’s temperature to less than 1.5° Celsius of different future scenarios. (2.7° Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels while likely less destabilizing to the planet than more gradual transitions to a Companies can use scenario analysis to consider how their strategies might be low-carbon future, this scenario is more disruptive for the markets since industries resilient as the climate changes, regulations and new technologies emerge and must adjust quickly climate-related risks and opportunities evolve. We believe that demonstrating how our company is positioned to respond to climate change may strengthen our Extreme global warming (4° Celsius) relationships with clients, employees and communities while informing policy makers a limited-mitigation scenario where little or no concerted mitigation action on best practices for corporate reporting. Climate scenario analysis has also proven is taken and climate change continues on its current projected path to be a useful tool for managing our own climate risks and identifying opportunities. Earth’s temperatures warm significantly more than 1.5° Celsius, with catastrophic Our scenario analysis follows guidelines developed by the FSB Task Force consequences, including water and food scarcity, displacement of coastal on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). populations and businesses and lower productivity Our impact estimations and potential results have not changed materially since Notes last year. These scenarios are not forecasts or predictions of the future, but a way for us to imagine plausible future worlds and plan for resilience. Signals tracking is part of our climate scenario analysis process. In 2018, we To help us determine when certain portions of our business may be most impacted, established a set of signposts that allow us to more rigorously monitor different we have analyzed the impact of climate change over three time frames: short (1–3 scenario pathways to see if the world is moving closer to one potential scenario years), medium (4–7 years) and long (8–10 years). We indicate when the scenario will or another. This is useful to us because the climate-related issues that impact our most significantly impact each type of risk or opportunity, but the impact quantification business do not change significantly from year to year. Our signposts allow us applies to the full 10-year period of analysis. to track and understand incremental market changes so we can adjust our business strategies. Bloomberg, as a private company, does not release segment financial information due to confidentiality constraints. In lieu of exact figures, we have provided directional percentages. Scenario analysis GRI: 102-15; 201-2 2019 Impact Report 13 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Risks Risks Rapid alignment with Failure of the Low-carbon future 1.5°C the Paris Agreement Extreme global warming 4°C Paris Agreement Impact Impact Risks quantification Timeline Potential result quantification Timeline Potential result Policy <1% impact 1–3 years, To limit global warming to 1.5°C, all countries would No discernible Europe: Policy changes may happen at different times across Transition and legal on business 10+ years need to substantively change emissions policies. quantified impact 1-3 years different geographies. Regardless, we will continue our Bloomberg‘s 2025 100% renewable power plan will Other: 4-10 path toward renewable operations and do not anticipate mitigate immediate policy risk; however, in the long years a meaningful impact. term, our high-touch model for sales and account management may not be compatible. We are currently considering solutions for travel, some of which are already being utilized by our analytics desk. Technology Planned 1–7 years Accelerated adoption of clean energy is needed to <5% decrease in 4-7 years Renewable technology will not advance significantly, technology spend achieve a 1.5°C scenario, potentially leading to more costs avoided from and renewable energy prices may not continue to occurs sooner spending upfront to achieve our energy goals. Due to using renewable decline as they have over the last decade. Costs than anticipated the uncertainty of energy prices, by signing purchase energy technology avoided from using renewable energy may decline or agreements for clean energy we may lock into highertake longer to realize. than-market rates for current contracts. However, we are using multiple technologies in different geographies to mitigate these risks. Market 23% increase in 1–3 years Demand for sustainable-finance tools and data will Potential decline (% 8-10+ years Extreme global warming would cause significant capital investment grow rapidly, leading to faster headcount increases in unknown) in longdisruptions to financial markets, from banking to asset and R&D for Data, R&D, BNEF, BI and Editorial & Research. Other term revenue growth management and insurance. This would disrupt our sustainabilitygroups may lose resources in the short term to cover rate from financial core client base; if these financial institutions are not related products hiring gaps and get products to market faster. sector shock prepared with resiliency measures, it could impact our business as well. Reputation No risk to 1–10+ Given our strong commitment to sustainability efforts, No discernible 1-10 years Even in the absence of policies to promote a low-carbon reputation years our reputational risk under a low-carbon scenario is quantified impact economy, Bloomberg will continue to incorporate minimal. We engage in activities to stay at the forefront sustainability considerations into our business operations of building a low-carbon economy. Our aforementioned and product offerings, so we do not anticipate travel-heavy model for sales and account management reputational risk. may in due course become a reputational risk with our clients, however. Acute 10% increase in 1–10 years A 1.5°C scenario may lead to fewer physical risks than 15% increase in 1-10 years Businesses may experience losses in productivity or capital investment other scenarios; however, due to the uncertainty of capital investment at working days due to severe weather events. While our Physical at key facilities these risks, for new key facilities we add in the next key facilities contingency plans protect against a loss in revenue decade, we would match the resilience measures due to such events, we may need to increase spending already in use for higher degrees of physical risks. on resiliency beyond what is needed in a low-carbon Even under the current climate, physical disruptions scenario. are occurring in new regions. The 2019 California wildfires impacted local office air quality for the second year running, prompting us to provide air-cleaning measures that were unprecedented in that region. Chronic <1% of an impact 4–7 years Our business is not water-intensive, centered in <1% of an impact 4–7 years The majority of Bloomberg’s business dealings and on business climate-stressed regions or reliant on outdoor labor, on business operations are not in areas that are stressed by water so chronic physical changes that occur under a 1.5°C or extreme temperatures; our own business is not scenario would not be significant. resource-intensive, so chronic changes are not likely to have a large impact. 2018 Impact Report 14 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Opportunities Opportunities Rapid alignment with Failure of the Low-carbon future 1.5°C the Paris Agreement Extreme global warming 4°C Paris Agreement Impact Impact Opportunities quantification Timeline Potential result quantification Timeline Potential result Resource Additional $12 1-7 years If technology drives down renewable energy prices Minimal energy 8-10+ years Renewable energy prices may stagnate, but climate efficiency million in faster and further than expected, our transition to cost savings stress may cause non-renewable resources to increase in and energy avoided costs renewable energy by 2025 would allow us to avoid price, ultimately leading to greater cost avoidance from source more energy costs and realize the changes sooner our renewable operations. than in less rapid transition scenarios. Products and 23% increase in Most A 1.5°C scenario will bring about rapid changes in many <5% increase in 4-7 years Our clients invested in markets such as real estate and services revenue from significant industries, as well as an increased need for transparent revenue from insurance will need new products to analyze potentially sustainabilityimpact climate-related risk and opportunity disclosures from sustainable finance significant market changes. We currently offer tools related products seen companies. Demand for products and services to products such as MAP, a geo-insight resource that helps and services over within 1-3 address these changes would accelerate, with the most investors analyze the impact of extreme weather such 10-year period years immediate impacts occurring in BNEF, which is already as wildfires, and we will continue to develop products expanding industry coverage, and our growing ESG to capture increased demand. and sustainable finance products. Markets 12% increase in 1-3 years The significant expansion of green debt and <1% increase in total 8-10 years As markets such as real estate and commodities revenue from emissions markets and the development of green product revenue become more volatile, the need for timely, transparent sustainabilitysecuritization and derivative markets needed in the data and market-driven news could potentially increase; related products near term to achieve a 1.5°C scenario would lead to however, this will not have a significant impact on over 10-year more client demand in the near future for tools to our business, which already provides solutions for period participate in these markets. Already in 2019, we saw volatile markets. the sustainable debt market hit a cumulative $1 trillion of issuance and have responded by providing more analysis and data on these instruments. Resilience No discernible 1-10 years Investing in sustainable products, services and <1% increase in value 8-10 years Our current resiliency practices have led us to build and quantified impact infrastructure, combined with our clients’ dependence of physical assets renovate our buildings to extremely high physical-stress on us to provide tools for the changing markets, will standards. If climate change continues on its current path, strengthen our sustainability-focused business models. this investment in resilient infrastructure may increase the value of the real estate assets we own. 2019 Impact Report 15 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Evolving strategies for an evolving world. We monitor the following events and trends to alert us to potential climate-related impacts on our company. The financial impacts on Bloomberg that could result from changes around these signposts are reported in our scenario analysis beginning on page 14. Type of change Select signposts Evolving areas of impact Policy and legal Tax policies and renewable energy incentives, especially in London Changing U.S. tax incentives will not impact our existing renewable contracts; however, future and New York where our energy use is concentrated contracts will need to be evaluated under new policies. In Europe, the ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme) is also changing, leading to uncertainties around impact. We have hired a consultant to help us take advantage of the changes once the policies are updated. Finalization of the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) 2019 was another year of slow progress at the UN climate change conferences, which will to fulfill the Paris Agreement determine the speed and stringency with which the NDCs are finalized. Resulting future regional regulations may impact potential future clean/energy smart technology projects and product strategies. Resource efficiency Renewable energy’s power market impacts in markets where Renewable power keeps getting cheaper, but its competitiveness is increasingly determined and energy source we have significant consumption by its interaction with the power market. Monitoring this evolution will help us determine the type and pace of renewable energy implementation going forward. Penetration of renewable energy Innovation in procurement and pricing models, such as the Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group, a purchasing group Bloomberg helped form, should make renewable energy sourcing more efficient and accessible on a smaller scale, thus expanding access in more markets. Market Volatility of fossil fuel and renewable energy markets Increases in volatility may change the trading tools our clients need and increase their reliance on high-frequency data. Changes in coal and crude oil prices Unstable geopolitics and low prices for fossil fuels may limit the economic viability of their production and accelerate a low-carbon transition. Volume and scale of green debt and carbon trading markets and In 2019, we captured and organized substantially more sustainable debt data as the market securitization of green bonds grew 78%. Further growth in sustainable finance markets is leading to new client demand for data, analysis and trading tools. Products Bloomberg product sales linked to climate-related tools Ongoing increased demand for sustainability tools is leading us to expand ESG products and services and services. In 2019, we continued to invest in ESG data and tools to serve rapidly growing customer needs. Physical Acute: Frequency of severe storms and wildfires where we operate In India, where air pollution is problematic, we’ve taken action to monitor and clean our office air, including installing stand-alone purification systems and enhancing existing HVAC systems. Chronic: Regional changes in temperature, air quality, sea level and In 2018 and 2019, we took similar measures in response to the California wildfires. water scarcity 2019 Impact Report 16 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People The need for speed. We’re focused on scaling up participation in a sustainable economy. Over the past few years, as better data has made the risks and opportunities Market infrastructure support associated with climate change more apparent, investors and businesses have We’re leading market-driven initiatives to improve both the supply side and the demand side begun to invest in sustainable activities and rethink investment in fossil fuels. of sustainable finance. However, while sustainable finance is entering into the mainstream, it’s not Supply side Demand side happening fast enough. According to the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel Complementary efforts to “make a Efforts that improve ESG data and help on Climate Change, limiting global warming to 1.5°C by mid-century will require companies better communicate their market in transition,” or empower economies to transform energy, land, urban, infrastructure and industrial systems, long-term strategies around material companies, investors and creditors increasing annual investment in clean energy and energy efficiency sixfold. sustainability issues and the transition to seize opportunities in the transition Current levels of sustainable investment and commitments to future action do to a low-carbon economy. to a low-carbon economy. not get us there. Bloomberg is helping to lead efforts to rapidly scale up participation in a sustainable low-carbon economy, collaborating with publicand private-sector partners to increase market transparency and create conditions to foster climatefriendly growth and development — quickly. Mike Bloomberg chairs the Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI), and Bloomberg provides the secretariat for TCFD. We are particularly focused on improving climate-related financial reporting to ensure that financial markets have the information they need to mitigate risks and evaluate opportunities. The TCFD recommendations for decision-useful disclosures have been gaining support as demand for consistent and comparable climate-related financial information has gained significant momentum. By year-end 2019, 955 organizations, including financial firms responsible for $132 trillion in assets, had declared support for the TCFD’s recommendations. GRI: 102-12; 102-13 2019 Impact Report 17 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People The Better Alignment Project SASB publishes the releases Driving Alignment Stepping up the pace. world’s first set of industryspecific sustainability in Climate-related Reporting, a report that outlines how accounting metrics, existing sustainability covering 77 industries. frameworks and standards These standards focus on In 2019, the Task Force complement each other sustainability factors most releases its second and align with the TCFD likely to have financially status report and recommendations. The September 2019 material impacts on forms an industry report also explores how a typical company in advisory group to standard-setters can work an industry, helping assist in developing together moving forward. companies identify and practical guidance for Better Alignment Established by Financial conducting climate manage sustainability Project report June 2019 Stability Board Chair and scenario analysis. issues and ultimately Bank of England Governor The TCFD publishes providing investors with Second TCFD Mark Carney to help the November 2018 its first status report data to make morestatus report financial markets better on current disclosure informed investment and understand and manage TCFD support grows December 2019 practices, sharing voting decisions. climate-related financial September 2018 investor perspectives By year’s end, 955 risks, the FSB Task Force SASB standards on decision-useful companies have expressed on Climate-related published disclosures and areas support for the TCFD Financial Disclosures CFLI action September 2019 for improvement. recommendations. Several (TCFD) begins developing December 2015 recommendations on TCFD status CFLI releases its first report, public-sector entities disclosing decision-useful report Financing the Low-Carbon incorporate the TCFD’s Better Alignment November 2018 climate-related financial Future, which outlines key recommendations into their Project launched challenges and solutions information. work on climate-related Bloomberg helps the for mobilizing private climate risks, including the central TCFD created Corporate Reporting finance at the scale and bankers’ and supervisors’ CFLI created September 2018 Dialogue launch its speed needed to support Network for Greening At the request of UN Better Alignment Project. an orderly and inclusive the Financial System, the Secretary-General António This initiative brings transition to a low-carbon European Commission and TCFD Guterres, Mike Bloomberg sustainability standardsglobal economy. CFLI also the governments of Japan June 2017 recommendations forms the Climate Finance setting organizations announces that it will work and the United Kingdom. released Leadership Initiative together to harmonize with the Association of The Task Force focuses on (CFLI) to help facilitate disclosure standards on European Development spurring wider adoption SASB founded The Task Force releases July 2011 the private financing sustainability issues. Finance Institutions to of its recommendations by its climate-related objectives included in Bloomberg helps launch broaden opportunities for evaluating current use and financial disclosure the Paris Agreement to the Sustainability Accounting privateand public-sector helping companies address recommendations, which accelerate clean energy Standards Board (SASB), financing and investment implementation challenges. promote transparency and climate solutions which works with investors in emerging and frontier leading to better around the world. and businesses to develop markets. climate-risk management. Founding members standards for measuring, One hundred CEOs sign include Allianz Global managing and reporting a statement of support Investors, AXA, Enel, on sustainability factors for the TCFD. Goldman Sachs, HSBC, that drive value and affect financial performance. Macquarie and the Bloomberg specialists Government Pension offer crucial expertise and Investment Fund (Japan). Bloomberg Philanthropies provides funding to support SASB’s efforts. 2019 Impact Report 18 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Our collaborations with private and public partners Supporting government action As the public sector explores actions it can take to are helping to activate broader business interest accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, Bloomberg sustainability experts are participating in sustainable opportunities. Bloomberg is uniquely in industry groups advising policymakers. European Green Deal positioned to convene and contribute private-sector Bloomberg participated in the European Commission’s Technical Expert Group on perspectives to public-sector efforts. Sustainable Finance (TEG) in 2019; this group is tasked with advising the Commission on developing policy reforms to speed the flow of capital toward sustainable investments and strengthen financial stability in the European Union. Bloomberg experts worked on translating Financing a low-carbon future the EU Taxonomy, a new classification system In 2019, the Bloomberg-led Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) published Financing the Low-Carbon for sustainable economic activities, into a Future, a report that outlines solutions for mobilizing private-sector capital in line with the goals of the Paris framework that investors can use and report on. Agreement. Five key challenges hinder private investment in low-carbon activities, according to the group. The Commission incorporated TEG feedback into its landmark European Green Deal, a package of policies and commitments designed to boost 1 / Challenge: 2 / Challenge: 3 / Challenge: 4 / Challenge: sustainable investment and transition to a lowProven investment Risks in emerging Many low-carbon The transition from carbon, more resource-efficient and circular models are not markets constrain investments in key carbon-intensive economy in Europe. TEG’s work informed key replicated at scale low-carbon emitting sectors are business models investments not yet profitable may create financial pieces of EU legislation that incentivize privateand social risk sector investment as well as new climate-related reporting guidelines for European companies. Solution: Solution: Solution: Solution: Opportunity for Key role for Public Policymakers must lay Public Finance and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Private Finance Finance and the groundwork Policymakers can Bloomberg is contributing to the CFTC’s new to show leadership Policymakers to before private help manage orderly mitigate risk for investment is feasible and just transitions Climate-Related Market Risk Advisory Committee, private investment which is tasked with compiling a public report on climate-related financial and market risks for the U.S. regulator. The report, due in June 2020, will provide recommendations on market oversight policies, including disclosures and stress tests, Most attractive risk/return profile Least attractive risk/return profile ideas for new products that may improve the identification and hedging of climate-related 5 / Challenge: financial risks and policies that facilitate capital Solution: A lack of tools and incentives Private Finance can develop flows required to finance the transition to a to align portfolios with a frameworks to align financial low-carbon economy. low-carbon future decision-making with well-below 2°C pathways Source: CFLI GRI: 102-12; 102-13 2019 Impact Report 19 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Beyond Bloomberg. To extend the conversations around our BloombergNEF Summits BloombergNEF hosted six summits in 2019 around industries in transition, powered by its market-leading research. The summit series expanded to Munich and New sustainability data, analysis and news, Delhi while returning to New York, London, San Francisco and Shanghai. In all, 3,000 leaders and strategists in energy, industry, transport, technology, finance we host live events with changemakers and government attended sessions designed to generate ideas, deliver insight and establish the connections needed to capitalize on technological change and shape around the world. a cleaner, more competitive future. Bloomberg Equality Summits In 2019, we held our second annual Bloomberg Equality Summit in New York City, Our events, which draw on the expertise of employees across our company, drawing more than 500 business, academic and political leaders, nonprofit workers provide an opportunity to share the power of ESG data and visionary ideas and activists to our global headquarters for a day of discussions about equality, one beyond Terminal subscribers. Our data fuels discussions, and our journalists of the most important ethical issues facing society today. The conference featured and sustainability experts moderate panels. In addition, we produce surveys, 44 speakers who participated in conversations about the next phase for the #MeToo white papers and editorial coverage around conference themes, thus movement, gender lens investing, voter suppression and more. We also brought amplifying their impact. the event to London and Mumbai for the first time, featuring prominent regional leaders and addressing issues of local concern such as compulsory ethnicity pay in London and the Indian government’s plans for an inclusive India in Mumbai. BNEF Summit, New Delhi Bloomberg Equality Summit, London 2019 Impact Report 20 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Beyond Bloomberg. Sustainable Finance Week The second annual Sustainable Finance Week, designed to accelerate the adoption of sustainable finance practices, expanded to Toronto in 2019. Bloomberg hosted or participated in four separate events — the Global Responsible Investing Forum, the SASB 2019 Symposium and the Responsible Investor Conference in New York City and the Canadian Sustainable Investment Forum in Toronto — supplemented by additional programs. More than 1,500 financial, business and policy decision makers participated in the week’s conversations about mainstreaming sustainable finance. Data for Good Exchange 2019, New York Sustainable Business Summits Bloomberg’s Sustainable Business Summits bring together C-suite executives, Bloomberg Global Business Forum influential investors and innovative thought leaders to discuss how companies are More than 50 heads of state and 200 CEOs joined Mike Bloomberg and Bloomberg using sustainability to enhance business value. In 2019, we hosted five regional Philanthropies for the third annual Global Business Forum in New York City. This Sustainable Business Summits, in London, New York City, São Paulo, Seattle and one-day event is held during the week of the United Nations General Assembly Toronto, and a summit focused on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The and provides an economic take on the geo-political discussions that many of those summits drew 2,500 senior business leaders, investors and government officials leaders are having at the UN each year. This year’s forum focused on instability in for conversations about driving innovation and scaling best practices in sustainable the economy and the environment, bringing together government and business business and finance. leaders to share ideas and have conversations that might not otherwise happen about climate-related policy, technology, investing, trade, agricultural trends and more. Bloomberg New Economy Forum Bloomberg Media Group hosted its 2019 New Economy Forum in Beijing. Co-chaired Data for Good Exchange by Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, Hank Paulson and Zeng Peiyan, this annual forum brings Data for Good Exchange (D4GX), an annual event series created by Bloomberg’s together 500 of the world’s most influential publicand private-sector leaders to CTO Office, brings data scientists from academia and industry together with address the urgent problems of a global economy in transition. Delegates from government officials and nonprofits to explore ways to use data to improve civic 45 countries and regions participated in an open exchange of ideas and made and social outcomes. In 2019, our conference in New York, now in its sixth year, connections, working together to create a path forward that supports a thriving, focused on the significant role data science can play in helping to achieve the UN’s inclusive global economy for all. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030, with three conference tracks: Planet, People and Prosperity & Peace. The 17 SDGs, adopted by all UN member Prior to the event, Bloomberg Economics launched a first-of-its-kind index measuring states in 2016, are aimed at ending poverty, fighting inequalities and tackling competitiveness against the new disruptive forces sweeping the global economy. The climate change while ensuring that no one is left behind. A regional D4GX event New Economy Drivers and Disrupters Report evaluates 114 economies on two sets of in San Francisco looked at how data science is being used to address California’s metrics: traditional drivers of development and exposure to new risks and opportunities water crisis and to mitigate the impact of climate change, while our first-ever D4GX in automation, climate change, digitization, populism and protectionism. event in London brought together leaders from our philanthropic network to look at the application of data science to address social mobility. 2019 Impact Report 21 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People 11,500 companies’ ESG data tracked on 1,170 ESG data fields on the Terminal 325 companies included in the 22% increase in female external guests the Terminal 2020 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index on Bloomberg TV and Bloomberg Radio Critical transparency Product strategy Provide timely, reliable and actionable information on sustainability-related financial into sustainability. risks and opportunities for leading business, finance and policy professionals. Deliver highly interconnected proprietary environmental, social and governance (ESG) products that leverage key Bloomberg areas of expertise across Financial Structural and systemic shifts such as climate change, resource scarcity, regulatory Products, Global Data, Bloomberg Intelligence and BloombergNEF. pressures and new perspectives on the value of human capital and diversity increasingly pose material business risks and opportunities for issuers and investors globally. As investors, policymakers and citizens seek out more information on sustainability, Key activities: Bloomberg is providing new and expanded data sets, analysis and news. Develop stronger sustainable finance products We are constantly working to expand the ESG data sets and unique content, analytics, news and research available to our clients. We use technology, including 2019 highlights machine learning, to exceed client expectations in the evolving ESG landscape. Data 23 Make ESG data more relevant to business Analysis 26 We actively work with the leading sustainability reporting frameworks to enhance the quality, comparability and financial relevance of sustainability-related information. News and media 29 Be the indispensable guide to climate change Case study Our journalists cover the business, science and technology of climate change, offering clarity and data on critical environmental issues that are reshaping the Putting it all together 31 global economy. Products 2019 Impact Report 22 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Data. We provide data that clarifies a rapidly evolving world. ESG data ESG integration into the investment process Bloomberg provides transparent and actionable ESG data for financial market participants from more than 11,500 companies in 83 countries. As the demand for ESG data has grown and matured, we’ve expanded and enhanced our data sets to allow investors to look at risks and opportunities in increasingly sophisticated ways. Asset Security Portfolio Portfolio Oversight We now offer 1,170 ESG data fields that can be incorporated into financial analysis. allocation selection construction Stewardship rebalancing & reporting In 2019, we introduced Environmental & Social (ES) News Sentiment Scores, which provide insight into companies’ environmental and social behavior on a daily basis, helping investors and companies assess corporate sustainability Forming views Optimizing Ensuring compliant performance in between sustainability report releases. We expanded our data of long-term weights to achieve rebalancing collection for material ESG factors, specific to each industry, for a core universe risk-adjusted fund’s objective aligned to fund’s returns Taking into Exerting active objectives Tracking and of companies. This effort strengthens the breadth of our data and allows our account financially ownership and explaining material ESG influence performance clients to generate their own ESG scores based on publicly disclosed normalized factors against goals data. Investors can also view data sets related to gender equality that we collect through the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Survey. ESG data is available through the Bloomberg Terminal, displayed alongside fundamental financial data on the same screens that Bloomberg users consult to make critical investment decisions every day. On the Terminal, ESG data is fully integrated with all of Bloomberg’s cutting-edge analytics. And, just as with core financial indicators, Bloomberg offers key ratios and highlights the most important performance indicators so users can compare ESG and financial performance Data Pitch across companies. In 2019, Bloomberg’s Global Data team issued a challenge to Europe’s leading In addition, we offer our ESG data via a licensed data feed delivered to start-ups as part of Data Pitch, an EU-funded open innovation program delivered organizations daily. Unlike the ESG data investors use within the Terminal by the Open Data Institute. This accelerator matches corporate and public-sector environment, ESG data delivered by Bloomberg Data License is designed to be organizations with small-and medium-sized firms that specialize in working with data. used across the firm by multiple applications and people. All systems at a firm Bloomberg challenged companies to pitch ideas for an AI that could autonomously receive Bloomberg’s scrubbed, verified and updated data at the same time, answer subjective questions that an analyst or investment manager may have about ensuring that critical information is consistent across front, middle and back a company’s ESG practices. Latvian tech firm SummarizeBot submitted the winning offices. In 2019, we enhanced our enterprise data feed with historical data dating proposal, and Bloomberg product specialists mentored the firm’s CEO and CTO as back to 2006, making it more useful for quantitative analysts. the company developed its solution. 2019 Impact Report 23 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Data. Sustainable debt Commodities Issuance of sustainable debt surged 78 percent in 2019 to hit a new annual record Bloomberg provides corporate and investment professionals with the world’s most of $465 billion — and pushed the cumulative sustainable debt market past $1.1 trillion. comprehensive set of fundamental and market-pricing data for commodities — As this unregulated market scales up and enters a new phase of standardization, we’re critical inputs for evaluating regulatory and business risks represented by carbon enhancing the data and insights we offer to drive transparency and enable innovation. and other key emissions. Bloomberg provides research, data and analytics to help users identify bonds and This includes nodal/hub-level power and fuel prices, which can shed light loans that promote environmental benefits, social benefits or a mixture of both. We on marginal emissions factors across the U.S. grid. More directly, a wealth of label six key types of sustainable debt on the Terminal: green bonds, social bonds, fundamental data monitors the evolution of the U.S. power mix, including plantsustainability bonds, sustainability-linked bonds, green loans and sustainabilitylevel, hour-by-hour generation, fuel burn, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and linked loans. Our green and social bond labels help users identify securities whose carbon dioxide emissions. Our commodities data consolidates information from proceeds finance eligible green and social projects. Additional fields on the the Environmental Protection Agency’s Continuous Emission Monitoring System, Terminal identify securities that align with the guidelines and principles developed the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the U.S. Energy Information Agency, the by the International Capital Markets Association and Loan Market Association. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Ventyx and individual U.S. Independent System Operators. In 2019, we added two new sustainable debt issuance rankings to the Terminal’s League Tables (LEAG <GO>) function, helping investors spot trends and see Sustainable debt market accelerates which firms are leading the market. The Global Green Bond Principles Table tracks The sustainable finance market surged 78% in 2019, with a record $465 billion worth of sustainability-themed issuance of bonds that align with the four Green Bond Principles, and the Global debt instruments issued during the year. Green bonds issuance hit a new high with more than $250 billion, and sustainability-linked loans surpassed $125 billion. Green Loan Principles Table tracks issuance of loans that comply with the four Green Loan Principles. Our sustainable debt issuance rankings help investors spot trends and see which firms are leading the market. 2019 Impact Report 24 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Data. Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Spotlight on: Sustainability indices The Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) tracks the performance of public As the investment community’s needs evolve and clients look to incorporate measures companies committed to supporting gender equality through policy development, of sustainability into their portfolios — and track the performance therein — Bloomberg representation and transparency. As investor demand for ESG products increases, the has led the way in offering ESG index resources and customization capabilities. index represents an important opportunity for companies to attract new capital and widen their investor base. A growing number of companies are disclosing genderBloomberg’s ESG index offerings are built on our comprehensive fixed income related data and using their inclusion in the index to demonstrate their commitment index family and our newly launched equity indices. We have partnered with to advancing gender equality. leading ESG ratings, framework and data providers to create index alternatives that meet the diverse needs of investors. To be included in the GEI, companies disclose comparable information through Bloomberg’s standardized gender reporting framework on how they promote gender In 2019, we collaborated with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) equality across five distinct areas: female leadership and talent pipeline; equal pay to launch the Bloomberg SASB ESG Indices, a new family of indices that covers and gender pay parity; inclusive culture; sexual harassment policies; and pro-women both U.S. large-cap equities and investment-grade corporate bonds. These indices brand. All of this data is publicly available on the Terminal, bringing unprecedented are weighted using R-Factor™, an ESG scoring system developed by State Street transparency to gender equality efforts in the workplace. The 2020 index includes Global Advisors that is aligned with long-term, industry-specific sustainability 325 companies headquartered in 42 countries and regions. drivers identified by SASB. The Bloomberg SASB US Large Cap ESG Indices tilt the Bloomberg US Large Cap Index, a free-float market capitalization-weighted index of the 500 most highly capitalized U.S. companies, toward high performance based on R-Factor More companies are qualifying for our Gender-Equality Index scores. We offer these indices in large-cap, growth, value and dividend yield styles. The Bloomberg SASB US Corporate ESG Indices preserve the overall Number of companies Financial sector Sector neutral risk characteristics of their parent index while targeting issuers with the highest 350 R-Factor scores. We plan to release more Bloomberg SASB ESG Indices for global 325 325 markets in the future. 300 We also provide additional fixed income indices that incorporate measures of ESG risk. Our Bloomberg Barclays MSCI ESG Fixed Income Indices are produced in 230 partnership with MSCI ESG Research. They include Green Bond Indices for climatefocused and impact investors; Socially Responsible Indices, which exclude issuers that are involved in business lines or activities that conflict with investment policies, values or social norms; Sustainability Indices, which feature issuers MSCI ranks highly for managing ESG risks; and ESG-Weighted Indices, which use MSCI ESG 104 ratings and ratings momentum to re-weight issuers within an existing Bloomberg Barclays parent index. 52 26 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2019 Impact Report 25 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Analysis. Our in-depth research and powerful BNEF: $363.3 billion invested in clean energy Global clean energy investment totaled $363.3 billion in 2019, slightly higher than the previous year’s figure of $362.5 billion. China, the world’s biggest market, slipped back by 8%, but the U.S., the world’s second-largest analytics extract valuable insights market, increased by 28%, hitting a new record. from environmental, social and governance data. Long used by traders, portfolio managers and analysts to look around corners in a changing world, our sustainability research and analytical tools are gaining a wider audience as sustainable finance enters the mainstream and more companies incorporate ESG considerations into their strategic planning. In 2019, we expanded and enhanced our services with corporate strategists in mind to help companies streamline reporting obligations, set ambitious but achievable sustainability goals and use sustainability as a lever for attracting investment and raising capital. BloombergNEF ÿ! #$ÿÿ% #&ÿ'() ÿ*(ÿ$ ÿ +,) ÿ ÿ*ÿ-./0ÿ12.0-3ÿ4$ÿ156671-.89ÿ:;<ÿ5-=> BloombergNEF (BNEF), Bloomberg’s primary research service, covers clean energy, KLMNÿPQRSTUVWÿMNÿXUMVYÿZ[Q\MPUPÿ]Q[ÿWLUÿU^R_SNM\UÿSNUÿQ]ÿ̀abcÿdeac`fÿgWÿdhiijd`aklÿmnoÿh`pq 12345674ÿ ÿ advanced transport, digital industry, innovative materials and commodities. BNEF ÿ insights help corporate strategy, finance and policy professionals navigate change 93 7423ÿ *+21,23ÿ-./0 52 ÿÿ and generate opportunities. BNEF research, powered by analysts located around the world, is available online, on the Terminal and on mobile. In 2019, BNEF published more than 2,500 reports and research pieces. These ÿ included updated editions of Clean Energy Investment Trends, a report on energy ÿÿÿ 01234564ÿ8932 ÿ trends drawn from a proprietary database of 100,000+ deal and project records; New Energy Outlook, a long-term economic forecast of the world’s power sector  ÿ ÿ!ÿÿ ÿ#!$%&ÿ'ÿ !#ÿ(!!)  to 2050; Long-Term Electric Vehicle Outlook, a forecast of global passenger and ÿ commercial electric vehicle adoption to 2040; Climatescope, a country-by-country assessment of clean energy investment conditions in 104 emerging markets; and the Corporate Energy Market Outlook, which tracks corporate clean energy procurement globally. BNEF expanded its corporate sustainability research team in 2019; the team published numerous research notes on supply chain sustainability and corporate ÿ renewable energy procurement, among other topics. 12343ÿ6789:4;ÿ<=>?@>A>ÿBÿCCÿDEF=>ÿGÿHIJ 2019 Impact Report 26 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Analysis. Bloomberg Intelligence Bloomberg Industry Group Bloomberg Intelligence (BI) provides Terminal users with in-depth analysis, The rise of sustainability-related issues creates unique and profound implications commentary and data sets on 135+ industries and 2,000 companies across ten for a wide range of industries. Bloomberg Industry Group’s subscription-based major sectors as well as the government, credit and litigation factors that impact news and analysis services for legal, government, tax and accounting professionals decision making. provide key insights into cross-cutting sustainability issues. BI’s team of experienced ESG equity and credit analysts provides independent, Bloomberg Law delivers legal analysis on ESG trends impacting companies, data-driven insights into environmental, social and governance issues and ESG-related reporting and disclosure, shareholder engagement and emerging themes such as climate change, sustainable finance and green bonds, all of risks to help attorneys provide timely and optimal advice to clients. which present significant risks and opportunities for individual companies and industries in general. BI’s research is fully transparent, enabling Terminal users Bloomberg Government helps subscribers track the positions of corporations to incorporate the data into their own analysis or use it to back up their own and nongovernmental organizations trying to influence environmental and energy investment recommendations. In 2019, BI leveraged the expertise of its full staff of policy. Its Lobbying Intelligence Tool provides visibility into which firms are industry analysts to produce extensive new research on corporate issuers’ carbon lobbying on oil, natural gas, environmental regulation and agricultural policy — emissions and their strategies for decarbonization. BI also offers a unique data as well as which congressional offices registered lobbyists used to work for. library that tracks ESG flows and performance of both ETF and funds and proxy The service also provides detailed data on the federal procurement process used and shareholder activism as well as providing access to all third-party ESG scores. by companies to bid on and win federal contracts. Bloomberg Tax & Accounting produces the Credit and Incentives Navigator, BI: The ESG and values-based ETF market is rapidly expanding a database of federal and state tax and non-tax credits and incentives, including The creation of ESG and values-based funds continued accelerating in 2019, with assets reaching $93.9 billion. those that encourage the development and use of renewable energy and promote ESG values-based funds Assets under management conservation. Bloomberg Tax & Accounting also provides news and analysis of Number of ETFs AUM ($B) green energy initiatives, sustainability accounting, environmental remediation, energy production and carbon taxes. Bloomberg Intelligence analysts provide independent, data-driven 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 insights on ESG issues. Note: AUM includes active and inactive funds tracked by Bloomberg. AUM includes the funds’ total assets, which, in a few instances, include non-ETF share classes. We estimate that these non-ETF share classes are about $9 billion. Source: Bloomberg Intelligence 2019 Impact Report 27 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Analysis. Spotlight on: New sustainable finance tools Geospatial capabilities Bloomberg analysts and data experts are continually developing tools on the Environmental exposure: We continue to enhance our collection of extreme Terminal to help investors, companies and policymakers look at ESG data from weather mapping tools, including our tools via Custom Map (MAP <GO>) that allow new angles. In 2019, we added more environmental data sets to our powerful users to view company assets during storms, earthquakes, fires and record-setting mapping tools and launched new tools for assessing carbon emissions and temperatures. These custom maps allow companies, investors and researchers to evaluating corporate strategy. better visualize climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate scenario analysis: TCFD Map (MAP TCFD <GO>) displays power Carbon assesment tools production loss based on various climate scenarios, providing key insights for Renewable energy: The Carbon Impact Tracker uses BNEF’s market-leading companies conducting TCFD-recommended climate scenario analysis. renewable energy project data and a pioneering carbon score methodology Global fishing activity: Fish Map (MAP FISH <GO>), developed in collaboration developed by Macquarie’s Green Investment Group to assess the carbon impact with Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Vibrant Oceans Initiative partner Global Fishing of more than 40,000 wind and solar assets across the globe. This tool helps Watch, enables businesses and governments to see global fishing data by country developers and investors evaluate and compare the carbon impact of renewable and gear type layered over climate, weather and coral reef data, generating energy projects. insights for insurance, tourism, trade and investment professionals. Corporate power emissions: BNEF’s Corporate Power Emissions Tracker tracks and forecasts a company’s carbon emissions from powering offices, factories and other assets. This tool allows users to compare actual emissions against targets and explore the impact of mitigation strategies. Emissions forecasts: Created by BI analysts, the CO2 Forecasts tool tracks publicly available historical CO₂ emissions data and company-reported emissions targets projected to the year 2030. Corporate strategy tools Sustainability goals: Created by BNEF, the Science-Based Targets Data Tool allows users to track and visualize the emissions reduction ambitions of companies that have joined the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). For each company that has set and validated a science-based target, the tool projects the emissions reductions needed to reach that target. Governance: Developed by BI analysts, the Proxy Tracker tracks all shareholder and management proposals for the 3,000 largest companies in the U.S., allowing investors and analysts to monitor ESG-related proposals, proponents and voting results. Fish Map (MAP FISH <GO>) 2019 Impact Report 28 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People News and media. We cover the critical environmental Bloomberg participated in the Covering Climate Now Initiative in September 2019, joining 250 other news outlets in publishing special content about the climate crisis and social issues that are reshaping in the week leading up to the United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York. In spring 2019, Bloomberg began developing a new editorial brand that would the global economy. bring climate change news, analysis and solutions to a wide consumer audience. We launched Bloomberg Green, a new website featuring an interactive climate data dashboard, a daily email newsletter, a podcast, events and a magazine, in January 2020. Bloomberg Editorial & Research Bloomberg Editorial & Research aims to be the definitive chronicle of capitalism Bloomberg Media Group by covering everything that matters in global business and finance. As rising Bloomberg Media is a leading global, multi-platform brand that provides temperatures have begun to impact the global economy, sustainability and climate decision makers with timely news, analysis and intelligence on business, finance, change have become an essential part of our coverage. technology, climate change, politics and more. Powered by Bloomberg’s More than 2,700 Bloomberg journalists and analysts in 120 countries deliver over journalists and analysts, it reaches influential audiences worldwide across every 5,000 stories a day to Bloomberg Terminal subscribers. The Terminal features platform, including digital, social, TV, radio, print and live events. regular coverage of sustainable finance and corporate governance, with a particular Digital Media focus on how companies create (and destroy) shareholder value, company supply We expanded our coverage of the climate crisis and sustainable business on chains, renewable energy trends, executive pay and diversity. Bloomberg Editorial Bloomberg.com and QuickTake in 2019. QuickTake produced Climate Travelers, also feeds the publications and broadcasts produced by Bloomberg Media Group, a short docu-series on groundbreaking climate research around the globe. Our our consumer-facing media division, as well as Bloomberg.com and our social video digital channels featured data-driven stories and graphics along with reporting from channel QuickTake. Bloomberg Media’s energy, finance and global business teams. (We also broadcast In 2019, we introduced new ESGand climate-related newsfeeds and alerts. These additional climate content on Bloomberg TV and Bloomberg Radio.) include ESG Daily Highlights (NI ESGDAILY <GO>), a compilation of the latest ESGrelated company, government, sustainable finance and investment news, Green Bonds Weekly Wrap (NI ESGBONDWRP <GO>) and our weekly Good Business ESG channels on Bloomberg.com Newsletter (NI GOODBIZ <GO>). Terminal users can also curate their own ESGthemed newsfeeds for specific companies or industries they track. Bloomberg Green The business, science and technology To help our readers better understand Tesla Inc.’s struggles with mass production of climate. when the company was only reporting production totals for its Model 3 electric car on a quarterly basis, we built a highly visual Tesla Model 3 Tracker that we Bloomberg Hyperdrive updated daily. The tracker combined data from an obscure government registry The future of transportation. with reports from our readers to generate real-time forecasts of the number of Model 3s coming off the lines at the factory in Fremont, California. Our online data Bloomberg Equality journalism experiment was viewed more than 5 million times, helped break news How companies and institutions are and ultimately won a Gerald Loeb Award, the highest honor in business journalism. confronting gender, race and class. 2019 Impact Report 29 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People News and media. Print media Spotlight on: New Voices Bloomberg Businessweek delivers the most comprehensive global business Bloomberg journalists launched the New Voices initiative in 2018 to increase and finance content of any magazine brand, across multiple platforms. In 2019, the representation of women sources in our online, print and on-air content. the magazine featured stories on new energy technologies, climate migration The program has created a system to track diverse sourcing and is building the and water scarcity. Bloomberg Markets, our bi-monthly magazine for a financial definitive global list of women experts in finance and business. New Voices also audience, devoted one of its themed issues to the future of energy. funds media training for top female executives. Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Television is available in more than 433 million homes worldwide in over 70 countries; it streams live on Bloomberg’s digital and mobile properties, Media training along with Apple TV, Samsung TV and Roku. Bloomberg TV delivers 24 hours of continuous global business and financial news, taking advantage of global 2018 2019 reporting strengths and newsgathering assets. Bloomberg TV covers global New York +Dubai sustainability and clean energy through a unique lens, providing insight into and Hong Kong +Mumbai analysis of emerging technologies, policies and trends. Our weekly program Bloomberg Commodities Edge focuses on the biggest stories and trends in the Toronto +Sydney commodities market, including sustainability, and draws on proprietary BNEF London +San Francisco research. In 2019, Bloomberg TV put sustainability in the spotlight across its wider programming, with internal and external experts providing insights and analysis of ESG investing. Bloomberg Radio Representation Bloomberg Radio can be heard on its four flagship stations in Boston, New York 2018 2019 City, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. Bloomberg shows and short-form reports are also heard on more than 300 radio stations across the United States, including leading all-news radio stations in major cities from coast to coast. In addition, Bloomberg Radio can be heard nationally on SiriusXM satellite radio channel 119 and live on Bloomberg.com and the Bloomberg Business, Radio.com, 10% 22% IHeart and Tune-In mobile apps. The Bloomberg Green Business Report explores the latest developments in green Women external guests on Bloomberg TV and Bloomberg Radio technology. The show profiles companies making breakthroughs in renewable energy, conservation, recycling, zero-emission transportation and waste disposal. Topics range from long-life batteries to light-emitting diodes to sustainable agriculture. In April 2019, Bloomberg Radio broadcasted live from the BNEF Sources Summit in New York. 2018 2019 500 names 5,500 names 2019 Impact Report 30 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Case Study Putting it all together. Our latest tools make it faster and Bloomberg was founded on the idea that making markets more transparent empowers investors, fuels entrepreneurs and supports economic growth. With our latest tools designed to clarify ESG data and make it faster and easier to evaluate easier to integrate ESG measures into market activity, we hope to empower more investors to incorporate sustainability considerations into their investment strategies. the investment workflow. Room for interpretation With Bloomberg’s powerful tools for financial analysis, each company and investor While interest in integrating ESG data into the investment process is skyrocketing, can view ESG data through their own unique lens, making it easier to generate putting it into practice can be difficult for all but the most well-resourced or ESGideas, evaluate opportunities and optimize portfolios to achieve particular focused firms. investment objectives. In traditional equity investing, investors refer to standardized, comparable and meaningful financial measures like earnings and credit spreads to drive decisions Research Management Solutions (RMS) Custom Data Editor (CDE) on how to allocate their resources. However, incorporating ESG measures into the investment workflow is not as straightforward. Report on firm’s ESG framework Upload your unique ESG data to augment your analysis on the Because ESG data disclosure is voluntary and companies do not report this Organize your ESG research, notes, Bloomberg Terminal information on a regular basis, if at all, the data alone provides an incomplete data and models picture of ESG activity in the global economy. ESG ratings, based on this same Integrate internal notes and data with sparse data, vary widely among ratings providers and can provide conflicting scores. market data, fundamental data, news Consequently, investors need a large amount of additional context in order to and third-party research interpret ESG data in a way that can help them evaluate opportunities and spot risks. Share ideas with your team and A handful of large investment firms have addressed this challenge by building collaborate in real time internal tools, available across the organization, that score companies on ESG metrics they care about. In 2019, Bloomberg made it possible for all Terminal users to do the same thing — without needing to develop an expensive in-house system. Bloomberg Query Language (BQL) BQuant (BQNT) We expanded our proprietary Bloomberg Query Language (BQL) coverage universe to run on ESG data, allowing asset managers to use an advanced API query for ESG Retrieve decision-useful ESG data on the Bloomberg Terminal Explore relationships between data in Excel and build their own internal dashboards and ESG scores within BQuant, different data sets Bloomberg’s quantitative analytics system. Now asset managers can get more out of our Customize pre-built ESG scoring best-in-class research publishing tools, Research Management Solutions (RMS), which models or build your own analyses encourage structure, consistency, systematic data capture and reporting capabilities of internal ESG research and engagement notes, and build dashboards that reflect Portfolio & Risk Analytics (PORT) Test hypotheses how they view ESG measures and what they are trying to achieve. These dashboards Visualize, share and publish provide full transparency into the investor’s decision-making process, linking to Portfolio visualization interactive models internal notes and data, market data, fundamental data, news and third-party research and can be shared as interactive visualizations with other Bloomberg users. 2019 Impact Report 31 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People 30% reduction in market-based emissions from 38 million kWh of energy saved by increased 49% of electricity from renewable energy sources 75% of employees work in LEED-/ 2007 baseline data center efficiency BREEAM-certified facilities Efficiency and resiliency Operations strategy Decouple our growth from environmental impact by incorporating sustainability in a changing world. considerations into all aspects of our operations. Key activities: Bloomberg strives to decouple company growth from environmental impact while Reduce our emissions increasing the efficiency and resiliency of our operations. Finding innovative ways to We exceeded our 2020 goal to reduce our emissions by 20% from a 2007 baseline. power our business with renewable energy, lower our emissions and reduce waste, among other efforts, has improved operating margins, minimized risk, lessened our Increase renewable energy use environmental impact and saved money. Since 2008, Bloomberg has avoided more We are committed to obtaining 100% of our electricity from renewable sources than 1 million metric tonnes of CO2e emissions and over $120 million in operating by 2025. costs. Through our efforts, Bloomberg is proving the business case for sustainability. Invest in energy-efficient buildings We build or renovate all new office space to meet best-in-class sustainable 2019 highlights building standards. Carbon emissions reductions and targets 33 Improve operational resilience We prepare our business to withstand severe weather events and other climateEnergy 34 related disruptions by fortifying key facilities and building in-network redundancies. Facilities 36 Measure relationship between environmental and economic performance Business activities 38 We aggressively pursue efficiencies, tracking our progress in reducing energy Performance summary by department 40 consumption and mitigating emissions in our facilities, business travel, paper use, supply chain and waste and measuring the impact of these activities on our Case study operating costs. Partnering to scale 41 Operations 2019 Impact Report 32 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Carbon emissions reductions and targets. We achieved — and exceeded — our 2020 carbon emissions reduction goal. Absolute emissions reductions Emissions reductions from Business as Usual In 2019, Bloomberg’s market-based carbon emissions were 131,562 metric tonnes of In addition to absolute emissions reductions, we have also tracked our progress CO₂e. This represents a 30 percent reduction from 2007 baseline emissions, exceeding against company growth since 2007. For every component of our emissions, there our reduction target of 20 percent by 2020. We have been able to accomplish this is an associated “growth driver” that exerts upward pressure on emissions while through recent acceleration of our renewable energy implementation in addition to we attempt to mitigate this impact. Applying these growth drivers over time to our offsetting growth since 2008 through demand-reduction initiatives, achieving energy 2007 baseline emissions creates a growth-adjusted emissions projection we refer efficiencies and infrastructure upgrades. to as Business as Usual (BAU). In 2019, we achieved a 63 percent reduction in carbon emissions vs. our Business as Usual growth projection. 30% reduction in absolute CO₂e emissions 63% reduction in CO₂e emissions vs. Business as Usual CO₂e (metric tonnes) CO₂e (metric tonnes) k k Business as Usual growth projection k % change in CO₂e % change in CO₂e k emissions by category, emissions vs. BAU by 2007-2019 63% category, 2007-2019 k Energy: -46.8% Energy: -77.1% k Business Business travel: 3.8% travel: 113.5% Actual CO₂e emissions k Publishing Publishing operations: -57.9% operations: -6.8% Other: -65.4% Other: -40.2% GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 2019 Impact Report 33 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Energy. Reducing our energy use is a top priority. Bloomberg consumed 314.7 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy in 2019 that, coupled with fuel consumption, resulted in 58,708 metric tonnes of market-based emissions (93,046 metric tonnes of location-based emissions). As a company with nearly 20,000 employees in 172 locations globally, including data centers, reducing our energy-related carbon emissions is critical to reducing our overall environmental impact. Bloomberg’s energy strategy is comprehensive, focusing on reducing total energy consumption, implementing energy efficiency projects at our facilities, building new facilities to LEED/BREEAM environmental standards and developing both onand off-site renewable energy projects. Total kWh and kWh per employee As companies grow, total energy consumption typically increases. Therefore, we monitor Emissions by activity kWh consumption per employee as a measure of our overall energy efficiency. In 2019, Energy consumption generates the majority of Bloomberg’s emissions, accounting for our overall kWh consumption increased by 4% due to data center expansion. Our energy 44.6% of our market-based CO2e emissions and 56.1% of location-based CO2e emissions. consumption per employee increased by 2%. kWh/per employee Total kWh 23,332 23,432 Energy 22,003 consumption: 44.6% 20,276 Business 18,471 17,533 travel: 41.4% 17,148 17,067 16,636 16,446 16,114 15,741 15,372 Publishing 308M 303M 31 305M operations: 10.8% 299M 287M Other: 3.2% 266M 268M 254M 238M 242M 227M 232M 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI: 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 2019 Impact Report 34 SASB: TC-IM-130a.1 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Energy. Renewable energy Path to RE100 Bloomberg is a member of RE100, a global initiative of influential businesses committed In 2019, we secured 48.5 percent of our purchased energy from renewable sources, to using 100% renewable electricity. We have pledged to obtain 100% of our electricity up from 17 percent in 2018. from renewable sources by 2025. We obtained energy from eight onand off-site solar and wind sites. Our newest Bloomberg renewable energy at year-end installation, a 17MW portion of the HillTopper wind farm in Illinois, started Projected 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 providing us with energy in January 2019. We exceeded our renewable energy target in 2019 primarily because of the addition of the HillTopper wind farm plus Owned renewables MWh 38 64 60 60 222 242 263 280 267 the full-year impact of the Arkwright wind farm, which started generating energy Power purchase agreements (PPAs) MWh 2,425 2,473 2,606 2,926 4,719 4,150 3,642 4,204 4,150 in October 2018. Virtual PPAs MWh 0 0 0 0 0 17,415 34,646 136,311 135,300 Bloomberg began investigating renewable energy projects in 2008; our first project, Other renewables MWh 0 0 0 0 4,831 11,646 12,013 11,975 12,000 a 1.8MW solar installation in New Jersey, began providing us with energy in 2012. Total project renewables: MWh 2,463 2,536 2,666 2,989 9,772 33,453 50,382 152,770 151,717 To date, our renewable projects have generated 216,566 megawatt hours of energy. Additional renewable energy credits (RECs) MWh 205,837 209,041 88,141 91,046 85,612 79,700 79,301 4 4 Projects under development In January 2019, we announced we had joined four other companies (Cox Enterprises, 17MW 20MW Gap Inc., Salesforce and Workday) to form the Corporate Renewable Energy HillTopper Arkwright Summit Aggregation Group and collectively procure 42.5MW of renewable energy from a Wind Project Wind Project solar power project in North Carolina. (Read more about this initiative on page 41.) Renewable energy targets In 2019, we surpassed our 2020 goal to source 35 percent of our electricity from renewables. We continue to aggressively pursue renewable energy opportunities 1.5MW Queens Solar Project where they make sense — environmentally, operationally and economically — in order to meet our RE100 commitment to use 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025. 184KW Princeton Maintenance The biggest challenge we see in achieving this goal is procuring renewable energy Building Solar Project outside the U.S. as countries have different markets, incentives and availability, and Bloomberg has lower energy needs in these markets. We continue to seek feasible 1.8MW projects; in 2020, we are focusing on the UK. 41KW Princeton Solar San Francisco Project Solar Project 5MW 5MW North Carolina Hidalgo Wind Project Solar Project (2020) Began investigating renewable energy projects First projects completed RE100 commitment announced 48.5% renewable energy renewable energy 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Facilities. We push beyond conventional ideas LEED and BREEAM office space 75% of Bloomberg employees sit in environmentally certified office space. to minimize the impact of our buildings and data centers. Energy consumption from facilities accounts for 45 percent of Bloomberg’s CO2e emissions, so they are a prime focus of our environmental efforts. Facilities management is also an area in which we have had significant success. Buildings In 2019, Bloomberg occupied 169 non-data-center locations globally, representing 4.7 million square feet, which consumed 141.7 million kWh of energy and generated 41,009 metric tonnes of market-based CO2e. % of employees in environmentally certified space Total headcount (includes Bloomberg L.P. Bloomberg invests in environmentally certified office spaces to ensure we and Bloomberg Industry Group) are limiting the environmental impact of both construction and occupancy. Components of this process include: Data centers • incorporating sustainability considerations into our search criteria when seeking new office space Our data centers handle the large volume of data and analytics we provide to more than 325,000 customers through Bloomberg Professional Services. These centers • ensuring that all new office developments, refurbishments and expansions are certified are critical assets and require significant amounts of energy to function. While our or built to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or BREEAM standards objective is to minimize our energy usage, we cannot compromise the quality of data stored, Bloomberg Terminal functionality, complexity of routinely performed By the end of 2019, Bloomberg had 39 environmentally certified projects on six calculations or uninterrupted service to our customers. continents, with four more in progress. We have attained LEED Platinum (the highest level) for 17 projects, LEED Gold (the second highest level) for 21 projects and an We use Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) as a measure of how efficiently a data “Outstanding” BREEAM rating for our European headquarters in London. Bloomberg center uses energy. PUE is the ratio of the energy used by the facility to the energy L.P.’s headquarters in New York City is the first nongovernmental, single-tenant delivered to the computer equipment. (Lower PUE is better.) We have been steadily property to receive a 3-star rating (the highest possible) from the Fitwel certification reducing our PUE since 2010, when we started measuring it. Bloomberg’s PUE has system, signifying that the building’s design and operation support employee health, improved 19.5 percent since 2010, helped by the opening of our LEED V4 data center safety and wellbeing. in 2014. This translated into approximately 38 million kWh of energy savings in 2019. SASB: TC-IM-130a.3 2019 Impact Report 36 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Facilities. Catering Waste by type In December 2019 Bloomberg committed to serve more climate-friendly foods in its We’ve dramatically reduced our per-employee waste sent to landfills since 2008 as catering operations and cafeterias in New York and New Jersey by signing the Cool we’ve increased recycling, composting and waste-to-energy programs. Food Pledge, part of a growing movement to reduce food-related greenhouse gas 2008 2019 emissions by 25 percent by 2030. We have implemented Meatless Mondays as a first step to move us toward this goal. Over time, Bloomberg will incorporate more plantRecycling: 51% Recycling: 37% based ingredients and other menu changes to promote sustainable food options to Landfill Landfill waste: 48% waste: 19% our employees while helping us further reduce our environmental impact. Compost: 1% Compost: 32% Waste-to-energy: 0% Waste-to-energy: 11% Waste Aggressive recycling, waste-to-energy utilization in New York City and London and composting programs in key offices globally have driven our waste-reduction and waste-diversion success to date. In 2019, Bloomberg diverted 81 percent of total waste away from landfills. To improve our waste diversion, we piloted new Water waste signage and launched a comprehensive “Know Where to Throw” education Our water consumption is largely driven by our employees and building operations. campaign in our London, Tokyo, Shanghai and Sydney offices; we plan to expand We’ve implemented water-reduction measures throughout the majority of our key this effort to more global offices in 2020. locations globally. Among the innovations we use in our buildings: While we originally targeted 90 percent diversion by the end of 2020, our ultimate • Our European headquarters employs a variety of water-saving strategies. The goal is to find ways to eliminate waste wherever possible throughout our operations. building collects, treats and reuses rainwater from its roof and from cooling Even though eliminating waste that might otherwise go to compost or recycling will systems and gray water from sinks, saving almost 7 million gallons of water per suppress our diversion rates, our focus is on identifying reusable materials that can year. Its airline-style vacuum toilets use 75 percent less water than typical toilets. be used to replace of single-use items. We have already had significant success doing this in our warehouse network, and we have installed dishwashers in our newer and • Low-flow fixtures installed in our 39 LEED/BREEAM locations worldwide provide smaller office locations in San Francisco and Boston. A large number of employees a projected 37 percent reduction in water usage over traditional fixtures. With 75 assist in this effort by using personal reusable items for day-to-day consumables. percent of our employees working in LEED-/BREEAM-certified office space, this equates to an annual water savings of more than 5 million gallons. In 2019, our waste sent to landfills resulted in 1,306 metric tonnes of CO₂e, a 10 percent decrease from the prior year. On a per-employee basis, this represents an 11 percent reduction from 2018. GRI: 303-1, 303-3, 306-2 2019 Impact Report 37 SASB: TC-IM-130a.2 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Business activities. We seize opportunities in every Bloomberg business travel Miles traveled and CO₂e emissions by year area of our operations to reduce our carbon footprint. Business travel Business travel represents 41 percent of Bloomberg’s total market-based emissions. It’s our biggest challenge for mitigation as we are a sales-driven organization with a high-touch approach that requires us to be in front of our customers. As our employee headcount has grown in recent years, overall miles traveled have generally increased accordingly, although in 2019 we did experience a dip in miles traveled. Employees traveled over 186 million miles, which generated 54,460 metric tonnes of CO₂e, a 13 percent reduction from 2018. Publishing operations We actively seek opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of our business In 2019, we published two magazines — Bloomberg Businessweek and travel. Three promising initiatives we are currently exploring: Bloomberg Markets — consuming almost 9 million pounds of paper and distributing 31 million copies of our magazines globally. Publishing operations generated • partnering with our vendors to understand and influence their strategies to reduce 14,195 metric tonnes of CO₂e, a 20.8 percent reduction versus 2018. Publishing their emissions operations represented 10.8 percent of total company emissions. • providing employees with information about the environmental impact of their Bloomberg employs a number of strategies to limit the environmental impacts travel and travel decisions they can make to reduce emissions of our publishing operations. These include: • global carbon-offset projects to use against ongoing travel emissions • FSC certification: Bloomberg has been using Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper since 2009. • Efficient printing: We’ve introduced processes to limit paper waste during production. • Strategic publishing: In 2019, Bloomberg Businessweek printed 44 issues, down from 45 in 2018 and 47 in 2017. Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets continue to eliminate printing and distribution of unnecessary copies. • Regional printing and distribution: We’re shortening transportation distances with regional printing and distribution. • Digital publishing: We encourage subscribers to move to digital subscriptions. 2019 Impact Report 38 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Business activities. Global paper usage Product transportation Bloomberg Businessweek accounts for the overwhelming majority of our company’s paper usage We ship B-Units, flat panels, keyboards, PCs and other products to customers globally, and associated emissions. and our internal print shop distributes products internally. In 2019, we sent and received more than 582,000 shipments. Our global non-magazine logistics activity Bloomberg Businessweek: 79.1% generated 2,293 metric tonnes of CO₂e, a decrease of 8.6 percent from 2018. Bloomberg Markets: 13.7% Bloomberg Ink: 3.6% Approximately 93 percent of shipments were sent via ground or sea. We have six major distribution centers — in New York, Brazil, London, Hong Kong, Singapore Office paper: 2.3% and Tokyo — and more than 200 stocking locations globally to provide best-in-class Bloomberg Industry Group customer service. publishing: 1.4% Energy efficient by design Internal paper We track our internal consumption of paper — paper used in our offices and at our in-house print facilities in New Jersey, London, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore — separately from the paper we use in publishing. Internal paper consumption represents only 0.3 percent of Bloomberg’s carbon emissions, but it still presents an opportunity to mitigate our environmental impact. Globally, 76 percent of office paper is FSC-certified, with an average recycled content of 81 percent. Since 2007, office paper consumption has seen a 68 percent per headcount decrease, and overall internal paper usage has declined by 31 percent. Supply chain Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainable Operating Guidelines ensure that we source goods and services from vendors who operate in a responsible and sustainable manner. Bloomberg is committed to working with our vendors to: • operate an efficient and sustainable supply chain that supports corporate responsibility, creating long-term value and mitigating risk • develop sourcing solutions aligned with regulatory and stakeholder needs and expectations Our European headquarters in London minimizes its environmental impact through innovative • prohibit child, convict/prison and slave labor while ensuring that Bloomberg and features like natural ventilation. In 2019, we opened the building facade for the first time, allowing our vendors abide by globally recognized, UN-mandated human rights policies it to “breathe” by stopping our mechanical ventilation systems. GRI: 102-9, 102-11 2019 Impact Report 39 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Performance summary by department. Percentage reduction in CO2e emissions e and emissions intensity by focus area (2019 vs. 2007 baseline) 2 with cumulative cost avoidance since 2008 *Net avoided costs include additional cost avoidance of $21.6 million and expenses of $20.8 million not represented below. -64% -37% -57% -20% -94% -81% -92% -72% -92% -38% -6% 4% -4% -38% -64% -80% -76% -38% -7% -64% -41% -73% -45% 2019 Impact Report 40 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Case Study Partnering to scale. Our collaborative venture, the In January 2019, our group closed a deal to collectively procure 42.5MW of energy from a 100MW solar project in North Carolina being developed by BayWa r.e. While the group serves as the facility’s anchor tenant, our collaborative virtual power Corporate Renewable Energy purchase agreement (VPPA) allows Bloomberg to obtain just the 5MW of renewable energy we need from the project. Aggregation Group, provides a The Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group is already receiving recognition for this initiative, winning the Center for Resource Solutions (CRS) Green Power new model for smaller companies Leadership Award for Green Market Development and the Smart Energy Decisions Innovation Award for Commercial Offsite Renewable Energy. seeking to buy renewable energy. We hope that our experience will serve as a model for smaller buyers that want to enter the large off-site renewable energy market and show developers that a market Since Bloomberg first began investigating renewable energy projects more than a exists for these types of projects, ultimately expanding renewable energy options for decade ago, we have exceeded our initial renewable energy goals by investing in both companies of all sizes. significant off-site wind and solar projects and smaller on-site activities. How we did it However, one challenge we have run into is finding renewable energy projects in the U.S. to supply us with the amount of energy we need at a competitive cost. Multilateral negotiations Blended credit rating Renewable energy project transaction sizes have been decreasing in recent years, The five buyers undertook A blended credit rating, considering different multilateral negotiations with credit ratings for each buyer, was used to but the average transaction size is still around 50MW for onshore wind projects one project developer. establish project risk for the financier and and 30MW for solar photovoltaic (PV) projects, according to the Renewable Energy offtake-contract terms, primarily price. Buyers Alliance (REBA). These sizes are typically too big for our needs. Different amounts of energy Uniform but separate contracts While Fortune 500 companies with greater energy demands have a larger pool Each buyer contracted for a similar, but not The buyers used a uniform contract, but identically sized, slice of project capacity each buyer executed its own contract of potential projects to pick from and the internal resources to evaluate these ranging from 5MW to 10MW depending on with the developer and assumed opportunities, it is difficult and time-consuming for smaller companies to obtain the buyer’s specific need and the collective payment liability with each counterparty. credit need from the project financier. There was no joint and several liability. renewable energy loads directly from large off-site renewable energy projects. Alone, Bloomberg’s relatively small amount of demand is not enough to justify developing new renewable energy projects. Additionally, we believe that it is Identical pricing Equally shared expenses important to diversify our risk by entering into power purchase agreements at Pricing of the MW contracted was identical All transaction expenses were shared equally for each buyer. different times and in different regions. by the participating buyers. Seeking to increase our choices and ideally provide a roadmap for other companies to follow, a few years ago we began to explore the idea of generating more buying Anchor tenant status Our group’s combined energy power by pooling our energy demand with other companies. We formed the procurement of 42.5MW from Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group with Cox Enterprises, Gap Inc., the 100MW project provided the Salesforce and Workday, companies that have similar renewable energy needs, developer with the equivalent of an “anchor tenant” and served as the and worked with energy procurement firm LevelTen Energy to find the right project. basis for overall project finance for 100MW the solar project. Source: “Aggregating Small Energy Demand: How Five Companies Partnered to Build a New Procurement Model” (REBA); Bloomberg L.P. 2019 Impact Report 41 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People 12,915 corporate volunteers 5,000+ employees engaged with a 26 weeks of gender-neutral paid parental leave 58 hours of training per employee Bloomberg Community Global reach. People strategy Engage our employees in addressing social and environmental issues Local impact. that are relevant to the business and the communities in which we work. Key activities: To shape the future and drive breakthrough performance, we rely on creative, Invest in our employees collaborative employees with diverse experiences and a global outlook. We inspire Bloomberg invests in talent development and offers comprehensive benefits to ensure our workforce by providing opportunities to make a difference and by supporting the health, wellbeing and financial security of our employees and their families. their personal growth. Embrace diversity and inclusion We’re building a culture that values difference, fosters inclusion and promotes 2019 highlights collaboration to drive business results. Supporting sustainable communities 43 Give back to our communities Activating every employee’s potential 46 We focus our philanthropic efforts in four key areas where we believe we can achieve the greatest good — arts & culture, education, human services and the environment. Case study Leading from the front 48 People 2019 Impact Report 42 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Supporting sustainable communities. Bloomberg’s Corporate Philanthropy IMAGE/FPO program harnesses the skills and resources of our employees to create lasting impact. Philanthropy and service are an integral part of our culture. We’re committed to giving back to the cities in which we live and work, using our employees’ expertise and our company’s resources to address unmet needs in our communities, deepen engagement with our colleagues, clients and partners and improve lives around the world. In 2019, 12,915 employees in 80 cities took part in our Best of Bloomberg corporate volunteer program, contributing more than 158,000 hours of volunteer service. Coding workshop, Hong Kong We also launched the Bloomberg Startup Diverse Leaders program in London, Education connecting 28 high-potential economics and business students from underPromoting STEM skills represented communities with mentors from our Black Professional and Pan-Asian Our business is built on innovation, and we believe in the power of data and technology. employee communities. That’s why we developed programs to use the skills of our employees to engage and educate the next generation. Bloomberg engineers serve as mentors through a variety Financial journalism training of Corporate Philanthropy programs around the globe. In 2019, Bloomberg held regular The Bloomberg Global Business and Financial Journalism Training Program Python coding workshops, designed and led by engineers in our New York City office, to includes a range of courses designed to strengthen reporting on financial markets ensure a diverse spectrum of students develop the skills they need to unlock opportunity and global economies around the world, including in China, India, Dubai and — and drive progress. We plan to expand this program to our offices worldwide in 2020. several African countries. The program includes: academic/university-affiliated curriculum leading to a completion certificate or a master’s or undergraduate We also hosted a Girls Go Tech boot camp in our Hong Kong office, helping to inspire degree; training for working journalists and college students co-designed by female students to consider careers in STEM, and, through FIRST Robotics, our Bloomberg reporters and editors; and community and philanthropy partnerships engineers coached teams of high school students in a year-long project to design, build, focused on increasing interest in journalism careers and diversity in business code and operate robots to compete in a series of challenges. Bloomberg is committed journalism. In 2019, the Global Business and Financial Journalism Training Program to expanding education opportunities to all students, especially in STEM fields. trained a total of 252 students. Increasing access to financial careers A key initiative of the program is the Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa (BMIA) We’re committed to making the world of finance more accessible and diverse. In financial journalism training program, a six-month course that has trained 652 2019, we launched Girls Take Wall Street, a day of workshops, panel discussions and journalists and mid-level professionals from 14 African countries since 2014. In 2019, motivational talks for high school girls with women leaders in finance and business, we expanded the program to five new countries — Ghana, Zambia, Senegal, including Bloomberg employees. We then expanded the Girls Take Finance program Côte d’Ivoire and Tanzania — graduating 84 journalists from Ghana and Zambia. to Mumbai and Ahmedabad and made plans to expand to 12 cities globally in 2020. GRI: 413-1 2019 Impact Report 43 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Supporting sustainable communities. Arts & Culture Human Services Broadening access to the arts Supporting our neighbors in need Through a wide range of sponsorships and partnerships, we advance creativity, In 2019, Bloomberg helped some of our communities most vulnerable citizens. In innovation, public access and new technologies in the arts while connecting our the U.K., we collaborated with the Mayor of London on the Winter Programme for employees and clients to unique cultural experiences. rough sleepers and supported the expansion of the StreetLink app, enabling those experiencing homelessness to connect directly with expert advice. Employees also In 2019, we commissioned public artwork in collaboration with the charitable trust played their part, joining the Mayor to host 100 homeless people at a City Hall lunch Artichoke and art collective NOVAK to inspire climate action. Imminence, a light and featuring on-site access to essential support services. sound installation, illuminated the full length of Bloomberg Arcade, a public space outside our London office, through December, as world leaders met in Madrid for the Providing legal assistance COP25 climate change conference. Its shape-shifting projections invited pedestrians to Since 2016, members of our Legal & Compliance (L&C) Department have reflect on the consequences of climate change — from deforestation to bee extinction, provided their legal expertise to assist under-served communities through coral bleaching and global warming — as images unfolded beneath their feet. the Best of Bloomberg Legal Pro Bono program. In 2019, 97 percent of L&C Department employees globally participated in the program, collectively We also supported Year 3, a Tate Britain exhibition of artist and filmmaker Steve dedicating approximately 5,300 hours of pro bono service through in-depth legal McQueen’s class portraits of 74,000 London schoolchildren. Brought together in representation, consultations, training, research and advice. a single, large-scale installation, the artwork offers a glimpse into London’s future. In collaboration with Bloomberg Philanthropies’ public art partner Artangel, special We formally launched our EMEA program in 2019, with notable successes including editions of the class portraits were also posted on billboards in London’s building and strengthening several pro bono partnerships and hosting the 33 boroughs, exposing the exhibition to an even wider audience. inaugural In-House Pro Bono Roundtable for the UK community. In the Asia Pacific region, we established and deepened pro bono partnerships and participated To celebrate the golden anniversary of Australia’s Kaldor Public Arts Projects, in projects including training people in the creative industry through negotiations which brings groundbreaking art to public spaces, we supported a retrospective workshops, helping refugees obtain work authorization for their employment in at the Art Gallery of New South Wales that included Aboriginal artist Jonathan Hong Kong and participating in a dual-citizenship research project. Jones’ monumental installation at the Royal Botanic Garden Sydney. Today, almost all of Bloomberg’s philanthropic programs in Sydney aim to support indigenous In the U.S., the L&C Department provided pro bono assistance through programs communities and artists. supporting immigrants, small business entrepreneurs, veterans and victims of domestic violence. In partnership with law firm Proskauer Rose LLP, we also sponsored an Equal Justice Works fellow at the Anti-Violence Project, focusing on assisting undocumented immigrant LGBTQ survivors of hate violence. 29,654 281 4,633 25,973 Students Mentored Arts and Culture Institutions Lives Potentially Saved Plants and Trees Planted Supported Through Blood Donations 340,560 25,515 1,588 158,202 Meals Served Care Packages Assembled Nonprofits Supported Volunteer Hours 2019 Impact Report 44 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Supporting sustainable communities. Garden maintenance, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, London Environment Planting trees around the world Protecting coastal communities In 2019, Bloomberg employees planted 25,973 trees and plants globally to help A new initiative between Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Vibrant Oceans Initiative counter CO2 emissions, provide shelter in the hottest parts of cities, support partner Global Fishing Watch (GFW) and Bloomberg brought GFW’s data on biodiversity and beautify our surroundings. Bloomberg volunteers in London global fishing activity to the Bloomberg Terminal via an interactive map that allows planted 500 saplings provided by our partner Trees for Cities and, in Tokyo, 100 subscribers to see global fishing activity and overlay relevant climate, weather employees assisted forest farming and preservation charity Donguri no Kai with or coral reef data. Marine ecosystems and coastal communities increasingly face its efforts to repopulate Japan’s forests with native broadleaf trees. The trees were pressures due to overfishing and climate change. Making fisheries data available wiped out during World War II and largely replaced with non-native cedar and to Terminal subscribers will help inform global efforts to combat these mounting cypress trees, causing an ecosystem imbalance and contributing to the high rate challenges, enabling investors to drive capital toward responsible actors, of hayfever in Japan. The employees nurtured native acorns and other saplings at increasing transparency for businesses and governments and supporting the their homes for two months to improve the trees’ chances of survival when planted. monitoring of global fishing activity. 2019 Impact Report 45 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Bloomberg celebrates Black heritage. Inclusion makes all the difference. Bloomberg celebrates Black heritage. “Representation is a big word for Inclusion makes all me -huge -full of accountability the difference. Activating every employee’s potential. and awareness and stewardship. It means being the face of my ancestors, my siblings, my teachers, the neighbours where I grew up. “I would like to I happily owe them this.” see greater pride Lisa Waterman and boldness in We aim for a diverse, inclusive Employee Communications our heritage and workplace where all employees strengths. People can only become can thrive and innovate. accepting and understanding of Diversity & Inclusion what you present Bloomberg invests in data-driven initiatives to increase diversity and inclusion, recruiting underrepresented employees, promoting a culture where all employees to them.” DI BPC feel valued and included and aiming for diverse representation in leadership roles. We leverage the strengths of all of our employees, developing their talents Sisieta Owens (see page 48) to help everyone fulfill their potential — and deliver innovative Compliance Monitoring solutions to our clients. Bloomberg celebrates Black heritage. Inclusion makes all the difference. and Testing Inclusion means all of us At Bloomberg, we strive to create a culture where inclusion means all of us. We partner “Being in an industry with our eight Bloomberg Communities, employee-run networks structured around where there aren’t many people who different dimensions of diversity, to activate diversity and inclusion in our business look like me, I know processes and outcomes. the things I do will have a direct impact Our global Inclusive Leadership program is mandatory for managers and team leaders. on how my people will be seen.” Led by the Center for Inclusive Leadership, the two-hour training course provides tools to help facilitate the shift to conscious inclusion. Throughout 2019, we brought together Damel Lambert-Powell Software Engineer team leaders and managers across the globe for Inclusion Dialogues. These were a series of open and honest discussions on diversity and inclusion, covering topics such as mental health, race and gender, religious bias and accommodations, advancing LGBT+ allyship and intersectionality. Led by guest speakers, these dialogues aim to raise awareness, bring ideas and suggestions to the fore and equip managers with practical approaches they can immediately implement with their teams. DI BPC DI BPC GRI: 102-8; 405-1 SASB: TC-IM-330a.1-a.3; SV-ME-260a.1-a.2; SV-PS-330a.1-a.3 Black History Month Campaign 2019 Impact Report 46 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Activating every employee’s potential. Working toward gender parity Benefits Fostering a culture where all employees, regardless of gender or any other Bloomberg provides a comprehensive suite of programs designed to improve the classification, are empowered to thrive is a longtime commitment and an ongoing focus financial and physical health and wellbeing of employees and their dependents, at Bloomberg. Currently 33 percent of our employees are women. We are determined reduce health risks and manage work and family demands. We support employees’ to achieve greater gender balance in our workforce and have launched a variety of work and family needs across all major life events with benefits that actively external and internal initiatives to hire, retain and advance more female talent. support our diversity and inclusion priorities. In 2019, we continued our GOAL (Growth, Opportunities, Access and Leadership) Enabling health, wealth and wellness development program, led by our partner, Diversity Practice. The four-day, in-person We offer programs and resources to assist with fertility, adoption, lactation, program is designed to boost the careers of female and ethnically diverse employees by parenting, child care, education and adult/elder care. (Programs vary by location.) enhancing their existing skill sets to better prepare them to become experts in a particular In 2019, we expanded our worldwide gender-neutral parental leave scheme from 18 domain, develop new projects or pursue leadership roles. Already running in EMEA since weeks to 26 weeks. We also added a breast-milk delivery benefit, provided by Milk 2016, GOAL was rolled out in the U.S. in 2019 and will be offered in APAC in 2020. We also Stork. Now, breastfeeding mothers from the U.S. traveling on business anywhere in the world can order a breast milk kit to be delivered to their hotel, and they can created our Senior Women’s Forum, a group for women in senior positions at Bloomberg, ship or carry their breast milk back home, with all costs paid by Bloomberg. and established the Bloomberg Women’s Buy-side Network, an informal community for women in the asset management industry in Asia. Our financial well-being benefits include financial education and access to financial planners; student loan refinancing; income protection through insurance and a variety of retirement plans, including an ESG fund option in our U.S. 401k lineup. Different Women Different Places 2.0 study In a number of our global locations, we provide discounts for gym memberships, Bloomberg partnered with Diversity Practice to produce a comparative study of weight loss programs and other fitness-related activities and subsidies for the experiences of Black, Asian and ethnically diverse women working in the UK, Bloomberg sports teams. We offer seasonal community-supported agriculture U.S. and Middle East. The study provides five calls to action. (CSA) programs in three offices; these CSAs promote healthy eating habits while supporting local farms. In locations where we have a larger footprint, we maintain on-site wellness services, including four health centers in the U.S. and London and For us Include us wellness coaches in New York City and New Jersey. For Different Women: recognize For organizations: include self-worth and our value Different Women and recognize Supporting mental health their contributions Mental illness can affect anyone, at any time, and costs the global economy an estimated $1 trillion in lost productivity every year. Under the leadership of our See us Partner with us Chairman Peter Grauer, we’re committed to raising awareness of and supporting For policy makers: acknowledge we’re For white women: recognize that mental health at Bloomberg, In 2019, we signed on to the Valuable 500, a commitment not making progress if Different Women equality for only some women to putting disability inclusion on our board agenda. Our mental health benefits are not seen and included is unacceptable include counseling, therapy and telehealth services in the U.S. Our global support includes online chat, mental health first-aid training and dedicated wellness spaces Inspire us in our offices. For educators: believe in the potential of girls and develop diverse, inclusive teachers GRI: 201-3; 403-1; 403-2; 403-3; 403-4; 403-5; 403-6; 403-7; 403-8; 403-9; 403-10 2019 Impact Report 47 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Case study Leading from the front. Our unique strategy for developing leaders puts the emphasis on culture. To thrive in a rapidly changing business While we had turned to external landscape, companies need strong solutions and consultants for leadership leadership — not only at the top training strategies in the past, this but throughout their organizations. time we looked inward to pinpoint Bloomberg has always valued and the attributes that make employees invested in leadership, but in 2019 we successful within the context of our Spots gaps Develops people specifically defined what it means at company culture. We conducted and seizes to achieve our company. in-depth interviews with 50 leaders opportunities across Bloomberg, covering every Bloomberg is a forward-looking management level, all six major company that prioritizes innovation and business functions and all geographic transparency and pioneers new ways to regions. Analysis of the responses work. These principles inform a unique revealed a surprising consistency for company culture that promotes openness such a varied group of managers, and collaboration, with global workplaces enabling us to identify six attributes Networks to in which there are no closed offices and that the respondents considered key Communicates get stuff done employees and managers side by side at to becoming a successful leader the vision the same-sized desks. at Bloomberg. Until recently, however, that clarity of These Bloomberg Leadership purpose did not extend to leadership. Attributes, known internally as “LABs,” There was no common expectation of have become the bedrock of our what constituted successful leadership leadership and talent development at Bloomberg and performance initiatives, integrated into new and Adjusts the Creates a diverse was measured differently across our expanded leadership programs rolled course and inclusive work business units using a variety of metrics out in 2019 and planned for 2020. environment — inconsistencies that had a knock-on effect for leadership development. Recognizing that robust leadership will be essential to ensure continued success in an increasingly global, volatile and low-carbon economy, our Leadership and Bloomberg Leadership Attributes Talent Development team set out to align on clear definitions of what makes a great leader at Bloomberg. GRI: 404-1; 404-2 2019 Impact Report 48 Approach Thought leadership Products Operations People Case study Leading from the front. BU Lead To showcase and disseminate the Bloomberg Leadership Attributes, we launched BU Lead, a new leadership content hub on our self-directed career development platform. BU Lead features online modules, articles and videos that enable employees to develop the LABs and set themselves up for success. Open to every employee, whether they’re already on the leadership path or aspire to join it, BU Lead makes it easy to access all our online learning by providing it in a single, easy-to-navigate portal. Build the Future, New York Build the Future Our four-month Build the Future program prepares high-performing managers to take on bigger and more critical roles in the company through digital courses, individual and group projects, coaching and a three-day seminar. We’ve incorporated LABs insights into the program, which focuses on developing top, diverse talent from across the company, breaking down silos between businesses and regions and empowering employees to maximize their potential as leaders at Bloomberg. In 2019, 80 managers from 13 locations took part, broadening their skills and internal networks. Local Leadership Accelerator Our Local Leadership Accelerator (LLA) is a long-term initiative to equip local managers in the Asia Pacific region with the skills they need to move into senior roles at Bloomberg. The LLA is designed to broaden the participants’ education and raise their profile at the company, including through networking with senior leaders, team-based business simulations and leadership coaching. Thirty-six employees from seven offices have participated in the first two years of the program. Of the first group of participants, 76 percent have already been promoted, expanded their role responsibilities and/or made a lateral move into a new role. Local Leadership Accelerator, Hong Kong 2019 Impact Report 49
