SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019/2020 ABOUT THE REPORT Welcome to ege Group's new Sustainability Report. This year, the Sustainability Report is published in a new format. The title has been changed, the focus has been adjusted and the content looks different. We look forward to presenting the Sustainability Report to you. The report covers the financial year from 1 May 2019 to 30 April 2020 and includes the entire ege Group, comprising four brands: Ege Carpets (formerly egetæpper), Hammer Carpets, Bentzon Carpets and Carpet Concept. The report was previously based on the seven focus areas set out in the CSR standard, DS 49001, in accordance with which Ege Carpets’ production sites hold certification. Going forward, we will instead focus more individually on the areas on which the individual brands concentrate in their sustainability and social responsibility work. The report still includes our statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act , and firm of auditors EY has ensured that the report is in compliance with the Act. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress report for the UN Global Compact. The figures in the Sustainability Report have not been verified by a third party. In the long term, we would like all figures to be externally verified. Until then, we emphasise that we devote a lot of internal work to verifying the figures for the individual brands. This year, we have faced challenges with a number of the figures in the report, since Ege Carpets has changed ERP system, with the consequence of a delay in the registration of consumption data. This year, some of the statements from Ege Carpets are therefore based on different sources than usual and it may be the case that the data is subject to a degree of uncertainty. The report therefore has a smaller data base than usual. Questions concerning the Sustainability Report can be addressed to: Group CSR Director Henrik Schmidt Hansen: hsh@egegroup.dk CSR Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup: dak@egegroup.dk 1 See Annex 1 for further details of Section 99a. TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 New paths in 2020 6 Brands in ege Group 7 The Group in figures 8 UN Sustainable Development Goals 10 Status of 2020 goals 12 ege Group – Results 17 Ege Carpets – Results 31 The Litspin yarn factory – Results 34 Hammer Carpets – Results 40 Bentzon Carpets – Results 44 Carpet Concept – Results 48 Organisation and management 50 Risk and opportunities 52 Group figures Bilag 57 Annex 1: What is section 99a? 58 Annex 2: Calculation basis for data sources and CO2 calculation 4 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen & John Vestergaard NEW PATHS IN 2020 We have embarked on a new decade and looking back on the past decade, we can see that we have come a long way. We can also proudly say that we are by no means finished yet. Our new goal towards 2030 is to create a sustainable future – one carpet at a time. As we embark on 2020, we have reached the deadline for a numThis was also the year in which a new sustainability strategy was ber of the goals we have spent the last many years on working to adopted by Ege Carpets. This strategy will have a very great imachieve. So it is now time to draw a line in the sand, see how far pact on the entire Group going forward, since in view of its size we got and define where we are going from here. In many ways, and revenue Ege Carpets is a leading player in the ege Group. In we are therefore starting over, with new goals and with 2020 as the longer term, the direction set by Ege Carpets will also set the the new base year. We’re looking forward to the journey this will course for the other brands. This is good news for us as a Group, take us on, even though it will undoubtedly also bring great chalbut also for the society in general. lenges. During the past year we became involved in the Danish governThe last financial year entailed some major upheavals. Some of ment’s work on climate change when CEO John Vestergaard was these were of our own choosing, such as changing ERP system nominated as vice chairman of the government's Climate Partin Ege Carpets, which entailed changes in many internal worknership for production companies. Through the Climate Partnerflows, while we are still settling into the new organisation strucship, we are helping to set the direction for how production comture that was introduced on 1 May 2018. panies can contribute to reducing Denmark's CO2 emissions by 70% before 2030. This is a role that we take very seriously and to Other challenges came from outside, such as Brexit and the which we attach great importance. Consequently we have deCovid-19 virus, which in the course of no time turned the whole cided, that the ege Group will be carbon neutral in 2030. world upside down and put the normal game rules out of action. We have sought to navigate these challenges in the best We experience constantly increasing demand for good CSR stopossible way without compromising on our aim to be a socially ries. Our work on the UN Sustainable Development Goals draws responsible company. We owe a huge vote of thanks to all the a lot of interest from many sides, ranging from students to comemployees who have shown a great willingness to help the companies and public authorities. It is an honour to be invited to give pany in the best possible way as we navigated the challenges presentations on this and many other important issues within we faced. the circular economy and the sustainable agenda. This bears witness to how society deems it necessary to take responsibilIt has been a difficult year for everyone, which makes it all the ity. One of our most important messages in these presentations more pleasing that, despite these external events, we can also is always that, together and individually, we must each dare to look back on a year in which the ege Group in many ways took make a difference. This is how we can achieve the most. a quantum leap forward in our sustainability work. Ege Carpets undertook a complete Cradle to Cradle certification of Our aim is still to be the world’s best carpet manufacturer when it all carpets for the contract market, thereby making the choice comes to CSR. This Sustainability Report shows how we are dedithat their carpets must always be sustainable. No other carpet cated to achieving this goal. The four brands in the Group are at manufacturers hold Cradle to Cradle certification of the entire different stages of the CSR journey, but they are all making dedirange. cated efforts to achieve the same agenda. We hereby encourage everyone to join us on the journey towards a sustainable future. Herning, 2. juli 2020 CEO John Vestergaard CCO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen 5 BRANDS IN THE EGE GROUP Since it was founded in 1938, Ege Carpets has very successfully Founded in 1948, Hammer Carpets is known for creating beautifocused on modern technology that makes it possible to deliver ful Colortec and Graphic carpets for luxury hotels and the cruise any design with the shortest delivery time in the industry. liner industry. The tufted and woven carpets available in both standard and With its special focus on fourand five-star hotels and the entire special designs are sold primarily to hotels, offices, the healthmarine segment, the company has found a niche in which they care sector, institutions and the transport sector. command a strong position. Ege Carpets produces carpets in Herning and Gram, as well as Hammer Carpets produces all of its carpets in Herning, where yarn in Lithuania. This year's production totalled 6,546,420 m2 the head office and factory share the same location. This year's of carpets. production totalled 668,273 m2 of carpets. The Group owns 100% of Ege Carpets, which is headed by ExThe Group owns 51% of Hammer Carpets. A full takeover must ecutive Directors Morten Skibsted, Mads Lindegaard and Jørgen take place by no later than 1 October 2021. Hammer Carpets is Kring Jensen. headed by CEO Tom Møller Jørgensen and Executive Director René Dupont. Bentzon Carpets has had great success with the production of Carpet Concept, founded in 1994, are experts in flat-woven carexclusive, stylish flat-woven carpets for the residential and conpets for the commercial segment. In Germany in particular, they tract segment. They hold a strong market position in Europe in are strong market leaders within office premises. particular. Carpet Concept produces the carpets in Münchenbernsdorf, Bentzon Carpets produces all of its carpets in Røjle, near Middelwhile the head office is located in Bielefeld. This year's producfart, where the head office and factory are located together. This tion totalled 231,864 m2 of carpets. year's production totalled 1,631,202 m2 of carpets. The Group owns 75% of Carpet Concept. A full takeover must The company was founded in 1976, and as of 1 May 2020, the take place by no later than 1 December 2021. Carpet Concept is Group took over full ownership. Bentzon Carpets is headed by headed by CEO Thomas Trenkamp and Executive Director MatExecutive Director Tage Bajlum. thias Quinkert. 6 THE GROUP IN FIGURES M2 OF CARPETS PRODUCED 9,077,759 M2 KG OF YARN PRODUCED 774,733 KG REVENUE DKK 1,155,779,000 PRODUCTION SITES 6 PRODUCTION SITES SUBSIDIARIES 11 SUBSIDIARIES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 693 EMPLOYEES NATIONALITIES 29 NATIONALITIES SENIORITY 9.9 YEARS ACCIDENTS LEADING TO ABSENCE 17 ACCIDENTS SUPPLIERS 110 SUPPLIERS WATER* 91,896 M3 ENERGY* 47,521 MWH CO2 EMISSIONS 8,889 TONNES Hammer Carpets Ege Carpets Herning Ege Carpets Gram Bentzon Carpets UAB Litspin Carpet Concept * Water and energy are based on the consumption at the production sites. 7 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS With each passing year, it becomes more and more apparent that the planet is under pressure. During the past year we have seen climate change lead to forest fires on an unprecedented scale. We have seen floods that we could not have imagined just a few years ago. In turn, megacities around the world have run out of clean drinking water, and various industries are beginning to report that important commodities such as oil and sand will soon become scarce resources. Now is the time for action. ment. Marine life, in particular, suffers from the large quantities of plastic waste that often end up in the world’s oceans. For us, Fortunately, in 2015, the UN drew up a clear roadmap for how however, plastic waste is an important resource that we can use we can curb the negative development by 2030. This roadmap in our carpets. Used fishing nets and other industrial nylon waste is called the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and we have can be regenerated as yarns that are perfect for the carpet inimplemented these goals in our business strategy. As a comdustry, and used plastic bottles can be recycled in felt backings pany, we work with a large number of the Sustainable Developfor our carpets. ment Goals, but we have selected three specific goals as our primary focus because we assess that this is where we can make A very large proportion of the Group’s carpets therefore contain the greatest difference. Other companies and other players foregenerated plastic waste. This is good for marine life, while also cus on other Sustainable Development Goals whereby they can reducing CO2 emissions from the production process, since it is make a difference, so that together we can ensure that all of the less energy-intensive to process plastic waste than virgin materiSustainable Development Goals are addressed over time. als. This year, we used a total of 3,037.5 tonnes of plastic waste in our carpets. This is helping to alleviate the problem of plastic The three Sustainable Development Goals we have chosen can in the world's oceans. be linked directly to our strategy and core activity: the production and sale of carpets. Sustainable Development Goal no. 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Sustainable Development Goal no. 12: In contrast to the two other Sustainable Development Goals, this Responsible Consumption and Production goal cannot be linked directly to our core activity. We have noneWe are dedicated to the concept of the circular economy at theless chosen this goal because we consider it so important Ege Carpets’ production sites, which have the most energyand that we have worked with this area on a dedicated basis for a resource-intensive processes in the Group. Through the Cradle number of years. to Cradle product certificate, we work to create sustainable products that entail less waste and more recycling, while protecting Many years ago, we entered into a Climate Partnership with water resources during production, using renewable energy, and Ørsted and decided to invest in renewable energy to cover our ensuring that the company takes social responsibility. electricity consumption. Every year, we buy GO certificates from offshore wind turbines equivalent to the number of MWH we All of Ege Carpets’ carpets for the contract market are Cradle consumed during the year. We started with Ege Carpets’ proto Cradle certified, and Carpet Concept is also expanding their duction sites, but now all Danish facilities in the Group have been share of Cradle to Cradle certified carpets. The extensive requirerolled into the agreement, while the foreign facilities purchase ments to achieve certification affect the entire Group, as this is green energy by other means. We have also started phasing in the basis for the joint procurement strategy. We are thereby makbiogas, to replace natural gas. The goal is, as far as possible, to ing a contribution, at a high level, to creating more responsible end up with 100% renewable energy throughout the Group. consumption and production. We give clear priority to working with the UN Sustainable DevelopSustainable Development Goal no. 14: ment Goals. We have decided specifically that whenever we face Life Below Water a choice, we must choose the solution that best supports one of Plastic waste is one of the world's major challenges. Plastic is the three aforementioned Sustainable Development Goals, if this degraded very slowly and poses a major threat to the environis economically viable. This often makes the decision easy. 8 100% renewable energy All of our production units are investing in renewable energy to cover their electricity consumption. 49 tonnes of 81% recycled cardboard cones cardboard recycled in tile boxes Yarn is delivered on cardboard Carpet tiles are packed in cardcones. The cardboard cones from all board boxes containing 81% of the Group’s Danish production recycled cardboard. This year 17.8 million sites are sent for recycling or we used 47 tonnes of cardused plastic returned to the supplier. 220 tonnes of used board boxes in total. bottles in tile backing polyester in white felt Ecotrust is our own patented backing felt backing, consisting of 100% On some of the carpets, Hammer recycled plastic bottles. All carpet Carpets uses a white felt backing, tiles are supplied with the which consists of 80% regenEcotrust backing. This year, 88% of residual erated polyester fibre. 4,573 pallets we used 889 tonnes of dye constantly for recycling Ecotrust backing. recirculated Ege Carpets and Hammer At Ege Carpets in Herning, dyes Carpets sell used disposable are recirculated in the dyeing plant. pallets to companies which ensure This year, we recirculated 1.4 that the pallets are recycled. Paltonnes of pure dye and 6.3 lets that are not suitable for 485,000 labels on tonnes of chemicals in recycling are chipped and this way. 15,452 m3 incinerated. Oekotex fabric All carpets from Ege Carpets recirculated water are delivered with a fabric label on At Ege Carpets’ production facilithe back, giving details of quality, ties, we clean and reuse the water design and labelling schemes. from selected production All labels are Oekotex 1,729.5 tonnes processes. certified. of yarn created 79 tonnes of carpet from used fishing offcuts reused nets Ege Carpets sends carpet A large proportion of the Group’s offcuts from production to France, products are made from where they are reused as a subECONYL� yarn that consists of strate in equestrian tracks. This regenerated fishing nets year we dispatched 78,992 44 tonnes of residual kg of offcuts. and other industrial 28% biogas yarn recycled nylon waste. in production Ege Carpets collects and returns Ege Carpets is in the process of residual yarn from all of the Group’s switching from natural gas to biogas Danish production sites and at the production facilities. This sends the yarn back to the year, 8,248 m3 was purchased. 90% supplier for recycling. 1,103 tonnes of recycled material thickener recycled in carpet base When carpets are produced, The water from the washing the yarn is tufted down into a process in the dyeing plant at carpet base. Two types of carpet Ege Carpets in Herning is cleaned base from Ege Carpets consist every year, when we extract of 90% recycled industrial thickener from the water 1,877 MWH of heat and recycle it. waste. This year, we used 100% recycled plas269 tonnes of recycled is recirculated tic in carpet tubes carpet base. Ege Carpets collects the The Danish brands only use surplus heat from the Danish carpet tubes made from 100% production sites and sends it out recycled plastic. This year we into the district heating system. This is equivalent to heating purchased 718 km of carpet 58 tonnes of tubes. 122 houses. 15.5 tonnes plastic packaging of shredded yarn is recycled waste recycled Raw materials are delivered on pallets wrapped in plastic foil. Every year, we send yarn waste All of the plastic foil is collected from the Litspin yarn factory to and sold to a Danish packaging Belgium, where it is recycled 80% recycled manufacturer, for recycling 100% Cradle to 100%. as new plastic Cradle certified cardboard in packaging. All contract carpets from Ege carpet tubes Carpets are Cradle to Cradle Carpet Concept uses cardboard certified. We are the only carpet carpet tubes. 80% of the cardboard manufacturer in the world with is recycled cardboard. Carpet a 100% Cradle to Cradle Concept used around 10 km certified range. of carpet tubes this year. 9 STATUS OF 2020 GOALS We continuously set new goals within sustainability and social responsibility, + and a number of these had 2020 as the deadline. Now, we are assessing our status and drawing a line in the sand. We did not achieve every one of our goals, but we came a long way in every area. 100% RENEWABLE ENERGY IMPLEMENT THE UN GUIDING PRINCIPLES It has been several years since we achieved the goal of 100% Through the Group's supplier management system and Code of renewable electrical energy at the Danish production sites, Conduct, we impose strict requirements on all of our suppliers. through investment in GO certificates from offshore wind turOne of the requirements is for the supplier to implement the UN bines. At the foreign production sites, we purchase renewable Guiding Principles and to ensure, through due diligence2 proenergy from different sources. In Lithuania, we are already 100% cesses in their value chain, that the entire chain meets our re� covered when it comes to green energy, and in Germany we exquirements. We have now achieved the acceptance of 98% of pect to achieve this during 2020. our suppliers, so that we consider the goal to have been achieved. CRADLE TO CRADLE FOR ALL CARPETS FROM EGE CARPETS 50% REDUCTION OF CO2 EMISSIONS During the last five years, Ege Carpets achieved Cradle to Cradle Last year, we already achieved the goal of a 53% CO2 reduction certification of all of its contract carpets at Bronze level. No other compared to 2007. This year, we achieved a 67% reduction comcarpet manufacturer has matched this achievement. The goal pared to 2007. We are now setting a new Group target to reduce now is to achieve Platinum level for all carpets by 2030. CO2 emissions by 100% in 2030, and thus becoming carbon neutral. ZERO ACCIDENTS LEADING TO ABSENCE REUSE AND RECYCLING OF USED CARPETS Despite determined efforts to bring the number of accidents It proved to be impossible to achieve the goal for recycling of leading to absence down to zero, this has not been achieved. We used carpets before 2020. There are no systems for the collechave had considerable focus on safety, training, risk assessments tion of carpet waste and furthermore, the structure of the carand safety walks, etc., but the number of accidents is unchanged. pets impedes recycling. European carpet manufacturers work Going forward, we are therefore introducing more restrictions with, among others, the European Carpet and Rug Association and greater focus on mindset. The goal is still zero accidents (ECRA) and suppliers to find solutions. We also work with DTU leading to absence, but without any new deadline being set. (the Technical University of Denmark) and carpet organisations in both the USA and the UK on possible solutions for existing 70% MORE APPRENTICES AND TRAINEES products on the market, and we work with educational instituGreat efforts have been made to recruit new trainees and apprentions to develop new carpet structures that are suitable for retices very year, but we have to face the fact that there is a natural cycling. We expect both elements to have been developed by limit to how many positions at the required professional level we 2030 at the latest. can realistically establish. It was not possible to achieve the goal. Going forward, we have set a new Group goal of a minimum of 14 trainees/apprentices at a time. This corresponds to 40% more apprentices/trainees compared to the original number. 2 Read more about due diligence on page 49 10 Essentials – Highline Express Collection – Ege Carpets 11 EGE GROUP – RESULTS Despite the tough start to 2020 suffered by the entire world, due to the Coronavirus crisis, the ege Group remains a strong Group. We work to achieve our goals based on a vision of global leadership within innovative and sustainable flooring solutions. The four brands in the Group have considerable freedom to choose their own path within their sustainability work, while the ege Group sets the overall framework. This includes, among other things, a common CSR policy, joint supply chain management and a shared climate focus. CSR policy sets the game rules for everyone The basic premise of the ege Group’s CSR policy is that we comply with all legislation, as well as the international conventions to which we are subject, including the European Convention on Human Rights and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. With the policy, we also wish to contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Global Compact, which we actively support. All employees worldwide have been presented with the CSR policy, to ensure that everyone in the Group is familiar with the game rules. Strict supply chain management according to the UN Guiding Principles Supply chain management is particularly important when it comes to sustainability, because by far the largest share of environmental impacts in the value chain occurs before the raw materials arrive at our production sites. The same applies to risks associated with human rights and corruption. We have therefore implemented a strict supply chain management system for the Group, which is based on the UN Guiding Principles. The system requires all suppliers to sign a comprehensive Code of Conduct (CoC) that, among other things, requires them to focus on human rights, good working conditions, sustainability, reuse and recycling, CO2 reductions, the circular economy, animal welfare 110 suppliers 2 18 Have signed our CoC 90 Have sent their own CoC Have not signed 12 and anti-corruption. We also require suppliers to comply with national and international legislation and international conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Suppliers are also encouraged to contribute actively to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals and to endorse the UN Global Compact. The Code of Conduct sets the specific requirement that in his own value chain the supplier must set the same requirements as stipulated in our own Code of Conduct. Besides signing our Code of Conduct, suppliers must complete a comprehensive self-assessment, giving us a good basis for the risk assessment of each supplier. We have now come so far in the process that we consider the supply chain management system to be fully implemented. 110 suppliers have been asked to sign the Code of Conduct, and 90 of them have signed. 18 have not signed, but have instead sent their own Code of Conduct, which we have approved. Two still remain to sign the Code of Conduct. This corresponds to acceptance by 98% of the suppliers. Climate action continues Last year, we already achieved our ambitious 2020 climate goal by reducing CO2 emissions by 53% compared to 2007. We are therefore now wiping the slate clean and setting an ambitious new goal. From 2020 to 2030, ege Group will reduce CO2 emissions by 100% through investment in renewable energy and energy saving projects in all brands, as well as in new technology and biogas in selected brands. That will make us carbon neutral. We also expect a significant CO2 reduction related to freight transport of carpets out to customers. We look forward to starting the work of further reducing our CO2 emissions, as this is an important issue for us. We are therefore pleased that the Danish government has also raised its ambitions in this area. In 2019, the Danish government set up 13 climate partnerships to focus on reducing Denmark's CO2 emissions by 70% up to 2030. We are proud that John Vestergaard, CEO of ege Group, was invited to be vice-chairman of the Climate Partnership for production companies. The Climate Partnership gives us the opportunity to contribute to setting the overall agenda for production companies, where we will focus in particular on ensuring that high ambitions are set, and provides for small and medium-sized enterprises to also be consulted and included in future solutions. Sustainability strategy in Ege Carpets affects the rest of the ege Group In 2019, Ege Carpets was one of four brands in the Group to adopt a new sustainability strategy that applies from 2020 to 2030. The overall strategy is to produce sustainable carpets by converting waste into resources in closed-loops, while staying CO2 positive. Even though the sustainability strategy is solely developed by Ege Carpets, the strategy affects the entire ege Group, since procurement, supply chain management and product development are to a great extent managed centrally within the Group, based on the new goals from the sustainability strategy. Going forward, the strategy will thus have a positive impact on the development of the entire Group, which is something that we welcome. Read more about the goals on pages 18 to 20. 13 SHORT EXCERPTS FROM THE EGE GROUP’S CSR POLICY Human rights Discrimination We will respect and support We are opposed to differential international human rights, treatment and discrimination, and whether they be civil, political, will ensure that our employees and economic, social or cultural partners have equal opportunirights. ties. Diversity We will promote diversity in the workplace and work to increase the number of women in managerial positions. We will recognise each other’s differences and qualifications. Equal opportunities Coercion and We will ensure that our harassment employees can use their No form of corporal punishment, skills in the best possible way, mental and physical coercion or regardless of gender, ethnicity, harassment is permitted within religion, political views, age, the ege Group. Bullying will disability, sexual orientation, not be tolerated. Employment etc. conditions Child labour We will ensure good employment conditions for our employChild labour is prohibited. The ees, and in countries where collecminimum age of employment may tive agreements are customary, not be lower than 15 years. we will ensure compliance Working with such agreements as a environment Environmental minimum. We will ensure a healthy and impacts positive working environment for Through determined action and our employees and constantly seek by setting environmental objectives, to improve working conditions. we will work to prevent and We will work for inclusion reduce our environmental and health-promoting impacts. activities. Reuse and recycling We will work to increase reuse and recycling, as well as to reduce waste. Anti-corruption CO2 emissions We have zero tolerance for We will reduce the company’s CO2 corruption and bribery in the ege emissions and thereby reduce our Group, and corruption and bribery climate impact. cannot be graduated. Sustainable Supporting local comconsumption munities We will promote sustainable consumption through supply We will become involved in the chain management, labelling local communities where our schemes and certifications, products are manufactured and as well as through product where we have subsidiaries. information and product declarations. 14 ReForm A New Wave – Ege Carpets 15 WALK THE TALK: EGE GROUP GOAL Carbon neutral by 2030, e.g. The aim is that by 2022, the ratio Across ege Group and the four through investment in renewable of female managers must reflect brands, at least 14 trainees/ energy, biogas, energy saving the general gender breakdown apprentices must be employed. projects and new technology. for employees. Towards 2022, all brands in Towards 2022, all brands in the Towards 2022, all brands in the the Group must investigate Group must work to increase Group must work to minimise the opportunities within renewable reuse and recycling. waste of surplus materials. energy, in order to achieve investment in relevant projects. Towards 2022, all brands in the Towards 2022, all brands Towards 2022, all brands in Group must work to reduce in the Group must launch the Group must work to phase the number of accidents and initiatives for a better physical out chemicals and hazardous injuries by adopting better safety and psychosocial working materials, wherever possible. practices. environment. 16 EGE CARPETS – RESULTS We are incredibly proud of the new sustainability strategy adopted by Ege Carpets, in which we pledge that our objective is to design beautiful carpets for a sustainable future. This way of thinking is nothing new for us. We have actually focused on environmental work for more than 20 years, since we achieved environmental certification in 1996. Every year since then, we have worked with environmental policies and ambitious objectives, in order to improve our efforts. The new aspect for us is to take the step of regarding sustainability as a fundamental objective for our core business. In view of this watershed development, in this year’s report we have a strong focus on the content of the new sustainability strategy, which runs from 2020 to 2030. The strategy is based on the three Sustainable Development Goals with which we are working, and sets out four overall objectives: • Sustainable carpets • Turning waste into resources • Closed loops • Carbon positive Our aim to contribute actively to a sustainable future through our core business, which is carpets, makes the goals the most ambitious we have ever set. Our view is that it is not sufficient to set out objectives to stop the negative development. Instead, we will set objectives that contribute positively to global development. We exist to design beautiful carpets for a sustainable future Waste to ressource Sustainable carpets Closing the loop Net carbon positive All our carpets to be produced All our carpets to be Cradle to To produce carpets designed To be a net positive producer from recycled or renewable Cradle Platinum Certified™. for recycling, reuse or of green energy. materials. composting. 75% of all our raw materials to Carbon neutral transport of All our waste to be reused, be recycled. A sell-back system for used all our carpets. recycled or composted. carpets. 17 Sustainable carpets For us, sustainable carpets are carpets that live up to the Cradle to Cradle vision. Ege Carpets has already achieved the 2020 goal, with certification of all contract carpets at Bronze level, and the goal is to achieve Gold by 2025, and Platinum – the top level – by 2030. Currently, only one product in the world is certified at Platinum level. We are also increasing the proportion of recycled materials in the carpets. The greenest carpets from Ege Carpets are currently made with a felt backing consisting 100% of used plastic bottles, and with ECONYL� yarn originating from regenerated fishing nets and other industrial nylon waste. Nonetheless, these carpets consist of only around 46% recycled material. The rest are virgin materials, which we need to replace, so that an even larger proportion of recycled materials is used. The goal is to achieve 75% recycled materials in 2030. 2020 goal 2025 goal 2030 goal All our contract market carpets are All our contract market carpets are All our contract market carpets are Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Cradle to Cradle Gold Certified™ Cradle to Cradle Platinum Certified™ Map current volume of recycled raw In average 50% of all raw materials are In average 75% of all raw materials are materials and possibilities recycled* recycled* *Based on raw materials across carpet types. Turning waste into resources When we can use regenerated materials in our carpets, we are transforming waste into resources, and thereby keeping valuable materials in circulation. Currently, 32% of Ege Carpets’ carpets are made from ECONYL� yarn, which is a recycled material. The yarn is also a renewable material in woollen carpets. By 2030, the goal is for all carpets from Ege Carpets to be produced with yarn made from recycled or renewable materials. We also have focus on our own waste. We are already skilled at sorting waste at all our production sites, but we need to become even better at ensuring that all the waste can be recovered. We start up gently by focusing on food waste in the canteen, and will then gradually address other areas where there are waste fragments that are not sent for recycling or reuse. The aim is for all of our waste to be reused, recycled or composted by 2030. However, this also requires that technologies for the recycling of all types of waste are developed before 2030. This is not yet in place. 2020 goal 2025 goal 2030 goal 50% of all our carpets are produced with 75% of all our carpets are produced with All our carpets are produced with yarn yarn from recycled or renewable materials yarn from recycled or renewable materials from recycled or renewable materials All internal waste is sorted accordingly All production waste is reused, recycled or All waste is reused, recycled or composted* composted* *If appropriate technologies exist. Closed loops This leads us to the goal of closed loops, whereby all materials can continue to circulate without ever becoming waste. In this respect, the biggest issue in our industry is definitely carpet waste. Today, carpets are incinerated after use. In some countries they are even deposited as landfill, which is a very poor solution. Instead, opportunities must be created for used carpets to be recycled. To make 18 this possible, facilities must be established all over the world where used carpets can be delivered and shredded for recirculation as new raw materials. When this is possible, the used carpets will gain real value because the components can be reused, so that the carpets owners can earn money by returning them for recycling. This also requires that we are able to develop carpets that actually have a value after use, because the carpet’s components can be separated and used again. This is not the case today. Carpets are highly complex products with more than 200 constituent substances that are glued well and thoroughly together. In the future, we need to develop carpets with component substances that are easy to recover, so that the components can be reused, recycled or composted. We are dedicated to solving the challenge of developing carpets that can be separated into different components after use, and to do so before 2030. On the other hand, we do not have the opportunity ourselves to establish facilities to ensure the recycling of used carpets, since we do not have expertise in this area. But we do cooperate with partners who would like to achieve a solution to this. We can also see how the EU is beginning to make recommendations for carpet waste to be recycled in the future, and we expect that coming new legislation will speed up the establishment of such recycling facilities. 2020 goal 2025 goal 2030 goal We offer customer guidance on There is a give-back system as A sellback system for used carpets is responsible disposal of used carpets standard on at least five of our primary established markets achieved through establishment of recycling facilities and partnerships We have developed a recyclable carpet 100% recycling and reuse of all All carpets from Ege Carpets are recyclable, (mono-product) components in a carpet from Ege Carpets reusable or compostable Carbon positive The final goal concerns becoming carbon positive. Here, we are already well on the way with 100% renewable energy, which concerns our electricity consumption and the ongoing phasing-in of biogas as a substitute for natural gas. This will ensure us carbon neutrality when the phasing-in is completed. In order to become carbon positive, we then just need to invest in a form of technology that can produce energy. We see no problem in achieving this goal by 2030. On the other hand, we are challenged by the climate impact of transporting carpets out to customers. The carpets are primarily manufactured in Denmark, but are sold globally, resulting in increasing CO2 emissions from transport, in line with our business growth. Our goal is carbon neutral transport by 2030, but in this respect we depend on the development of new technology. Meanwhile, we are tightening our supplier requirement concerning carbon neutral solutions and are working to change our customers’ mindset in terms of the expectation that everything is delivered as soon as possible, since longer delivery times make it possible to reduce the climate impact. 2020 goal 2025 goal 2030 goal We phase-in biogas 100% green electricity and biogas We are net positive producer in production facilities of green energy We map emissions and begin to Carbon neutral road transport* All our transport (road, rail, sea and air) phase-in carbon neutral company We purchase and lease only carbon is carbon neutral* cars and vans neutral company cars and vans * Transport from Ege Carpets to customers. 19 There is no doubt that the new sustainability strategy sets us a very big task, but we are not afraid of ambitious goals. In our experience, we can achieve far more by choosing to be so ambitious, and the world needs all of us to move in a more sustainable direction. We look forward to the results created by the strategy. It is important to emphasise, however, that we continue to face many challenges in our work. We have embarked on a journey that will never end, because the final destination is constantly shifting, as the global situation changes. There is no doubt that there are easier paths to take, but long ago we made the choice that we want something different, which is to make a positive difference in the world through our carpets. On the following pages we present the result for the year under each goal. Sustainable carpets – Results The goal concerning sustainable carpets to a great extent concerns the constituent substances in the carpets, but also the company’s general sustainability performance; how we work with sustainability in the supply chain, raw materials and processes, and in the strategy. 100% Cradle to Cradle certified On 1 January 2020, we achieved the first major milestone on the road to sustainable carpets. In just five months, we succeeded in having all of our carpet series for the contract market assessed and approved at Bronze level under Cradle to Cradle’s extensive product standard. This makes us the first carpet manufacturer in the world with a 100% Cradle to Cradle certified range, and there are only three other companies worldwide that hold more Cradle to Cradle certificates than we do. Cradle to Cradle is one of the most difficult product certifications to achieve. The aim of Cradle to Cradle is for product manufacturing to have a positive, rather than a negative, impact on our planet. This imposes strict requirements concerning the raw materials, the manufacturer, the suppliers and the processes used during manufacture, use and disposal. The full certification of the entire range has made Cradle to Cradle the standard at Ege Carpets. This is not an extra option for the customer to take or pay for, so that in this way we are ensuring that the customer always gets a sustainable carpet. Instead, the customer can concentrate on opting for the right design and quality. Our next Cradle to Cradle milestone is to achieve Gold level for all carpets by 2025. Awards for sustainability This year, we have been privileged to win two awards for our sustainability work. In 2019, we received the Circularity City Product Award from EIT Climate-KIC, in collaboration with a number of organisations that focus on sustainability and innovation. The award was given to the most sustainable product in the construction industry, which was our ReForm Memory Ecotrust carpet tile. The carpet tile is made from regenerated yarn from used fishing nets and other industrial waste, and the backing is made from used plastic bottles. The jury was particularly impressed with the circular approach to resources in the tile’s production and after-use phase. They were also impressed that since 2007 we have reduced our CO2 emissions by 53%. In 2020, we received another award, which was at least just as great an honour: the Sustainability Leadership Award for Small to Medium Enterprises from EcoVadis. EcoVadis is a worldwide rating agency that specialises in assessing companies according to their social responsibility work. Customers are typically investors and international companies wishing to ensure that their suppliers take a serious approach to working with sustainability and social responsibility. The assessment is based on a comprehensive documentation process that gives the rating a very high degree of credibility. EcoVadis has assessed more than 65,000 companies. We are at 20 the top of the league with a Gold score and a “99% percentile” ranking, which means that Ege Carpets' score is higher than 99% of all the companies assessed by EcoVadis. Optimised production processes We have a large production apparatus and work constantly, year by year, to optimise the production processes in order to reduce our consumption of energy, materials, resources, time and money. Before the production of a carpet is started up, one or more samples are always sent to the customer, who approves the pattern and colours. During the past year, we introduced smaller sample sizes. The large samples, so far measuring 100x100 cm, have been halved to 50x100 cm, while the smaller samples have also been reduced. The new sizes entail several advantages. In many cases, we can halve the consumption of materials, and in other cases there is now space to insert two different colour positions on the same 100x100 cm sample, thereby saving a number of sample consignments. This helps reduce the CO2 emissions related to the transport of samples. Overall, the reduced weight of the sample sizes and fewer consignments has reduced CO2 emissions from sample consignments by 15%. When we plan the production of a carpet, a little extra is always added for safety’s sake. On an annual basis, this results in a large amount of waste, which we would like to avoid. We are therefore engaged in optimising the planning process, to ensure that as little surplus material as possible is produced. It is important, however, that enough carpet is still produced for the laboratory to be able to carry out the necessary tests. We need to strike the right balance to find precisely the right size and we have not completed this project yet. Most carpets from Ege Carpets are produced as natural-white tufted carpets, and then dyed in a large dyeing plant that injects dye into the carpet’s pile. This offers unique opportunities for freedom of design, as the 40,000 individually controlled nozzles in the high-precision dyeing system can dye any pattern that is required. A number of customers require plain-coloured carpets, however, and previously some of these carpets were run twice through the dyeing plant, to ensure thorough dyeing. Thanks to a combination of better recipes, better dyes and better technology, we now only need one dyeing run of most of our carpets that were previously dyed twice. These carpets, which now only need to be dyed once, account for 24% of the total production at our factory in Gram. We still use the same amount of dye, but have halved energy consumption and reduced water consumption in the dyeing process, while releasing working hours that can be spent on other processes. In 2019/2020, we saved 1,373 MWH of electricity and 2,720 m3 of water by using one single dyeing run. Turning waste into resources – Results The goal of turning waste into resources ensures that valuable materials are kept in circulation, while in many cases profiting from this business. A key aspect is that money can be earned from selling waste, rather than paying for its disposal. Surplus yarn and cardboard cones are recycled Every loom used to make our carpets is fed with yarn from between 850 and 1,980 yarn cones. Since the length of the yarn on an individual cone may vary a little, the cones are never run completely empty. Previously, the almost empty yarn cones were sent for incineration, but in 2018 we established a unique production line in Gram, staffed by employees who are engaged on special terms, due to their reduced working capacity. Their task is to unwind the residual yarn, which we sell back to the supplier or send for recycling in other ways. This year, for the first time, we ran at full capacity on the line throughout the year, resulting in the recycling of 44 tonnes of yarn. The empty yarn cones, made from cardboard, are sold for recirculation as recycled cardboard, paper and egg trays. In this way, we ensured the recycling of 49 tonnes of cardboard cones this year. 21 Mixed residue becomes insulation Carpet production generates a lot of mixed residue in the form of fluff and scraps of yarn, fibres and ground tissue. Instead of sending this residue for incineration, we sell it to a company in Belgium that specialises in recycling this type of residue for incorporation into new materials, e.g. in the furniture industry and as insulation material in the automotive industry. In 2019/2020, we sold 24,286 kg of mixed residue for recycling. Carpet offcuts used in equestrian tracks To ensure that all carpets have a completely straight and clean-cut edge, they are produced with 7 cm of surplus material on each side, which is trimmed off in the final stage of the production process. This gives the customer a fine, uniform carpet. On an annual basis, this results in around 300 tonnes of carpet offcuts that were previously sent for incineration. Last year, however, we partnered with a company in France, so that our carpet offcuts now end up as Fibretrack substrate for equestrian surfaces. The offcuts are processed and mixed in the sand for the equestrian surfaces, which extends the substrate’s lifetime and turns the offcuts into a product that is put to good use. The offcuts comprise around 2% of the substrate and replace wax treatment of the sand. In 2019/2020 we sold 78,992 kg of offcuts for recycling in equestrian tracks. An outdoor equestrian track typically has a lifetime of 20 years if the material is continuously replaced and supplemented. The material that is removed, which consists of sand and carpet offcuts, is subsequently reused for roads or smaller riding tracks. The removed material is not deposited in landfills. Heated water is used for cleaning For many years we have collected, cleaned and reused a large proportion of the water from the dyeing plant at our production sites in Herning and Gram. A new aspect is that we have now also begun to collect hot water at a temperature of 40°C from the backing line in Gram and used it for cleaning of the dyeing plant. On a daily basis, we use around 4 m3 of the heated water in the cleaning process. This gives annual savings of 864 m3 of water for the cleaning process, and we also save energy because we no longer have to heat the water. We generally have the ambitious objectives to recirculate 70% of the water in the washing process at the dyeing plant in Herning, and 50% of the water in the dyeing plant in Gram. In the last few years we have fallen below the expected level in Herning, which was also the case this year, when we only recirculated 47% of the water3. The explanation is that we have run a number of trials to ensure that we can make optimum use of the water in the long run, and these trials have required higher consumption of water. Since the total water consumption in the dyeing plant has been higher than normal, the percentage share of recirculated water has decreased. In Gram, we recirculated 40% of the water this year, which is slightly less than last year. One reason is that the purification plant was out of operation for a period of time. 3 Since the meter was out of service for five months, the figure is an estimate based on the average consumption during the other months. 22 Leftover food used to produce biogas The canteen at Ege Carpets in Herning offers both cold and hot dishes to employees every day. Despite considerable efforts to reuse leftover food, many kilos of food waste are thrown out every month. We have therefore now partnered with DAKA ReFood to collect food waste, which they use to produce biofuel. During 2020, we will also launch an information campaign and provide better sorting options when meals are served, in order to focus on encouraging employees to avoid food waste. Since the start of the cooperation with DAKA ReFood in January 2020, we have sent 356 kg of leftover food for recovery as biofuel. In practice, this results in a CO2 reduction of 254 kg. Closed loops – Results The goal concerning closed loops is closely related to the goal of sustainable carpets and turning waste into resources. Yet the overriding issue concerning closed loops is how to ensure the recycling of the many millions of used carpets worldwide that are discarded every year. From carpet waste to usable materials We will persist in our efforts to find solutions for the recycling of used carpets. In the last few years, we have openly described the challenges in establishing a well-functioning take-back system, because there are no coordinated collection options for used carpets and also because there are no waste treatment facilities that can handle carpet waste for recycling. We can now see that accounts of solutions that work at the local level are beginning to emerge in a few countries, with companies that are successfully processing a certain type of carpet waste. This is good news, even though there is still a long way to go before shared solutions can be found at European or global level. We are taking three different approaches to this task. First of all, we are participating in more and more groups and networks, both in Denmark and internationally, in order to find solutions. We are also exploring local opportunities, including meetings with the municipality to promote the collection of waste carpets. We are a member of the European Carpet and Rug Association (ECRA), and ege Group's CCO, Svend Aage Færch Nielsen, is vice-chairman of the board. Here, we are working at the highest level to introduce common requirements for the recycling of carpets in Europe. We have also embarked on a project with the Danish Technological Institute and Convert entitled “Carpet-Zero Waste – upcycling and recycling of used carpets via take-back schemes”. The project is part of the Danish Environmental Technology Development and Demonstration Programme (MUDP), from which it receives funding. MUDP is a programme that helps Danish companies develop innovative technological solutions to societal problems. The aim of the project is to apply research and development to the utilisation of waste fractions from carpet production for sustainable new products. Finally, we are working on the development of a completely new carpet structure, which will make it easier in the future to separate the various materials in used carpets for recycling. In this area, we are working from several different angles that seem promising, although this is still on a trial basis. Carbon positive – Results At Group level, ege Group has the goal of being carbon neutral in 2030, while in Ege Carpets we have set the bar even higher, with the goal of being carbon positive. Greenhouse gas accounts for Ege Carpets At Group level, we have published greenhouse gas accounts every year since 2010. Going forward, Ege Carpets will also publish separate greenhouse gas accounts which solely present CO2 data concerning Ege Carpets’ activities. Since the goal is to become carbon positive, no base year for comparison is established in these greenhouse gas accounts. The goal is solely to continuously reduce our emissions until we are below 0 in Scope 1 and 2, and until we reach 0 in Scope 3. 4 See Annex 2 for further details of the greenhouse gas accounts. 23 Ton CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG Electricity Goods transportation Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) District heating Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) 5,000 4,500 4,000 3,798 3,870 3,500 3,440 3,081 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 359 150 193 72 43 0 Total Total Total Carbon neutral transport While we aim to become carbon positive in Scope 1 and 2, the goal in Scope 3 is to become carbon neutral. This is because Scope 3 concerns the transport of carpets out to customers. The freight transport of carpets is outsourced to external haulage contractors, freight and shipping companies, so that we do not have full control of the conversion process. As from 2020, it is a requirement in our supplier Code of Conduct that haulage contractors must, as a minimum, use EURO-6 classified5 lorries. We have also added requirements concerning CO2 emissions in tender documents for the various carriers. In order to involve customers in the achievement of this goal, we have also introduced the opportunity to choose a greener transport solution by accepting a slightly longer delivery time for the carpets. Longer delivery times will help optimise logistics planning, and it will, for example, be possible to deliver some carpets by lorry that might otherwise have been consigned by air freight in order to be delivered within the deadline. Just one or two days’ additional delivery time also makes it possible to include more carpets in each consignment, and plan a better route, covering fewer kilometres, and with lower fuel consumption. It will be exciting to see how customers respond to this new opportunity. Social measures – Results Even though sustainability is the overriding theme of our work, we also have a very strong focus on the other aspects of social responsibility. Safety, the working environment, well-being, charitable work and knowledge sharing are part and parcel of our everyday work, for the benefit of our employees and the local community. ege Go2Work Since November 2018, ege in Gram has run a unique collaboration project with Haderslev Municipality and Beskyttet Beskæftigelse 5 Lorries are type-approved according to a Euronorm on a scale of 1-6, where 6 is the best, with a lower environmental impact. 24 (Sheltered Employment) Diagergård on a special production line we call ege Go2Work. Only employees with special needs are engaged for this work. Some of them are Diagergård residents with mental health challenges, impaired functional abilities or social issues. Others are participants in a skills clarification programme via the Job Centre in Haderslev Municipality. They include people who have a stress-related affliction or have suffered an occupational injury. The production line activity is to unwind residual yarn from almost empty yarn cones and send both yarn and cones for recycling. The yarn cones are collected from all of the Group’s Danish production sites. The production line has a simple set-up with only a few machines and with manual workstations. This facilitates a varied working day and enables employees to choose the type of work they would like to perform. Some of them prefer a shielded workstation where they can manually remove the residual yarn from the cardboard cones, while others can handle cooperation on operating a machine that unwinds the yarn. In 2019/2020, 14 employees were employed at ege Go2Work. Of these, two employees have moved on to jobs on ordinary terms, while one employee has been approved for a job on flexible terms. Currently, there are five employees engaged in this work. A new aspect is that we have begun to give local associations, such as the local scouts, the opportunity to earn money for the association by working at ege Go2Work during weekends. Top-notch emergency measures We have held working environment certification since 2006, and therefore have a well-developed emergency management system, with safety ambassadors in all production departments, a large team of trained first responders and employees who are trained in fire prevention measures. There are defibrillators at our production sites and safety is the first item on the agenda at all production meetings. This year, this emergency measure proved its worth when an employee fell ill and collapsed with cardiac arrest. Our skilled first responders saved the employee's life by using the defibrillator and CPR; while expertly directing the ambulance on the route from the main road and into the heart of our building. There are no words to describe the fantastic efforts made that day to save a colleague’s life. 25 Continue strong focus on safety Even with a well-functioning emergency management system, every year we unfortunately still see occupational accidents that could have been avoided. The primary cause of occupational accidents is that we are too busy, or forget to take care and follow the safety rules. It has therefore now been decided to draw up a set of guidelines with specific restrictions in the event of breaches of the safety rules. The intention is to increase transparency and emphasise the importance of compliance with the safety rules. An occupational injury or accident can have long-term consequences for the employee concerned, and for the company, so that it is in everyone's interest to avoid occupational accidents. To prevent accidents, we have also implemented stricter rules concerning safety shoes in production, workwear with visible luminous markings, and rules requiring visitors to production halls to wear hi-viz jackets. Break exercise programme using elastic resistance bands We have many different health programmes for our employees, ranging from health insurance and dental insurance to access to inexpensive physiotherapy and chiropody. A new initiative this year is the opportunity for an online break exercise programme using elastic resistance bands, during working hours. Employees with access to a computer receive a daily email reminder to take a break in order to take a physical exercise programme. Clicking on a link in the email opens a short programme designed to stretch the various large muscle groups. Production teams who do not have access to a computer can instead get inspiration from a series of posters which display images and descriptions of the various exercises. 50 employees have signed up for the daily email scheme. 26 Inspiration at all levels Society at large is taking a lot of interest in our work on the circular economy, UN Sustainable Development Goals, climate change and sustainability. During the year we were invited to share our experience with many different people, ranging from the top political level to municipal politicians, business leaders, network groups and students in many types of higher education. Among other things, we had the honour of being invited to take part in a panel discussion on climate change for the C40 Mayor Summit in Copenhagen and had the pleasure of evaluating a business class group exam on the Sustainable Development Goals. We also experience how more and more executive directors and municipalities are contacting us to learn from our experience, before their own organisations embark on a green transformation process or begin to work on the Sustainable Development Goals. It is wonderful to witness the growing interest in issues that are of vital importance to ensuring our common future. We are always pleased to be invited to share our experience, even if attending so many different events can require a lot of work. 27 WALK THE TALK: EGE CARPETS’ GOALS By 2030, all contract carpets By 2030, all contract carpets By 2030, an average of 75% of all must be produced with yarn must be Cradle to Cradle raw materials in contract carpets from regenerated or renewable certified at Platinum level. must have been recycled. materials. By 2030, it must be possible to By 2030, customers must be able By 2030, all of our waste must be recycle, reuse or compost all to sell used carpets for recycling. reused, recycled or composted contract carpets. (if appropriate solutions exist). A focus on safety, in order By 2030, we will be carbon By 2030, all transport of carpets to ensure zero occupational positive in Scope 1 and Scope 2 out to customers must be carbon accidents and injuries leading to of the greenhouse gas accounts. neutral. absence. 28 KEY FIGURES FOR EGE CARPETS 100% renewable energy Water Materials Waste 2018/2019 Per m2 1.48 KWH 15.9 ltr. 3.13 kg. 0.31 kg. Total 9,683,274 KWH 103,733,000 ltr. 20,433 tonnes 2,029 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 1.61 KWH 13.7 ltr. 3.19 kg. 0.33 kg. Total 10,553,951 KWH 89,951,000 ltr. 20,887 tonnes 2,185 tonnes Biogas Recycled water Recycled materials Recovery 2018/2019 Per m2 0.82 KWH 2.32 ltr. 0.43 kg. 0.03 kg. Total 5,390,654 KWH 15,157,000 ltr. 2,800 tonnes 234 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 1.26 KWH 2.36 ltr. 0.53 kg. 0.04 kg. Total 8,247,965 KWH 15,452,000 ltr. 3,492 tonnes 300 tonnes Employees* Managers Salaried/hourly paid employees 2018/2019 301 159 49 21 254 206 2019/2020 292 158 52 21 262 188 * Employee figures also include employees in subsidiaries. Absence due to illness* Occupational injuries and accidents* 2018/2019 2.6% 3.3% 10 601 hours lost 2019/2020 2.5% 3.4% 9 1,381 hours lost * The figures for absence due to illness do not * The figures concern notified occupational include long-term absence due to illness injuries and the figures do not include figures for exceeding 30 days and do not include figures subsidiaries. for subsidiaries. NB: In many cases, Ege Carpets undertakes dyeing and application of backing to carpets and tiles, as well as cutting into tiles, for the other brands in the Group. This is reflected in the consumption figures. 29 30 MIX: Basic – Carpet Concept THE LITSPIN YARN FACTORY – RESULTS In 2012, Ege Carpets acquired the UAB Litspin yarn factory in Lithuania. Since then, the yarn factory has been modernised and adapted to our needs, transforming it into a wellfunctioning production unit that manufactures our high-quality woollen yarns. Like our other production units in Herning and Gram, Litspin holds both ISO 9001 quality management certification and ISO 14001 environmental certification. This means that many good initiatives are underway, and on the environmental side we are engaged particularly with renewable energy, recycling and reuse. 100% renewable energy In line with the Danish production sites, we purchase renewable energy to cover our electricity consumption. The energy comes from a mix of rivers, wind turbines and solar power systems. We are still considering whether to invest in an on-site solar power system in the longer term, since it is not possible to invest in natural gas or biogas in the area. In production, we follow the plan to switch all lighting to LED within a few years. So far, we have replaced 60% of the lighting, which has resulted in a saving of 6.5 MWH. Many initiatives to ensure reuse and recycling We are always looking for new ways to recycle and reuse waste and surplus materials. Every year, we send 15.5 tonnes of yarn waste to Belgium, where it is 100% recycled. Metal waste from raw material bales is reused, and plastic and cardboard are also recirculated, while carding waste is sent for incineration at CHP stations. This year we have entered into new cooperation agreements whereby high-quality carding waste is now sold to a local textile company that will recycle it by mixing it with new wool. This year, we sold them 5 tonnes of carding waste. We donate flawed yarns to orphanages for use in their work with the children. Social initiatives increase productivity This year we introduced several different employee benefits that contribute to increased job satisfaction and can also augment productivity. Flexible working hours have been introduced in selected departments, enabling employees to exercise a greater degree of personal freedom in the planning of their working days. In production, we have introduced small rewards for good results on a weekly basis for the employees of a department that has performed well. All Litspin employees are also covered by a health insurance scheme that covers healthcare expenses of up to EUR 200 annually, plus 80% of the cost of medical treatment at private clinics. 31 WALK THE TALK: LITSPIN GOALS By 2022, all lighting must be replaced with LED lighting. As from 2020, all employees will The use of higher-quality wool be offered performance appraisal will reduce wool waste by 2-4%. interviews. Continuous support of the An employee satisfaction survey local community, culture and will be conducted in 2020. education. 32 KEY FIGURES FOR LITSPIN 100% renewable energy Water Materials Waste 2018/2019 Per kg. garn 1.94 KWH 1.41 ltr. 1.1 kg. 0.04 kg. Total 1,717,035 KWH 1,248,000 ltr. 971 tonnes 35 tonnes 2019/2020 Per kg. garn 2.16 KWH 0.93 ltr. 1.1 kg. 0.04 kg. Total 1,678,959 KWH 719,000 ltr. 861 tonnes 32.5 tonnes Biogas Recycled water Recycled materials Recovery 2018/2019 Per kg. garn 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.03 kg. 0.01 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 27.5 tons 16 tons 2019/2020 Per kg. garn 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.02 kg. 0.02 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 21.5 tons 20.7 tons Employees Managers Salaried/hourly paid employees 2018/2019 22 28 3 3 6 44 2019/2020 20 30 3 3 4 46 Absence due to illness* Occupational injuries and accidents* 2018/2019 1.0% 3.0% 3 656 hours lost 2019/2020 0.5% 1.2% 0 0 hours lost * The figures for absence due to illness do not * The figures concern notified occupational injuries include long-term sick leave exceeding 30 days. and accidents leading to absence. 33 HAMMER CARPETS – RESULTS Social responsibility has always been part of our DNA, because, as a company, we believe that there should be room for everyone. During the last few years, sustainability has come to play an equally important role in our business. Even though we are a minor carpet manufacturer in global terms, we have a great wish to contribute positively to the world around us. We do this by optimising our own processes and products, and also by supporting customers in thinking sustainability into their business. In 2018, we took a dedicated structured approach to environmental management by achieving ISO 14001 certification, which has systematised our efforts. This has a clear impact on our everyday work, and reuse and recycling in particular have become visible in production. New ISO 9001 certification on the way The next step will be ISO 9001 certification of our quality management system. Achieving ISO 9001 certification is a major task, because all of the ingrained processes and procedures that we follow must be described, systematised and optimised wherever possible. Solving this puzzle requires the involvement of the entire company. Now, we are close to achieving the goal, however, and we are pleased that we will soon be able to add another ISO stamp of approval for our company. 100% renewable energy On 1 January 2019, we achieved our 2020 goal of covering 100% of our electricity consumption with renewable energy. Via the Group’s climate partnership with Ørsted, we buy GO certificates from offshore wind turbines, which helps reduce our CO2 footprint. Long before this, however, we were already focused on reducing our energy consumption, including by switching to LED lighting, insulating buildings, and upgrading roofs and windows. Last year, we requested Ørsted to conduct an energy review in order to spotlight potential improvements, but they did not find any improvement opportunities. It is good to know that we have done our best in this area. Reduced consumption of materials Our primary segments are marine, hotels and restaurants. Here, the carpets often have to be installed in special dimensions that do not match the standard widths of 4 and 5 metres. While the looms can be adjusted to produce narrower widths, the carpet base lying between the front and back of the carpet is only available in 4and 5-metre widths. This makes it necessary to apply yarn across the full width of the carpet base, among other things to keep the carpet tautly extended in the machine during the backing production process. In the past, this has resulted in considerable materials wastage, because we were obliged to weave the carpets in standard widths, even though the finished carpet had to be narrower. We have nonetheless achieved a solution that ensures a higher recycling ratio and also less materials wastage. The part of the carpet that is not to be used is woven in a basic herringbone pattern using residual yarn from our own production. There is a gap of 4-5 cm between the yarn rows in the herringbone pattern, which significantly reduces the consumption of materials. The solution means that, for a carpet with a width of 3 metres, for example, we reduce the consumption of materials by up to 25%, thereby significantly reducing materials wastage. Pre-cut benefits both customers and the environment A cruise liner can be fitted with up to 150,000 m2 of carpets. Fitting carpets on board a cruise liner in service, or while it is docked, can present challenges due to time and space constraints. We therefore specialise in providing flexible solutions whereby the carpets delivered are pre-cut in the required special measurements. This presents many advantages for our partners: The fitting time is reduced significantly, since the pre-cut carpets only need a little trimming at the edges, and there is less wastage and thereby less residue for our partners to dispose of, after fitting is completed. The environmental aspect of the story is at least just as good. In conjunction with the production planning of carpets in special measurements, our designers focus on placing the carpets in special measurements as if they were pieces of a puzzle, in the full woven width, thereby achieving optimised utilisation of the materials. This reduces both the consumption of materials and the amount of waste in production. The CO2 emissions as a consequence of freight transport are also reduced, because pre-cut carpets can be packed more tightly in the containers, thereby requiring fewer containers for transport. Due to the great success of the pre-cut solution, we are now expanding our services to also make them available to our hotel and restaurant partners. 34 Plastic bottles in almost every backing Most of our carpets are delivered with a white felt backing, which on average comprises 77% used plastic bottles. This annually amounts to 572,828 m2 of backing, of which most is recycled plastic that might otherwise risk ending up in the ocean. Furthermore, all carpet tiles have a felt backing consisting of 100% used plastic bottles. We are thereby making a very active contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goal no. 14: Life Below Water. This is naturally important for a company whose largest customer segment is marine-based. Increased focus on reuse and recycling We are constantly seeking out new ways of recycling our waste. Since 2019, we have collaborated with a company that buys our used pallets. The pallets are sold on as recycled pallets, either directly or after having been repaired. The pallets that cannot be salvaged are sawn up, after which the usable parts are recycled, while the rest is converted into woodchips. The nails from the pallets that are cut into woodchips are re-smelted into new products. This year, we sold 3,618 pallets for recycling. No pallets are scrapped. Our used yarn cones, which always contain a little leftover yarn, are sent for recycling in Gram, where the Group has established a production line that specialises in unwinding the residual yarn and sending both yarn and cones for recycling. The special aspect of the production line, called ege Go2Work, is that all employees are engaged on special terms, due to their reduced working capacity. This is a fine social responsibility project, in keeping with the spirit of our company. Furthermore, considerable environmental gains can be made from recycling yarn and cardboard cones, instead of sending them for incineration. We have consigned the first cages with yarn cones to ege Go2Work and are currently waiting for the logistics arrangements for these consignments to be structured in such a way that in future they can receive all of our yarn cones. 35 An inclusive workplace We have always taken the view that even if you face physical challenges, you can still be a good employee. We therefore seek to be an inclusive workplace, also for employees who are engaged on special terms. Previously, 10% of our production employees were engaged under Section 56, which ensures that employees with a chronic illness can retain their job. The figure has dropped to 5.6% this year because a number of employees covered by this legal clause are now on a par with the other employees, after a period of time on special terms. We are proud of this positive achievement. Even though employment on special terms sometimes leads to many days of absence due to illness, we do not experience problems with maintaining day-to-day operations. In our experience, employees who face health challenges make an extremely loyal and dedicated contribution, which clearly outweighs the challenges. Focus on safety In recent years, we have significantly upgraded safety levels in the company. This year, clear walkways were marked out, and safety footwear was introduced for everyone in production. We have also drawn up and distributed a safety leaflet for all employees, outlining the rules and providing good advice on how to create a safe working environment for oneself and one’s colleagues. For more than a year we have applied compulsory job rotation in the departments where tasks constitute repetitive and monotonous work. It has taken a little time for employees to become accustomed to the changing workstations, but we can now see that they are happy with the opportunity for rotation and suffer fewer adverse physical effects as a consequence of their work. It is important for us to focus on retention of our employees and ensuring that everyone stays fit and healthy. Supporting young people This year, we sponsored two different projects that both focus on young people’s development. At a local level, we have donated a large quantity of residual yarn to a training centre in our local community, which offered the “Craft and Design” subject to seventh grade pupils and needed access to carpet yarn. Internationally, in cooperation with one of our major leading partners, we co-sponsor a project to help young people with special needs to become integrated into society through healthy leisure activities. 36 Colortec Stucco – Hammer Carpets 37 WALK THE TALK: HAMMER CARPETS’ GOALS During 2020, it will be investigated whether yarn ISO 9001 quality management suppliers’ environmental certification in 2020. impact from using dyes can be improved. Introduction of annual emergency drills and greater Recurring employee well-being awareness of emergency surveys, and training of managers management and evacuation to handle well-being issues. plans. 38 KEY FIGURES FOR HAMMER CARPETS 100% renewable energy Water Materials Waste 2018/2019 Per m2 0.21 KWH 0.51 ltr. 2.17 kg. 0.27 kg. Total 200,000 KWH* 473,000 ltr. 1,988 tonnes 249 tonnes *Hammer Carpets began investing in renewable energy as of 1 January 2019. Renewable energy therefore only accounts for one third of consumption. 2019/2020 Per m2 0.89 KWH 0.59 ltr. 2.01 kg. 0.34 kg. Total 600,000 KWH 394,000 ltr. 1,343 tonnes 229 tonnes Biogas Recycled water Recycled materials Recovery 2018/2019 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.27 kg. 0.02 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 250.5 tonnes 22 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.37 kg. 0.09 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 248 tonnes 66 tonnes Employees Managers Salaried/hourly paid employees 2018/2019 41 42 5 1 25 58 2019/2020 38 35 5 1 23 50 Absence due to illness* Occupational injuries and accidents* 2018/2019 4.3% 6.8% 4 534 hours lost 2019/2020 3.2% 6.2% 3 71 hours lost * The figures for absence due to illness do not * The figures concern notified occupational injuries include long-term sick leave exceeding 30 days. and accidents leading to absence. NB: Hammer Carpets solely undertakes weaving/tufting of carpets. Dyeing and backing take place elsewhere. This is reflected in the consumption figures. 39 BENTZON CARPETS – RESULTS We are fortunate that our carpet production is relatively environmentally friendly. It does not require much energy, water or chemicals to create the stylish flat-woven carpets in which we excel. Nonetheless, sustainability is now also part of our agenda. We are a minor, but very successful, business. We have relatively few employees who produce a great many m2 of carpets every year. The carpets are woven on looms that do not require high energy consumption and with very limited addition of other constituent substances. As a consequence, structured environmental work has not always played the major role it does today. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 in the pipeline During the past year, we worked hard towards ISO certification of both our quality and environmental management systems, and we welcome the major steps forward which this journey represents. Now, we are close to achieving our goal. Achieving ISO certification requires a lot of dedicated effort. There are policies and procedures to develop, objectives to define, risk assessments to perform and improvements to introduce. Nevertheless, we have chosen to run two certification projects at one time, so that we are ready to meet the demands of the future in terms of both quality and the environment. ISO certification helps create a structure for and visualise our priorities, which will inter alia have an impact on our sustainability work in the future, when this will be in high demand among our customers. We expect to achieve ISO certification during the autumn of 2020. 100% renewable energy Our electricity consumption is covered by 100% renewable energy from offshore wind turbines. Since 1 April 2019, we have invested in GO certificates via the Group's Climate Partnership with Ørsted. It is important for us to contribute to the Group's renewable energy and CO2 reduction strategy, even though we are a minor player on the big field. This is why we have also just ordered the first charging station for electric cars and have decided to reduce our electricity consumption in production by at least 3% in 2020 compared to 2019. As part of that plan, during the past year we changed all lighting to LED. Less waste and more recycling Even though the actual weaving of carpets does not have any great environmental impact, it does generate a lot of waste for which we are working to find recycling opportunities. Every year, we send surplus yarn to a company in Germany that uses the yarn to produce 100% recycled felt carpet backing. This year, we sent more than 5 tonnes of surplus yarn for recycling in felt backing, among other things. We also cooperate with a Polish company that specialises in converting carpets into insulation material. We sell them surplus rolls and carpet residue from the warehouse, instead of sending these materials for incineration. The last time we sent out surplus rolls was in 2019, when we sold 8,400 m2 of carpet for recycling. Our goal is to reduce our waste volume by 5% by 2020, by finding new recycling opportunities. 40 New London – Bentzon Carpets Backing made from used plastic bottles All carpet tiles from Bentzon are delivered with Ecotrust backing, which consists 100% of recycled plastic bottles. We also have wallto-wall carpets for the residential market which are delivered with felt backing comprising 50-80% recycled plastic bottles. By recycling plastic bottles as carpet backing, we are keeping valuable materials in circulation. In this way, we are contributing positively to life below water, because used plastic bottles tend to end up in the world’s oceans, where they present a major environmental problem. Working conditions and employee development As a minor company, we find it easy to communicate internally. This means that so far we have not had a fixed structure for information meetings, employee appraisals in production, or a staff handbook with information on rules, rights and opportunities, but now this is being changed. We are preparing a staff handbook, while it is planned to introduce fixed employee performance appraisal interviews for production employees as from 2020, in line with the interviews held with salaried employees. Due to the coronavirus situation, however, it is possible that the plan will be deferred a little. A new aspect is that we have also introduced structured noticeboard meetings in production, as well as meetings among salaried employees, with focus on both day-to-day operations and working conditions. This will help ensure a good standard of well-being for all employees across the company. 41 WALK THE TALK: BENTZON CARPET GOALS ISO 9001 quality management certification in 2020. ISO 14001 environmental By 2020, the waste volume will management certification in be reduced by 5%. 2020. As from 2020, production employees will be offered By 2020, energy consumption in performance appraisal interviews production will be reduced by at on a par with salaried employees.* least 3%. *Due to the coronavirus situation, however, it is possible that the plan will be deferred a little. 42 KEY FIGURES FOR BENTZON CARPETS 100% renewable energy Water Materials Waste 2018/2019 Per m2 0.22 KWH 0.08 ltr. 0.77 kg. 0.04 kg. Total 386,747 KWH 150,000 ltr. 1,313 tonnes 71 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 0.21 KWH 0.09 ltr. 0.77 kg. 0.02 kg. Total 344,145 KWH 148,000 ltr. 1,264 tonnes 34 tonnes Biogas Recycled water Recycled materials Recovery 2018/2019 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.003 kg. 0.02 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 5.5 tonnes 45.5 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.008 kg. 0.05 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 13.5 tonnes 87 tonnes Employees Managers Salaried/hourly paid employees 2018/2019 14 18 6 1 12 20 2019/2020 12 17 6 1 11 18 Absence due to illness* Occupational injuries and accidents* 2018/2019 12% 9% 1 239 hours lost 2019/2020 5.3% 3.9% 1 51 hours lost * The figures for absence due to illness do not * The figures concern notified occupational injuries include long-term sick leave exceeding 30 days. and accidents leading to absence. NB: Bentzon Carpets solely undertakes weaving of carpets. Dyeing, backing and tile cutting are undertaken elsewhere in the Group. This is reflected in the consumption figures. 43 CARPET CONCEPT – RESULTS During the past few years, we have increased our focus on sustainability by working with Cradle to Cradle, and we are proud that our range of Cradle to Cradle certified carpets is expanding. We currently see increasing focus on sustainable buildings, and our Cradle to Cradle certified carpets give us a strong position in the market. It is a pleasure to contribute to the buildings of the future and to influence developments in the interior decoration industry, particularly in the German market, by nudging towards a greener direction by means of our carpets. Sustainable buildings with Cradle to Cradle Since last year, we have expanded the range of Cradle to Cradle certified carpets from 6 to 14 carpets. This is good news for the environment, but also for our customers, who now have a wider range of sustainable carpets to choose from. This is of benefit to our customers in several ways. Sustainable buildings have become a requirement in large parts of the market, and in this respect Cradle to Cradle certified carpets give points on buildings’ sustainability ratings. This also enables customers to market themselves as the green choice; which is increasingly relevant as consumers make increasing sustainability demands. Cradle to Cradle also epitomises UN Sustainable Development Goal no. 12 concerning responsible consumption and production, and we wish to support the Sustainable Development Goals through our carpet production activities. Cradle to Cradle certified carpets contribute positively to a sustainable future, among other things by promoting healthy materials, converting waste into resources, and focusing on water management, renewable energy and social responsibility measures. We expect to expand the number of Cradle to Cradle certified carpets going forward. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification in the course of 2020 We have previously held quality management certification under ISO 9001 and environmental management certification under ISO 14001, and now we are close to regaining this certification. After a break of several years on the certification front, we have re-launched this work. All processes and procedures have been described again from scratch, new objectives have been set, risk analyses have been performed, and action plans for improvements have been drawn up. Now, we are looking forward to taking the final steps during the summer of 2020, so that we can soon embellish the company’s documents with two new ISO stamps. For us, this represents renewed focus and more structured efforts to meet future requirements to document high quality and sustainability at one and the same time. 100% renewable energy in our sights We are working hard to cover our entire electricity consumption with renewable energy, which we source from wind turbines and as hydropower. So far, we have covered 56% of our electricity consumption and we expect to achieve 100% before the end of 2020. It is important for us to contribute actively in this way to the Group’s work with renewable energy and the reduction of CO2 emissions. For the same reason, we are in the process of switching to LED lighting in two production departments. Optimised yarn consumption Yarn is one of the main components of carpets, and we are therefore strongly focused on the greatest possible optimisation of yarn consumption. For example, we have developed a system to combine small scraps of yarn into new yarn, ensuring that yarn residue is recycled instead of being incinerated. This year, we recycled around 4 tonnes of yarn residue in this way. The yarn residue that we cannot recycle ourselves, together with ground tissue residue, is sent to a company that specialises in producing needle felt from the residue. On an annual basis, we deliver between 15 and 20 tonnes of residue to these specialists for recycling. We have also begun to purchase yarn in different lengths that precisely match the consumption for each carpet. This means that the yarn cones run empty at the same time, despite the difference in how much of each yarn is needed for the carpet. This reduces waste considerably. All of the empty yarn cones are sent directly for recycling as new yarn cones without further processing. 44 Reduced surplus production One of the areas we are working hard to improve is surplus production. It can be difficult to avoid surplus production in the carpet industry because the machines often run with standard measurements, while customers require carpets in customised sizes. In order to optimise planning, we are now making great efforts to obtain better information in advance about the exact number of m2 of carpet that is required. Savings can be made in terms of both materials and production time when the number of m2 is adjusted to the exact requirement, and fortunately we now receive the necessary information for 80% of orders, which is good for both the environment and our economy. Focus on safety and the working environment Every year, we conduct health screenings of all employees in production. A doctor, a physiotherapist and a safety consultant collaborate on risk assessments of the workstations in order to suggest improvements. This has among other things resulted in noise reduction action plans, and the procurement of new machines, etc. Noise is generally an adverse factor in our production, and in the past has contributed to impairing the hearing of older employees. We took action to prevent this several years ago by making ear protection compulsory in departments with high noise exposure. First aid courses and fire drills are an integral aspect of our everyday working lives, and we ensure that emergency measures are always in place. Work-life balance with flexible working hours Our employees are dedicated and devoted to working hard every day. We experienced a period during which salaried employees in particular worked many hours each week. To ensure a good work-life balance, in 2018 we therefore introduced flexible working hours for our salaried employees. This well-functioning scheme has been running successfully ever since. It gives employees the flexibility to be able to plan their working hours according to their personal needs. As a consequence, we can see increased well-being among this group of employees. Corona videos on social media In connection with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, we produced a series of corona videos and photo series for social media. The aim was to help increase awareness of the precautions we must all take to reduce contagion, but also to support our partners through this difficult time by thanking them in a photo series that also spreads the message of keeping a safe distance. 45 WALK THE TALK: CARPET CONCEPT GOALS Electricity consumption will be Switch to 100% LED lighting covered by 100% renewable throughout production in 2020. energy by no later than 2021. Development of a mono-carpet General focus on product during 2021 that solely consists development of carpets made of one material and is therefore from renewable yarns. easy to reuse in the future. 46 KEY FIGURES FOR CARPET CONCEPT Renewable energy Water Materials Waste 2018/2019 Per m2 1.34 KWH 2.22 ltr. 2.64 kg. 0.44 kg. Total 413,058 KWH 681,000 ltr. 811 tonnes 136 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 1.51 KWH 2.95 ltr. 2.77 kg. 0.38 kg. Total 350,592 KWH 684,000 ltr. 644 tonnes 89 tonnes Biogas Recycled water Recycled materials Recovery 2018/2019 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.28 kg. 0.02 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 88 tonnes 7 tonnes 2019/2020 Per m2 0 KWH 0 ltr. 0.30 kg. 0.36 kg. Total 0 KWH 0 ltr. 70.5 tonnes 85 tonnes Employees Managers Salaried/hourly paid employees 2018/2019 60 37 13 4 58 39 2019/2020 55 36 12 5 51 40 Absence due to illness* Occupational injuries and accidents* 2018/2019 4.6% 5.4% 3 592 hours lost 2019/2020 5.4% 6.8% 4 639 hours lost * The figures for absence due to illness do not * The figures concern notified occupational injuries include long-term sick leave exceeding 30 days. and accidents leading to absence. NB: Carpet Concept solely undertakes weaving/tufting of the carpets, and in some cases backing and cutting-out of tiles. Other processes are handled elsewhere. This is reflected in the consumption figures. 47 ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT We have set the goal to be the best carpet manufacturer in the world when it comes to CSR, and this requires focus and dedication. We have therefore written CSR into the business model that applies across the four brands in the Group. Business foundation in Strategic focus CSR-focus in selected CSR efforts support Financial results ege Group brands and markets the strategy 2019/2020 Human rights Responsibility to people in the value chain Vision Environmental conditions Global leadership in Responsibility to the enviSustainable products, innovative ronment processes and solutions and sustainable flooring Growth from core business Labour practices strengthen ege Group by Mission opening new business Net revenue Responsibilty to employees We provide innovative Increase in carpet tiles opportunities in the 1,155,779,000 DKK and sustainable flooring Consumer conditions individual brands and Group synergies Profit before financial to a world demanding Responsibility to users create value at the high quality and lasting Insourcing items and tax (EBIT) Local social development individual markets and design 62,954,000 DKK Efficiency improvement Responsibility for the sociesegments Values ties in which we operate Ensure compliance and Design risk management Management excellence Quality Transparency Respect Fair operating practices Responsible business conduct From business model to practice ege Group’s Executive Board holds the overall responsibility for The implementation of the business model in practice creates the CSR policy and strategy. An ege Group CSR steering group, our value chain. Our value chain starts with the supplier’s extraccomprising the CEO and CCO, as well as representatives of HR, tion and processing of the raw materials and ends with our deProcurement, Product Development, Marketing and CSR in the livery of the final carpet to the customer, who after a number of ege Group, follows up on the strategy and clarifies complex CSR years will discard the used carpet when it is time to replace the issues. flooring. In the longer term, our vision is to close the gap between the start and the end of the value chain, so that we have a The strategic CSR work is conducted in practice by ege Group complete circular economy. CSR, while the individual brands themselves are responsible for ensuring the local progress of the initiatives. This constellation ensures the broad support of all relevant players in the Group. Value chain Waste Recycling Recycled raw materials Virgin raw materials Transport Supplier User Transport Installation Design/development Transport Sale/customer Production 48 Joint management system and certifications agement standards have been added for this brand, while the In the ege Group, we work according to a joint management sysother brands have come far along the same journey. As from tem that is based on recognised standards. Ege Carpets was the 2020, ege Group will require all brands in the Group to hold ISO first to initiate ISO 9001 in 1992, since when three other man9001 and ISO 14001 certification as a minimum. OHSAS 18001 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 DS 49001 UN Global Occupational health Quality Environment CSR Compact and safety √ Ege Carpets Herning √ √ Upgrade to ISO 45001 √ √ during 2020 √ Ege Carpets Gram √ √ Upgrade to ISO 45001 √ √ during 2020 Pending Pending Hammer Carpets 2020 √ √ assessment assessment Pending Pending Bentzon Carpets 2020 2020 √ assessment assessment 2020 2020 Pending Pending Carpet Concept Slightly delayed Slightly delayed √ assessment assessment from 2019 from 2019 Pending Pending UAB Litspin √ √ √ assessment assessment The management system is practised according to the Plan – Do stantly focused on due diligence processes in the form of objec– Check – Act model, on which the implemented management tives, action plans, follow-up and adjustments. For all brands, this standards are based. In practice, this means that we are conis an integral part of everyday working life. Due diligence model Due diligence tools Social and employee Environmental and Human rights Anti-corruption and conditions climate conditions bribery Management DS/OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 DS 49001 DS 49001 system Overall Internal audit Plan due diligence External audit processes Management evaluation Act Do Objectives Action plans Check Practical examples Occupational accidents Environmental Supply chain Anti-corruption Labour practices accidents management Whistleblower scheme Welfare Emergency measures Supply chain management Tax policy in a business-driven perspective and not the amounts of tax we pay. We adhere to the applicable We attach importance to pursuing a transparent tax policy. We transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country handle all tax-related matters in accordance with the law and in which the revenue is generated. Tax evasion is not permitted. pay the correct tax in the countries in which we operate. The business opportunities in each market determine our activities; 49 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Every company faces both risks and opportunities on an ongoemployees, the environment, the value chain, etc. As a socially ing basis. It is part of the game to make the right choices at the responsible company, it is therefore not enough to solely reflect right times, in order to grow the business, yet it is also imporon our own processes and goals. It is also necessary to look outtant to remember that every choice has consequences; not only wards in order to be aware of the social consequences of the for the company, but potentially also for the local community, choices made. Environmental impacts Risks/opportunities Actions In our efforts to avoid negative environmental impacts, we – We have goals concerning Cradle to Cradle certification set stricter requirements for the constituent substances at Platinum level, which requires us to substitute individin our carpets than required by legislation. In a few cases, ual constituent substances for which it is difficult to find however, it can be difficult to find constituent substances good alternatives. that fulfil our own strict requirements. – We have investigated all constituent substances and now know precisely where to take action. – We cooperate continuously with suppliers with regard to substitution. – In our Code of Conduct, we impose strict requirements concerning constituent substances and documentation. CO2 emissions Risks/opportunities Actions Almost half of the Group's CO2 emissions relate to the – We have goals concerning carbon neutral transport. transport of carpets to customers. – We have introduced the possibility of longer delivery times, so that consignments can be planned on a climate friendly basis. – We have added requirements concerning CO2 emissions in tender documents for the various carriers. Recirculation Risks/opportunities Actions Carpet waste presents an environmental problem as it is – We have goals for the full recycling of carpets. either incinerated or deposited in land fills. When recovery – We are active players in a number of organisations that becomes possible at some time in the future, this will keep are working to ensure the reuse of carpet waste. valuable materials in circulation and ensure new business – We are working to develop carpets that can be separaopportunities. ted into the constituent components after use, in order to facilitate recycling. 50 Safety Risks/opportunities Actions Despite a strong focus on safety, every year a few employ– We are continuously developing safety at all production ees in all brands are injured during working hours. sites. – In one brand so far, we have initiated the development of guidelines for the issue of warnings and penalties for breaches of safety rules. Pressure of work Risks/opportunities Actions The high activity level in all brands, with the implementa– We encourage all brands to work with well-being and tion of new systems, is challenging the entire Group in difflexibility, and to introduce employee performance apferent ways. At the same time, in one brand the combinapraisal interviews. tion of low unemployment and market pressure makes it – The implementation of new systems is in the concluding difficult to recruit and retain employees. stage, after which the pressure of work will be reduced. Pandemic Risks/opportunities Actions Covid-19 has exposed society’s vulnerability to global We implemented a number of measures as a consepandemics. For us, this has led to a few redundancies, the quence of Covid-19: furloughing of many employees under the Danish govern– We adopted a precautionary principle in order to proment’s package of support measures, employees working tect our employees and business. from home and changed working patterns. This has had a – We introduced requirements for hygiene and keeping a major impact on our employees, customers and business distance. partners. – We introduced working from home for everyone able to do this. – All business travel, meetings and visits were cancelled or converted to online meetings. 51 GROUP FIGURES Greenhouse gas accounts* greenhouse gas accounts in Scope 1 and Scope 2, which are From 2020 to 2030, ege Group will reduce CO2 emissions in calculated in the same IT programme. However, freight transport Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 100% to become carbon neutral. Since in Scope 3 is calculated in a separate IT programme and this year the goal is to become carbon neutral, no base year will be set. it was discovered that the CO2 emissions from the other brands were not compiled and included in this programme. This means Correction from previous years’ greenhouse gas accounts that, in all years, Scope 3 has solely included freight transport When we started to compile CO2 emissions, there was only one from Ege Carpets, while the other data in the greenhouse gas brand in the Group. The first greenhouse gas accounts therefore accounts comprise figures for the entire Group. We do not exsolely included data from Ege Carpets. Over the last ten years, pect to include the freight transport of the entire Group in Scope three other brands have become part of the Group, and in each 3 until as from 2021. instance we added the CO2 emissions of the new brands to the Ton CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG Electricity Goods transportation Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) District heating Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) 5,006 5,000 4,673 4,500 4,000 3,473 3,500 3,081 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 333 411 392 245 165 0 Total Total Total 6 See Annex 2 for further details of the greenhouse gas accounts 52 Consumption figures not be distributed directly per m2 of carpet produced in each This year's figures are collected from the entire Group and are brand, since some processes are undertaken elsewhere. We are based primarily on consumption figures per production site. It is working on a compilation method that will take this into account important to note, however, that in some cases processes such in the future. The overview illustrates which processes are unas backing, dyeing and tile cutting take place across production dertaken at the Group’s different sites. sites and brands. This means that the consumption figures canEge Carpets Ege Carpets Hammer Carpets Bentzon Carpets Carpet Concept Herning Gram Tufting/weaving √ √ √ √ √ Dyeing √ √ Backing application √ √ (√) Cutting into tiles √ (√) 53 PRODUCTION INPUTS AND OUTPUTS Inputs and outputs Ege Carpets Herning Ege Carpets Gram Bentzon Carpets 2018/2019 2019/2020 2018/2019 2019/2020 2018/2019 2019/2020 Size of the company m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 Size of the company’s site 360,000 360,000 72,000 72,000 10,000 10,000 ... of which built-up area 58,062 58,062 27,000 27,000 7,234 7,234 Production m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets 4,436,256 4,236,765 2,078,240 2,309,655 1,705,971 1,631,202 Energy consumption KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh Electricity consumption 7,112,969 7,995,423 2,570,305 2,558,528 386,747 344,145 ... of which renewable energy 7,112,969 7,995,423 2,570,305 2,558,528 19,000 344,145 Natural gas 21,281,579 20,897,899 8,752,183 8,144,235 280,875 29,684 ... of which bio-natural gas 5,320,395 5,935,003 70,259 2,312,962 0 0 District heating 0 0 1,247,000 1,238,000 0 0 Water consumption m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 79,625 69,822 24,109 20.129 150 148 Water recovery m3 m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 7,440 6,723 7,717 8,729 0 0 Recycled raw material Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg In the product 2,539,275 3,076,832 261,020 415,587 5,415 13,585 Consumption of materials Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg For carpet production 14,388,847 13,599,378 6,043,672 7,288,145 1,313,598 1,264,182 …of which renewable raw materials 654,910 522,749 14,037 188,665 125,365 132,715 Packaging in total 751,549 570,981 208,061 198,866 26,060 33,540 … of which renewable packaging 491,193 319,058 264 0 18,078 27,540 Operation and maintenance in total 109,394 107,903 30,144 33,973 638 6,536 Waste Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Recycling 99,713 95,634 134,583 205,127 45,500 87,040 Thermal recovery 1,478,180 1,608,480 528,381 522,330 60,038 33,980 Land fill 4,360 13,420 0 0 10,200 0 Destruction, hazardous waste 18,070 40,754 400 0 638 300 Discharge m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ Wastewater 64,152 57,013 17,428 11,416 150 148 54 Inputs and outputs Hammer Carpets Carpet Concept UAB Litspin 2018/2019 2019/2020 2018/2019 2019/2020 2018/2019 2019/2020 Size of the company m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 Size of the company’s site 48,029 48,029 49,632 49,632 44,687 44,687 ... of which built-up area 17,891 17,891 13,840 13,840 10,282 10,282 Production m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets Kg/yarn Kg/yarn 914,440 668,273 306,443 231,864 882,258 774,733 Energy consumption KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh Electricity consumption 604,583 543,512 714,633 630,562 1,889,087 1,678,959 ... of which renewable energy 200,000 600,000 413,058 350,592 1,717,035 1,678,959 Natural gas 0 0 2,602,091 2,874,245 0 0 ... of which bio-natural gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 District heating 597,000 586,000 0 0 0 0 Water consumption m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 473 394 681 684 1,248 719 Water recovery m3 m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recycled raw material Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg In the product 250,628 248,197 87,825 70,590 27,513 21,534 Consumption of materials Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg For carpet production 1,987,568 1,343,033 811,283 643,966 971,175 861,349 …of which renewable raw materials 864,535 642,828 220 2,859 784,162 689,748 Packaging in total 105,704 78,595 23,331 18,010 16,202 23,535 … of which renewable packaging 0 0 14,733 13,172 4,799 13,073 Operation and maintenance in total 93,980 103,680 800 1.200 504 393 Waste Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Recycling 22,129 66,628 7,114 85,420 16,334 20,703 Thermal recovery 242,125 228,570 125,000 58,830 33,880 27,360 Land fill 6,840 0 11,200 28,647 0 2,500 Destruction, hazardous waste 0 609 0 1,430 1,478 2,598 Discharge m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ Wastewater 473 394 681 684 609 222 55 OTHER GROUP FIGURES Female managers Women on the Board of Directors The goal is 30% 40% We define a manager as a person who either has responsibility for employees or holds a position in the company in which he or she is 2018/2019 28% 25% authorised to take decisions on behalf of the company. 2019/2020 28% 25% Whistleblower cases Statutory offences 2018/2019 0 cases 0 cases In conjunction with an occupational accident in which an employee suffered a foot injury, we received a fine from the Danish Working 2019/2020 0 cases 1 case Environment Authority for failing to ensure a sufficiently safe working environment. New safety measures have been implemented so as to avoid similar accidents. Cases of corruption Training in anti-corruption 2018/2019 0 cases 68 employees All employees receive our anti-corruption guidelines. All employees with external contact attend an online anti-corruption training 2019/2020 0 cases 34 employees programme. Discrimination Child labour Forced Labour Human trafficking 2018/2019 0 cases 0 cases 0 cases 0 cases 2019/2020 0 cases 0 cases 0 cases 0 cases 56 ANNEX 1: WHAT IS SECTION 99A? On 1 January 2016, Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statetranslated into action, and any systems and procedures that ments Act entered into force for the ege Group. According to support it. Details must also be given of the due diligence the Act, large companies must supplement the management processes applied. report with a CSR report. As a minimum, the report must include • Details must be given of the most significant risks relating to the following: the company's business activities and of how the company • A brief description of the company's business model and handles the risks in question. The information must be given the connection between the business model and CSR. for each policy area. • Information must be provided on the company's CSR poli• Information must be given on the company's results as a cies. As a minimum, information must be given on policies consequence of working with CSR, as well as any expectafor the environment and climate, social conditions and emtions of the work in the future in each policy area. ployee relations, respect for human rights, and anti-corrup• Reporting in accordance with Section 99a must be retion and bribery. For each area, it must be stated whether viewed by the auditor, to ensure that the company fulfils the the company has a policy and what it comprises. requirements. • For each policy area, it must be stated how the policy is 57 ANNEX 2: CALCULATION BASIS FOR DATA SOURCES AND CO2 CALCULATION This year's report includes greenhouse gas accounts for the Ege Carpets: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions comGroup, as well as greenhouse gas accounts for Ege Carpets prise a wide range of activities that can be included. In Ege Caralone. Both sets of greenhouse gas accounts are based on the pets, we have decided to include transport in leased vehicles same calculation basis and data sources. There are some differand freight transport. ences, however. So far, Scope 3 has also included travel by plane, train, bus and ferry. Now, we are removing travel from the compilation. CalcuSCOPE 1: lating CO2 emissions for travel across countries, continents and Direct greenhouse gas emissions modes of transport is both complex and time-consuming. At the same time, the CO2 emissions from travel account for less than ege Group: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources 6% of the total emissions in Scope 3. We are therefore removing owned or controlled by the Group. These calculations also inthis part of the accounts as from this year. clude fuel extraction. Data sources Ege Carpets: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources The greenhouse gas accounts are based on a number of data owned or controlled by Ege Carpets. These calculations also insources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpclude fuel extraction. tion into CO2 emissions. The CEMAsys calculation programme is generally applied. CEMAsys complies with international standards and meets the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas ProSCOPE 2: tocol. For electricity, the Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% Indirect greenhouse gas emissions method are used to calculate Danish emissions. The district heating plants’ own numbers are used to calculate their emisege Group: Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions sions. Where possible, factors for the individual countries are aporiginating from purchased electricity, heat and steam in the plied. To calculate goods transport for Herning and Gram, we Group. These calculations also include fuel extraction. have applied the Climate Compass, which is an Internet-based calculation model developed by the Confederation of Danish Ege Carpets: Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions Industry, the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. It should be originating from purchased electricity, heat and steam in Ege noted that the factors underlying the calculations in the Climate Carpets. These calculations also include fuel extraction. Compass have not been updated for a number of years. As we do not have an alternative IT tool, however, we have chosen to continue to use the Climate Compass until further notice. SCOPE 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions ege Group: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions comprise a wide range of activities that can be included. In ege Group, we have decided to include transport in leased vehicles and freight transport. It should be noted that this year only freight transport from Ege Carpets is included. For an explanation, see page 52. 58 59 Ege Carpets inhouse 0720 – 8054028 – 1st edition EG E CAR PE TS A /S · I N D U STRIVE J N O R D 25 · D K-740 0 H ERN I N G · TEL : +4 5 97 11 88 11 · E-MAI L : EG E@ EG E. D K · W W W. EG ECAR PE TS .C O M
