UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2019 The commitment from the Leyton Group’s founding Chairman As a member of the UN Global Compact since 2019, I am delighted to confirm that the LEYTON group upholds the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In addition, we are committed to promoting these principles within our area of influence and to integrating them into our corporate strategy, business culture and internal processes. Leyton’s values are fully in line with those of the Global Compact. Working at Leyton means promoting excellence, teamwork, respect, enjoyment and innovation. In this way, we are seeking to improve our CSR policy year on year and to make Leyton a company which is fully committed to these values. You will find below our first COP, which we will strive to improve in the years to come. François GOUILLIARD CEO and founder INTRODUCTION TO THE LEYTON GROUP INTRODUCTION AND PRESENTATION OF THE PROCEDURE 1 / HUMAN RIGHTS & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROCEDURE SOMMAIRE Principle 1: Businesses should promote and uphold the preservation of international human rights law. 2 / DIVERSITY INCLUSION EMPLOYEE WELFARE Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6: Businesses should work towards the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3 / ENVIRONMENT IMPROVING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Principle 8: Businesses should take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should promote the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technology. 4 / ANTI-CORRUPTION Principe 10: Businesses should combat corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Introduction to the Leyton Group LEYTON, a consulting firm for the funding of innovation, energy transition and the outsourcing of services, has experienced an annual growth of 20% in helping businesses to adapt in the past three years. LEYTON’s tax, R&D, energy and HR specialists provided clients with additional resources for their development (for France, €500 million of additional resources). Over the past twenty years, LEYTON has multiplied the number of its clients by 20 to reach a total of 14,000. Over the past five years, the consulting firm has doubled the number of its employees to 1,400. The average age of an employee at LEYTON is around 32. 65% of its managers come from within its own ranks. 10% of the company’s capital is reserved for employees. LEYTON has a presence in 10 countries in Europe and North America. The company will soon be opening a branch in Germany. Introduction and presentation of the procedure A CSR working group was set up at the start of 2019 to determine the needs of Leyton offices in France, using bottom-up approach, using a bottom-up approach. This approach was then rolled out in every country. With this in mind, a call for applications was launched and employees were selected to act as representatives for the CSR programme. These representatives met and agreed main CSR objectives for the Group. INTERNATIONAL EVALUATION STRUCTURE DAY TO DAY MAY 2019 JULY 2019 SEPTEMBER 2019 COMMS JANUARY 2019 MARCH 2019 Launch of the Communication Job interviews Questionnaire Program structuring International CSR on the program Ecovadis Organigram approval program Materiality matrix WORKING APRIL 2019 JUNE 2019 AUGUST 2019 STRUCTURE KICK-OFF FEBRUARY 2019 RESULTS Launch breakfast First meetings Ecovadis GROUPS Creation of working Priorities CSR Gold medal groups on each pillar definition in France One of the objectives over the summer in 2019 was to establish a materiality matrix related to each of the following three pillars: Environmental Pillar: Social Pillar: Economic Pillar: Protecting the environment Promoting social cohesion Promoting a responsible economy The materiality matrix enables the Group’s CSR 3 / In order to prioritise the number of issues challenges to be ranked in terms of priority. Based resulting from the meetings and to respect on the international standard Global Reporting the bottom up spirit of the CSR approach Initiative (GRI), LEYTON then developed the within LEYTON, each employee received a approach which was most relevant to its area of questionnaire via email asking them to rank activity with the support of Management. the issues in terms of importance. It should be noted that everyone had the opportunity to add The approach used was organised a comment for those who could not attend the around 5 stages: public meetings. 1 / The first stage was to hold meetings 4 / With over 171 participants in France which were open to all employees. With this in (Directors, Managers, Consultants, Assistants), mind, every employee received an email from it was possible to plot the issues precisely and in Management informing them of the three dates a relevant manner, with business issues on the on which the meetings were to take place (one x-axis and the expectations of employees and for each pillar). stakeholders on the y-axis. 2 / During the European Sustainable 5 / Presentation of the materiality matrix to the Development Week, meetings were conducted Management Board. by the CSR team for employee volunteers to identify the CSR challenges of internal/external stakeholders around each of the three pillars. As a result, 23 ‘priority’ CSR issues emerged. Materiality matrix 5 4,5 Innovation 4 Customer relationship Economic value Importance for externational Reputation Recruitment Loyalty Business integrity Quality policy Dematerialisation 3,5 Working conditions Social commitment Training Pro/personal life Energy consumption QVT Recycling IT Management 3 Sustainable purchasing Sustainable mobility Local promotion QHSE Extra-economic value 2,5 2 2 2,5 3 3,5 4 4,5 5 Importance for internal stakeholders For the second consecutive year, Leyton had its CSR performance measured by the external body ECOVADIS. This allowed there to be an external and critical assessment of the Group’s actions and for areas for improvement to be identified. Human rights & Social responsibility • AGENCE DU DON EN NATURE (GIFT IN KIND AGENCY) Leyton is committed to combatting exclusion and poverty, in particular by being a founding partner of the ‘Agence du Don en Nature’. ‘Agence du Don en Nature’ acts as an interface between businesses and the voluntary sector by collecting unsold new products from manufacturers and redistributing them to partner charities, who give them to the most needy. Several initiatives have been carried out: SOCIAL ACTIVITIES July 2019: Participation in the 5th ‘Impact Territoires’ a programme which is aimed at • SCOPE: One of our teams in the United companies wishing to develop their CSR and Kingdom took part in the Three Peaks Challenge engage in ecological and interdependent change. in aid of SCOPE, a charity campaigning for This was an opportunity for our two Lyon-based equality for disabled people in England and employees to learn more about good practices for Wales. SCOPE provides practical information reducing our social and environmental impact. and emotional support to people with disabilities June 2019: ‘Course des Héros’ the largest when they need it most. They use the power of the multi-association fund-raising event in France. Our community to change attitudes and end injustice. teams ran in aid of ‘Agence du Don en Nature’ Our team collected a total of £11,000 for the June 2019: Organisation of the collection charity. of new hygiene products. We delivered all the products to the ADN teams so that they could redistribute them to the most disadvantaged. • ACTION CONTRE LA FAIM: Our teams in Strasbourg took part in the 6th Challenge Against In 2019, Leyton donated a total of €45,000 to Hunger organised by Action contre la faim in ‘Agence du Don en Nature’. Strasbourg. A total of over €2, 000 of donations were collected as a result of sports activities carried out by our 16 employees. This amount will provide funding for Action contre la faim programmes on the Ivory Coast and in Nepal. • LE PRADO ASSOCIATION: employees from Lyon office spent a day with Le Prado members in order to help them for their occupational integration. • ENVOL: Eight employees in Montpellier took part in the charity race in aid of the EnVol Association, which works to alleviate disability through physical activity. • NOUJOUM: Leyton supported the Noujoum Association in Morocco. This association sets up educational workshops in hospitals for children suffering with cancer. Nineteen Leyton employees took part in the Children’s HandiCourse organised • CENTRE EUGENE MARQUIS: Leyton has by the Moroccan Association of Sport and Women formed a partnership with the ‘Centre Eugène on 23 June 2019. Marquis’, a centre leading the fight against cancer in Rennes: • REMEMBRANCE DAY POPPY APPEAL: Leyton supports the centre by providing exposure Teams in London volunteered to act as fundraisers on the boat of Arthur Le Vaillant which participated for the 2019 Poppy Appeal. The Poppy Appeal in the ‘Route du Rhum’ and ‘Transat Jacques Vabre’ is a fundraiser organised every year by the Royal races. British Legion in Great Britain which helps support A total of €5,815 was collected as the result the families of soldiers who have been wounded or of GoGetFunding fundraising, which funded the killed in action. purchase of virtual reality headsets. Virtual reality (VR) can be used for medical purposes to reduce certain phobias and anxiety disorders. VR has a direct effect on the brain. The patient, occupied with absorbing all the signals sent by virtual reality, focuses on these and blocks out other signals such as pain. The fund has been supplemented by collections organised by various offices within the group during World Cancer Day. This happened in Toulouse, for example, where employees raised money during a sale of home-made cakes and crêpes. They managed to collect a total of €200 which was added to the pot. • CHARITY DAY : Leyton UK set up a charity day in 2019 which gave employees the opportunity to spend one work day a year volunteering with the association of their choice. Principle 1: Businesses should promote and uphold the preservation of international Human Rights law. • Leyton UK issued a statement against slavery and human trafficking pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. • Leyton France is committed to fighting discrimination by being a signatory to the Diversity Charter. Through this commitment, the Group is committed to developing the skills of its employees without discrimination and in an impartial manner. Recruitment teams are made aware of non-discrimination during the recruitment process, and take into account the 24 discrimination criteria defined in the Labour Code (article L 1132-1). Diversity Inclusion Employee welfare • Training / Development: • Integration programme: On boarding programme (UK/ 2-day integration workshop (UK/ France): routine interview with Human France/Morocco) which aims to share the Resources in the middle of the trial period in corporate culture for easier acclimatization. order to establish a progress report. Provision of a welcome booklet In-house training over several months in (France/Italy/Morocco). a new role (Technical sales training (commerce) Buddy Programme (France/Belgium): client relations (consultant)) to aid integration, each new entrant has a In-house training about the Group’s BUDDY, giving them the chance to connect with products. someone from another department. External training: support for requests Organisation of a monthly dinner by for external training courses. managers to bring their team closer together. Training of new managers in the basics of management. Will to develop non-professional • Enhancing the corporate culture: qualities –soft skills employees in line with the Group’s values. Implementation of a standard integration Promotion of internal mobility programme for all new arrivals in France. (creation of a dedicated process). Organisation of employee challenges An annual development interview with prizes to win: quiz (prize = trip to Brazil), with management and an annual interview virtual regatta (prize = a day sailing). with Human Resources and the Board. Group Seminar (French, Italian, Spanish and Moroccan teams meet up in Embiez). Office Christmas parties. A discussion area in each office where breakfast is available to employees on a weekly basis, as well as fresh, seasonal fruit. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining. • In each subsidiary, and in France in particular, LEYTON upholds labour standards that seek to defend and recognize the right to collective bargaining. For example, this year LEYTON France organised new workplace elections. • LEYTON has a works council offering many advantages (discounted price for culture, GYMLIB, Meyclub, etc.) Principle 6: Businesses should work towards the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity: Employees working in our 10 countries are from 29 different nationalities. Parity figures for 2019 recruitment : GRAND BELGIUM CANADA SPAIN FRANCE ITALY MOROCCO NETHERLAND POLAND UK USA TOTAL F 40,3% 25,0% 38,5% 45,0% 38,3% 42,5% 0,0% 50,0% 30,3% 33,8% 39,3% H 59,7% 75,0% 61,5% 55,0% 61,7% 57,5% 100% 50,0% 67,7% 66,2% 60,7% 53 27 104 450 81 313 2 17 272 61 1380 Total workforce (31/12/19): Disabilty awareness campaign: In 2019, Leyton FRANEC set up a disability • Membership of the French Association awareness campaign in partnership with the CSR of Diversity Management network organisation: During disability week, a daily 90-second video • Training was sent about a disability. Hosting of Pete Stone and Lucile Bloch, founders Provision of a listening and support unit for any of Just Different, who came to educate our French questions or additional information on disability teams about why diversity and inclusion is important and existing aids. This unit (anonymous) was open for a healthy organization. This conference was from 6 November 2019 to 10 January 2020. part of the Leyton For All initiative, which aims to Posters in offices to promote equality. promote professional equality within our company. Equality & diversity training for all the employees • Creation of an in-house network for in the UK office the promotion and analysis of equality Seminar for managers in France: inclusion and within Leyton France (Leyton4all) well-being covering the following themes: The position of women in the company. • Promotion of women Establishment of an equal pay index. BalanceforBetter initiative: On International Improvement of maternity leave. Women’s Day Leyton employees from around Implementation of an indicator of integration with the globe demonstrate their support for the an external provider (Just different) BalanceforBetter initiative and building an equal world between men and women. Environment / Improving our carbon footprint Principle 8: Businesses should take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. In the area of the environment, the Group decided a scientist to raise awareness of ocean pollution to launch the ‘Green Leyton’ initiative in November and brainstorming to identify good practices which 2019. The aim of the initiative is for specific actions could be implemented on a daily basis to reduce to be deployed in each of the group’s branches. Two our impact were included. Employees voted on events took place simultaneously at Issy and London which measures should be put in place as a priority. on 28 November. Waste collection, a speech by 59% 54% 30% of employees consider of collaborators decided to of employees have decided teleworking to be an effective remove the plastic cups. ban paper invoices. way to reduce our carbon footprint. The Leyton Group also committed to reducing its carbon footprint in 2019 by focusing on the following three main areas: The impact associated The impact associated The impact associated with transport with infrastructure with waste 1/ THE IMPACT OF TRAVEL In 2019, several organisations within the France has increased the quota of telecommuting Group negotiated new agreements concerning days from 10 to 20 for certain categories of telecommuting. The aim is to make the work life employees. balance as good as possible for employees, whilst also reducing our business’ carbon footprint. Studies The UK Team has introduced the possibility of one have shown that personal travel accounts for 15% telecommuting day per month. of the energy consumption of the tertiary economy, 20% of which comprises the journey from home Belgium allows its employees to enjoy one to the office. Transport is therefore a key factor in telecommuting day a week. reducing our carbon footprint. 2 / THE IMPACT OF INFRASTRUCTURE Focus on 3 relocations in 2019: ISSY LES MOULINEAUX FRANCE The well-being of employees was one of the main objectives during the interior fitting of the premises, In September 2019, the Head Office of the LEYTON in particular as regards open workspaces as a rule Group moved into the first positive energy building from the first day, and quality furniture. A single, in Issy les Moulineaux. An improvement in working central and spacious break area has been designed, conditions for employees and the building’s energy with free coffee and video games made available performance were among the key criteria looked to encourage a team spirit and togetherness on a for during the search for new premises. daily basis. Selection of key project suppliers on the basis of This building has the following social and environmental responsibility criteria. accreditations: The main suppliers (in particular the research and Bepos Effinergie 2013, which means it is fitting-out company and the distributor of office Effinergie+. furniture) which were used have signed up to the BREEAM Excellent. Global Compact and have a responsible purchasing HQE Exceptional, with 7 out of 14 targets policy. attained to reach the Highly Performing level. This includes energy management and maintenance Used furniture was salvaged by a company which and the sustainability of environmental is a member of the ‘Fédération des entreprises performance. d’insertion d’Ile de France’ (The Ile de France The WELL Building Standard, which assesses Federation of Integration Enterprises), ensuring the characteristics (over 100) which affect the recycling or return of furniture back into the the health and well-being of those within the circular economy. IT equipment was also entrusted building. to an association that ensures the recycling of nonreusable materials. These different certifications are the result of a strong drive to have an efficient building: Maximisation of interior areas in direct contact with daylight in order to reduce electricity consumption whilst improving the well-being of occupants. Staircase located on the façade to discourage the use of lifts. Autonomy of the building’s three wings, particularly with regard to air treatment, which significantly minimizes pressure drops and therefore generates significant energy savings. A geothermal programme set up in the basement. The use of photovoltaic panels on the roof. Availability of parking places for electric cars, bikes and electric bikes. MILAN – ITALIE Leyton Italy opened its new premises in November 2019 in Milan. These premises are located in a LEED Platinum (82/110) accredited building with the following characteristics: The atmosphere of the workspace revolves around sustainability, artistry and innovation. The office includes a large, central break area which acts as a friendly and welcoming space to enjoy a break, meet and recuperate. UTRECHT – HOLLAND In 2019, the Leyton Group opened its first office in Holland on the SECOYA campus in Utrecht. All the SECOYA buildings have the Energy label A accreditation. The environment and energy AND IN ADDITION... efficiency were central to their design. All buildings are very economical in their use of energy and This commitment is demonstrated within the are equipped to keep energy consumption to Group during relocations, as well as through the a minimum. This is demonstrated by a very low implementation of sustainable initiatives: energy index of 0.90 (very energy efficient). Nantes: relocation to a building that is energy efficient (C) and low in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (A) Toulouse: relocation to a building that is energy efficient (B) and low in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (A). Toronto: relocation to a category A building Manchester: relocation to a category A building USA: installation of green plants throughout the offices to reduce stress and improve air quality. 3 / WASTE MANAGEMENT The year 2019 focused on the reduction of paper waste: The printing policy has been updated in Digitalisation of the customer signature order to reduce the company’s environmental process in the United Kingdom, Canada, France impact: Default greyscale printing and default and Belgium using Docusign software duplex printing In France, this has allowed us to reduce our impact on the environment in the following ways: Digitalisation of the payroll in France The aim for 2020 is now to reduce individual waste by sending pay slips by e-mail instead of by post bins as much as possible in order to improve the (more than 450 employees) proportion of waste that can be recycled and to continue to reduce the volume of waste produced In 2019, waste has been sorted in the United by the Group, be it plastic or paper waste. Kingdom, Spain, France, Canada and Italy. ACTION ON A LARGER SCALE Protecting the oceans Leyton has initiated various actions and forged other skippers, is using his position as a sportsman significant partnerships to highlight its commitment to encourage the boating industry to make the to the planet and to the oceans in particular. necessary changes. The aim is to be able to sail while minimizing our carbon footprint as much • Through our partnership with skipper Arthur as possible as a result of the technical studies LE VAILLANT, we hope to raise the profile of carried out at Leyton by the Energy Department. protection of the oceans. Arthur, together with • We are even including our clients in the venture. In 2019, Leyton donated a total of €30,000 to Our client AtmoTrack has developed a sensor the Pure Ocean association and Pure Ocean took to measure air quality. This was positioned on the part in Leyton events to highlight their actions : sailing boat during the last race and has contributed to the development of global pollution databases. 31 May 2019: Science coordinator, Deborah Pardo, gave a talk for Pure Ocean and took part • After measuring pollution, studying the marine in two round table discussions during conferences ecosystem and repopulating the oceans, we must organised by Leyton in Nantes. She had the then tackle the cleaning up of the oceans. We opportunity raise awareness and inform major have decided to do this with the SEA CLEANER players in the nautical industry and in environmental association. They have a world-wide, long-term protection. vision for preserving the oceans, with a global 23 and 24 september 2019: Thomas de reach. It combines economic, social, human, Williencourt and Hubert Loisel, who initiated the educational and scientific aspects with a spirit of Coastal Ocean Watch project were at the ‘Yacht cooperation. For example: The collection of plastic Club de France’ in Paris at the invitation of Leyton macro-waste in areas of high density before it to talk about the preservation of marine biodiversity disintegrates and disperses. and remote sensing. 25 september 2019: David Sussmann was • Our partnership with the Pure Ocean invited to Marseille as a keynote speaker to talk foundation demonstrates our commitment to about innovation on land to preserve the oceans. research and innovation. Pure Ocean’s mission is to support cutting-edge applied research projects in order to preserve marine biodiversity, protect and restore fragile marine ecosystems, increase knowledge of the oceans and contribute to the fight against global warming. PROTECTION OF THE EARTH For a complete commitment to our planet, after the • At the same time, the Montpellier branch did the protection of the oceans, we are continuing our same thing along the banks of the river Lez. efforts with protecting the land. • In Morocco, 30 of our employees followed suit • In April 2019, a team from the energy Business by cleaning up Ain Diab beach in Casablanca. Unit spent an afternoon collecting rubbish during • The operation was continued at the end of the #cleanupchallenge. Armed with bin bags, our October with a large team of 110 volunteers employees set out on foot to clean up the streets cleaning up around the new premises in Issy-lesaround Saint-Cloud. Moulineaux in Paris. THE REHAGI INITIATIVE Within the framework of its CSR policy, Leyton is offering employees living in France insulation of unused attic space or under flooring and is thereby sharing its expertise on the subject with as many people as possible. The offer applies to all employees, whether owner occupants or tenants and whether the accommodation to be insulated is a primary or secondary home. Principle 9: Businesses should promote the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technology. ORGANISATION OF A SUSTAINABLE START-UP CHALLENGE We had 5 winners whose goal is to launch Since it first formed over 20 years ago, Leyton has new technologies that help reduce our impact been committed to helping businesses become and improve consumer habits with regard to the more sustainable by identifying additional sources environment: of revenue for their environmental development or for social projects. Bioenzymatic Fuel Cells (FRANCE) which is reinventing the way we power In 2010, the LEYTON Group launched the disposable electronics with environmentally LEYTON Sustainable Start-up Challenge friendly paper-based biofuel batteries for CES 2019. It comprises promoting the best sustainable and convenient energy production. Greentech and Goodfortech projects from the WISEAIR (ITALY) which is combatting air outset in 9 different countries across Europe and pollution with ARIANNA, a balcony planter North America. As a result of this competition, which measures air pollution there is: HELIPONIX (USA) which wants to make A free stand at CES 2020 with training fresh products available throughout the world on how to present your business in America using GROPOD, a smart device that grows and additional funding to cover logistical costs fresh produce in your home at any time of the (flight + hotel) year. Increased visibility at a national SKRIWARE (POLAND) : a complete and global level thanks to promotion of the educational ecosystem focused on teaching competition and media coverage of the CES. STEAM skills through hands-on experiences and creative problem solving. RETROLABS (USA) which contributes to the reduction of waste with its FRESHCAM. This sends expiry notifications, recipe recommendations, makes automatic orders and provides a view of the refrigerator via the app. PARTICIPATION AT THE SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION FORUM Leyton Iberia sponsored the Sustainable Innovation Forum (SIF25) which was organised during the annual Conference of Parties (COP) in Madrid. Over two inspiring days, our consultants had the opportunity to meet committed individuals and companies who are making a positive impact on the planet and the climate through innovation. Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should combat corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Leyton France is governed by the French Sapin II law on transparency, anti-corruption and economic modernisation. A strong commitment has been made by management to put in place clear rules regarding compliance and ethics, which is reflected in the following key documents: The ethical Analysis of The code The gift charter corruption risks of conduct policy e: contact@leyton.com w: leyton.com BELGIUM . CANADA . FRANCE . GERMANY . ITALY . MOROCCO . NETHERLANDS . POLAND . SPAIN . UNITED KINGDOM . UNITED STATES
