1 www.sodic.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 Table of Contents 01. Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director .................................................. 3 02. Communication on Progress (COP) .......................................................................................... 4 AHuman Rights: ..................................................................................................................... 4 BLabor.................................................................................................................................... 7 CEnvironment...................................................................................................................... 11 DAnti-Corruption ................................................................................................................. 14 03. SODIC Response Amid Covid-19 ............................................................................................. 17 04. Corporate Social Responsibility Programs ............................................................................. 18 AEducation .......................................................................................................................... 18 BRehabilitation.................................................................................................................... 20 CEqual Opportunity ............................................................................................................ 21 DRelief Program .................................................................................................................. 22 2 www.sodic.com 01. Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director I am pleased to communicate SODIC’s sustainability report for 2019/2020. We continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Reporting on our social and environmental performance has become an integral part of our regular corporate disclosure and reporting practice; our main goal is to provide our stakeholders with a view of SODIC’s position and performance on sustainability practices. We are proud to share our sixth COP report and look forward to another year of working towards achieving the global goals for sustainable development wherever applicable to our business. Sincerely, Magued Sherif Managing Director, SODIC 3 www.sodic.com 02. Communication on Progress (COP) AHuman Rights: 1. Work life balance SODIC promotes a work-life balance culture encouraging employees to enjoy their professional, personal and family life equally. We develop an annual calendar with all holidays and planned bridges and communicate it to employees at the beginning of the year to allow them to plan their vacations accordingly. 2. Voicing concerns SODIC promotes employee engagement; there is an employee committee in place that aims to promote a culture of openness and employee engagement. Through this committee, employees are able to voice their concerns and acquire feedback on any business related issue. They can as well, through the same committee, suggest new ideas to improve employee experience and raise their engagement levels. 3. Harassment SODIC enforces a harassment-free environment. There is a policy in place that protects employees from any form of harassment. A firm reporting mechanism is in place and in case of the occurrence of any incident, management, after a thorough investigation, will take the necessary corrective and disciplinary action. 4. Safe Workplace It is a mandate and an ongoing commitment for SODIC to protect the health, safety and well-being of its employees and ensure a safe workplace for all. Workspace violence will not be tolerated whether from company workforce or outside vendors and customers. We recognize that alcohol abuse and other illegal drugs compromises work productivity and jeopardizes company image. All employees, vendors and visitors are not allowed to smoke or drink on the company premises or in any company related activity. We have workplace policies that regulate this behavior within our premises. 5. Employee Benefits All employees are entitled to medical insurance including their direct dependents (Spouse & children) through the world’s leading medical insurance companies BUPA and AXA. They are also included in the life insurance and pension programs. 4 www.sodic.com Employees are also given the option to be part of The Fellowship Fund: a Fund that aims to provide relief in times of financial hardships. The Fund may cover unaccounted for financial obligations such as: marriage, child delivery, family deaths, and/or accidents not covered by insurance. Our primary focus is that our employees feel supported in such times. 6. Adopting a culture of excellence and retaining talents SODIC constantly seeks to offer the opportunity for undergraduates to get real life work experience and gain exposure to the job market, earn the skills needed and help them meet the requirements of a full-time job. We do this through our internship program for undergraduates during their university years. SODIC’s human resources department and the learning and development division offer yearly internship programs and the recruitments department may consider the enthusiastic interns for a potential full-time job.  2016: hosted 29 interns  2017: hosted 30 interns  2018: hosted 50 interns  2019: hosted 37 interns 7. Health and Wellbeing With the construction sector being extremely labor intensive, the health and safety of both employees and workers, including those not in the direct employment of SODIC, is a major priority of ours. In Egypt, the construction sector may include some level of informality, informal workers and an informal system that is lax on safety regulations. SODIC is therefore adamant to address such challenges and ensure the safety of all workers on site its projects. We established robust health and safety policies and procedures, developed a health and safety manual that all contractors are required to comply with. The Health and Safety Manual and Guidance Note stipulates clearly all the rules contractors have to abide by, details every step on how to conduct, record and review risk assessments and identifies the person responsible for the implementation of the relevant policies. a. Health and Safety Manual and Guidance Note SODIC developed a Health and Safety Manual and Guidance Note to ensure the safety of its employees as well as the safety of all workers working in any of our projects. Further to that, a comprehensive safety management system was designed on the principles of ISO 9000, ISO 14000 and OHSAS 18000, with a strong focus on:  Fostering a culture of safety through the development of policies and procedures  Garnering employees’ involvement by sustained safety and task-oriented trainings  Clearly defining safety responsibilities and accountabilities  Regular safety review  Hazard identification  Risk management  Developing emergency response plans 5 www.sodic.com b. Safety of our employees Directors and site supervisors are responsible for employees under their mandate and must ensure they are not exposed to unnecessary risks at work. We strongly believe that this duty extends beyond what is legally required and covers the moral responsibility that every person is responsible for their own behavior and must ensure no one is harmed due to their actions or omissions. The objectives of our health and safety manual are to:  Provide safety procedures for ensuring a minimum level of safety to employees, property, and equipment and against hazards associated with our projects.  Prevent accidents and diseases and harmful effects on the health of workers arising from employment in construction sites.  Ensure appropriate design and safe implementation in projects.  Provide means of analyzing from the point of view of safety, health and working conditions, construction processes, activities, technologies and operations, and of taking appropriate measures of planning, control and enforcement.  Take all reasonable measures within its control to protect the environment as well as the safety and health of the Owner’s employees, other persons, the general public, and its own personnel.  Avoid damage or nuisance to the people or to the property of the public or others resulting from pollution.  Know and understand all laws governing its activities along with any site requirements and work hazards. c. Wellness Program SODIC is currently developing a wellness program aiming at providing a healthy work-life balance for all employees. A healthy work-life balance raises productivity and employee engagement levels. Our wellness program offers:  Employee extra-curricular activities such as health and fitness challenges administered by the HR team.  Health screening tests.  Employee clubs such as running, biking and diving clubs run by employees.  Awareness sessions on various topics that will benefit employees, both on the personal and professional levels such as: personal finance management, selfawareness sessions such as NLP and Enneagram and Parenting Sessions. d. Safety on Site Site engineers and managers are trained to respond safely, responsibly, and effectively to emergency situations and they are provided with personal protective equipment to safely perform the functions of their positions. All sites have sufficient and suitable ventilation, lighting, potable water, washing facilities, sanitary facilities and suitable eating areas. 6 www.sodic.com e. Safety of Outsourced Workers To ensure the safety of workers in particular, all our contractual agreements incorporate a Health and Safety section that clearly indicates our health and safety requirements the contractor should abide by. All contractors working with SODIC are responsible for ensuring the safety and wellbeing of all workers under their mandate and must provide adequate welfare facilities on site as detailed in the Egyptian Labor Law. The contractor must ensure that;  Sufficient toilet facilities is provided in easy access of working areas and cleaned regularly.  Washing facilities is provided and are adequate for the numbers of workers and is kept clean, provided with soap and towels. Showers are provided where reasonably practical and where necessary due to risk.  Adequate changing and break facilities are provided for workers to take meal breaks.  Appropriate supplies of clean drinking water are provided for workers on all projects.  Work conducted in extreme temperatures has a definitive policy and/or safe work method statement developed to protect workers from extreme weather exposure.  Where contractors provide worker off-site living accommodation, the standards should meet all relevant local regulations. BLabor 1. Non-Discrimination SODIC does not have a non-discrimination policy as of yet. However, we acknowledge it is an important matter that needs our attention and one shall be drafted in the coming year. That said, our human resources policies ensures that employment practices such as hiring, advancement, termination, remuneration, and training decisions are based on objective factors, performance and capabilities and not in any way related to gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, language, mental or physical disability, or any other discriminating factor. Instead, this is determined by skills, qualifications and/or experience required for the position in question. SODIC has zero incidents of discrimination. 2. Child labor SODIC has zero tolerance to child labor, and it is strictly stipulated in all contractual agreements with all suppliers and contractors. We have had no incidents of child labor. 3. Empowering working mothers As part of our women empowerment initiative, SODIC dedicated a space for a daycare center for our working mothers where they can bring their young ones and leave them in a safe and healthy environment while at work. The dedicated space is fitted with its own bathroom and kitchenette and equipped with feeding chairs, sleeping mats and toys. The nursery also doubles as an after school facility for older children. SODIC has recently upgraded the facility to include an outdoor play area. 7 www.sodic.com 4. Rewards and Recognitions SODIC developed a motivational program ‘Rewards & Recognition Program’ that aims at rewarding employees who go the extra-mile, lead innovation initiatives, overachieve on their targets, collaborate with different departments and deliver on strategic initiatives. We also use the award system to build a learning culture. One of our challenges is that some people do not see the real value of training, particularly the blue collars and accountants. We overcome this through recognition programs and by making sure there is a development plan in employee appraisals. 5. Talent Management Program This program identifies exceptional talents, designs a plan for their development path and conducts regular follow up to sure they are progressing along the right track. This development path enables talented ambitious employees to move up the organizational leadership ladder where they are able to make their way up to the director level. The level of Director and above is promoted through the ‘Pro’ panel where the executive coaches monitor their development plans and evaluate achieved targets. 6. Training and Development SODIC supports career development and growth. We are committed to the continuous development of our people. Our employees are our greatest assets; we support talented ambitious employees to achieve their potential. Our training and development policy supports both, individual and organizational objectives. The human resources department develops training procedures and design a training plan for all employees. In 2019, 246 employees received training, around 50% of SODIC’s employees. On average, each training is 2 days or 16 hours. A training calendar is sent to employees during performance management and is categorized by targets and managerial level and they take the trainings accordingly. Around 60-70% of our employees apply for a training program and actually attend. 7. Employee digital portals SODIC developed the digital portal ‘MySODIC’, which is available to SODIC employees, to boost employee engagement and productivity. On the portal we designed an online employee handbook that clearly communicates employee benefits and rights and obligations. The handbook states employee related matters such as terms of employment, career progression, leave entitlements, internal transfers, insurance and pension plans. Additionally, we designed ‘The Cube’ online portal dedicated for innovative ideas where employees are able to post new ideas and discuss them with the company. In addition, SODIC 8 www.sodic.com maintains a set of policies on the intranet that are maintained and reviewed on yearly basis according to the need. 8. Travel and Transportation All employees are given the option of commuting by company provided buses reducing carbon footprint through group transportation. SODIC provides transportation services to all non-managerial levels with a fleet of 28 vehicles transporting around 378 of our staff. Employees who choose to use their cars have their own respective parking spot reserved to protect their cars and provide hassle free daily parking. All employees under the managerial level are entitled to transportation as part of their benefits. Our business travel policy provides employees working on remote sites with accommodation, a per diem, a salary uplift, and transportation allowance. 9. Diversity and Inclusion When we speak about diversity one tends to think about ethnic and gender diversity only. However, here in SODIC, we think of diversity in a wider perspective, SODIC promotes a diverse and inclusive workforce through the diverse religious, educational, socioeconomic and political backgrounds. We aspire to create a pool of a truly diverse workforce that will really benefit our creativity, productivity and ROI. 10. SODIC Learning Academy SODIC 101 Fundamentals: This program is an in-depth insight on everything about SODIC. Its objective is to know and understand SODIC’s value proposition, the company’s achievements, future plans, culture and more. All SODIC newcomers are eligible for this program. SODIC 201 SODIC Way: This program focuses on instilling the SODIC culture and competencies. Its objective is to learn how to use the SODIC Way to guide behaviors, conduct our business and make decisions. All SODIC employees are eligible for this program. SODIC 301 Value Chain: This program focuses on the SODIC Development Value Chain. Its objective is to give a high-level illustration of SODIC’s end-to-end project life cycle. All SODIC employees are eligible for this program. 11. Employee Volunteering Encouraging social responsibility and volunteerism among employees through regular blood, blanket and salary drives, for the support of Egyptian Children’s Cancer Hospital, Magdy Ya`acoub Foundation and Ahl Misr. 9 www.sodic.com 12. Human interaction and social integration SODIC promotes a culture of community and fosters a sense of belonging through activities such as daily breakfast and lunch held at its own cafeteria with meals provided at cost, as well as celebrating festivities such as Christmas, Secret Santa and Ramadan. 10 www.sodic.com CEnvironment 1. Water Mitigation Due to the large amount of water required for the construction and the maintenance of both residential and commercial real estate projects, as well as the excessive amounts of water required to maintain a golf course in one of our projects. Hence, SODIC is in the process of examining options for cutting water consumption by 15-30%. 2. Energy Consumption SODIC is currently migrating all its residential and commercial projects to energy-saving LED lights. This has resulted in a significant amount of energy savings, cutting down energy consumption by at least 50%. In 2019, SODIC has also installed sensors for the streetlights in a large number of our projects, so that the lights only turn on when there is movement on the roads, further increasing our energy efficiency. In 2019, SODIC launched its first initiative to generate some if it’s operations’ electricity through solar energy by using solar powered sheds. The sheds are implemented in Westown HUB parking lot and provide shaded areas for more than 100 cars, while also generating clean energy from the solar panels mounted on top. The amount of electricity generated through this initiative in 2019 was 51 Mwh and has already significantly reduced SODIC’s head quarter’s energy consumption, with further plans to cover 95% of SODIC’s HQ energy needs. SODIC Ride was launched to promote further energy efficiency and awareness among residents. This is an ondemand service accessible to SODIC West residents where they are able to locate and request solar powered cars to commute within the area, providing a clean and eco-friendly means of transportation. Additionally, SODIC has signed an agreement with Baddel (Cycle), the first e-bike sharing system in Cairo. Baddel has launched its first phase comprising of four stations with a total of 25 e-bikes around SODIC West. 11 www.sodic.com During the year also, SODIC has rolled out two new innovative homes focusing on energy and resource efficiency. Solar powered townhouses were introduced in VYE providing residents with clean energy. Expandable apartments were also offered in VYE minimizing the built space and materials to the residents’ current use with the option to expand the built space in the future to meet growing family needs. 3. Carbon Emissions Waste SODIC reduced its project’s carbon footprint by adding energy shading shelves to the design at an early stage. Throughout Eastown District New Cairo (EDNC), SODIC’s premium non-residential project in East Cairo, the facade of the buildings was designed as a dynamic play between harmonious grids intersected by an abstract set of cut-outs. The merging of the protruding gridded ribs, acting as a shading device, intersected by a double glazed curtain wall, where both elements work together to reduce the thermal transfer through the building. The form of the building and the design of its facade have been proportioned to provide natural day light through an optimum organization of office space to encourage a healthier and productive environment. SODIC also implemented the use of load bearing walls (isolated concrete foam), which is a structural concrete system for walls, usually made of a rigid thermal isolation that stays in place as a permanent interior and exterior substrate for walls. 12 www.sodic.com These walls give better sound and thermal insulation, which will lead to the reduction of electrical consumption. SODIC used post-tensioned slabs in ‘The Strip’ project. These flat slabs are typically band beam slabs or ribbed slabs. Post-tensioned slabs offer the thinnest slab type, as concrete is worked to its strengths, mostly being kept in compression. Longer spans can be achieved due to pre-stress, which can also be used to counteract deflections. The benefit of using post-tensioned slabs is based on the reduction of steel reinforcement use. 4. Solid Waste Much of SODIC’s construction and paper waste is picked up by recycling companies. However, this far it has not been audited and there are no figures for the amounts of waste that are picked up from our operations. Some of our projects, such as Katameya Plaza, have begun separating between different types of wastes, and we have future plans for training our employees and increasing their awareness regarding separating waste at the workplace. Furthermore, we are working on an initiative to replace all our plastic bags with environmentally friendly biodegradable ones. 5. Contractor Waste Disposal Our contracts with suppliers stipulate their responsibility for ensuring that different waste streams are segregated and removed from construction sites by licensed contractors. As a minimum, waste must be segregated into the following categories:  Hazardous waste, which includes waste oil, paints, thinners, solvents, etc.  Construction waste, which includes general waste arising from construction activities.  Food waste, which will be kept in sealed containers and cleared on a daily basis.  Any lightweight waste such as packaging must be placed in containers or rubbish skips and covered to prevent the waste being blown around the construction site. The main contractor is strictly prohibited from burning any waste on site. 13 www.sodic.com DAnti-Corruption 1. Ethics and Integrity SODIC is continuously and proactively working to avert any unethical conduct or illegal activity that may lead to potential reputational harm or damage to the business or any of its stakeholders. Our internal code of ethics and professional conduct provide clear guidelines for ethical behavior and professional conduct for all SODIC employees and members of the board of directors that enhance our core values and strengthens our reputation and credibility. This code of conduct provides core principles that support employee daily decisions, empower them to handle ethical dilemmas they might encounter in everyday work and govern their dayto day relations with one another, with agents, customers, suppliers, political entities and others. Our set of internal policies and code of conduct include guidelines to ensure ethics and integrity are reinforced at all times in all activities. Our policies include:  Equal opportunity and non-discrimination  Grievance Policy  Harassment  Alcohol and drugs  Smoking  Work space  Conflict of interest  Management conflict  Dress code  Gifts, and entertainment  Use of company property and assets  Public speaking and fund raising  Employee privacy  Confidentiality and information security  Customer, supplier and government relations 2. Reporting Channels SODIC developed a new portal in the workplace called ‘Speak Up’ that is accessible to every employee to voice any work related concern. Through Speak Up, employees are able to log in anonymously to inquire about an issue or file a grievance. Grievances submitted on the portal are directly received and dealt with by human resources. 14 www.sodic.com Additionally, ‘Ask HR’, is another channel through which employees can send their inquiries for any work related matter or ask for advice on a particular situation or behavior. All our policies, grievance mechanisms and Code of Conduct are available on the intranet for all employees at all times. 3. Conflict of Interest SODIC deploys and sets out the rules and guidance of the conflict of interest policy to ensure that no unjustified influence is applied by any external organization or any person dealing with SODIC. The policy sets a framework for employees and relevant persons to identify, disclose, manage and monitor conflicts of interest. Our code prohibits acting in conflict with the interests of the company, and manages our business relationships with our responsibility toward SODIC in mind, avoiding even the appearance of conflicts of interest. The policy applies to all employees, board or committee members, suppliers and consultants. The Conflict of Interest Policy identifies the various situations that could be considered conflict of interest, sets the procedures an employee needs to follow in case there is a suspicion of a conflict of interest, and who to notify or go to for advice. Those may be the HR department, Head of Department, Managing Director or CFO. Any related parties or related parties agreements are reported to the Board and is communicated to shareholders and investors. 4. Compliance and Internal Control SODIC applies a firm compliance system to ensure regulatory compliance; compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Set of policies, procedures, guidelines and regulations have been produced by relevant departments and approved by the Board of Directors. Those procedures ensure the accuracy and high quality of information, and safeguards the company’s tangible assets while increasing productivity and efficiency. Additionally, we developed procedures to evaluate suppliers, contractors and service providers before carrying out any contractual activities with them. We continue to check and review their performance 15 www.sodic.com regularly to ensure full compliance at all times. Ethical compliance, health and safety and legal compliance are stressed upon prior to contractual agreements and throughout the projects. Internal compliance to safety standards, code of conduct, internally developed policies and adopted standards are substantial to the success of our business. Policies are updated and reviewed annually through the annual implementation and internal audit programs. Through these programs, risks are identified and evaluated and actions, where necessary, are recommended and their implementation is monitored. All our policies, codes and guidelines are published on the intranet and communicated to all employees in Arabic and in English, and are communicated to all our outsourced contractors and service providers through our procurement department. The internal audit department makes sure all standards and guidelines are adhered to and the audit committee oversees that all is in place and is communicated clearly and adequately to all employees. All internal controls are the responsibility of the directors. Policies in place to ensure compliance and good business ethics are, but not limited to:  Conflict of Interest  Insider Trading  Related Parties  Code of Conduct  Non-Discrimination  Health and Safety  Whistle blowing policy  Human resources policies 16 www.sodic.com 03. SODIC Response amid Covid-19 As this report was compiled and drafted amid the COVID 19 global pandemic, although out of the reporting period, we believe it is important to reflect on the situation and communicate to our stakeholders how SODIC is responding to this pandemic and highlight our role as a responsible company. From the onset, SODIC took precautionary actions to ensure the health and safety of our employees and the communities where we operate to include but not limited to;  Firm hygiene protocols on our premises and our sites  Awareness sessions for our employees on social distancing and mask usage.  Deploying a ‘work from home’ policy and encouraging online meetings.  Redesigned work shifts to ensure social distancing is maintained at all times.  The company has no intention to release any of its employees or impose salary cuts as we fully understand the stressful economic context people are going through. SODIC’s commitment to contribute to addressing the crisis goes beyond its operations through deploying different practices;  Allocating some 5 million EGP in initiatives related to the COVID19 crisis.  Redirected all marketing resources to creating awareness about the virus, utilising all SODIC’s outdoor billboards and digital platforms.  Donating ventilators and monitors to Sheikh Zayed Specialised Hospital, Sheikh Zayed General Hospital and Imbaba General Hospital.  Coordinating with the Ministry of Health to commission portable quarantine units for Abbassia Fever Hospital and Mansoura Chest Hospital  Equipping hospital rooms in Mahala Fever Hospital to serve as complete isolation units, better equipping these healthcare facilities to receive COVID19 patients.  Distributing protection packages in Ezebt Khairallah, providing the community with immunity boosters, sanitisation material and hygiene instructions. 17 www.sodic.com 04. Corporate Citizenship Programs Our approach mainly focuses on achieving sustainable and scalable impact that will integrate and enhance the livelihoods of the less privileged communities. SODIC’s corporate citizenship programs impact over 47,000 lives annually SODIC is committed to achieving social impact across three focus areas; Education, Home Rehabilitation and Providing Equal Opportunity. We also host a Relief Program, which channels in-kind donations to those most in need and engages our employees allowing them to also contribute to giving back to our wider communities. AEducation 1. Educate-Me Providing Quality Education in Talbeya & Scaling through Public School Training Educate-Me is a non-profit organization that develops education curricula in a community school in Talbeya serving ages 4 to 15 years old. Educate-Me also offers teacher trainings to private and public school educators for a fee – sponsored by the private sector to scale its impact beyond the boundaries of one specified area and generate revenue streams for its operations. With the support of SODIC, Educate-Me has provided quality education to over 78,000 beneficiaries over the past three years and is now able to recover over 65% of its running costs. 18 www.sodic.com 2. Tawasol: Providing Quality Education and Creating Jobs in Istabl Antar Tawasol runs a small community school for dropouts. The school provides children of the impoverished neighborhood of Stabl Antar with regular schooling in addition to vocational training on a range of crafts. Tawasol sells the products handmade by community members on an online platform to generate income to help cover the school costs. The students perform small productions and acrobatic performances for a fee, giving them the space for boosting creativity and personal development while generating income for the community. SODIC has contributed to running the operations of the school since 2012 and has contributed to the purchase of a plot of land that is home to a new school in Ezbet Khairallah that will accommodate up to 500 students and will start operating in September 2020. Over the past year, Tawasol was able to sustain the education of 195 students versus 96 the year before. 19 www.sodic.com BRehabilitation 1. Future Eve Foundation (FEF): Home Improvement Loans Operating in Minya in Upper Egypt, Future Eve Foundation runs a women empowerment initiative that provides microloans to widows and single mothers. The microloans are used to finance micro enterprises and/or improve women’s living conditions. In 2019, SODIC contributed EGP 500,000 to the fund that provided 369 widows in Minya with microloans for home improvement bringing the total fund amount to EGP 1 million. Providing financing for impoverished women without access to bank loans at affordable subsidized interest rates resulted in a payback rate of over 99%. 20 www.sodic.com CEqual Opportunity 1. Bright Tomorrow for Child Protection (BTCP): Developing Autistic Children BTCP supports children on the autism spectrum with the aim of building the ability to attend mainstream school when possible and improve connectivity and interaction skills with surrounding community. In 2019, BTCP impacted over 347 children suspected with autism and Neurodevelopmental disorders to achieve technical independence in their daily lives and join mainstream schools. 2. Eslam Abu Ali: The Super Adaptive Paralympic Swimmer SODIC is proud to sponsor an exceptional athlete. Eslam Abu Ali is the first Egyptian Para-triathlete to complete the Ironman 70.3 race and is ranked 5th globally in the 100m Breaststroke at the World Para-Swimming Championships in Mexico. We continue to support Eslam in his incredible journey as an inspirational super adaptive athlete. 21 www.sodic.com 3. Special Olympics – A legacy of First Evers Driven by its commitment to inclusion and in celebration of people of determination, SODIC proudly sponsored the Special Olympics 1st Pan-African Games in Egypt. The championship gathered 800 athletes from 42 countries to compete in 4 sports; Football, Basketball, Athletics and Bocce. The sponsorship reiterates SODIC`s commitment to advocate the inclusion of people of determination in the society by maximizing their participation across different fields achieving full gender equality, with 50-50 participation from both male and female athletes. DRelief Program SODIC relief program runs annual salary drives, blood drives, blanket drives and food packing and distribution with all collections channeled conscientiously and diligently to those most in need. In 2019, SODIC supported over 2500 families through this program. _________________________________________________________________________________________ 22 www.sodic.com
