UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Contents Statement from our CEO 5 Responsible business at Hogan Lovells 6 Delivering legal solutions for our clients 14 Contributing to society 20 Statement from our CEO The world has changed dramatically since I was appointed CEO of Hogan Lovells, but my enthusiasm for and commitment to responsible business are stronger than ever. Delivering on our commitments to diversity & inclusion, citizenship and sustainability is one of our key strategic priorities. To ensure we make rapid progress, I appointed Susan Bright as our first Global Managing Partner for Diversity & Inclusion and Responsible Business with effect from 1 July this year. As one of the first Latino CEOs of a global law Our lawyers and business services professionals firm, I know first-hand the difference that focusing are expected to dedicate at least 25 hours each on equity for our people and clients makes. year to our Citizenship programme which At Hogan Lovells, being ambitious, innovative, comprises pro bono legal work, community responsible, committed and supportive are the investment projects, and matched giving. qualities that drive our behaviors in all that we do, Our work supports the achievement of the and that includes our actions to improve diversity SDGs. Key areas of focus include advancing and inclusion. We strive to make a meaningful, racial justice, empowering women and girls and positive impact in society and our firm by supporting youth, environmental protection, cultivating an environment where all our people peace and reconciliation, and responding to can thrive and succeed. We have set diversity global crises. Last year we delivered 232,000+ goals for gender, race/ethnicity and LGBT+, Citizenship hours with 143,000+ focused on pro our people globally have undertaken implicit bias bono legal services. Some examples of which I feel training, we take a proactive approach to respect particularly proud include representing several at work, and we have implemented a global non-profit groups and individual migrants in wellbeing framework. successfully challenging a restrictive immigration ban targeting Central Americans seeking refuge We support the global sustainability agenda and in the United States, a cross-jurisdictional team work with our stakeholders and society with the working with The Environmental Investigation objective of using the law to build a better world. Agency (EIA) UK to fight ivory trafficking across We will continue to learn, seek to improve our the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and contribution to achieving the UN Sustainable Asia-Pacific, and supporting local tribes in Development Goals (SDGs), and will continue Yakutia, a vast territory in the North East of our commitment to serving the best interests of Russia, to preserve their cultural heritage. clients and other stakeholders. We have a leading sustainable energy and low carbon practice To return to where I began, it takes time to advising many clients on the transition to green make the changes that create a truly diverse and energy, reducing their carbon footprint while inclusive firm and a leading responsible business, ensuring regulatory and legislative compliance. but we are determined to succeed. I am proud We advise our clients through our Business and Human that we are actively leading change within our Rights group, Business Integrity group, Climate profession and, working with our clients and Change practice, Impact Financing and Investment partners, within our communities and society. group, and Sustainable Development group. Together we can build a sustainable future. Miguel Zaldivar Chief Executive Officer T +1 202 637 5525 miguel.zaldivar@hoganlovells.com 6 Hogan Lovells Responsible business at Hogan Lovells Global Human Rights Policy maintain their own databases of first tier suppliers, We respect human rights in our practices, and we are working to centralize this information business and supply chain by clarifying what and to integrate it into existing firm‑wide we expect of our people and our business systems in order to further increase control and partners though our Global Human Rights Policy. co‑ordination. We monitor its implementation and report to Suppliers are risk assessed and categorized our International Management Committee on taking into account the nature of their business issues related to human rights in our business as well as country of operation, and product and and supply chain in order to continuously assess industry characteristics. Suppliers categorized and improve our human rights due diligence as presenting a significant risk of modern procedures and integrate the findings into our slavery are subject to additional due diligence, operational procedures. primarily based on public sources of information including checks of their own modern slavery and Modern slavery human trafficking statements where applicable, We are committed to the highest standards of and any other published policies and procedures. ethical, moral, and legal business conduct and Where, following additional due diligence and we expect our suppliers to uphold the same values. checks, a supplier is still assessed as presenting We have adopted a Modern Slavery Policy which a significant risk of modern slavery or failing to prohibits modern slavery in our business and meet our standards, they are required to complete supply chains and are committed to implementing a modern slavery questionnaire. The quality and systems and controls aimed at ensuring that transparency of responses to these questionnaires modern slavery is recognized and eradicated. is assessed. We have a dedicated core group addressing risks This risk assessment exercise has been completed in the area of modern slavery and ensuring that in respect of suppliers to all our offices. To date, appropriate measures are applied to assess, we have not identified any occurrence of modern manage and minimize risk. This group comprises slavery in our supply chain, nor have we identified representatives from compliance, procurement and any risks of modern slavery that we have not been our Business and Human Rights group. able to resolve through additional due diligence or As a regulated provider of legal services and engagement with the supplier. employer of predominantly professionally qualified We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct and highly skilled people, the risk of modern which applies to our providers of goods and slavery within our business is considered low. We services and sets out the standards we expect apply robust policies and procedures concerning them to observe, including in respect of modern employment and screening including work slavery risks. This code has been introduced for eligibility checks and employment conditions. suppliers to other offices. Where our standards Most of our suppliers supply standard office are not met, suppliers are expected to take and goods or services. We recognize there are supplies evidence remedial steps to ensure their activities involving potentially higher risk, for example, in our supply chain are free from modern slavery, supplies of food and drink and promotional considering what approach will result in the products and some services involving relatively safest outcome for potential victims and enhance high levels of contracted labor. Individual offices supplier behavior. UNGC COP November 2020 We have developed training programmes to provide the skills and knowledge to those responsible for procurement to recognize the key issues and risks and how these must be addressed. This training has been undertaken by key personnel from offices in the United Kingdom and by office managers in our other international offices, who are generally responsible for contracts and relationships with suppliers. We are committed to promoting and maximizing awareness of modern slavery risks across our organization, and an online education module on human rights is available to all our people regardless of their role. In order to detect any modern slavery in our business or supply chains any concerns are to be reported without delay or fear of detrimental treatment. Our Modern Slavery Policy requires anyone who becomes aware of or suspects modern slavery in our business or supply chains to report it to the firm’s General Counsel or, if they wish to report anonymously, they may do so as set out in the firm’s Global Whistleblowing Policy. We are auditing our existing measures to address modern slavery risks. A similar audit was carried out in 2018 which concluded that our existing measures are robust but identified a number of improvements to our supply chain due diligence and risk assessment process which we have implemented. We are in the process of wider changes to modernize and centralize our procurement management and processes which we believe will enhance our ability to take further steps in relation to modern slavery risks across our business. We will continue to make efforts to identify any significant risks in our business and supply chain and implement any actions appropriate or necessary directly with suppliers. We are currently considering the adoption of appropriate key performance indicators to monitor and report upon future performance. 8 Hogan Lovells Gender equality Our adoption of the Mansfield Rule in the U.S. We are signatories to the Women’s Empowerment demonstrates our commitment to measuring, tracking Principles, and we put those principles into action. and improving the composition of women, minority Currently 42 percent of our Board are women, and LGBT+ candidates for senior leadership positions, 30 percent of our executive committee are women lateral recruiting and business development activities. and 26 percent of partners globally are women. We achieved Mansfield Certification Plus status for Our aim is to have at least 30 per cent women the second consecutive year, were one of five pilot in partnership. firms for the Mansfield Rule 3.0 who volunteered to take on a more intensive tracking process, and we are We were the first global law firm to introduce participating in the inaugural Mansfield Rule in the UK. goals for women: 30 percent women in senior management roles by 2015, 25 percent women Pay Gap Report UK partners by 2017 and 30 percent women partners Whilst the statutory focus of pay gap reporting in the by 2022. We have achieved the first two goals and United Kingdom is gender, since its introduction in continue to push toward the final goal. In 2020, 2017, we have gone beyond the mandatory gender we published global goals for minority and LGBT+ pay gap reporting guidelines by including partners lawyers, aiming to achieve 15 percent minority in our reports. In 2018, we voluntarily shared our partners and 4 percent LGBT+ partners by 2025. ethnicity pay gap information and we also provided a breakdown of our lawyer and business services data In the United States, we achieved Gold Standard by gender. In our most recent report, we provided in the Women in Law Empowerment Forum the same data and, going further, we shared for the (WILEF) certification for the eighth consecutive first time our sexual orientation pay gap information. year, and in the United Kingdom we achieved Gold Standard in the WILEF certification for the With respect to our ethnicity pay gap, 91 percent of second year. The Times recognized us as a Top 50 our people have shared their ethnicity information Employer for Women for the eighth consecutive with us. Of that population, 17 percent identify as year, and Yale Law designated us a Top Firm for being from a Black, Asian or minority ethnic (BAME) the fourth time. This year, we were recognized for background. We have a strong record in recruiting flexible work options. BAME students through our graduate recruitment program, which uses a range of innovative activities We have in place a range of talent development, including our contextual recruitment system, coaching, and mentoring opportunities to support our Ladder to Law program and working with our women with career progression. This is Aspiring Solicitors. We are committed to creating an alongside our five active employee networks environment that attracts, retains and develops our and external partnerships with Business in the BAME talent and have placed a significant focus on Community, PRIME, Rare recruitment and this in our UK diversity strategy through to 2022. Reignite Academy. 35% of management 45% of our 2020 partner 26% of our partnership 11% of our partnership in 3% of our partnership in the positions are held promotions were women are women the UK and the U.S. are UK and U.S. are LGBT+ by women minorities As at 1 January 2020 UNGC COP November 2020 9 Race & ethnicity In the United States, we instituted a diversity In line with our focus on improving the retention and inclusion action plan that provides for and progression of our ethnic minority talent in accountability, improved processes, fine‑tuned the United Kingdom, we commissioned research recruiting and lateral integration, cultural to explore, with our people, what promotes development and engaging with clients. We and hinders inclusion at the firm as well as focus on all diverse talent through our Americas understanding the lived experience of our Black, Diversity Committee which invests in the internal Asian or minority ethnic (BAME) talent. We have pipeline of diverse lawyers and implements implemented a number of the recommendations best practices for diversity and inclusion. This including increasing the visibility of ethnic sponsorship forum aims to ease access to work minority role models, supporting our people and developmental opportunities to tactically to develop ‘race fluency’ to enable more open increase the chances of the success of our diverse conversations around race, and briefing our talent. Additionally, we are offering 50 hours of external recruitment partners on the requirement billable credit to our associates with the aim of to provide diverse shortlists for experienced hires. resolving the undue burden on our diverse people for diversity and inclusion activity. Our commitment to addressing racism was greatly enhanced by the launch of our Race and We hosted our second Allverse conference for Ethnicity at Hogan Lovells (REAHL) Network U.S. minority and LGBT+ lawyers. With the in March 2020. Following the killing of George theme Launching a Legacy, the two‑day event Floyd and the countless other lives lost as a result brought together 300+ lawyers and provided an of systemic racism, we had difficult but necessary opportunity for diverse lawyers, senior leadership, conversations within our firm about racism and and clients to build an enriching community. racial justice, hosting online forums attended LGBT+ by nearly 280 of our people across EMEA, We believe that every person should have equal sharing experiences of racism, discrimination, rights to study, work and be an active part of their and exploring how we ensure our workplace is community. That is why we continue to focus inclusive. Membership of REAHL has more than on growing Pride+, our global LGBT+ and allies doubled from 120 to 250+. network, with approximately 1300 members We are a signatory of the Business in the worldwide. Our LGBT+ people and allies set Community Race at Work Charter and have the culture of our firm and use their influence to committed to their five calls to action. We have raise important issues both locally and globally. also signed the Race Fairness Commitment, a We received the honor of Top Global Employer data‑driven charter examining the recruitment in Stonewall’s inaugural global workplace audit, and progression of BAME and white employees; which was awarded to only 17 organizations. for both lawyers and business services as In Hong Kong, we committed as a signatory to well as commitments to training, monitoring the Equal Love campaign to support the legal and mentorship aiming to identify areas for recognition and equal treatment of same‑sex improvement within the firm’s culture and relationships, and in Japan we supported the hierarchy for BAME colleagues. Viewpoint statement on marriage equality We received the honor of Top Global Employer in Stonewall’s inaugural global workplace audit, which was awarded to only 17 organizations globally. 10 Hogan Lovells Promoting inclusion Dignity and respect in the workplace In Asia‑Pacific we kicked off our focus on Respect at Work is our proactive approach to diversity and inclusion with our campaign ensure that we protect both our people and our You’re Included which comprises a series of culture, the principles of which have been deployed actions and approaches that our people can across our regions. We have initiated a program of adopt in their workday to create connections activity that includes refreshing and relaunching and build inclusivity in our shared work our Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policies in all environment. We are encouraging everyone regions, as well as localized training on inclusive to take responsibility for change and to feel able behaviors and implicit bias. to contribute meaningfully by taking action In the United Kingdom, we have introduced within their sphere of influence. Respect Advocates who are available to provide We also graduated our first cohort of Inclusion support and guidance to anyone in the firm who Allies, informed and certified inclusion would like to speak confidentially about bullying ambassadors, leading from the front and changing and harassment, whether experiencing it themselves culture one step at a time. The Inclusion Allies or witnessing it in relation to others. We have delivered program is intended to equip everyone with the mandatory workshops for all UK partners and business knowledge and confidence to be ambassadors for services leads to ensure our leaders understand and are inclusion, promote ownership to create a place equipped to deal with these issues. In addition, respect where respect and innovation flourish, and build guidance has also been rolled out across every an inclusive culture one human interaction at office in Continental Europe. a time. In 2019, we rolled out mandated ‘doing nothing is not an option’ web‑based training to all our people in the UK. UNGC COP November 2020 11 Health & wellbeing the U.S. including a Silver certification for our As part of our global wellbeing framework, New York office refurbishment. We achieved we focus on supporting the mental and physical the implementation of ISO14001 across our health of our people. All regions participate in UK offices, we are ALISS Silver certified by the a wellbeing day, week or month. All our people American Legal Industry Sustainability Standard, have access to an Employee Assistance Program and were awarded Silver Certification in the providing consultation and mediation services. EcoVadis survey for the Americas. We provide on‑site gyms or subsidized gym access, We purchase 100 percent renewable energy in our as well as free fruit in many of our offices and London and German offices. We have expanded access to nutritionists. We embed wellbeing into recycling programmes across our global sites, our benefits packages, and as a multi‑generational including reduced use of plastics, increase in workplace we provide initiatives that support use of recycled and compostable materials and people at every stage of their life. In the United enhanced e‑waste programmes. Kingdom and United States, we also have on‑site, Whilst occupancy of our buildings has been independent counsellors and provide mental significantly reduced owing to COVID‑19, health awareness training. where possible we have consolidated offices People networks and/or moth-balled buildings and areas to reduce Our networks, affinity groups and champions unnecessary energy and water consumption. are active across all our regions and support a wide network of communities including LGBT+, women, working families, racial/ethnic minorities, wellbeing, millennials, carers and colleagues with disabilities or long‑term health conditions. They provide a forum for networking and business development and support our understanding of the relevant issues. Living Wage employer We are a voluntary signatory to the Living Wage Foundation (LWF) campaign in the United Kingdom. The LWF provides a benchmark for employers who chose to pay their employees at a rate which is calculated according to the cost of living. We require our suppliers, such as our caterers, to state in their contracts that they pay their staff at least this rate. We pay our employees the Living Wage, a rate higher than the Government set National Minimum Wage. Sustainable office management We have continued to strengthen how we manage our offices sustainably. In the United Kingdom we are founder members of the Legal Sustainability Alliance on Climate Change and in the United States we are members of the Law Firm Sustainability Network. We achieved Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification for 10 of our offices in 12 Hogan Lovells Sustainable procurement Environmental committees We are working to ensure that procurement Each of our offices has an Environmental across our global supply chains supports our Committee with funds to support local initiatives. business objectives and meets our sustainability Larger projects are viewed on a case by case basis commitments. As part of our procurement process with opportunities to invest where the return on we review, report, manage, and improve on our investment is economically viable. impact and that of the third party vendors which supply services. Ethical behavior Our Global Anti‑Bribery and Anti‑Corruption Our procurement process is structured around Policy supports our commitment to the how we plan, source and manage our third party prevention of bribery and corruption and vendors and their delivered services. We are to the promotion of an anti‑bribery and committed to work with third parties across anti‑corruption culture. The policy sets forth our global supply chains to reduce our direct expectations and requirements relating to impact and to report on progress made, and be the prevention, detection, and reporting accountable to all of our stakeholders. of bribery and other forms of corruption Our global travel program is positively supporting and covers gifts and hospitality, facilitation sustainable purchase decisions through the hotels payments, political contributions, and charitable we use. Our global sourcing strategy requires contributions. We require all our people to comply all hotels bidding on our business to detail with all laws, rules and regulations relating their sustainability practices including globally to anti‑bribery and anti‑corruption in all the recognized sustainable certifications. Our global jurisdictions in which we operate. We have an hotel directory highlights and recommends anonymous reporting procedure as part of our certified green hotels to enable our people to make Global Whistleblowing Policy. the right choice for the environment and their Our Global Whistleblowing Policy provides a business needs. way for our people to raise concerns in a manner As part of an ongoing review of our domestic that protects them from the fear of reprisals and international travel we are capturing or victimization, and which is fair to all those and aggregating the carbon footprint of all involved. It is intended to cover serious concerns business air travel and are prioritizing the that could have an impact on the firm, our people, use of electric vehicles. or our clients. This includes actions that are dishonest or unlawful, may lead to incorrect financial reporting, are in violation of the Rules We are capturing and aggregating of Professional Conduct, are contrary to firm policy, or otherwise amount to improper conduct. the carbon footprint of all business We have a standard reporting policy which enables air travel and are prioritizing the use a full discussion of the circumstances with the of electric vehicles. person making a report; however reports can also be made on an anonymous basis using our whistleblowing hotline. UNGC COP November 2020 13 14 Hogan Lovells Delivering legal solutions for our clients Business integrity Business and human rights Through our Business Integrity Group (BiG) we We have a market leading international Business advise major corporates, national governments, and Human Rights group, advising businesses debt and equity investors and disruptors on all on how to identify and address adverse human aspects of their business integrity and alignment rights risks in their operations and supply chains. to the UN Sustainable Development Goals We provide clients with the full range of human (SDGs). This includes mapping their corporate rights services, from due diligence on new purpose, mission and brand to the SDGs – and operations and ventures, through to investigations other methodologies and frameworks – and of adverse human rights impacts and human on every aspect of their commercial and legal rights related litigation. infrastructure. Our focus is to ensure they comply with best practice and more importantly that their incentives and structures are driving performance Representative experience in their priority SDGs. We advise on all areas We designed and implemented an industry including governance, debt, equity, employee leading business and human rights policy for incentives, supply chain, and how they can drive a the European arm of a global manufacturing progressive agenda. business. The framework was designed to be fit for the future, and so does not just comply BiG focuses on five specific areas: sustainable with existing national law but ensures that our development and the social license to operate; client’s business is aligned with the UN Guiding green financing, including green bonds; Principles and in tune with the rapidly evolving socially responsible investing; anti‑bribery business and human rights landscape. and corruption; and business and human rights. We take an innovative, client‑focused approach, leveraging our global services and A hospitality sector business operating across sector knowledge. Europe on the development of a human rights policy and management system based upon the UN Guiding Principles and compliance with Representative experience the UK Modern Slavery Act and the French duty of vigilance law. The system was focused on The UK Government and the National Lottery specific modern slavery and trafficking risks Community Fund on establishing two social arising from the prevalence of sub-contracted enterprises to disseminate dormant access and temporary workers in the sector. cash for social impact, including on establishing best practice governance involving an A manufacturing sector client on compliance innovative multitier mission lock arrangement. with modern slavery and supply chain transparency reporting requirements in The UK Meteorological Office on ESG issues Australia, California, and the UK. in the context of maximizing the impact of their multibillion pound investment in a state‑of‑the‑art supercomputer which is expected to be the world’s most advanced dedicated to weather and climate. Pool Re, the UK’s only re‑insurer of terrorism risk, on ESG issues, including in relation to maximizing social value from their multimillion pound investment in major projects and services. UNGC COP November 2020 15 Impact economy Energy transition We launched Impact Financing & Investing, Power markets are evolving, with energy production a unique global platform, to ensure that we and consumption moving away from fossil fuels, offer our clients best‑in‑market support in including oil, natural gas and coal, towards meeting this mission‑critical area. Our cross‑border, global energy demand through a smart energy multi‑disciplinary team supports our clients system producing a sustainable level of greenhouse as they navigate a wide spectrum of products, gas emissions. We are at at the forefront of these which range from social and development bonds, developments, helping clients across various green finance, financial inclusion products, industries navigate the energy transition. green infrastructure transactions to gender lens investing. Our offering extends beyond the purely legal; for example, we are working with several Representative experience clients developing detailed and transformational The lenders to the Tulu Moye 150MW internal ESG investment policies. geothermal power project in Ethiopia, the Finding innovative solutions to the challenges country’s largest foreign direct investment. facing the impact financing and investing sector We are advising on Ethiopia’s energy and is a priority for us. We work with our clients to public‑private partnership (PPP) laws and are share knowledge, raise awareness, and navigate involved in the drafting of new geothermal laws, the challenges and opportunities resulting from and in the creation of new fiscal and foreign financing with impact. Our goal is to create exchange regimes to facilitate the inflow and strong partnerships and collaborations in order outflow of US Dollars. to develop innovative and efficient financial solutions to overcome the challenges facing International Finance Corporation (IFC) on a the impact economy. landmark project to design, build and operate a 103 MW energy-from-waste facility in Serbia. The facility will generate electricity for the Representative experience national grid and heat for Belgrade’s municipal Norddeutsche Landesbank – Girozentrale, district heating company. The project also ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Commerzbank involves cleaning up one of Europe’s largest Aktiengesellschaft and Crédit Agricole landfills and constructing a new EU-compliant Corporate and Investment Bank as lead sanitary landfill, which will form part of a managers on the legal documentation of the sustainable waste-management complex first “Lettre de Gage énergies renouvelables” designed to reduce pollution and mitigate (renewable energy covered bond) issued by climate change. NORD/LB Luxembourg S.A. Covered Bond Bank under Luxembourg law. Riversimple, a UK car manufacturer of hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicles. Bayerische Landesbank as arranger on the Riversimple provides a sustainable business world’s first placement of a Blue Social Bond of model from the product, the governance Deutsche Kreditbank Aktiengesellschaft (DKB). structure, and the interaction with the It will serve the refinancing of the municipal end consumer. The current model, the water supply and sanitation. Rasa, is to be sold as a service, Riversimple retains ownership of the vehicles and the Big Society Capital on its Resilience & Recovery consumer pays a monthly subscription price Loan Fund (RRLF), a newly established fund for which includes use of the vehicle and all social enterprises and charities facing business ancillary costs. disruption due to the COVID‑19 pandemic. 16 Hogan Lovells HL BaSE: Business and Social Enterprise Our Business and Social Enterprise Practice (HLBaSE) is an integral part of our philosophy that recognizes an alignment between our commercial practice and our engagement with the communities in which we work. Our vision is a market where every business has a purpose and accessing legal support is not a barrier to maximizing the social impact created by that purpose. Over the past decade, we have encouraged our lawyers from across our international offices to support social impact causes, by providing high quality legal advice to social entrepreneurs and impact investment projects. Through HL BaSE legal we have advised 800+ social enterprises across Asia, Europe, and North America. Our ground‑breaking HL BaSE Training programme – which is delivered in partnership with Ashoka – has enabled 400+ of our junior lawyers worldwide to develop important client facing skills early in their career and ensures that they are familiar with the importance of social and environmental impact to our clients. Our commitment to environmental and social Representative experience issues has long formed a core part of our firm’s Financing Agency for Social Entrepreneurship culture and we remain as dedicated as ever to (FASE) on regulatory advice in relation to the setensuring that we support our clients seamlessly up of a new social fund. FASE has raised over €20 across our network of offices. Through our HL million in growth capital for social enterprises. BaSE Catalyst programme, we have worked with 100+ in‑house counsel clients, across the world, The Agora Projects in relation to a loan contract including in China, France, Germany, Italy, the format compliant with Mexican regulations. Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United High potential, early and growth stage social States. We are the only international law firm enterprises receive in-depth consulting support, which provides this service for in‑house counsel as well as access to mentors, investors and a clients and the demand for places on our Catalyst global community of like-minded peers. workshops is growing exponentially. This recognition of strength in diversity and a sense Now Teach on incorporating a UK charity of togetherness permeate throughout the firm into all that provides a route for experienced our practice areas and drive our commitment to solving professionals to successfully become teachers social and environmental issues and our alignment with sustainable, long-term careers, primarily with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. focusing on shortage subjects. UNGC COP November 2020 17 growth alongside stronger legislation, increased enforcement, and heightened bribery and corruption risk. We launched the tenth annual Global Bribery and Corruption Outlook, housed on our online bribery and corruption portal. Each year, our compliance and investigations lawyers around the world take stock of the bribery and corruption trends of the preceding year and begin anticipating important issues of the next. For 2020, we’ve gathered feedback from several clients and together we have singled out the key industry‑specific concerns about bribery and corruption compliance around the world. Our ABC portal also includes our Latin American investigations guide covering frequently asked questions for conducting corporate investigations in Latin America and our European investigations guide which addresses the most common issues in 34 European jurisdictions. Representative experience Anti‑bribery and corruption JSC Commercial Bank “PrivatBank” in its Global companies need corruption related advice high‑profile attempt to recover US $1.9 billion from local experts who have an international allegedly defrauded from the Bank by its perspective. We have dedicated, on the ground former shareholders, Igor Kolomoisky and corruption teams in key regional hubs: London, Gennadiy Bogolyubov, while it was still under Moscow, Paris, Munich, Johannesburg, Singapore, their control. Shanghai, Sao Paulo, Mexico City, San Francisco, Tokyo, and Washington D.C. which enables ZTE on its ongoing implementation of and us to field truly global teams who understand compliance with the terms of its settlement local nuances and are sensitive to local laws, with U.S. regulators following violations of combined with a thorough understanding of U.S. export controls and economic sanctions internationally‑applicable laws. We advise on laws. The settlement is one of the largest the highest profile, high value, and precedent in the history of U.S. export control and setting matters. sanctions enforcement. We have published a follow‑on report in our UN Office on Drugs and Crime on updates ground‑breaking Steering the Course series, to its anti‑corruption e‑learning materials for Steering the Course II: Navigating bribery private sector organizations, and on its analysis and corruption risk in 2020, which builds on of international bribery standards and national the extensive analysis in our first report and legislation in the context of fighting corruption refreshes its conclusions for 2020. Based on in sport. interviews with 700+ compliance leaders, our global study examines the challenges of and differing approaches to implementing anti‑bribery and corruption programs. It also considers how corporates can balance the pressures of 18 Mobilizing against COVID-19 The rapid spread of COVID-19 caught many businesses by surprise. We mobilized quickly to help our clients make decisions about their own operations and people, as well as how to help their communities face this deadly pandemic. We applied that same mindset to our own business. We worked with our clients to resolve industry and public health challenges, including finding and transporting PPE, creating new business models, expediting medical device approval, and navigating supply chain issues. We helped clients change operations such as turning bourbon distilleries into hand sanitizer production facilities, we guided clients through expedited vaccine research applications, and we helped numerous institutions avoid costly litigation. Much of our response to COVID-19 can be traced to our culture of innovation. That put us in a strong position to quickly adapt when COVID-19 struck, rapidly organizing and performing crucial work for clients who needed innovative legal work to meet new challenges. Representative experience Guiding Ford through a presidentially mandated collaboration with GE Healthcare to produce ventilators the first time in Ford’s long history that it has made healthcare equipment. Helping Vayu Global Health Innovations obtain Emergency Use Authorization from the FDA for its bubble continuous positive airway pressure devices, allowing for immediate distribution of this ultra-low cost breathing apparatus that can replace conventional ventilators. Creating a global COVID-19 hub to more effectively communicate with clients. We went further, providing tools, webinars, and mobilizing outreach. As a result the firm has handled 1300+ matters directly related to COVID-19. 20 Hogan Lovells Contributing to society Being good citizens Advancing racial justice We align our Citizenship programme – pro bono We have made a formal pledge to devote at least and community investment projects, and matched 65,000 pro bono hours through 2023 to breaking giving – in support of the UN Sustainable down the deeply rooted, systemic barriers in Development Goals (SDGs). society that profoundly impact people of color. We will focus on combating discrimination in the Our lawyers and business services professionals areas of housing and economic justice, criminal are expected to dedicate 25 hours per year to justice, and voting rights, working with a range of pro bono legal and skilled non‑legal volunteering nonprofits already active in these areas. As a firm activities benefiting the world around them. we will match up to US$200,000 in donations Key areas of focus include advancing racial justice, by our people to organizations combatting racial empowering women and girls and supporting discrimination and injustice, in addition to youth, environmental protection, peace and US$100,000 which has already been committed reconciliation, and responding to global crises. by individual members of the Board and Last year, we delivered 232,000+ Citizenship International Management Committee. hours worldwide with 143,000 focused on pro Building on our internal commitment, we have bono legal services. We completed a three year joined nearly 200 law firms in the Law Firm global Citizenship partnership with leading Antiracism Alliance (LFAA) a collaborative effort social enterprise Barefoot College supporting to address systemic racism through a long‑term, them to scale their impact around the world. high‑impact approach to pro bono legal services. A key partnership achievement included training Members of the LFAA will inventory the laws, 474 women from 35 countries as solar engineers, rules, policies, and practices that result in negative bringing clean light to more than 230,000 people outcomes for people of color and use legislative in the developing world. and regulatory advocacy, as well as high‑impact For more details on our Citizenship work visit litigation, to effectuate reforms. www.hoganlovells.com/citizenship Our new three‑year global Citizenship partnership is Projects undertaken so far include: with PeaceTech Lab (PTL). PTL seeks to end • A global comparative law research project to violence and promote peace around the world by develop a report on “hate speech” which can be putting low‑cost, easy‑to‑use technology into the used by PTL and other external agencies, for hands of the people best positioned to make a example, UN Rapporteurs. difference: activists, peacebuilders, and other NGOs. • A global COVID‑19 violence tracker project which tracks the relationship between the virus and the violence for use by policy‑makers, NGOs and local peacekeepers. • A significant new Road to Equal Justice project which will empower U.S. communities with media, technology, and data tools to accelerate and amplify the fight for equal justice. UNGC COP November 2020 21 Ground-breaking litigation The decision puts an end to the restrictive rule, In collaboration with the NGO Lotus Flower, we which impacted thousands of asylum seekers. are taking ground-breaking litigation to secure Petition for political prisoners accountability for Yazidi women survivors of The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention war crimes committed by ISIS foreign fighters. (WGAD) has issued an opinion on a petition, We commenced litigation in Australia to secure jointly submitted by Hogan Lovells and Freedom reparations for the women survivors of war crimes Now, on behalf of 11 Tajik political prisoners. committed by a convicted ISIS fighter testing the The WGAD found that the Government of State’s international law obligations to survivors Tajikistan violated the human rights of our clients, of genocide and war crimes under the UN Basic who were leaders of the Islamic Renaissance Principles.This case has progressed to the Court Party of Tajikistan. The clients were arrested of Appeal in New South Wales, Australia and has in 2015 and accused of plotting a coup d’état. secured the backing of the UN Rapporteur for They were sentenced to varying terms of ExtraJudicial Killing. imprisonment, ranging from a minimum of The work is complemented by our research 14 years to life imprisonment. The WGAD found undertaken with the expertise of our Sanctions their detention to be arbitrary, in violation of practice on the impact of sanctions imposed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights worldwide imposed on designated individuals and and the International Covenant on Civil and associations connected to ISIS. This research has Political Rights. been the subject of discussion at the International Criminal Court and we have been invited to be part of the expert panel on this issue at UN level. Seeking asylum We represented several nonprofit groups and individual migrants in successfully challenging a restrictive immigration ban targeting Central Americans seeking refuge in the United States. The third‑country transit rule effectively prevented those entering the U.S. across its southern border from seeking asylum, regardless of the merits of their claims. The lawsuit was brought by the Capital Area Immigrants’ Rights (CAIR) Coalition, Human Rights First, the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (RAICES), and nine individual asylum seekers, represented by Hogan Lovells. The case was consolidated with a related case brought by the Tahirih Justice Center and several additional asylum seekers. 22 Hogan Lovells Rights abroad compensation for only those incidents, and did We have been working with REDRESS, not account for the severe psychological trauma an international human rights organization, experienced as a result of the exploitation. on a comparative legal research project on the However, as the majority of the abuse that the right to consular protection. Consular protection, client suffered took place in France our Paris office and more specifically the obligations on states made an application to the French Compensation to provide consular protection, are increasingly authority, CIVI (Commission d’Indemnisation des coming into the spotlight, both in the United Victimes d’Infraction), tasked with the financial Kingdom and internationally. compensation of victims of crimes committed on French territory. The research is examining how consular protection is formulated in other countries, Victims are often trafficked within countries where it exists, and its impact in practice. and across borders to be exploited, and access While it is commonly recognized that the to a compensation scheme for victims of human provision of consular services can always be trafficking is a right enshrined in the European improved, there is a need to establish whether Union Directive on preventing and combating and how establishing a legal obligation necessarily trafficking in human beings and protecting its addresses the problem, and whether the way it victims. Litigation that spans Europe is therefore is formulated affects its impact. The project will vitally important to ensure trafficking victims support several of REDRESS’s current cases, receive the crucial support they are entitled to and including that of Nazanin Zaghari‑Ratcliffe who that they need to rebuild their lives. is being held in an Iranian prison. Fostering dialogue Justice for victims of human trafficking User Voice’s global mandate is to provide support A cross-jurisdictional team undertook groundand assistance to people who are or have been breaking litigation acting for a client who had in prison or on probation by giving them a voice been trafficked and exploited in both France and engaging them in a process which leads to an and the United Kingdom. Our London office improvement of their living conditions and their assisted the client with their claim to the Criminal chances of rehabilitation. Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) in the UK in respect of the repeated assaults that they suffered whilst in the country. The client received an award from CICA, which was confined to UNGC COP November 2020 23 We assisted User Voice in establishing a nonprofit Preserving cultural heritage vehicle in Australia in addition to its existing We have been supporting local tribes in Yakutia, operations in the United Kingdom. This process a vast territory in the North East of Russia, involved the incorporation of an appropriate legal to preserve their cultural heritage by being entity and application to, and liaison with, the included in the UNESCO World Heritage list. appropriate government departments to ensure Many of the languages spoken by local tribes are charitable/nonprofit status was granted the dying out and with them a very rich local culture, newly incorporated vehicle. refined crafts, reindeer herding and nature Chancery Lane Project handling skills, dances, songs, and shamanic rituals and beliefs. We are sponsors and active pro bono lawyers for the Chancery Lane Project, a profession wide pro We helped local leaders to make preliminary bono programme which invites lawyers to reresearches and to prepare the initial set of wire the commercial legal profession’s approach documents to commence the process of inclusion to address climate change. The project involves in the area of inhabitance of indigenous minorities commercial lawyers drafting climate compatible of North East of Russia in the UNESCO World clauses for inclusion into precedent and knowHeritage list. how banks of contractual documents used in transactions. The aim is to stimulate conversations with corporate business clients and their advisers to consider how to embed obligations arising from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Fixing the contractual plumbing is the first step to embedding real change and helping clients reach their net zero aspirations. 24 Hogan Lovells Tracking environmental crime We have provided advice to ensure their staff We are supporting The Environmental and volunteers are adequately protected and Investigation Agency (EIA) UK in their fight comply with the relevant Mexican employment against environmental crime and abuse. laws, including the creation of an employment Their investigations expose transnational wildlife handbook with relevant policies and examples crime and their field experience is used to provide of best practice. guidance to enforcement agencies and policy Connecting with the Global Goals makers, the private banking and transport sector, Encompass HK strives to improve the local groups, and activists to support their work. achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Our cross-jurisdictional team is updating their Goals (SDGs) by organizations in Hong Kong and environmental crime database, focusing on ivory Asia. They serve the community by supporting tracking and seizure across the United Kingdom, different social causes and NGOs financially Continental Europe and Asia‑Pacific and actions as well as through a collaborative model while against the Convention on International Trade delivering programs working towards the SDGs. in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. We supported the drafting of a partnership This work helps to support ongoing conservation agreement between Encompass HK and local efforts worldwide. partner Knowledge Dialogues. They joined forces Environmental educators to work together to implement Citypreneurs, We are working with Grupo Promesa, a social a SDG start‑up competition co‑hosted by the enterprise tackling the lack of environmental UN and city governments to support innovation education, to help them promote sustainable and entrepreneurs achieving the 2030 agenda. development awareness and knowledge across Combating impunity and corruption Mexico. Their objective is to transform how The appointment of high-level officers at the sustainability is viewed in schools, communities, Mexican Government has caused controversy in companies, universities, and homes through recent years. Mexican Presidents have appointed educational programmes. close friends and people loyal to their parties in order to fill vacancies at regulatory agencies and UNGC COP November 2020 25 other autonomous entities, regardless of whether several obstacles so the NFL team could use its the nominees fulfill the legal requirements set private jet to transport the vital protective gear forth by the Constitution and the applicable laws from Shenzhen, China, to the United States for to hold the specific public office. We supported use in healthcare facilities in Massachusetts and Tojil, a non-profit civil association, to prepare New York. The masks arrived less than 24 hours and submit an Amicus Curiae brief challenging before the Massachusetts facilities were scheduled the appointment of the Mexican Anti-Corruption to exhaust their existing supply. Attorney General. Our cross‑office, cross‑practice team navigated Collaborating in response to COVID-19 the complex array of authorizations and We partnered with the Mexican legal community, inter‑governmental support requests in the in collaboration with the Pro bono Standards U.S. and China needed for the plane to go to México movement, Fundación Appleseed Mexico, China, collect the masks in Shenzhen, and then Centro Mexicano Pro bono and, Fundación fly them back through Alaska, where they Barra Mexicana to create a legal guide for the were cleared through U.S. Customs. The team general public and NGOs in relation to COVID-19. completed this urgent humanitarian mission The guide gave advice on common legal questions while managing the shifting landscape of U.S. arising from the pandemic. Lawyers from our and Chinese laws governing shipments of Mexico City and Monterrey offices worked Personal Protective Equipment. on topics including energy, health, contracts, and real estate. Pure patriotism A pro bono team worked around the clock – quite literally, in Beijing and Washington, D.C. – on a mission to deliver nearly 1.7 million N95 masks on the New England Patriots’ team plane. We represented The Kraft Group, owner of the New England Patriots, in overcoming 26 Our home‑grown innovator A catalyst for change Dr. Marion Palmer, senior scientist in our We participated in the inaugural UNGC Young London office, and Mr. Declan Costello FRCS, SDG Innovators Programme, alongside 300+ an ear, nose, and throat specialist, created an innovators from businesses across the world. innovative personal protective equipment device Hogan Lovells participants learnt how to use the for medical specialists on the front line of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a COVID‑19 pandemic. Their airway box was catalyst for positive change and collaborated with designed to ensure further protection for medical colleagues to develop a solution unique to the professionals against droplets generated when firm that will help drive the fulfilment of the SDGs conducting airway procedures. Their idea builds through our core client advisory work. Speaking at on a Creative Commons design made available the virtual UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit online by a Taiwanese doctor, Dr. Hsien Yung Lai. which connected over 20,000 people globally, the group from Hogan Lovells advocated for They launched a crowdfunding campaign to integrating all 17 SDGs into legal advice. support their innovative design for personal protective equipment devices. The original We represented the UK Young SDG Innovators at fundraising target was met within six hours of the the Global Impact Forum, to mark the 75th session campaign launching and a stretch target within of the United Nations General Assembly. The two weeks. Our Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology panel, comprising Young SDG Innovators from and Business and Social Enterprise practices across the globe, discussed the role young people supported the initiative enabling manufacturing of have to play in leading and innovating for the the prototypes for trials in hospitals in the United SDGs within their companies. Kingdom. The prototypes were distributed to several National Health Service (NHS) hospitals across the UK. Following positive feedback from medical professionals the screen was successfully listed on the Crown Commercial Suppliers catalogue of PPE/non‑PPE innovations available to the NHS. Further information Susan Bright Global Managing Partner for Diversity & Inclusion and Responsible Business T +44 20 7296 2263 susan.bright@​hoganlovells.com Bendita Cynthia Malakia Global Head of Diversity & Inclusion T +1 202 637 8542 bendita.malakia@​hoganlovells.com Debra Hay Responsible Business Manager T + 20 7296 2433 debra.hay@​hoganlovells.com For further information on our approach to Diversity & Inclusion and Responsible Business, visit www.hoganlovells.com Alicante Amsterdam Baltimore Beijing Birmingham Boston Brussels Budapest* Colorado Springs Denver Dubai Dusseldorf Frankfurt Hamburg Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City Hong Kong Houston Jakarta* Johannesburg London Los Angeles Louisville Luxembourg Madrid Mexico City Miami Milan Minneapolis Monterrey Moscow Munich New York Northern Virginia Paris Perth Philadelphia Riyadh* Rome San Francisco Sao Paulo Shanghai Shanghai FTZ* Silicon Valley Singapore www.hoganlovells.com Sydney Tokyo “Hogan Lovells” or the “firm” is an international legal practice that includes Hogan Lovells International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP and their affiliated businesses. Ulaanbaatar* The word “partner” is used to describe a partner or member of Hogan Lovells Warsaw International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP or any of their affiliated entities or any employee or consultant with equivalent standing. Certain individuals, who are designated as Washington, D.C. partners, but who are not members of Hogan Lovells International LLP, do not hold qualifications equivalent to members. Zagreb* For more information about Hogan Lovells, the partners and their qualifications, see www.hoganlovells.com Where case studies are included, results achieved do not guarantee similar outcomes *Our associated offices for other clients. Attorney advertising. Images of people may feature current or former lawyers and employees at Hogan Lovells or models not connected with the firm. Legal Services Centre: Berlin © Hogan Lovells 2020. All rights reserved. 1282056_1220
