CSR REPORT 2019 F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S F. UHRENHOLT HOLDING A/S WELCOME CSR report 2019 to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2019 Welcome 3 The Uhrenholt CSR report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statement Act § 99 a. Accelerating Our Sustainability Journey 4 A Global Food Company 6 Uhrenholt is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact, meaning that our 16 CSR work is structured in line with the Global Compact set of values and principles Our Business Model regarding human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CSR Focus Areas 18 Labour/Human Rights 22 Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative, with more than 10,000 voluntary business and non-business participants in 170 countries. Environment and Climate 26 Business Ethics 32 For more information about Global Compact, visit: www.unglobalcompact.org Supplier Management 34 February 2020 Charity 36 Progress 2019 38 CSR 2020 39 Thanks 40 2 ACCELERATING OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY After another year filled with Brexit, trade-war threats, volatile product prices and the worst wildfires in decades in Australia, it would be easy for us as a global player to say that we only have time to navigate our company through the ever-changing business landscape. But this is no longer an option. Increasing consumer demands and expectations for more environmentand climate-friendly products and a focus on animal welfare are putting increasing pressure on both us as a company and on the dairy sector in general. In particular, we are now witnessing increasing demands from markets for sustainable packaging, especially alternatives to plastic packaging. As a non-biodegradable material, plastic is often directly associated with marine and soil pollution. It can remain in the soil and sea for hundreds of years, degrading the quality of water and land and endangering marine life. Although plastic packaging can help consumers to reduce waste, for example by minimising the amount of food waste and increasing the shelf life of products, an overall narrative has emerged that puts plastics at odds with sustainable consumption. Since exports are the cornerstone of our business, switching entirely to sustainable packaging is not easy. To avoid food waste, the packaging needs to continue to protect the food and maintain its quality and freshness, and we cannot compromise on this. In Uhrenholt, we are committed to finding ways to meet the growing consumer and market requirements, but we also feel confident about meeting these demands because our pragmatic approach in working together with our suppliers and customers helps us identify the most appropriate solutions. In 2020, we have committed ourselves to The Uhrenholt CSR Group 2019: accelerating the sustainability journey even further. Kate Bonne Larsen, Group HR Mette Møller Sørensen, Group Quality Assurance Enjoy reading our 2019 report. Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard, Global Trading Edgar Marchl, Global Procurement Dorte Sejrup Hæsum, Group Finance Jørgen Jeppe Hansen, Group Transport & Logistics Malene Kjær Sune Uhrenholt Anette Gjørtsvang Kock, Supply Chain Operations Chairman of CSR Group & President & CEO Vibeke Schmidt Jessen, Global Marketing VP, Global Marketing Malene Kjær, Global Marketing (Chairman of CSR Group) 4 5 A GLOBAL FOOD COMPANY FACTS Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company supplying dairy products and frozen vegetables to a broad range of Head office: Middelfart, Denmark retail, wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers CEO: Sune Uhrenholt in more than 120 countries around the world. Ownership: Uhrenholt A/S is an entirely family-owned business While our head office is situated in Denmark, we have Number of employees: approx. 240 offices and representatives in more than 20 countries Representation worldwide: more than 20 countries and employ more than 240 dedicated people globally. Sales worldwide: more than 120 countries Our products are sold under the brand names Emborg , ® Food solutions: primarily within dairy Friendship® and Amigo® or as commodities and industrial sales. Uhrenholt was founded on 1 April, Master Brands: Emborg®, Friendship® and Amigo® 1978, in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business involved the international trading of table cheeses and cheese for processing, and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest private-owned dairy companies in Denmark. In 2005, Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S, and in 2009 all activities of the former Uhrenholt A/S and Emborg Foods A/S companies were merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. In 2007, Frank´s son, Sune Uhrenholt, took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include sales to the retail channel and to focus on branded products. Frank Uhrenholt created the original ship logo in 1978 by folding a paper ship from a newspaper page and painting it red and white. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, ‘The Steadfast Tin Soldier’, who went to conquer the world in a ship made out of paper. Today, the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This symbolises that Uhrenholt is a modern food company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. 6 7 OUR TWO LEG ORGANISATION CONSUMER GLOBAL TRADING BUSINESS UNIT BUSINESS UNIT B2C B2B B2B B2B Retail Foodservice Private Label Industry The Uhrenholt organisation is divided into two separate business units: the Consumer business unit and the Global Trading business unit. The Consumer business unit is primarily focused on our Emborg brand and private-label solutions within retail and foodservice, whereas the Global Trading business unit focuses on commodities and industrial sales. The Global Trading business unit is operated from Middelfart, Denmark. The Consumer business unit is structured in the regions: Asia, Pacific, Middle East, Africa and Americas. All regions are supported by our group functions, which include Quality Assurance, Global Procurement, Global Marketing, IT, Finance & Legal, Logistics & Transportation and HR and ensure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet a variety of demands worldwide. GROUP FUNCTIONS Group HR Global Procurement Global Marketing Group IT Finance & Legal Group Group Logistics & Transportation Quality Assurance 9 8 AB ILIT Y N SUSTAI HE W ITH T O M P ACT LOB ALC UN G 10 11 BUSINESS AREAS & PORTFOLIO DAIRY Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products for BTB and BTC. Reliability, The majority of our business comes from our tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners and customers dairy products. Today, we supply a full range have made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our partners and customers benefit from of dairy products from around the world – from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food European milk, cream and butter to creamy solutions across the entire portfolio. yogurts and tasty cheese. To obtain the best quality and authenticity, we always endeavour to source the cheese from local origin. All products are packaged in various shapes and RETAIL sizes according to consumer and market needs. At our Grøndal Dairy we produce approximatePassionate about food and real, nutritious and flavourful products ly 5000 tons per year of cheeses like Fontina, Emborg® is both our retail and foodservice brand and covers primarily dairy products Havarti and Kefalotyri. The Uhrenholt dairy and frozen vegetables. The signature Emborg packaging in royal purple has strong conportfolio also includes whey products, lactose sumer appeal and is easily recognisable in supermarkets and retail counters. With its and UHT milk. unique ‘Affordable Premium’ positioning, Emborg has a promising retail brand presence and is a key player in the Middle Eastern, African and Asian markets today. BERRIES & FOODSERVICE Cost optimising and tailored solutions From fast-food chains and restaurants to catering and institutional services, our expeVEGETABLES rience in the foodservice industry is quite extensive. We offer a wide product and price Other than that, we are proud to offer a wide range that meets most needs – and when necessary, we tailor specific solutions for our range of ‘fresh frozen’ quality vegetables and partners. We also offer product application and menu concepts. berries – for example, garden peas, vegetables mixes, sweetcorn and healthy beans. We call it FRESH FROZEN because most of our vegetables are picked, washed and frozen within hours to PRIVATE LABEL secure the fresh taste, texture and freshness. Trusted and long-term private-label supplier to leading retail chains For more information about our products, Uhrenholt has the expertise to locally source and consolidate lucrative private-label please visit uhrenholt.com or emborg.com products. Combined with an advanced logistical set-up, we are able to deliver on competitive terms. INDUSTRY Constantly exploring new possibilities to enhance our ingredient range We supply a full range of ingredients and cheese raw material for the industry. We have more than 40 years of experience in trading dairy bulk products under various brand names, including our leading brands, Amigo and Mon Ami. In addition, we supply butter and cheese products to manufacturers of cheese powder and processed sliced and shredded cheeses, as well as to maufacturers of ready meals. We also own facilities utilised to clean and re-pack branded products such as surplus stocks and shop returns. 12 13 OUR VALUES WINNING ARE OUR DNA We value partnerships and win-win solutions in everything we do – when we develop great products, provide Being part of a worldwide food industry, we touch many service to our customers and work lives in one way or the other on a daily basis. We aim to together with suppliers. Our goal is continually improve our business and the way we navigate to create an environment where we in the global marketplace. are inspired to perform our very best together. We firmly believe that our shared corporate values serve as a compass and lead the way for our actions and daily work. We strive to adhere to these values in everything we do for the benefit of our customers, our employees, our business, society as a whole and the communities in which PARTNERING we operate. Our business is based on long-term partnerships with customers and suppliers around the world. We strive to add value in our partnerships by continuously exploring new opportunities and by working together to create mutual, sustainable value. EXCELLENCE Professionalism and commercial excellence is the foundation for our behaviour internally and externally. We deliver results through strong solutions for our customers and our organisation. PASSION We are passionate about food and enjoy an exciting and dynamic atmosphere in our daily work. Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way of working with markets, products, partners and colleagues. 14 15 OUR BUSINESS MODEL GROWING YOUR BUSINESS Your Global Food Partner Uhrenholt is a solutions provider, more than a manufacturer, offering flexible and scalable food solutions based purely on market needs and demands. Our market-driven food solutions Attractive Business Opportunities are available to our customers thanks to our strong, global network of partners and suppliers within the food industry. As a result, our common Value Proposition is defined as We help to grow our partners’ businesses by developing attractive ‘Market-Driven Food Solutions’. market opportunities and making the route-to-market more efficient. MAKE WHAT SELL WHAT YOU YOU CAN SELL CAN MAKE Attractive Products and Tailored Solutions We aim to grow our partners’ businesses by identifying consumer needs, providing attractive food products and ﬂexible solutions according to market demand. ROUTE-TO-MARKET BASED ON ROUTE-TO-MARKET BASED ON MARKET DEMAND PRODUCTION FACILITIES Market-Driven Food Solutions We operate in an ever-changing marketplace. Demands may change suddenly, and our extensive global production network enables us to scale production up or down. Our ability to identify and meet current market and consumer demands with quick responses and ﬂexible set-ups is key to developing attractive food solutions. That’s why we are able to offer “Market-Driven Food Solutions” with an impressive pro­duct range and strong brands coupled with excellent service, which few competitors are able to match. Building winning partnerships To create attractive food solutions, we firmly believe in strong partnerships and networks. For over 40 years, this has been our main focus around the world. We are a partnership-driven corporation and consider knowledge-based partnerships as the core of our business engine. Through close cooperation with our partners, we are able to deliver a wide variety of competitive, high-quality goods and services to a global audience. A value chain of the best companies working closely together for a common goal is always stronger than any individual company operating by itself. Partnership for growth Teaming up with the best players in the markets enables us to collectively add value and growth to our mutual businesses. That’s why we strongly promote Partnership for Growth, through which we create easy, fast and efficient access to affordable and attractive food solutions. We are able to do so because we are an independent and market-driven organisation with strong, global partnerships. We call it ‘Partnership for Growth’. 16 17 CSR FOCUS AREAS THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF We face our corporate social responsibility in many ways. As the link between producers and customers/ THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT end users globally, first and foremost we are committed to following the rules and regulations in all of our operations. Our policies regarding human resources, environment and climate issues and business ethics when we produce, buy and sell our products are described on pages 22-33. HUMAN RIGHTS Secondly – but equally importantly – we strive to commit our partners to walk alongside us by fulfilling PRINCIPLE 1 our standards and demands as a Global Compact member in terms of the way they approach the same Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human topics (page 34-35). rights; and On the supply side, we generally source our products from officially approved manufacturing companies PRINCIPLE 2 in developed countries – primarily in Europe. For this reason, we estimate the risk of violating human Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. rights, labour standards and environment & climate legislations to be low, and thus we have not formulated specific policies on these issues that go beyond the UN Global Compact Standards. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. 18 1919 We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected and empowered 20 21 LABOUR/HUMAN RIGHTS AN INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSE CULTURE As Uhrenholt offers market-driven food solutions where only a minor part of our business is based on At Uhrenholt, we appreciate and utilise our people’s diverse experiences and backgrounds to better self-production, our assets are relatively immaterial. Thus, it is essential to Uhrenholt to leverage human understand the needs of global customers, drive innovation and enhance employee engagement. resources in order to give the organisation a competitive advantage. We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected and empowered. An ambitious HR strategy was launched in 2018, focusing on organisational and managerial development Diversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 over the coming years for Uhrenholt globally. The starting point for developing an even stronger countries and currently employ 24 nationalities. We want to reflect the diversity that exists in today’s organisation is to formulate strategic priorities for both leaders and employees. society in terms of culture and ways of thinking. The six overall strategic priorities are as follows: leadership development, performance management, At the same time, our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high talent pool and succession planning, competence development, organisational structure and change level of service whoever they address. It is very important that our employees and managers provide an management. Leadership development and performance management were the two principal topics in 2019. outstanding service and level of collaboration with our partners worldwide. At Uhrenholt, we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. In 2015, we LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT reached our goal of increasing the proportion of female managers to at least 40%, which unfortunately declined in 2019 owing to the closure of two of our sites in order to optimize our business. The decline in In order to define Uhrenholt's leadership culture and what behaviour we want from our leaders, the the percentage of female managers was primarily due to the relatively high percentage of female managers Global Leadership Team (GLT) and HR prepared a set of leadership principles based on Uhrenholt's values: on the two sites. We aim to increase the percentage of female managers to at least 40% in 2024. Winning, Partnering, Excellence and Passion. The global leadership training, which began in 2018 and In 2019, we reached our goal of 25% female directors. continued in 2019, is founded on the Uhrenholt leadership principles. The essence of good leadership at Uhrenholt is to create value by working with and through others. The leaders are assessed on their performance and their ability to achieve results. The leadership training was first introduced for the global leadership team. Since the start, in November 2018, seven teams of 2017 2018 2019 directors/leaders/potential leaders globally have participated in the internal global leadership training. Total no. of employees 469 415 239 A variety of leadership tools have been introduced into day-to-day work routines with the aim of Female 47% 48% 56% developing both leaders and their employees. Male 53% 52% 44% The objective of the training is to strengthen the leadership foundation and create a common leadership Average age 40.6 41.6 44 mindset across countries, nationalities and management levels in respect to the individual. The training Average seniority 5.5 6.3 8.2 will continue in 2020 and will be followed by new tools and various management-relevant training. Sick leave percentage 2.9% 2.2% 4% Number of promotions (next-level promotions) 10 19 15 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Female managers 49% 50% 30% Male managers 51% 50% 70% A new process for appraisal interviews and evaluation of leaders and employees – focused on goals based on Uhrenholt’s strategy, budget targets and leadership principles/values – was introduced in 2018 Female directors 26% 24% 29% and continued in 2019. In general, the purpose of appraisal interviews at Uhrenholt is to clarify job Male directors 74% 76% 71% expectations, provide some clear direction for the future, agree on areas to be developed and evaluate Investment in education and training (external) work performance. Leader and employee in cooperation establish a variety of goals for each year at 86 225 320 (euros per Employee) both a professional and personal level. Number of nationalities 25 24 24 The engagement survey introduced in 2018 continued in 2019. The aim was to increase employee engagement worldwide, and we achieved this. By running workshops followed up by action plans, with the managers as front runners and the employees as key participants, Uhrenholt is encouraging everyone to take responsibility for helping each other create an even better working environment. 22 23 FLEXIBLE WORKING We respect and care for each other through an open environment that offers our employees opportunities in which to learn and grow. Open communication, within offices and across countries, helps us work well together and always strive to do the right thing. Collaboration is at the heart of our culture. The technology available at Uhrenholt enables people to collaborate with colleagues around the world. Employees share ideas, brainstorm solutions and recognise achievements to help us succeed together. Generally, the IT technology we use promotes flexible working, which can enhance the health and well-being of our employees by enabling them to better balance work and personal commitments. In addition, flexible work practices also help us meet our environmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. Skype meetings and video conferences are easily accessible working tools that allow colleagues around the world to get together when needed, to work on mutual tasks. STUDENT WORK AND APPRENTICESHIPS At Uhrenholt, we have, over some years, had great success in welcoming more young people into our organisation. For many years, we have been training apprentices – primarily within trade (sales and purchasing) but also within finance and media graphics design. The apprenticeship period usually runs from two to four years, and fortunately we have had the opportunity to hire some of these young people once they completed their apprenticeship. In addition, we liaise with students from higher-education institutions. Over the past few years we have participated in events at universities and business schools, where dialogue and collaboration between the company and students have been established. In this way, new knowledge is transferred into our business, and the students become aware of the opportunities that exist within a global food-solutions company. The students are able to both gain work experience and write their thesis during the trainee period. As they view and evaluate our way of doing business with fresh eyes, Uhrenholt receives some valuable input. Furthermore, it gives some of our experienced colleagues the opportunity to pass on knowledge, not only about the professional aspect, but also regarding the social life within the company. 24 25 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE HEALTHY LIVING At Uhrenholt we want to minimise our impact on the environment, which means that we are continually At Uhrenholt, we strive every day to meet the growing demand for healthy products. We know that consearching for sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions and routes to market. sumers all over the world are paying more attention than before to the ingredients and expect premium quality. We are committed to fulfilling the goals of our consumers worldwide to live a healthy and mindEnvironmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protecting nature, ful lifestyle. including biological diversity on earth, is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. While we fully comply with the environmental legislation in the countries where we are placed but A WIDER ORGANIC RANGE FROM EMBORG acknowledge that our responsibility includes our global business and a commitment to further Since we became members of Denmark’s two leading trade organisations – Økologisk Landsforening improvement. (Organic Denmark) and Bio aus Dänemark – back in 2015, we have experienced continuous growth in sales of our organic products. To meet the rising demand, we have launched Emborg organic vegetable The way our organisation is structured means there are different areas in which we can make an enviproducts worldwide. ronmental impact. These include our offices around the world, our cooperation with food producers & suppliers worldwide and of course our own dairy plant, Grøndal. ADDING VALUE TO THE MASSIVE PLANT-BASED TREND The plant-based trend has been flourishing on account of the growing consumer interest in health, SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL ethics and sustainability. Consumers are making responsible food choices and expect to have a wide range of products to choose from. Whether our consumers want to simply cut down on animal-based products or live a vegan lifestyle, our plant-based range is right for them. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) unites stakeholders from the palm oil industry – palm oil To satisfy the demand for plant-based alternatives, Emborg has launched producers, processors or traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors and environa delicious range of plant-based cheese alternatives – without mental & social non-governmental organisations (NGOs) – so as to develop and implement global stan­ compromising on ingredients, texture or taste. Today you can dards for sustainable palm oil. find our plant-based products in key markets like Canada, Australia and the Nordic countries. The RSPO has developed a set of environmental and social criteria which companies must comply with in order to produce certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). When they are properly applied, these criteria can help to minimise the negative impact of palm oil cultivation on the environment and communities in palm oil-producing regions. The RSPO has more than 4000 members worldwide who represent all links along the palm-oil supply chain. They have committed to produce, source and/or use sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. In 2019, 19% of palm oil globally was certified by the RSPO. Palm oil is used in some Uhrenholt products mainly because of its excellent functional properties with regard to many food applications. In 2018 and 2019, we mapped out Uhrenholt´s use of palm oil in our products, and whether or not the palm oil used was RSPO certified. The work continues in 2020, where we will be working closely with our suppliers, as our aim is to use certified sustainable palm oil wherever possible. Year % of certified palm oil based on sold volume 2017 51% 2018 73% 2019 91% 26 27 TRANSPORT PREVENTING FOOD WASTE Uhrenholt places a huge emphasis on optimising the need for transportation and aims to use the most Our Uhrenholt industrial cheese department has, for 40 years, specialised in supplying raw material for direct route to the customer while at the same time making the lowest impact on the environment with the processed cheese industry. This activity has developed from just a niche to a business area in which the lowest-possible level of CO2 emissions. There is an increased focus on developing more environ­ profitability and sustainability go hand in hand. mentally friendly trucks, and the trucking companies we use must comply with the CO2 norm applicable to the countries involved. We purchase cheeses – packed for consumption or in blocks – that for one reason or another have been downgraded and prepare them for recirculation into the food-product chain rather than being scrapped A substantial part of our produce is transported in containers by sea. The vessel operators focus heavily for just minor defects. Heat treatment and all precautionary food safety actions are applied to the on using fuel that impacts the environment less and are involved in further developing vessels requiring cheeses before they end up as new cheese powder or processed cheese products. a very low fuel consumption. During 2019, all shipping lines were busy preparing for the new IMO2020 rules, which stipulated that vessels should be releasing lower levels of sulphur from their exhausts as of 01.01.2020. The result is cleaner air, making the use of transport by sea even more environmentally friendly than before. DONATING FOOD Uhrenholt regularly donates, from its warehouse in Padborg, food which is unspoiled to the German ‘Flensburger Gaben’ (Flensburger Gifts). This organisation is a non-profit organisation established to help meet the needs of the inhabitants of Flensburg. By so doing, we help to support the local community a little and reduce the environmental impact of food waste. 28 29 GRØNDAL DAIRY Since 2012, Grøndal Dairy has maintained certification in accordance with FSSC 22000. As a result of the certification and our work to continually improve quality and food safety, the dairy has achieved success in • upgrading the level of knowledge and awareness on food safety of the entire organisation • signalling that our system for controlling food safety is in place and up to date • ensuring ongoing focus internally on continual improvements Moreover, we continue to seek further improvements in relation to maintaining the highest food safety and quality of the products. Additionally, we continue to develop our cheese production facilities at Grøndal Dairy. Cheese production in 2019 decreased by 3%. The total CO2 decreased by 8% because of the lower production, but a decrease of 5% per kilogram of cheese equates to about 200 tons of CO2. Waste has been reduced by 3% (2 tons) and the recycled part has raised by nearly 50%. Our greatest achievement in 2019 is our water consumption: for the second year in a row, we have succeeded in reducing our total water consumption by 27.5% equals 24.000 m3 of water. RESULTS 2019 Production 2018 Production 2019 ∆ Cheese 4.769 MT 4.601 MT -3.5% Total use Total use Use 2019 vs. 2018 per kg 2018 2019 cheese produced CO2 1.461 MT 1.379 MT -4.94% Electricity 3.233 MWh 3.052 MWh -2.21% Gas 562.335 Nm3 501.014 Nm3 -8.3% Water 109.665 m3 86.005 m3 -23% Waste 63.250 kg 61.281 kg -0.4% 30 31 BUSINESS ETHICS UHRENHOLT BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The core competence of Uhrenholt is the ability to source, sell, distribute and market food products in a way that respects all the regulations and red tape that go hand in hand with international food business. It is our promise to our stakeholders, partners, consumers and the societies in which we operate that we will continue to develop our procedures to maintain this status. The traditional skills required of the individual trader remain, but every day the surrounding commercial world changes and the administrative burden is increasing. To counteract this, our Uhrenholt Business Principles – for internal use – serve to frame and codify our key commercial rules and habits. Taken together, the Uhrenholt Business Principles concern how we care about our image, brands, employees, compliance, documents and, not least, our money. As new colleagues join our company across our global market, the Uhrenholt Business Principles also clearly define how we expect employees to behave, act and work together both internally and externally. It is reviewed regularly, and employees are urged to familiarise themselves with those parts that are relevant to their specific position. CODE OF CONDUCT As we operate in more than 120 countries, it is only natural that employees working on the front line find our business ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in daily decision UHRENHOLT A/S IS AN making, our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have AEO CERTIFIED COMPANY signed the Code of Conduct. In December 2012, Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate, proving our status as an Being a global food-solutions company, we are inevitably doing business in several counauthorised economic operator (AEO). In 2017, our compliance has been reviewed and sustained tries which, according to the corruption index developed by Transparency International, by the Danish tax authorities. represent high-risk areas. However, we care about choosing business partners whose business standards and ethics match our own, and Uhrenholt will continually seek to imThe AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all economic-, customprove its level of business ethics even further. A close link exists between the Uhrenholt and safety-related operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all the common criteria regarding Business Principles, our Code of Conduct and our Supplier Management protocol. • security and safety standards • record of compliance with customs requirements • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, which allows appropriate customs controls FRAUD FIGHTING • proven financial solvency. Unfortunately, attempts of fraud and scam have become part of daily life of trading in To the benefit of our partners, the AEO certificate affords goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential the international food sector. To combat these crimes and protect members and their treatment in certain procedures concerning the customs control of goods and documents – initially at partners against identity theft and fake companies, Eucolait – the European organisation the EU level, but far more globally in the long term. To date, mutual recognition is in place with the of trading companies in the dairy sector – has initiated a warning system. USA, China, Japan, Norway and Switzerland. All members are strongly encouraged to share any information about fraud cases as quickly as possible with the Eucolait secretariat for further dissemination among the Uhrenholt is among the front runners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate, members. At Uhrenholt, we fully support these efforts. and as such we are well set up to face the future. Companies with AEO status are recognised as safe, secure and compliant business partners in international trade. 32 33 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT UHRENHOLT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS COVER THE FOLLOWING ELEMENTS: FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE: UHRENHOLT COOPERATES WITH A GLOBAL NETWORK OF SUPPLIERS • • Compliance with laws and regulations Food safety management system • Product specification It is crucial that our suppliers demonstrate professional care for our interests, ensuring that products • Food contact packaging materials delivered to Uhrenholt are safe and produced under secure and responsible conditions in all aspects. • Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) Therefore, our suppliers undergo critical risk assessment regarding food safety, quality assurance and • Irradiation corporate social responsibility, including elements which form part of our AEO approval. • Allergens • Chemical, physical and microbiological contamination • Certificate of Conformance (COC) / Certificate of Analysis (COA) RISK ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS IS BASED • Handling of claims ON THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA: • Crisis management and recall/withdrawal of products • duly signed ‘Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements’ • level of food safety and quality assurance management of the supplier CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: • food safety risk profile of the products to be produced by the supplier • Human rights • country of production • Labour standards • brands to be produced at the supplier / overall commercial impact for Uhrenholt • Environment • Workplace environment Based on risk assessment, on-site audit of the supplier’s production and storage facilities can be actioned • Anti-corruption by Uhrenholt to ensure compliance with our requirements. AUTHORISED ECONOMIC OPERATORS (AEOs): • Secure premises and conditions • Reliable staff • Protection against unauthorised interference Uhrenholt prefers suppliers that hold a food safety certificate approved by the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative), such as BRC Global Standard, IFS Food Standard, FSSC 22000, SQF 2000 level 2, and others. Suppliers not holding a food safety certificate approved by the GFSI are required to answer the Uhrenholt Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire, which could very well be followed by an on-site audit. The Uhrenholt supplier network is continually developing and consequently the supplier risk assessment and approval process is ongoing. In 2020, our goal is to maintain the number of suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: Suppliers that have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements 2017 2018 2019 and passed our supplier risk assessment % of total number of suppliers measured on purchase value 90% 92% 100% % of the 100 suppliers measured on purchase value 92% 95% 100% % of the suppliers representing 90% of the gross margin 97% 97% 100% 34 35 CHARITY By tradition, every Christmas Uhrenholt donates – towards a humanitarian purpose – the money that otherwise would have been spent on presents to customers and business partners. With our 2019 Christmas donation, Uhrenholt is helping to create even more magical moments Uhrenholt’s annual Christmas donation of DKK 100,000 went to the Danish Hospital Clowns, an association that supports hospitalised children and their families. In 2019, we chose to support a Danish project, and we are very proud to have found a cause in line with our donation requirements, as the funds will support children and directly improve their quality of life. Danish Hospital Clowns is a recipient that clearly fulfils these aims. Danish Hospital Clowns bring joy to the lives of hospitalised children, lifting their spirits as they cope with a serious illness or disease. They interact with the children on the children’s own terms, recognising and acknowledging their fear, their joy, and their boredom. When they enter a room, they observe the children, relatives and staff, and adjust to the given situation and atmosphere. Maybe there is a need to transform the hospital room into a room full of play and magic. Perhaps their assistance is needed to complete an examination. Or perhaps they are needed to help express the child’s pain in words and in physical gestures. Hospital clowns share their strength with the child and provide what is needed. For many children, the clowns serve as a reassuring hand to hold when life at the hospital hurts, and an anchor to return to. Danish Hospital Clowns want to be there for all hospitalised children, regardless of their diagnosis, but they have not yet reached this goal. Hospital clowns currently visit around half of the approximately 75,000 children hospitalised each year. As a charitable association, Danish Hospital Clowns depends on the donations of individuals, companies and foundations to allow for further visits and expand their efforts. A donation like Uhrenholt’s can truly make a difference. With our support, hospital clowns will lift the spirits of even more hospitalised children in the future by creating magical moments. 36 37 PROGRESS 2019 CSR 2020 AREA OF FOCUS ACTIVITY AND GOAL 2019 RESULT 2019 AREA OF FOCUS ACTIVITY AND GOAL 2020 Labour/Human rights Labour/Human rights The HR strategy was rolled out by the end of We will continue to implement the HR strategy in 2020, mainly 2018 and into 2019, focusing on leadership Global HR strategy focusing on competence development, talents and performance Global HR strategy development and performance management management and complementing the daily business Leadership training for leaders and potential We will continue to develop our leaders through leadership training leaders in the organisation has been conductLeadership training and other relevant activities. Our leaders shall give direction, Leadership training ed in the regions og HQ, Europe, Middle East, motivate and develop both employees and their business every day Africa, Asia and Oceania By the end of 2018, the first engagement survey ever at By the end of 2018 the first engagement Uhrenholt was conducted. A new survey was carried out in 2019, survey ever in Uhrenholt was conducted and Engagement survey and a third one will be conducted in 2020. We will continue to Engagement survey followed up in 2019 by internal action plans work with action plans and focus on how to maintain or increase to improve the engagement globally the level of engagement Environment/Climate Environment/Climate Review the 2020 environment goals and Reduced CO2 emissions, Accelerate the sustainability journey by developing a Uhrenholt Sustainability Grøndal Dairy action plan after the implementation of our water use and waste Sustainability Roadmap that includes various initiatives whey concentration plant production per kg cheese Continue our focus on reducing our resources, particular within Grøndal Dairy water, electricity and gas Further develop our organic assortment in Organic dairy and frozen vegetables Plant-based Further develop our plant-based assortment of products Launch our assortment of dairy free alternaPlant-based Organic Further develop our organic assortment of products tives Business Ethics Business Ethics Uhrenholt Business Written catalogue evaluated and maintained Uhrenholt Business Principles Written catalogue evaluated and maintained annually Principles annually AEO certificate Upholding certification AEO certificate Upholding certification Partnership Development Partnership Development 100% of the total number of Continue to ensure that our suppliers sign and perform in suppliers (92% in 2018) Supplier Management accordance with the Uhrenholt Supplier requirements 100% of the top 100 suppliIdentify a recipient for our annual Christmas donation that Further improve the score of suppliers who ers measured on purchase Donation supports our requirement that the donation should support Supplier Management have signed and perform in accordance with value (95% in 2018) children and improve their quality of life the Uhrenholt Supplier requirements 100% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM (97% in 2018) The annual Christmas donation was given to Donation Danish Hospital Clowns 38 39 C00176 CSR 2019, English, Print and layout 02/2020 THANKS The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for their inspiration and support in relation to the 2019 CSR report. Special thanks goes to Christa Desberg for once again assisting in the compilation of this report. The Uhrenholt CSR Group 2019: Kate Bonne Larsen, Group HR Mette Møller Sørensen, Group Quality Assurance Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard, Global Trading Edgar Marchl, Global Procurement Dorte Sejrup Hæsum, Group Finance Jørgen Jeppe Hansen, Group Transport & Logistics Anette Gjørtsvang Kock, Supply Chain Operations Vibeke Schmidt Jessen, Global Marketing Malene Kjær, Global Marketing (Chairman of CSR Group) Uhrenholt A/S | Teglgårdsparken 106 | DK-5500 Middelfart | Denmark +45 64 41 40 41 | Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 | info@uhrenholt.com | uhrenholt.com
