CSR Report 2019 Report target period Jan 2019 to Dec 2019 Report publication date July 2020 RUBYCON CORPORATION RUBYCON GROUP COMPANIES Editorial policy Contents Editorial policy ................................................ 1 This report is prepared as an annual report of Terms included in this report .......................... 1 non-financial information about the Messages from the top of company ............... 2 environmental and social efforts of Rubycon Corporate Philosophy (Foundation Spirit) ..... 3 Group Companies. Overview of Rubycon Group Companies ........ 4 Listed items are summaries of concrete CSR policy and System ................................. 5 examples of activity policy and actual results Consumer Safety and Protection ............... 5 in 2019 concerning the important issues we Fair Business Practices .............................. 9 are working on. Organization Governance ........................ 10 In addition, information related to CSR Rubycon CSR Procurement Guidelines ... 11 activities is also posted on the website, for CSR Plan in Rubycon ............................... 12 your convenience. CSR Promotion System ........................... 12 Performance Data ................................... 13.14 Terms included in this report CSR Activities ............................................... 15 Security of Product Safety ........................ 15 Report Target Period Response to Product Accident and Failure . 15 This report basically covers activities between C0C: Claim 0 Campaign ............................ 16 January and December 2019, but some Factory Recognition Commendation ........ 16 activities of 2020 may be included partially. ISO/IATF Audit and Internal Audit .............. 16 On the other hand, the performance data are, in Improvement of Customer Satisfaction ...... 17 principle, summarized in the period from April Green Procurement .................................. 17 2019 thru March 2020. Control of Banned and Hazardous Substances ... 17 Compliance Training ................................. 17 Environmental Measures ............................. 18 Target Organizations Reduction of Environmental Burden ........ 18 Rubycon and Company refer to Rubycon Environmental Clean-up Activities ............ 19 Corporation, and Rubycon group or group Human Right Protection, Labor Practices ..... 20 companies primarily mean Rubycon Respect of Human Rights ........................ 20 Corporation and it's domestic affiliates. Cultivation of Human Resources .............. 20 Creation of Comfortable Workplaces ........... 22 Child-care and Nursing Support ............... 22 Occupational Health and Safety ............... 22 Baseball Team Activities ........................... 23 Relationship with Labor Union ..................... 24 Labor-Management Council ..................... 24 Thanksgiving Festival ............................... 24 Bus tour hosted by the Labor Union ........ 25 Participation in Community and Development ............ 25 Social Contribution Activities ...................... 25 Contribution to Revitalization of Community ............ 27 Major Performances in 2019 and Goals and Plans in 2020 ........ 28.29 Send inquiry to: Rubycon Corporation General Affairs Department Tel：0265-72-7112 web: http://www.rubycon.co.jp/en 1 Messages from the top of Company Founding spirit Tradition and Enterprise, Effort and Study, and Faith and Trust These words are included in the phrases of our company song. The word tradition can only be used when a company has advanced and become recognized by society. To pass down good traditions, it is necessary to have an enterprise spirit in which all employees think positively and take actions. It is also important to effort on a daily basis and to study with each other. Furthermore, Trust can only be created by contacting faithfully with customers, suppliers, shareholders, and the local communities in which we operate. A passage from our company song that conveys these meanings can be called a Spirit of establishing the company and I feel it represents Rubycon's corporate culture that has been handed down from generation to generation. We have been providing products under the spirit over 67 years since the foundation in 1952. Also in the future, we will continue to hold the spirit as our origin, so as to provide reliable and satisfactory products with our experience on technology and quality, and to contribute to creation of affluent society. Aiming at contribution to better and sustainable society Social environments in our country are radically changing such as the falling birthrate and the aging population, information-oriented society and globalization. In this era of rapid environmental change, we value our ties with local communities, and will work diligently and steadily to move forward with local communities, so that each of Rubycon group companies can be proud of in each region. We are also promoting CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities by setting compliance, environmental initiatives, reform of working style, rasing employees' awareness of occupational health & safety, participation in communities, support for the development of the next generation, human rights and labor practices as priority areas. We will continue to create new value necessary for society, to develop products that make people happier, and to contribute to a sustainable society, so that customers and local communities always talk to us. We appreciate your continued great support and cooperation to Rubycon Group Companies. Koichi Sato, President and C.E.O Rubycon Corporation 2 Corporate Philosophy (Foundation Spirit) Company Creed Let's be the No.1 in Japan in all aspects! Employees' Motto 5 Corporate Philosophies 1. Be honest and faithful in daily living 2. Work and live properly 3. Be loving in all aspects 4. Self examine today's deeds and be grateful of no regrets 5. Believe in yourself and believe in hopes Rubycon Company Song Supervised by Teruo Tonouchi (Founder) Lyrics by Sen Kinoshita Composed by Yoshihiro Nishimura Arranged by Akira Sakashita 1. Shinano surrounded by many mountains Senjo in the east, Komagatake in the west covered with virgin snow for thousands years tradition and enterprise, Oh! Rubycon strive together hand in hand 2. Water going away to the south eternal Milky Way in the center of the sky washing out rocks without standing still efforts and training, Oh! Rubycon study together hand in hand 3. Thousands of flowers on the ground brilliant Big Dipper in the sky swear to Home Town Ina faith and trust, Oh! Rubycon advance together hand in hand 3 Overview of Rubycon Group Companies Japan Production Bases Overseas Production Bases Japan Sales Bases Overseas Sales Offices 4 CSR policy and System Consumer Safety and Protection Rubycon products contribution to society << Rubycon products contribute to society through lectronics technologies >> Today, various devices around us are computerized, and electronic devices are indispensable to the world.Capacitors are also indispensable in the electronics field, and Rubycon contributes to society through electronics technology by proposing and supplying capacitors, which are its main products, to various electronic devices. << Conductive Polymer Aluminum Solid Electrolytic Capacitor >> Conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors have a wider temperature range, are more compact, have lower ESR, and higher resistance to ripple current than other aluminum electrolytic capacitors. These features enable high-efficiency power supply design and can contribute to the reduced number of parts. The net result of this capacitor technology is energy savings improved efficiency. 5 << Example of parts reduction with conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitor >> << Thin film Polymer Mult-Layer Capacitors, PMLCAP >> PMLCAP, developed with our proprietary technology, achieves extremely ideal characteristics and contributes to the high performance of electronic devices. PMLCAP is a surface-mounted film capacitor that achieves a significant reduction in size compared to conventional film capacitors by adopting a revolutionary technology in which electrodes and dielectrics are formed by vacuum evaporation. Compared with high dielectric constant multilayer ceramic capacitors, which have excellent frequency characteristics and temperature characteristics, they have superior bias characteristics , beat sound characteristics , harmonic distortion ratio , etc. Its characteristics were found among developers and adopted for Mars Exploration Rover / Seismograph, which landed in the plains near the equator of Mars in November 2018. Since then, PMLCAP has been contributing as a sensing key part of ultra-sensitive seismograph to exploring the geological activities and internal conditions of Mars. 6 << Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitors for Automotive Use >> With C (Connectivity) A (Autonomous) S (Shared & Service) E (Electric), the number of electronic parts installed in vehicles is increasing year by year. The electronic parts cost ratio of vehicles was about 3% in the 1980s, but increased to about 40% in 2015. At Rubycon, in addition to conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors, we are promoting development of products for automotive aluminum electrolytic capacitors. 7 << Electric Double Layer Capacitor >> Electric double layer capacitors use electric double layer produced on the boundary between the electrode and electrolyte (as dielectric) for storing electric charges. This capacitor realizes quick charge-discharge cycles as well as long life since there aren't chemical reactions to store charges. This capacitor is ideal for applications requiring momentary large current such as power assist and energy regeneration. If the capacitor is used as the main power for rechargeable equipment, maintenance is reduced. 8 Fair Business Practices We are compliant regarding relevant statutes, internal regulations, social norms and ethics, and excluding relations with antisocial forces, so as to promote business activities through fair and good competition and to secure safe and ease of customers in consideration of views and positions of ordinary citizens. Compliance We are observing all statutes relating to business (labor, environment, public welfare, trade, industry, commerce, national tax and civil affairs), and as well as conducting fair business and transactions. On the basis of our internal regulations, we are developing such activities to our group companies through mutual improvement. We have published Rubycon Group Code of Conduct conforming to EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition), and are providing it to all employees and group companies. If any compliance violation is found, we will seek accurate facts to determine the cause followed by strict action to prevent recurrence. Internal Audit We have a designated audit department under the president's direct supervision to audit fair and proper performance of internal activities in accordance with relevant statutes, operation policy and internal regulations. The department will further provide advice to improve and correct our business as well as the risks for compliance in organizational activities. This audit covers all organizations in each company group. Risk Management In addition to Risk Management Activities conducted since 2012, we are strengthening internal systems and reviewing relevant internal regulation since inquiries from customers on code of conduct and ethical risk management are increasing. We will also assess effectiveness of disaster contingency plan as well as reviewing BCP (Business Continuity Plan) for disaster and unexpected contingency. Protection of Intellectual Properties (Measures against Counterfeit Products) We are promoting the appropriate intellectual property formation such as acquisition of patent rights and trademark right to contribute to sound development of business activities. We are also working to protect our customers' interests by enhancing brand value through activities of eradication of counterfeit products. Furthermore, we strive to respect and not to interfere intellectual property of other companies, as well as to protect our own intellectual property. Protection and Control of Information Misuse of information important to corporate management will have significant impact on relations of trust with partners and their management. We have established security policy and privacy policy recognizing importance of information assets. We give the first priority in risk management and BCP to the policies. We are protecting and controlling information assets through education of employees and various security measures and activities. Protection of Personal Information Recognizing that the protection of personal information in today's advanced information society is an urgent issue, our company has developed a management system to comply with Japanese Personal Information Protection Act. In the meantime, the European General Information Protection Regulation (GDPR), that has come into effect in May 2018, imposes strict requirements for the transfer the personal information located in Europe outside the region. In response to the requirements of the GDPR, we have implemented various measures. At the same time we have used this opportunity to conduct a general review of our management system with the aim of further enhancement. 9 Organization Governance CSR Policy Rubycon's CSR System to accomplish corporate social responsibility is shown at the right. Decision-making is performed referring to the vision, the employees motto and the Global Compact, on the basis of the foundation spirit. All of these support us to remain a reliable company to stakeholders such as customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community, and to drive steady CSR activities. Rubycon Group Code of Conduct The purpose of Rubycon Group's Code of Conduct is to define business activities of our employees complying with laws and observing environmental responsibility and corporate ethics under a safe labor environment. It complies with the EICC Code of Conduct. << Human Rights and Labor >> << Fair Trade and Ethics >> 1. No forced labor 1. No corruption or bribery 2. No inhumane treatment 2. No abuse of dominant bargaining position 3. No child labor 3. No improper advantage 4. No discrimination 4. No anticompetitive act 5. Reasonable wage 5. Provision of accurate information on 6. Working hours product and service 7. Right to organize of employees 6. Respect to intellectual property 7. Appropriate export control << Safety and Health >> 8. Disclosure of information 1. Machine Safeguarding 9. Prevention and early detection of 2. Workplace safety irregularity 3. Workplace sanitation 10. Prohibition of reprisal 4. Occupational injury and illness 11. Responsible mineral procurement 5. Emergency preparedness 6. Physically demanding work << Quality and Safety >> 7. Facility safety and sanitation 8. Health of employees 1. Security of product safety 2. Quality management system << Environment >> 1. Product content restrictions << Information Security >> 2. Chemical materials to be used in 1. Safeguarding for threat to computer production process 3. Environmental management system network 4. Minimal impact on environment 2. No leakage of personal information (e.g. waste water, sludge, exhaust gas) 3. No leakage of confidential information of 5. Environmental permits and administrative customers and third parties approval 6. Effective utilization of resources and energy (3R) << Social Action >> 7. Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 1. Contribution to society and community 8. Waste reduction 9. Disclosure of environmental preservation activities 10. Preservation of biodiversity 10 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact «Human rights» Principle 1 ： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 ： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. «Labor» Principle 3 ： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 ： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 ： the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 ： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. «Environment» Principle 7 ： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 ： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 ： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. «Anti-corruption» Principle10 ： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribe Rubycon CSR Procurement Guidelines Rubycon Group is striving to strengthen supply chain management with a view to business continuity and sustainable value creation. We have established the Rubycon Group Procurement Policy based on our management philosophy, and we are striving to strengthen compliance with laws and social norms as well as showing our basic stance on procurement inside and outside the company through our website. Based on the objective of this procurement policy, Request to valued Suppliers was established by emphasizing compliance with laws and social norms such as respect for human rights and rejection of anti-social forces, prohibition of corruption and bribery, promotion of fair and impartial businesses, and consideration for the environment. With these two guidelines as the two driving wheels of procurement activities, we are working on building and strengthening relationships based on equitable, fair and transparent transactions with suppliers. Rubycon Group Procurement Policy << Compliance with laws and social norms >> We will comply with laws and social norms (Respect for human rights such as prohibition of child labor and forced labor, laws, standards, treaties, etc. of various countries including prevention of corruption etc.), and conduct sound and fair corporate activities. Suppliers of materials and services necessary for the production of Rubycon products are also requested to comply with laws and social norms. << Green procurement and environmental consideration >> In line with the Rubycon Environmental Policy, we established green procurement standards, we continue the environmentally friendly materials procurement activities, and we strive to realize a sustainable human society and sound environment. 11 << Promotion of equitable and fair business transactions >> We open widely to both domestic and international suppliers (including candidates of suppliers), and conduct fair and impartial business transactions in accordance with established policies and procedures. << Supplier selection policy >> In selecting suppliers, we are committed to make complehensive judgement among the following factors: compliance with laws and social norms, environmental consideration, ensuring stable quality and safety, stable and reliable supply, stable management foundation, superior technical capability, appropriate information protection, respect of other companies' intellectual property, compliance with the designated delivery date, appropriate price, etc. << Enhancement of partner relationship with suppliers >> We strive to build and maintain trust relationship based on mutual understanding with suppliers. << Prohibition of giving and receiving of private benefit >> We prohibit employees from receiving inappropriate personal benefits (including entertainment and gifts) from suppliers without exception. CSR Plan in Rubycon CSR Promotion System CSR activities are positioned as the business itself, and awareness of all employees to CSR is raised under instruction of the president. Each of the conferences and councils is regularly held, and decisions are penetrated into the whole group including divisions and affiliated companies to share problems. CSR management is promoted, emphasizing interaction with customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community. We are securing compliance under the spirit that a corporate is a public institution. We provide proper feedback of requests from stakeholders. 12 Performance Data Corresponding GRI standard # Classification Items Boundary Unit 2017 2018 2019 Company Size Number of establishments Consolidated Japan 15 15 14 102-7 Consolidated Abroad 12 12 13 Total Consolidated 27 27 27 Number of employees Male Consolidated Japan persons 1,406 1,343 1,299 102-7 Female Consolidated Japan persons 430 417 391 Japan Total Consolidated Japan persons 1,836 1,760 1,690 Male Consolidated Abroad persons 328 306 291 Female Consolidated Abroad persons 694 681 686 Overseas Total Consolidated Abroad persons 1,022 987 977 Total Consolidated persons 2,858 2,747 2,667 Net turnover Consolidated billion yen 49.9 54.5 48.5 102-7 Labor Practices Number of regular employees Male Rubycon Corp. persons 522 495 478 102-8 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 164 165 156 Total Regular Rubycon Corp. persons 686 660 634 Number of temporary employees Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 102-8 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Total Temporary Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Ratio of temporary employees out of total employeer Rubycon Corp. % 0 0 0 102-8 Number of newly hired employees Rubycon Corp. persons 38 16 15 Ratio of new employees Rubycon Corp. % 5.6% 2.4% 2.4% Number of people leaving (excluding retirement age) Rubycon Corp. persons 15 20 26 401-1 Ratio of people leaving Rubycon Corp. % 2.2% 3.0% 3.9% Ratio of reemployed employees (at the retirement age) Rubycon Corp. % 78% 78% 90% Ratio of handicapped employees Rubycon Corp. % 2% 2% 2% Working hours (per employee per year) Rubycon Corp. hours 1,982.2 2,047.9 2,048.5 Annual paid holidays taken per employee per year) Rubycon Corp. days 8.55 8.6 9.07 Average overtime working hours (per employee per month) Rubycon Corp. hours 7.01 7.3 7.35 Childcare leave Male Rubycon Corp. persons 1 1 1 401-3 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 4 14 3 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 5 15 4 Childcare leave restoration rate Rubycon Corp. % 100% 100% 100% 401-3 Family care leave Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Shortened working hours for Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 childcare or family care Female Rubycon Corp. persons 28 29 27 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 28 29 27 Labor union Number of unionized employees Rubycon Corp. persons 387 385 369 Ratio of unionized employees Rubycon Corp. % 57% 58% 58% 102-41 Number of incidents resulting in lost-time injuries Rubycon Group Companies cases 3 3 0 Infrequency rate of lost-time injuries Rubycon Corp. 0.75 0.00 0.00 Rubycon Group Companies 0.85 0.86 0.00 13 Corresponding GRI standard # Classification Items Boundary Unit 2017 2018 2019 Participation in Education Accepted interns Rubycon Corp. cases 5 5 6 community Rubycon Corp. persons 9 7 10 Improvement of the environment Cleaning activities Rubycon Corp. cases 1 3 3 around the worksites Rubycon Corp. hours in total 70 55 75 thousand Promotion of arts, culture & sports Cooperative contribution Rubycon Corp. 387 213 374 yen Exchange with local communities Guided plant tour Rubycon Corp. persons 51 31 27 communities Facilities rented Rubycon Corp. hours 4 0 0 Number of attending events Rubycon Corp. persons 34 40 40 Visiters to clock museum Rubycon Corp. persons 1,805 1,565 1,080 Community development & social welfare thousand Contribution to local economy Rubycon Corp. 167 234 220 yen thousand Contribution to local organization Rubycon Corp. 415 412 414 yen Environmental Total energy consumption Non-renewable energy source Rubycon Corp. TJ 128 109 106 302-1 Conservation Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan TJ 2,102 2,105 1,479 Renewable energy source Rubycon Corp. GJ 0 0 0 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan GJ 268 258 258 Total electricity consumption Total Rubycon Corp. GWhr 11.7 11.0 10.7 302-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan GWhr 195.1 200.2 142.5 Greenhouse gases discharged Scope 1 Rubycon Corp. kt-CO2 0 0 0 305-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt-CO2 0 0 0 Scope 2 Rubycon Corp. kt-CO2 6.27 5.35 5.02 305-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt-CO2 20.24 19.54 18.56 Water used Rubycon Corp. million ㎥ 4.8 4.7 2.5 303-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan million ㎥ 35.0 38.4 29.0 Waste water Rubycon Corp. kt 4.8 4.7 2.5 306-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt 37 40 31.1 Discharged industrial waste Rubycon Corp. t 273 177 168 306-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 1,544 1,314 961 Final landfill of industrial waste Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 306-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 into air Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 Release of PRTR-listed substances Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 into water Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 306-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 Total Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 Harmful atmospheric pollutants released Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 Discharged substances with SOx Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 atmospheric impact NOx Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Soot and dust Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Discharged substances with water COD Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 quality impact Total phosphorus Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Total nitrogen Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Environmental accounting Capital investment (total) Rubycon Group Companies million yen 42 0 1 Expenses (total) Rubycon Group Companies million yen 5.6 0.0 0.0 Economic benefits Rubycon Group Companies million yen 0.57 0 0 Compliance Number of requests for consultation received by corporate ethics window Rubycon Group Companies cases 5 6 2 14 CSR Activities Security of Product Safety We closely check compliance and non-use of banned substances in planning phase of product development, in order to secure product safety. We also describe safety instructions in our catalog and delivery specifications. We perform reliability tests with various processes to secure safety of products to be manufactured. We conduct reliability tests in various phases, including process design phase to secure correct materials, specifications and production conditions. During the mass production phase we check reliability of all products through regular sampling, also during the product development and planning phases. Such tests include reliability and the general process is confirmed in addition to safety, so as to maintain the reliability of Rubycon products. We are striving to supply safe and reliable products now and in the future. Response to Product Accident and Failure Quality Assurance Center (QA Center) receives complaints and investigation requests for accident and failure from customers through each sales office. QA Center uses special equipment for the primary investigation of returns and notifies complaint information to the concerned factory on the current day. Then the center starts investigation of production record and the root cause of the failure. Quality Control Section in the concerned factory performs expansion estimation and prepares measures to report to QA Center. QA Center reports the measures to each customer. QA Center further performs validation and horizontal development of the measures through internal audit, so as to confirm the change. Under the motto I guarantee the quality, all of Rubycon's members are aiming to win customer satisfaction as well as addressing quality improvements. 15 C0C: Claim 0 Campaign We accept every complaint from customers with sincerity in order to improve customer satisfaction and quality related with product safety. We have started quality improvement activities as the manufacturer responsible for our products, so as to attain our goal Claim 0. We started Claim 0 Campaign (C0C) in May, 2012. In the result of the 8th year, approximately 70% reduction in the complaint rate (number of complaints/output) has been kept. We are addressing to C0C activities to attain Claim 0. Factory Recognition Commendation In 2019, we received a factory award from one major customer. Quality Honor Award (Honor of no complains for 5 consecutive years) Awarded by Hirose Plant of Toyota Motor Corporation Awarded for Manufacturing Group 2, Rubycon Corporation Main Factory We will continue our efforts on review of work procedures, activities to prevent recurrence (C0C), and preventive measures, with the aim of further improving the quality of Rubycon group companies and product. ISO/IATF Audit and Internal Audit We have acquired ISO9001, IATF16949, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 are engaged in production activities based on internal regulations and standards. As well as receiving audits by third-party organizations in order to confirm whether the production actvities are conducted firmly in accordance with the standard requirements, we are also promoting interconnection among various sections in the company and working on improvement of mutual levels, by conducting internal audits by the auditor team whose representatives are selected from each division. 16 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction We have the quality policy of manufacture to win customer satisfaction that provides customers with relief and trust through 5 pillars of cooperation power, promptness, analyzing ability, quality control ability, small group activities. We are addressing Customer Satisfaction through quality to contribute to the society and the future. We conduct customer questionnaire every year including cost, delivery and service as well as quality, so as to improve customer satisfaction. Green Procurement We are purchasing materials, parts and components for Rubycon products from partners who are proactively reducing environmental burdens and addressing to reduce substances in the Environmentallycontrolled Substance List, and observing statutes and social norms of each country. We will continue such activities in the future. Control of Banned and Hazardous Substances We have specified our Banned and Abolished Substance List for banned and hazardous substances and are continually updating it according to customers' requirements of green procurement including RoHS and REACH regulations. We have a check system for RoHS regulated substances in material reception stage through regular XRF analysis for samples and inspection of high-precision analysis data. We also have a material tracing system to prevent reception, incorporation and contamination of banned and abolished substances. In the system, a barcode is used to identify all materials under cooperation of suppliers to establish material traceability. We have a database to trace material information within 24 hours to prevent environmental defects from being released. We are continually striving for preserving the comfortable environment with the catchphrase I preserve the globe. Compliance Training We conducted in-house compliance training targeted for Officers, Directors, managerial staff, and sales staff of Rubycon Corporation and Rubycon group companies in December 2019. 17 Environmental Measures Reduction of Environmental Burden Energy Saving Rubycon has been designated as a specific proponent according to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in 2010, and have been addressing to annual energy saving rate more than 1%, working on measures of saving energy of lighting, air-conditioning, and production equipment. Energy saving achievements in recent years are as follows: (Conversion per unit consumption) Reduction of CO2 emission We strive to achieve annual 1% reduction of CO2 emission. Achievements in recent years are as follows: We achieved size & weight reduction and performance improvement of our products through R&D to respond to customers requests. We continue further improvement in size reduction to reduce CO2 emission and contribute on energy conservation. Promotion of Recycling 1. Waste Vinyl We maintain 100% recycling of waste vinyl 2. Paper We are working to recycle paper and reduce the amount of paper that is treated as combustible materials. The current recycling rate in 2019 is 64%. 3. Miscellaneous We are committed to recycling by thoroughly sorting waste. We aim to achieve zero emissions. 18 PRTR（Pollutant Release and Transfer Register） We prepare annual report according to the PRTR Act. The achievements in recent years are as follows: Reduction of waste generation We are working on the reduction of waste generation. Recent achievements are as follows: Environmental Clean-up Activities We, at Rubycon, are operating research, development and production in natural blessings. As expressed with our environmental catchphrase I preserve the environment, we are continually striving for cleaning on and around our premises by preserving nature, in order to make visitors comfortable. << Voices >> Participation in Environment Clean-up Activities / Kyosuke Nakagawa, Machine Engineering Group of Machine Engineering Department Since the work in the Company is being specialized, my cleaning work is less than my student days. However, thinking that cleaning by myself at my workplace is a basis of social life, I have participated in Environment Clean-up Activities. Cleaning is not easy because there are some stains tough to remove or out of my reach. Especially in winter, my fingers feel too cold to remove stains well. Participation in the activities has made me feel more thankful to the people in charge of cleaning the workplace. In addition, I have more contacts with some employees with whom I would not have much interaction otherwise. From now on, I wish to continue participating in Environment Clean-up Activities. 19 Human Right Protection, Labor Practices Respect of Human Rights Our employee regulations specify equal opportunity such that employees are not discriminated by their nationality, religion, sex or social position. These regulations also specify strict compliance of prohibition of forced labor , prohibition of inhumane treatment , prohibition of child labor , restriction of dangerous and harmful work and restriction of dangerous and harmful work for pregnancies as stipulated by law. We are further addressing control of working hours to prevent overwork. We have also formally participated in UN Global Compact proposed by the UN in October, 2011, and put up our original poster in each of our departments including our group companies and overseas distributors in order to comply with the 10 rules. We are thoroughly instructing the importance to respect and cooperate with each other for pursuing work through personnel training courses described below. Cultivation of Human Resources Employee Training << Hierarchy Courses >> ・ Intensive Fresh Recruit Training (April, every year) Intensive training for 10 days is provided to fresh recruits to build up basic skill as an employee of Rubycon. Group discussion over hours is included to fully communicate each other. Afterwards, all newly hired employees will conduct hands-on training at the manufacturing site for half a year to acquire the basics of monozukuri, and then will be assigned to the intended sections. ・ Fresh Recruit Follow-up Training (at 6 to 12 months from employment) Fresh recruit follow-up training is provided at a certain period after assignment. In the training, each trainee reviews his or her acts in the initial period to determine the extent of accomplishment of the target set at the time of employment, and sets a new target for the next step. ・ Young Employee Training (4th or 5th year after employment) This training is provided to motivate each young employee to proactively expand his or her work scope beyond his or her duty, so as to grow into mid-level employee. ・ Class 1 Employee Qualification Training (for mid-level employees 7-10 years from employment) We have an ability-based grade system, and Class 1 employee corresponds to mid-level employee. This training is aimed to improve awareness of responsibility as mid-level employee, so as to pursue work in wider viewpoint. ・ Beginning Supervisor Training (for beginning chiefs, leaders and managers) We provide beginning management with training of role and responsibility of management, labor management, understanding of Company counts, goal setting, and communication with staff. 20 ・ Beginning Management Training (for beginning general managers) We provide beginning management with training of role and responsibility of management, labor management, understanding of Company counts, goal setting, and communication with staff. << Language Courses >> ・ English Course We provide primary English course every week to develop global persons with external native speaking instructors. Also, a TOEIC certification examination is held at the company once a year to selfevaluate own English skills. ・ Chinese Course Employees of Chinese origin teach Chinese to other employees once a week, since Chinese market is huge and attractive for us. << Support to Obtaining Qualifications >> ・ Incentive Reward System for Obtaining Qualifications In order to develop abilities and increase motivation of employees, we provide incentive rewards for the employees who have passed national qualifications and have developed advanced technology for R&D of the Company. Not only national qualifications such as Certified Skilled Worker, Chief Electrician, and Health Supervisor but also private qualifications such as TOEIC, JCCI Bookkeeping Certification, and the like, and many of the employees are challenging to obtain such qualifications. In addition, Incentive Reward System is being applied to application and registration for patents, utility models, and designs invented by employees. ・ Correspondence Course We update and distribute a pamphlet of correspondence courses for all employees as a selfdevelopment tool. We have a wide range of the courses to meet the needs of the employees preparing to obtain such qualifications. We also provide the management trainees with the mandatory courses required for promotion to managerial positions. << Other Special Courses >> ・ Mental Healthcare Course We believe that physical and mental health of employees is the first step to create dynamic workplace. Then we invite an instructor from Nagano Industrial Health Promotion Center or else once every few years to hold mental healthcare course. ・ Utilization of Outside Training Courses In addition to internal training courses, we actively utilize outside training courses with the aim of taking advantages of inter-industry exchanges for our participants. Spending time together with people with similar titles or positions in different industries would stimulate and motivate our participants for further skill development. Managerial stuff are required to take outside training courses. 21 Creation of Comfortable Workplaces Child-care and Nursing Support Establishment of Child-care and Nursing Support Rules We have established Child-care and Nursing Support Rules complying with Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Especially many employees utilize child-care leave to return to the former workplace after the leave. To support child-care, if employees wish, they could work up to 2 hours less per day until March 31 of 2nd year elementary school. Establishment of Healthcare Vacation Healthcare vacation system is our original one to accumulate annual paid holidays not used up to 10 days for a year with the retention of 2 years at most. This system helps need of long cure due to accident, injury or disease. Hourly Paid Holiday We also have an hourly paid holiday system in which an employee can have hourly holiday up to 3 days in a year. It is useful for late attendance or early leaving due to going to a hospital for one's own or a family's sake. Acquisition of Kurumin Mark We have been addressing to the next-generation development support, and approved Kurumin Mark by Nagano Labor Bureau on August 29, 2008 according to the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been awarded the second approval in 2015 for the activities conducted between 2011 and 2015. Child-care Support We always provide company information to female employees on child-care leave by sending in-house newsletters or else, and when their return to work approaches, we inquire them about their preference of working conditions and employment status in order to remove an anxiety of their return to work. We also support them by preparing experienced industrial nurses to advise on child-care during the leave. Occupational Health and Safety We carry out various activities toward Creating a healthy and comfortable workplace . As part of such efforts, we maintain OHSAS 18001 certification, an occupational health and safety management system. In improvement activities, we are working to raise awareness of employees' occupational health and safety. ・ Health and Safety Committee meetings (12 times a year) ・ Health and Safety Patrols (Twice a year) ・ Health and Safety Patrols [Factory] (6 times a year) ・ Patrol of Occupational Environment by Health Representative (Weekly) ・ KYT Activities (Once a year) Kiken Yochi Training meaning the foreseeing danger situations training. ・ Hiyari-Hatto Proposal Activities (Once a year) ・ Internal Health & Safety Audit (Once a year) ・ Factory Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Office Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Stress Check (Once a year) ・ VDT (Visual Display Terminals) Operation Survey (Once a year) Photo of Disaster Drill ・ Risk Assessment and Improvement Activities ・ Young Drivers Club Activities ・ Disaster Drill ・ Safety and Health Education 22 Address to Mental Healthcare As described in the section of professional training, we provide mental healthcare training with external instructors. We take appropriate actions for persons of mental disorder in cooperation of personnel section, company nurse and company doctor. Health Consultation Company nurse picks up 3 to 4 persons every month from long-hour workers and employees with findings in medical check, to consult company doctor on monthly visit. Stress Check We conducted a stress check with the scope of all emp-loyees in October 2019. 452 employees took the examination of stress check, and several of them chose to take an interview with industrial doctors. The company-wide health risk was almost at the national average level. KYT (Danger Prediction Training) activities KYT activities are conducted at each section of the company once a year, by having section members think about what kind of dangers exist in the workplace, decide important issues among them to work on, study how to resolve them, and set the goals by when to resolve them. By doing it, we encourage them to have a habit looking around for searching potential dangers in the workplace. Hiyari-Hatto(Near miss) suggestion activities Hiyari-Hatto (near miss) is literally a thing that makes you feel emotion of fear in an unexpected event by a step before a serious accident. Heinrich's is one of the empirical rules, and the content is that there are 29 minor accidents and 300 near-miss incidents (hiyari-hatto) exist behind one serious accident. According to such rule, we collect from each section reports about such incidents once a year, and take appropriate measures to eliminate risk of accidents. Baseball Team Activities Rubycon's rubber-ball baseball team, one of the most powerful teams in the prefecture, has been very active even with only 15 members. They achieved remarkable results in 2019 as shown below: the championship at 74th Emperor's Cup Nagano Tournament, the best 2 position at 74th National Sports Festival Nagano Tournament, the best 2 position at 64th Central Japan Toshi-taiko Rubber-ball Baseball Competition Nagano Tournament, and the championship at 70th Tokai Five Prefecture Rubber-ball Baseball Competition Nagano Tournament. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. 23 Relationship with Labor Union Labor-Management Council We have labor-management council with labor union of the company, for the common purpose of development of company and happiness of employees. The council is held as necessary at any time to find resolution through discussion, including the regular Spring Labor-management Negotiation in every spring. Thanksgiving Festival We hosted Thanksgiving Festival jointly with the labor union. We used to organize it for August at the same time as Ina Matsuri Festival, but in 2019 we changed it to September to avoid the heat of hot summer. Though worried about decrease in number of the participants, in fact the largest number of the participants gathered and we could spend a lively day. << Voices >> Participation in Thanksgiving Festival / Kazuhisa Hara, Quality Assurance Center I participated in Thanksgiving Festival with my family for the first time. Since there were many games and attractions that children could enjoy as well as lots of foods and drinks there, all my family members were completely satisfied. In addition, during the event, a send-off ceremony of the baseball team for the national tournament took place and President Sato gave words of encouragement. I think that Thanksgiving Festival could be one of precious events that could create such an opportunity. I look forward to the next Thanksgiving Festival. 24 Bus tour hosted by the Labor Union As part of welfare programs, several bus tours a year for employees are being organized by the labor union. Destinations are various places, including cultural heritage, factory tour, theme park, and the like. Normally about 40 people participate in a tour. In 2019, two tours were held, one is Nagoya Castle / Nagoya sightseeing Tour and another is Tokyo Disneyland & DisneySea Tour (2 times). Participants had a good time and deepened exchanges of the employees. By doing one day activity together with people in other departments who are less involved in daily work, it helps revitalize communication beyond the fences between departments. On November 23rd Participation in Community and Development Social Contribution Activities Acceptance of Internship and factory tour In the view of social service and youth development, we accept the requests of internship for students of junior high-school, high-school and university, businesspeople and disabled people as much as possible. Such requests are increasing year after year, and we are going to accept to the utmost extent. 《Track Record of Internship and Factory Tour in 2019》 HeadMonth Subjects Duration count February College Students (Internship) 18 3 days March Children of employees (Factory Tour) *Elementary School 2 1 day May Student of Harutomi Junior High School (Internship) 1 2 days May Students of Minami-Minowa Junior High School (Internship) 2 2 days May Students of Nishi-Minowa Junior High School (Internship) 2 3 days August Students of Komagane Industrial High School (Internship) 2 2 days September Students of Tobu Junior High School (Internship) 2 2 days September College Students (Internship) 3 1 day October Students of Ina Junior High School (Internship) 1 2 days 25 Participation in Clean-up Activities around Tenryu River Area We are participating in clean-up activities around Tenryu River Area (Tenryu River Environmental Picnic) every year to cooperate with community residents, as a part of Local Beautification Activities. The activities work as parent-child communication, as children of employees participate in them. Promotion of Local Firefighting Activities and Japanese Red Cross Service Activities We promote cooperation with and participation in community activities. Local firefighting activities and local Red Cross service activities are especially important for local active disaster prevention and local welfare. We treat absence due to participation in such activities as paid holidays. Participation in Ina-matsuri Festival We participate in Ina-matsuri Festival every year with a dancing team, as one of regional contributions. The dancing team performs powerful dance in gratitude for the community, in order to encourage the festival. << Voices >> Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival / Kenta Yasue, Engineering Division I participated in Rubycon dance team last year. It was my third time of participation, and I can participate in it every year with a fresh feeling. It’s overwhelming to see the community or company members together performing the Dragon Dance. I feel that this is a good opportunity to interact with people of all ages by mastering the choreography and teaching the juniors who have no dancing experiences while cooperating in bringing the dance to completion. 26 Contribution to Revitalization of Community Tonouchi Clock Memorial Museum Approximately 250 mechanical clocks mainly from Europe in the 18th to 19th century are exhibited at the Museum, all of which are still counting time. Deceased Mr. Teruo Tonouchi used to wish that people sympathize with the passion for the science of the predecessors and children foster interest in science through complicated mechanical clocks, and wish to give some help to improve regional culture. The museum was built with such his wishes, and it is quietly standing in a grove in which more than 1,000 rhododendrons were planted. The clock museum that is maintained with the consideration to the preservation of natural environment, and that with the carillon's bell ringing in the forest, is a well-known cultural facility of the area. Tonouchi Memorial Park In the park within the Company campus, more than 100 cherry trees were planted, of which majority are turmeric cherry trees carried from Yuri-honjo City of Akita Pref., and as well some red peony cherry blossoms and weeping cherry trees. It has been open to the community and has become a place for relaxation. Lending the baseball stadium We have a Rubycon stadium equiped with lighting for night games. While the company baseball team is away from hometown due to expedition or else, the stadium is open to community. It is used by various organizations, including local youngstars baseball team practices. 27 Major Performances in 2019 and Goals and Plans in 2020 Major Item Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2019 Major Performances in 2019 Goal and Plan in 2020 CSR Management Submitted COP to the headquarters of UN Global Compact on July 14, 2019 Policy to comply with EICC Code of Conduct, Support of 10 rules of UN To promote priority themes in the Corporate Governance Global Compact, and develop them group Interaction with to business activities Declared our policy to comply with EICC Code of Conduct and support of 10 rules of UN Stakeholders Global Compact on Rubycon Website. Promotion of transparent Made out CSR Report 2019 and posted it on our website including Code of Conduct. Creation of CSR report and management publication on our website. Corporate Governance Compliance training to continue at Improvement of compliance and Compliance training was conducted in all departments. all divisions of the company. internal control Internal Audit was conducted in 38 departments of Rubycon group companies. Continuation of internal audits. Respect of Human Promotion of human rights Promotion and continuation of Rights / No Human rights education was conducted to all employees in the CSR training. enlightenment human rights enlightenment activity Discrimination Performed Chinese and English language courses once a week. In April 2019, group training was conducted for new graduates to learn the basics of the Human Resources Company as well as business manners and the like. Improvement and performance of Improvement of employee training Development In February 2020, management training was conducted inviting external lecturers for training program managers and supervisors to reaffirm the basics of personnel evaluation. In March 2020, executive training was conducted for general managers to learn compliance including measures for Subcontract Act. Throughout the year, new managers and female generalist staff participated in external training sessions. Continued employment according to Revision of extended employment motivation and ability of each retired Continuance of extended employment system system Support to Work employee Diversity Expansion of reduced working hours Support to childcare Support for employees who wish to extend childcare leave. for childcare Measures for lifestyle diseases Health consultation Continuation of health consultation Human Rights / Labor Practices Risk assessment and improvement activities (monthly review by safety and health committee) Promotion of safety and health in workplace Performed safety and health patrols in the National Labor Health Week and the National Safety Week twice in a year, together with indoor environment clean-up activity, Continuation of workplace safety evacuation drill, sheet-belt use rate survey. and health activity Safety and Health of To obtain OHSAS18001 certification We passed the OHSAS 18001 maintenance examination in January 2019. Employees Rubycon's rubber-ball baseball team, one of the most powerful teams in the prefecture, has been very active even with only 15 members. They achieved remarkable results in 2019 as shown below: the championship at 74th Emperor's Cup Nagano Tournament, the best 2 position at 74th National Sports Festival Nagano Tournament, Activation of internal circles Amendment of Labor Regulations the best 2 position at 64th Central Japan Toshi-taiko Rubber-ball Baseball Competition Nagano Tournament, and the championship at 70th Tokai Five Prefecture Rubber-ball Baseball Competition Nagano Tournament. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. Thanksgiving Festival (held on Sep. 7). As part of welfare programs, several bus tours a year for employees are being organized by the labor union. Destinations are various places, including cultural heritage, factory tour, theme park, and the like. Cooperation with Labor Promotion of joint events with labor Normally about 40 people participate in a tour. Continuing promotion of joint events Union union In 2019, two tours were held, one is Nagoya Castle / Nagoya sightseeing Tour and with labor union another is Tokyo Disneyland & DisneySea Tour (2 times). Participants had a good time and deepened exchanges of the employees. Held labor-management council regularly to exchange opinions and to share information. 28 Major Performances in 2019 and Goals and Plans in 2020 Major Item Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2019 Major Performances in 2019 Goal and Plan in 2020 Environmental Continuing approval and compliance To maintain all over the group Maintenance all over the group Management of ISO14001 Chemicals control WG to penetrate instructions into the group Continuing management of banned Management of banned substances substances and hazardous and toxic and hazardous and toxic materials Instruction of Green Procurement to suppliers materials Reduction of industrial waste and Attained 100% recycle of waste vinyl Reduction of industrial waste and promotion of recycling promotion of recycling Achieved 64% recycling of industrial waste A (paper) Environment Environment-friendly Business Process To reduce energy consumption in To reduce energy consumption in convertion per unit consumption by Achieved 3.0% reduction of energy consumption per unit of GDP between April 2019 and convertion per unit consumption by 1% or more compared to the prior March 2020 from the previous year. 1% or more compared to the prior year year To reduce CO2 emission 1% or more CO2 emissions between April 2019 and March 2020 were 5,019t-CO2, achieving 6.2 % To reduce CO2 emission 1% or compared to the prior year reduction from the previous year. more compared to the prior year The following series were developed and marketed as miniaturized and high-ripple Launch of compact and high-ripple products: Development of miniaturized Environmentproducts to help protecting 10 series of non-solid aluminum electrolytic capacitors, 2 series of conductive polymer products as environment-friendly compatible Products environment aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors (hybrid type), and 1 series of electric double layer products capacitors. (Upgrade from the existing product is included) Continuance of risk reduction Risk Management Risk reduction activities Conducted risk reduction activities on CSR items. activities Sent to suppliers (January 2019) the information Contact point for reporting from To carry out the CSR questionnaire CSR in the supply chain business partners . with suppliers. Fair Competitions and Trades Compliance in transactions with Continuing compliance in Compliance training sessions were conducted on January 17th and 20th in 2020. suppliers transactions with suppliers Fair Business Practices Reviewed organization and system of transaction examination. Compliance in trading Continuing compliance in trading In December 2019, monitoring was conducted by Customs for AEO certification. Reviewed security control regulations and performed training and measures. Promotion of information security Information Protection Completed the first response to GDPR (Establishment of contracts between European Continuing promotion of information control (critical in risk management and Control sites and subcontractors who received personal information, creation of information security control items) management policies for European sites, review of privacy policies, review of website contents, and others.) Formation of appropriate intellectual property such as acquisition of patent right and Protection of company's and others' trademark right Continuation of protection of Protection of Intellectual intellectual property Protection of brands and protection of customers' interests through activities such as intellectual property and promotion Properties Promotion of anti-counterfeit product eradication of counterfeit goods of anti-counterfeit product measures measures Respect and protect other companies' or persons' intellectual property Continuation of registration of the Performed FMEA deployments from the past trouble list including safety aspect. past troubles and FMEA Design considering capacitor safety Automotive quality was restructured. Operational procedures for automotive requirements deployment. Promotion of were reviewed. automotive quality improvements. Improvement of product Consumer Safety and Protection quality/safety Continuing promotion of improvement in product quality in Promotion of quality improvement in Claim 0 Canpaign was conducted. Audit for prevention of recurring problems and longRubycon Group compamies by Rubycon Group term support for C0C activities were provdied to Indonesia plant. conducting audit for prevention of recurring problems in C0C activities. Continuing reduction of number od To reduce number of days to deal Product days to deal with defect reporting. with defect reporting and to promote The target within 6 days of reporting was maintained. The emergency reporting system Accident/Failure Plan To maintain the emergency reporting prompt actions. was maintained. system. Conducted a questionnaire to major customers on quality, time of delivery, price and Improvement of Continuance of customer Customer satisfaction survey service. Attained 93% of customer satisfaction in quality, and the Complete Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction satisfaction survey was 67.5%. An environmental picnic in the Tenryu River aqueous system was held on May 18, and about 60 Rubycon employees participated for garbage collection activities in the Tenryu Participation in Community / Community River basin. Promotion of social service in each location About 30 employees participated in Ina Matsuri Festival (Aug. 3). Continued public exhibition of Tonouchi Memorial Museum. Continuing promotion of social Social Service Program service activities in each location Development Promotion of local fire fighting activity Handled all of the activities as special paid holidays. and Japanese Red Cross activity Accepted 33 persons (including students, business people and handicapped) for Acceptance of internship internship. 29
