2019 IMPACT REPORT -1TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Purpose-Driven Profitability 2 Highlights 2019 3 A Message from our CEO 1 4 Strategic ESG Integration 6 Stakeholder Engagement 7 Awards and Recognition Purpose-Driven Profitability 8 Charters and Pledges 9 Climate-Positive Investing 10 Impactful Investments 11 TCFD Assessment 13 TCFD Scenario Analysis 16 TCFD Metrics and Targets 17 Sustainable Development Goals 18  Inclusive and Resilient Communities 9 Climate-Positive Investing 19 Diversity and Inclusion 20 Employee Engagement 22 Community Engagement 23 Responsible Stewardship 24 Ethical Leadership 26 Appendix 26 Sustainability Report Card 18 I nclusive and Resilient Communities 23 Responsible Stewardship 27 Environmental Metrics 26 Cover Photo: Lee Goodwin Photography Appendix Hannon Armstrong Impact Report 2019 PURPOSE-DRIVEN PROFITABILITY Our Vision Every investment improves our climate future Our Purpose Make climate-positive investments with superior risk-adjusted returns Hannon Armstrong is the first U.S. public company solely dedicated to investments in climate change solutions. Through the implementation of our investment strategy and conduct of our business operations, we embody a deep commitment to a sustainable and resilient future. Thanks to our investors, customers, partners, and employees, Hannon Armstrong is proud to stand at the forefront of the transition to a low-carbon economy. -1HIGHLIGHTS 2019 • Financed $1.3 billion in climate change solutions • Became one of the few U.S. public companies with a female Lead Independent Director • Incorporated enhanced quantitative TCFD scenario analysis into our financial filings • Committed to become a signatory of the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment • Successfully completed inaugural issuance of $500 million in unsecured green bonds • Signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge • Received Ethical Corporation’s Responsible Investment Award, ACORE’s Renewable Energy Leadership Award, and CR Magazine’s Responsible CEO of the Year Award • Joined the UNGC’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Future Campaign • Launched employee clean transportation incentive for the purchase or lease of a zero-emissions electric vehicle Annual Average Total Shareholder Return (5 Year) 2015 2019 HASI 25% 350 300 250 S&P 500 12% 200 150 S&P Energy1 1% 100 50 0 Jan 2015 Jan 2016 Jan 2017 Jan 2018 Jan 2019 Dec 2019 S&P 500 HASI S&P Energy 1) Reflects S&P Global 1200 Energy Index, a fossil fuel concentrated benchmark. -2A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Dear Stakeholders: There are so many positive developments in the burgeoning inconsistent application. I believe ESG Reporting should climate solutions market. As efficiency, wind, solar, and storage be standardized and, just as importantly, integrated into technologies continue to get cheaper, their deployment is annual financial reporting — as we have done since 2018. spreading rapidly. Our client base in this sector is expanding, Impact Reporting matters because its elements are material with established players growing and new entrants, from to financial results. At Hannon Armstrong, an emphasis on a large multinationals to venture-backed digital companies, all durable social fabric, including a diverse, engaged, and fairly investing heavily to drive our decarbonized electric power compensated staff, is a material factor in our financial success. future. We see the transportation sector shifting to electric Similarly, our top-notch corporate governance practices assure vehicles, which, when combined with lower carbon electricity our shareholders that our team will stay on track and deliver sources, demonstrates a compelling decarbonization trend. results. And of course, the environmental impact of the firm is In agriculture, the successful IPO of Beyond Meat affirms the embedded in our DNA with CarbonCount®. We are proud to potential to provide the world the protein it needs, at a fraction remain a leader in ESG performance and reporting. of the carbon cost of traditional agriculture. Thank you for reading this report and joining us in the transition Driven by younger generations who will have to live with climate to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. It is enormously change and increasingly by owners of capital, such as pension gratifying to be able to have an impact on the central issue of funds, the reallocation of capital based on a more realistic our time and to work with like-minded professionals who cannot assessment of climate risk and opportunity to address climate separate what they do from why they do it. I am inspired and change is starting. I believe this shift will accelerate much faster honored to work alongside this team every day. than many incumbents appreciate. We believe our early adoption of climate-positive investing has Respectfully, attracted like-minded investors to become owners of Hannon Armstrong, contributing to our strong stock performance in 2019. In addition, our $500 million inaugural corporate green bond issuance this year generated material demand from investors searching for investments with a verifiable carbonreducing impact. Jeffrey W. Eckel Chairman and CEO There was much debate over the last year of the usefulness Hannon Armstrong of ESG Reporting given the range of standards and their -3STRATEGIC ESG INTEGRATION For over 30 years, Hannon Armstrong has placed sustainability and, more specifically, deploying capital to drive climate-positive investments at the core of our business model. In fact, our initial investment screen mandates that any proposed investment either reduce or at least have a neutral impact on carbon emissions or provide some other tangible environmental benefit, such as reducing water consumption. As a result, since our IPO in 2013, we have invested $7 billion in assets that have cumulatively avoided over 3 million metric tons of carbon emissions and saved over 3 billion gallons of water on an annual basis – all while generating superior risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders. “By driving climate-positive investments, Hannon Armstrong has embedded environmental stewardship into its business model since its founding. Our commitment to industry-leading ESG practices is a fundamental element of our stewardship that we believe enables Hannon Armstrong to generate superior risk-adjusted returns for shareholders and serves as a model for others to follow.” TER ES A M. BR ENNE R Lead Independent Director Chair, Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee Proven Track Record 2013 2015 2017 2019 • Became first U.S. • Launched • Became first U.S. public company to commit • Appointed Teresa M. Brenner Lead public company CarbonCount® to Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Independent Director focused on climatescoring tool Disclosures (TCFD) • Launched clean transportation incentive positive investing • Issued first • Became first U.S. public company to sign the for employee purchase or lease of a • First HASI Sustainable rated HASI “We Are Still In” declaration in support of zero-emissions electric vehicle Yield® Bond (SYB) SYB for real climate action to meet the Paris Agreement • Inaugural $500m corporate Issued for energy estate assets • Joined Climate Action 100+, an investor unsecured green bond issuance efficiency assets initiative to ensure the world’s largest • Received Ethical Corporation’s corporate greenhouse gas emitters take Responsible Investment Award necessary action on climate change • Joined the UNGC’s Business • HASI SYB receives Moody’s Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Green Bond Assessment (GB1 rating) Future Campaign 2014 2016 2018 • Published first • Recognized by • Formalized Board oversight of our ESG strategies, Sustainability Climate Bonds activities, policies, and communications Report Card Initiative as Green • Implemented TCFD recommendations and integrated Bonds Pioneer into our financial filings • Achieved 100% renewable energy procurement target • Became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) -4Roles and Responsibilities NOMINATING, GOVERNANCE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESIDENT & CEO ESG COMMITTEE ESG STAFF COMMITTEE LEADER (CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER) LEGAL INVESTOR RELATIONS FINANCE HUMAN RESOURCES ACCOUNTING COMMUNICATIONS INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Role Responsibilities Board of Directors Formal adoption of new ESG policies and oversight of implementation Nominating, Governance & Corporate Responsibility Recommendation of new ESG policies and oversight of implementation Committee Allocation, prioritization and oversight of staff and company resources President & CEO dedicated to the implementation of ESG initiatives Direct report to the Chairman & CEO responsible for setting performance ESG Staff Committee Leader milestones and delegating responsibilities Legal Review of ESG disclosures and ensuring of adherence to ESG policies Development of ESG strategy and integration of it into engagement with Investor Relations debt and equity investors Finance Execution of green bond issuances Cultivation of commitment to diversity and inclusion principles and Human Resources employee and community engagement initiatives Tracking, verifying, and reporting ESG metrics in public financial filings Accounting and communications Communications Fostering and maintaining authentic and strategic stakeholder relationships CarbonCount® assessments and monitoring of climate-related investment Investments risks and opportunities Portfolio Management Assessment of portfolio exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities -5STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Committed to Climate Action To enhance the continued evolution and effectiveness of our ESG commitments and disclosures, we believe it is important to integrate ESG practices into our engagement with all of our stakeholders. We actively partner with a number of campaigns and coalitions that reflect our commitment to climate action, corporate sustainability progress, and clean energy expansion, which are all necessary to advance the goals of the Paris Agreement. Memberships and Partnerships We establish partnerships with leading clean energy membership associations, and support other industry and environmental NGOs focused on the advancement of ESG initiatives. We also encourage the involvement of our employees in ESG-related initiatives within various industry working groups. Association of Defense Communities Energy Storage Association Annapolis Green Ethical Corporation 3BL Media Grid Alternatives American Council on Renewable Energy The Hawthorn Club American Wind Energy Association National Association of Energy Service Companies Alliance to Save Energy National Council for Public-Private Partnerships American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy Principles for Responsible Investment Clean Energy Leadership Institute Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Ceres Women of Renewable Industries and Sustainable Energy Chesapeake Bay Foundation UN Global Compact Ecological Restoration Business Association U.S. Green Building Council -6AWARDS AND RECOGNITION In 2019, we were honored to be recognized by media and industry organizations around the world for our leadership on sustainable investing and ESG. Some of our most recent awards include: Recipient of the Renewable Energy Leadership Award from the American Council on Renewable Energy for “setting the gold standard for clean energy finance, embracing an innovative, environmentallyconscientious approach to our investments.” THE CLEANIE ® Winner of the Investment Organization of the Year at The Cleanie Awards, the only comprehensive AWARDS awards program focused exclusively on the clean energy industry. WINNER 2019 Recipient of the Responsible Investment Award from Ethical Corporation: “Hannon Armstrong is the American pioneer of climate-friendly investment. The first U.S. public company to be solely dedicated to investing in carbon reduction and climate resilience, they are setting down a marker for others to follow – and achieving decent returns as they do so.” Recognized for the second time as a Department of Energy (DOE) Better Buildings Challenge Financial Ally Goal Achiever. Through Better Buildings, DOE aims to make commercial, public, industrial, and residential buildings 20% more energy efficient over the next decade. This means saving billions of dollars on energy bills, reducing emissions, and creating thousands of jobs. Recipient of the Heritage Stewardship Award for our partnership with Annapolis Green on the “Tread Lightly: Climate Change and You” community lecture series. R-FACTOR™ Low Risk ESG Corporate Rating Outperformer #1 Mortgage REIT B Top 10th Percentile in Top 10th Percentile Top 10th 30th Percentile Global Universe in Industry Ratings from State Street Global Advisors, Sustainalytics, and ISS reflect the views and remain the intellectual property of these respective organizations. Hannon Armstrong has no affiliation with these independent organizations and does not necessarily endorse their ratings or opinions. -7CHARTERS AND PLEDGES Hannon Armstrong aligns with several charters that support and advance both our sustainability goals and the need for climate action. CEO Action For Diversity and Inclusion is the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace, representing more than 450 CEOs and presidents. UNGC’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Future Campaign calls on businesses to step up and do their part in limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C in response to the global climate crisis, and in the lead up to the upcoming UN Climate Action Summit. Launched in December 2017 at the One Planet Summit, with 225 investors with $26 trillion in assets under management, Climate Action 100+ is now backed by more than 360 investors with more than $34 trillion in assets under management. The Investor Agenda is a collaborative initiative to accelerate and scale up the investor actions that are critical to tackling climate change and achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement with the aim of keeping average global temperature rise to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. It provides investors with a set of actions that they can take in four key focus areas: Investment, Corporate Engagement, Investor Disclosure and Policy Advocacy. Through Better Buildings, the US Department of Energy aims to make commercial, public, industrial, and residential buildings 20% more energy efficient over the next decade. This means saving billions of dollars on energy bills, reducing emissions, and creating thousands of jobs. The UN Principles for Responsible Investment is a network of global investors committed to working together to put principles of responsible investing into practice. Signatories follow a set of six principles that protect the environment, benefit society, and promote sound governance through integrity and transparent reporting. As part of their commitment, signatories agree to an annual assessment of these principles. The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures is a marketdriven initiative set up to develop a set of recommendations for voluntary and consistent climaterelated financial risk disclosures in mainstream filings. The Task Force increases transparency to make markets more efficient, and economies more stable and resilient. A special initiative of the UN Secretary-General, the United Nations Global Compact works with companies everywhere to align their operations and strategies with ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Launched in 2000, the UN Global Compact guides and supports the global business community in advancing UN goals and values through responsible corporate practices. With more than 10,000 companies and 3,000 non-business signatories based in over 160 countries, and 68 Local Networks, it is the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world. -8Hannon Armstrong Impact Report 2019 CLIMATE-POSITIVE INVESTING Our capital solutions are purposebuilt for the specific needs of companies and projects that help reduce the amount of carbon in the atmosphere or build our resilience to it. Every day, we strive to invest in a climate-positive future that generates truly sustainable prosperity for our investors, accelerated success for our clients, and a brighter future for all. 100% Percentage of revenue from low-carbon assets 100% Percentage of electricity sourced from renewable sources 83,000 Equivalent number of gasolinepowered cars taken off the road as a result of the CO2 reductions from our investments in 2019 IMPACTFUL INVESTMENTS Community Solar $43 million 0.39 CarbonCount® Investment in 250 MW of community solar projects across several U.S. markets. One of the fastest-growing market sectors in the U.S. solar industry, community solar allows commercial and residential customers to enjoy the carbonreducing benefits of solar without having to install solar on their roofs by allowing multiple customers to purchase power from remotely sited solar plants. Green Real Estate $18 million 0.54 CarbonCount® Joint venture to invest in Freddie Mac’s securitized workforce housing loans made through Freddie Mac’s Green Advantage® program, which provides incentives to multifamily housing borrowers to make water and energy efficiency improvements to existing properties thereby lowering expenses for workforce housing tenants. Energy Management-as-a-Service $6 million 5.93 CarbonCount® Investment in a smart building technology leader’s award-winning Energy Management-as-a-Service (EMaaS) platform which offers a more accessible behind-the-meter energy efficiency solution for small to mid-sized buildings. The EMaaS approach combines installation, equipment, software, and service costs into a bundled monthly payment that is designed to be significantly lower than the energy savings the solution provides. -10TCFD ASSESSMENT In 2018, under the direction of our Board and in accordance with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we became one of the first public companies to increase the analytical rigor and communications transparency associated with our environmental impacts. As a result, we became one of the first public companies to report on and implement TCFD recommendations in our financial filings. In 2019, we furthered our commitment to TCFD best practices by quantifying the potential impact of climate change scenario assumptions on our portfolio. By remaining at the forefront of climate-related disclosures, we believe we will be able to more prudently manage emerging risks and proactively develop strategies to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders. The TCFD was established by the Financial Stability Board with the goal of developing voluntary, consistent climate-related financial disclosures that would be useful to all relevant stakeholders. The recommendations of the TCFD are focused on four thematic areas representing core operational pillars, including: (1) governance; (2) strategy; (3) risk management; and (4) metrics and targets. We believe that our core principles are in substantial alignment with the goals and objectives contemplated in TCFD’s thematic areas of focus, and we address each of them in our management efforts, decision-making processes, as well as our public disclosures, including our 2019 Form 10-K. Governance Our Board is responsible for the formal adoption of our ESG policies, including oversight of climate-related opportunities and risks. At least once each quarter, the Board’s Nominating, Governance, and Corporate Responsibility Committee reviews disclosures on progress toward our climate-related initiatives to external stakeholders. Our President and CEO is responsible for overseeing the implementation of our environmental initiatives and for prioritizing internal resources committed to the advancement of our ESG objectives. For the last two years, an internal cross-functional ESG Committee has been tasked with implementing ESG strategies and policies. A portion of all employee compensation is linked to the success in overall corporate performance in executing our business strategy, aspects of which include investments in climate change solutions. As a result, employee compensation is linked to progress in advancing our ESG initiatives. For additional information regarding our governance structure and ESG best practices, please see our 2019 Form 10-K item 1 – Business – Environmental and Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance and our proxy statement for our 2019 annual meeting. Strategy With scientific consensus that climate warming trends are driven by human activities and result in extreme weather events, we believe our firm is well positioned to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns by investing in and managing a portfolio of investments that reduce climate-altering carbon emissions. Further, with increasing weather-related events affecting certain of our markets, we see similar investment opportunities in infrastructure assets that mitigate the impact of and increase our resiliency to these extreme weather events and climate change. Hannon Armstrong’s investments have quantified and verified impacts that address or mitigate the effects of climate change as we believe the opportunities and risks associated with such investments are material to our stakeholders. Our Sustainability Investment Policy sets forth the underwriting criteria for our investments, which Employee compensation include processes for evaluating opportunities and risks uniquely related to is linked to our progress in environmental matters. To pass our sustainability screen, a proposed investment must either reduce or remain neutral on carbon emissions or produce other tangible advancing ESG initiatives. environmental benefits such as reducing water consumption. Further discussion of our investment strategy is presented in our 2019 Form 10-K, in Item 1 – Business – Investment Strategy. Starting in 2018, we formalized policies that minimize the impacts of our business operations on climate change including purchasing 100% of our electricity from renewable energy sources. In addition, we are committed to reducing waste generation 10% by the end of 2020 (versus a 2017 baseline) through increasing the collection and processing of recyclable waste. We also operate a composting program for food waste and mandate that carbon-intensive beef and pork dishes are not served at corporate events. -11Risk Management As infrastructure projects are subject to environmental disruptions. The Board’s Finance and Risk Committee reviews forces, many assets in our portfolio are exposed to climate policies and guidelines with respect to our risk assessments change related risks, including floods, wildfires, and and management, including those that address certain hurricanes. Our due diligence process seeks to appropriately environmental risks. mitigate these risks by relying on independent subject matter We discuss our environmental risk management in more detail experts to conduct engineering and weather analyses and in our 2019 Form 10-K, in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion insurance reviews. and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations After a transaction closes, we continue to monitor the – Factors Impacting our Operating Results – Impact of climate environmental risks to which our portfolio is exposed. We change on our future operations. periodically analyze the impact of seasonal climate trends on the portfolio, including drought, El Niño/La Niña phases, and changes in regional wind regimes. We also monitor large We monitor large scale weather scale weather events that could negatively impact assets in our portfolio with the goal of implementing, together with our events that could damage assets project partners, appropriate safety procedures and other in our portfolio with the goal threat mitigation measures. of implementing appropriate We have also focused on improving the resiliency of our business operations by implementing cloud-based information safety procedures and threat technology systems to allow our employees to work from mitigation measures. remote locations in the event of weather or other workplace “Our environmental focus combined with our leadership in integrating ESG reporting into our financial filings highlights why TCFD is the appropriate framework for us.” CHUCK MELKO, Chief Accounting Officer -12TCFD SCENARIO ANALYSIS In implementing TCFD and assessing the opportunities and risks related to climate change, we have considered the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which aims to hold the global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to work to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In the following analysis, we have illustrated potential impacts to our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2019, from the physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy. Risks and Opportunities Physical Given the assessments of the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and other leading climate research organizations regarding the probability of limiting the global temperature increase to 1.5 Celsius and likely serious climatic impacts even with aggressive emissions reduction initiatives, we believe our investment portfolio will be impacted by physical risks regardless of the actions taken. We assume the types of risks to which our investment portfolio is exposed are similar under either Scenario 1 or 2 (albeit at varying degrees of severity). Flooding Storms Extreme Heat Wildfires Sea Level Rise and Drought Transitional A transition to a low-carbon economy may entail changes in market regulations, legal and regulatory frameworks, and reputational risks and technology. The impact of these changes will vary by scenario. In Scenario 1, sufficient globally coordinated action is taken to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In Scenario 2, global action is insufficient to prevent global temperatures from increasing more than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Additional information, including highlights of quantitative impacts, can be found in our 2019 Form 10-K in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Factors Impacting our Operating Results – Impact of climate change on our future operations. Market Regulatory Legal Reputation Technology -13TCFD Scenario 1 Sufficient globally coordinated action is taken to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. PHYSI CAL T R A N SI T I ON A L 1 • Higher REC Prices Portfolio Impact • Higher Energy Prices • Physical Asset Damage • Greater Cost Competitiveness of • Reduced Power Generation Capacity Climate-Positive Technologies • Accelerated Operational Performance Degradation • More Attractive Growth in Total Addressable Market • Natural Resource Price Volatility • Greater Quantity of High-Quality Investment Prospects • Degraded Competitor and Counterparty Creditworthiness Bottom Line Impact • Higher Operational Costs • Increased Investment Volumes • Higher Insurance Premiums • Higher Variable Cash Flows • Reduced and More Variable Cash Flows • Lower Operational and Insurance Costs • Increased Counterparty Default Risk • Higher Asset and Portfolio Level Debt Capacity • Reduced Debt Capacity • Higher Long-Term Returns • Diminished Long-Term Returns • Higher EPS Growth Potential Strategic Response • Strengthen Climate Risk Considerations in Underwriting Process • Optimize Investment Monetization and Debt Financing • Implement Proactive Operational Maintenance Strategy and Extreme Weather Protection Procedures • Optimize Investment Pricing Strategies • Procure Insurance Coverages • Optimize EPS/DPS Growth and Payout Ratios • Augment Geographic and Technological Portfolio • Expand Climate-Positive Investment Universe Diversity Through Investment Pipeline 1) A transition to a low-carbon economy may entail changes in market regulations, legal and regulatory frameworks, reputational risks and technology. The impact of these changes will vary by scenario. -14TCFD Scenario 2 Global action is insufficient to prevent global temperatures from increasing more than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. PHYSI CAL T R A N SI T I ON A L 1 Portfolio Impact • Greater Power Grid Instability • Physical Asset Damage • Higher Power Prices Driven by Extreme Climate • Reduced Power Generation Capacity Driven Disruptions • Accelerated Operational Performance Degradation • Greater Commodity and Natural Resource Price • Natural Resource Price Volatility Levels and Volatility • Increased Demand for Climate-Positive Investments Bottom Line Impact • Higher Operational Costs • Higher Insurance Premiums • Reduced and More Variable Cash Flows • Increased Investment Volumes • Increased Counterparty Default Risk • Higher Long-Term Financial Returns • Reduced Debt Capacity • Diminished Long-Term Returns Strategic Response • Strengthen Climate Risk Considerations in Underwriting Process • Implement Proactive Operational Maintenance • Optimize Asset Monetization Strategy, and Extreme Weather Protection Procedures Risk Management and Underwriting Processes • Procure Insurance Coverages • Optimize Investment Pricing Strategy • Augment Geographic and Technological Portfolio Diversity Through Investment Pipeline 1) A transition to a low-carbon economy may entail changes in market regulations, legal and regulatory frameworks, reputational risks and technology. The impact of these changes will vary by scenario. -15TCFD METRICS AND TARGETS In assessing our operational and financial performance, we calculate the environmental profile of our business operations and infrastructure investments using a combination of well-established reporting protocols and proprietary tools for measuring carbon emissions and water savings. 1 TM 2 2019 = 0.30 2019 = 293 Carbon Reduction Water Savings Cumulative metric tons of CO2 avoided annually Cumulative gallons of water saved annually 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (1m) (1b) (1.3) (2m) (2b) (1.8) (1.8) (2.1) (2.3) (2.7) (3m) (3b) (2.8) (3.0) (3.2) (3.4) (4m) (4b) Efficiency measures Avoided grid MWhs Goal 3 Performance 3 Verification 4 Scope 1 Emissions from operations that are owned Direct Emissions or controlled by a reporting company. 0 MT 0 MT Apex Emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired energy such as electricity, Goal 3 Performance 3 Verification 4 Scope 2 steam, and heating and cooling, consumed by a reporting company, but excluding Indirect Emissions the impact of the purchase of renewable 0 MT 0 MT Apex energy credits. All other indirect emissions that occur in the value chain of a reporting company, Goal 3 Performance 3 Verification 4 Scope 3 including both upstream and downstream Indirect Emissions emissions, but excluding the emissions avoided as a result of our investments. 0 MT <600 MT Apex (~385,000 MT of CO2 in 2019) 1) CarbonCount® is a scoring tool that evaluates investments in U.S.-based clean energy and sustainable infrastructure projects to determine how effectively they can be expected to reduce annual CO2 emissions per $1,000 of investment. 2) WaterCount™ is a scoring tool that evaluates investments in U.S.-based projects to determine how effectively they can be expected to reduce annual water consumption per $1,000 of investment. 3) Expressed in metric tons (MT). 4) In addition to our internal review, Apex Companies, LLC was commissioned as an independent organization to verify our GHG emissions reporting as estimated in accordance with GHG measurement and reporting protocols of the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3). -16SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2015, leaders across the globe agreed to 17 Global Goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. Administered through the United Nations Global Compact, these Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) guide UN member states, and increasingly businesses, in developing and implementing supportive policies and efforts. To formalize our alignment with these goals, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2018, and specifically committed to orient our business activities to support at least five of these goals. Over the last two years, the SDGs have informed decisions made by our board and investment committee, allowing us to focus on leveraging our business model to promote a more equitable, safe, and sustainable world. Through this report, our CEO Jeff Eckel reaffirms his support of and Hannon Armstrong’s ongoing commitment to these goals of the United Nations Global Compact. In addition, this report constitutes Hannon Armstrong’s “Communication on Progress” (COP1) under the UN Global Compact. As a leading investor in climate-positive energy infrastructure assets in the United States, we provide solutions to enable the deployment of more reliable, resilient, and affordable clean energy. In 2019, our financing of community solar promoted the accessibility and adoption of clean energy for broad and diverse populations, typically at a discount to retail rates. The community solar model, already available in most U.S. states, provides customers with equal access to the benefits of clean energy, regardless of the physical structure or ownership status of their residence. Industries related to the clean energy economy continue to experience steady growth in the Unites States and create new employment opportunities. We estimate our investments support over 150,000 jobs across 48 U.S. states. Our ongoing financial and volunteer support of GRID Alternatives, a nonprofit that supports networking and skills development opportunities especially for traditionally marginalized communities, further demonstrates our commitment to high quality jobs in the sector. We invest in infrastructure that reduces dependence on vulnerable grid-connected energy and enhances the reliable supply of distributed clean energy. In 2019, our energy efficiency investments modernized aging infrastructure for residential, retail, industrial, and government customers. Improved performance across these sectors saves money, reduces carbon emissions, and enhances local infrastructure resilience. In addition, integrating proven battery energy storage systems into our projects allows for the deployment of intermittent renewable resources during off-peak hours. Our investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy, seismic retrofits, and stormwater mitigation improve the sustainability of cities and communities. To provide these services to underserved markets, we actively leverage commercial property assessed clean energy (C-PACE) financing programs. In 2019, the expansion of our distributed solar investments brought commercial and industrial solar to cities across the United States. Climate action is the central pillar of our business model. Since our initial public offering in 2013, we have invested approximately $7 billion in climate solutions. To advance climate policy, our advocacy in 2019 included bipartisan lobbying of lawmakers to support meaningful climate legislation and carbon pricing. Our investment thesis attests to the business case for climate solutions. Formalizing our belief that achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement requires investor collaboration, we committed in May of this year to the Global Investor Statement to Governments on Climate Change. In addition, we were among the first companies to sign the United Nations Global Compact’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C pledge, which affirms the sciencebased targets needed to prevent catastrophic global warming change. -17Hannon Armstrong Impact Report 2019 INCLUSIVE AND RESILIENT COMMUNITIES We are committed to building diverse and inclusive communities that are resilient to rapidly evolving global economic and environmental challenges. >160,000 School children supported through energy efficiency upgrades to educational facilities funded by our investments >140,000 Quality jobs created by our investments in 48 states >1.6 Million Veterans served by hospitals and other facilities which received energy efficiency upgrades funded by our investments DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Employee Diversity Metrics1 Women, people of color, LGBTQ+, 52% and veterans Women 38% People of Color 23% Financing innovative climate change solutions demands insights creativity, and problem solving across our organization. This from employees with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and assessment built on an effort in 2018 when we engaged a perspectives. With a comprehensive, values-driven approach nationally recognized expert in workplace diversity, inclusion, to diversity and inclusion, our initiatives go beyond legal and equity to provide training to our employees. compliance to foster an environment that attracts and retains best-in-class talent. We endeavor to select qualified individuals To promote the advancement of women in a traditionally male sourced from broad, diverse, and inclusive recruitment efforts. dominated industry, we seek to develop and mentor the next We complete an annual audit of employee diversity to track generation of women leaders in clean energy and finance. our progress and delineate areas of potential improvement. Through our sponsorship of Women of Renewable Industries and Sustainable Energy (WRISE), we promote the education, Since 2018, we have provided annual diversity-related training professional development, and advancement of women in the to all our employees. In 2019, to harness the power of thought renewable energy economy. In 2019, we hosted a regional diversity in our decision-making processes, all employees networking event for WRISE, with a discussion led by our CEO took a thinking style assessment administered by Herrmann Jeff Eckel and our Managing Director Susan Nickey. International. Armed with a better understanding of individual thinking, communication, and working styles, employees Each year, all Hannon Armstrong employees are provided then met as teams with a trained facilitator to learn how to with channels for communicating any incidents of potential best leverage individual approaches to improve teamwork, discrimination. In 2019, we received no such reports. We believe dissenting opinions foster innovative approaches to our investments and bolster our ability to find opportunities in a rapidly transforming market. 2020 Women on Boards recognized Hannon Armstrong for our demonstrated commitment to gender diversity in 2019 1 As of 12/31/2019. -19EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our people are our strongest differentiator, which is why we recognize the importance of selecting the best talent, developing their skills, and providing an inclusive culture where everyone can flourish. When you work at Hannon Armstrong, you experience “These climate an environment that is collaborative, rewarding, and transparent. We provide total science, policy and rewards that support the health and well-being of our employees and their families, while consistently offering opportunities for growth in line with our mission. innovation updates We engage in open communications with our employees and seek their input and are not a top-down feedback on ways in which we can improve our work environment as well as how we discussion. A culture can be a positive influence in our local communities. We also want them to be engaged to drive our business forward, to tell their friends that Hannon Armstrong is a great of environmental place to work, and to want to be employed with us for the long-term. literacy at Hannon Collaborative, rewarding and transparent are often the words with which our Armstrong means employees describe our culture. From monthly lunch and learn discussions – where we everyone is welllearn about and share topics relevant to our business – to our sailing club – where we strengthen our bonds as a unified crew – to our monthly book club – when we meet to versed in this space.” review topics impactful to our business – to our weekly guided meditations, we instill a sense of fulfillment beyond the day-to-day employee experience. In addition, our CEO hosts a collaborative company-wide discussion each quarter where employees are recognized for exceptional performance and key upcoming business priorities are reviewed. To measure employee engagement, we conduct company-wide surveys. We rely on responses, which are anonymous to encourage employees to provide honest, candid feedback, to drive cultural, professional development, and to inform benefit-related initiatives. Company Culture Highlights BOOK CLUB LUNCH AND LEARNS MIDWEEK MEDITATION SAILING CLUB -20Professional Development We adhere to a model that incorporates the use of both internal and external coaches. We are also dedicated to cultivating our talent and supporting our employees in pursuing various professional development opportunities, such as: • Educational programs, advanced degrees and professional certifications, including in the fields of accounting and finance; and • Presentation, public speaking, sales effectiveness, leadership, strategic thinking, people development and communication skills. Employee Compensation and Benefits Compensation for our employees is based on skill, experience, educational attainment and individual contributions, as well as company performance against established annual goals. In addition to competitive base salaries, cash bonuses and equity participation for our employees, we are committed to continuously evaluating and ensuring the competitiveness of our benefits offerings so that we meet the needs of each of our employees and their families. We also substantially subsidize employee health and welfare while our 401(k) Retirement Plan includes options for ESG-themed funds that align with our corporate commitments and values. A portion of all employee compensation is linked to the success of overall corporate performance in executing our business strategy, aspects of which include investments in climate change solutions. As a result, employee compensation is linked to our progress in advancing ESG initiatives. Recruitment and Retention We endeavor to select qualified individuals from a diverse pool of candidates We expect our derived from broad outreach efforts when we are recruiting. We also continue employees and to seek highly qualified women, people of color, and individuals from historically marginalized and underrepresented groups for all, including management and business partners to Board-level, positions. uphold these ideals To identify any areas of improvement, we perform exit surveys of employees who resign. in accordance with our Code of Business Human Rights Conduct and Ethics Respect for human rights is a fundamental value of Hannon Armstrong. We strive to promote human rights in accordance with the United Nations and Business Partner Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the United Nations Code of Conduct. Global Compact in our relationships with our employees, suppliers and the communities where we operate. -21COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT In 2019, we continued to engage with nonprofit organizations that share our passion for science-based climate change research, education, and advocacy. Through strategic partnerships with organizations including The Chesapeake Bay Foundation, GRID Alternatives, and Annapolis Green, we help galvanize our community, including future generations, to tackle climate change. Every year, we are the Carbon and Nitrogen Neutral Sponsor of Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s annual summer fundraiser, enabling the foundation to reduce its net carbon footprint by allocating a portion of our sponsorship dollars to plant approximately three acres of trees. In July, employees joined Smithsonian Environmental Research Center scientists in supporting the world’s longest-running GRID Alternatives makes solar power more affordable while climate change experiment. Our team analyzed marsh plants in also training students for skilled jobs in the solar industry. We an effort to understand how climate change impacts wetlands, were proud to team with their crew to install rooftop solar including implications for projected sea level increases and panels and learn more about the technology that we finance. carbon sequestration. We also collaborated with GRID Alternatives for a resume In September, a Hannon team worked with GRID Alternatives workshop to help prepare students for careers in clean energy. to install solar panels for lower income D.C. residents. Building on our support of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, we funded the installation of a beehive on the nonprofit’s property. In addition to providing habitat for pollinators and educational opportunities, the hive generates data vital for researchers from the Urban Beekeeping Laboratory, NASA, and MIT researchers to study the impacts of climate change and examining ways to improve bee health. In partnership with the nonprofit Annapolis Green, we sponsored a yearlong series of community forums on climate change. These events put the current science of climate change into context and spurred discussion on actions to mitigate local impacts. Additionally, our team developed and taught lessons on climate change for dozens of sixth graders at the Two Rivers Charter School in Washington, D.C. To introduce climate change and establish a foundation for student curriculum on local environmental issues, the day centered on a discussion of how energy needs can be met in an environmentally and economically sustainable manner. -22Hannon Armstrong Impact Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP We are committed to responsible stewardship, upholding strong corporate governance practices and internal controls, and conducting o u r o p e rat i o n s e t h i c a l l y a n d transparently. 86% Board Directors who are Independent 33% Independent Board Directors who are women 23x 1 CEO to Median Employee Pay Refers to 2018 calculation as reported in our 2019 Proxy Statement 1 and compares to an average of 142x for S&P companies according to As You Sow (2019). ETHICAL LEADERSHIP Board of Directors Steven G. Osgood Teresa M. Brenner Richard J. Osborne Jeffrey W. Eckel Charles M. O’Neil Simone F. Lagomarsino Michael T. Eckhart Chair, Audit Lead Independent Chair, Compensation Chairman Chair, Finance and Committee Director and Committee Risk Committee Chair, Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee Leadership Team Jeffrey W. Eckel Jeffrey A. Lipson Steven L. Chuslo Chairman, President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel J. Brendan Herron Daniel K. McMahon, CFA Nathaniel J. Rose, CFA Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President Portfolio Management and Chief Investment Officer Jeff Martin Charles W. Melko, CPA Susan D. Nickey Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Managing Director and Chief Technology Officer and Chief Accounting Officer Marc T. Pangburn Managing Director Management Approach Internally managed, the business affairs of our company are conducted by our officers and employees under the direction of our President & CEO with the oversight of our Board. Our Board members are elected annually by our stockholders and participate in at least one of the following four standing committees: Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance and Risk Committee, and Nominating, Governance, and Corporate Responsibility Committee. In 2018, the Board formalized its oversight of ESG strategies, activities, policies and communications through the NGCR, further demonstrating our steadfast commitment to such matters. Board Diversity Hannon Armstrong believes in diversity and values the benefits that diversity can bring to its Board. For purposes of Board composition, diversity includes, but is not limited to, subject matter expertise, business experience, skills, age, gender, and ethnicity. In particular, the Board should include an appropriate number of women directors. -24Ethics and Compliance Stockholder Engagement It is expected that the highest legal, moral, and ethical standards We believe that engaging with investors is fundamental to good of honesty, integrity and fairness are to be practiced in the governance and essential to maintaining our industry-leading conduct of our affairs. Our Code of Business Conduct and practices. Throughout the year, we seek opportunities to Ethics details the ethical and legal standards of behavior connect with our investors to gain and share valuable insights and business activities that are required of all our directors, into current and emerging business and governance trends. officers and employees. On an ongoing basis, we also expect our In 2019, we met with nearly 150 investors, representing business partners to comply with our Business Partner Code of approximately 40% of our shares outstanding as of the end of Conduct, which outlines the expected practices of our agents, the year. To enable the Board to consider direct stockholder distributors, dealers, contractors, intermediaries, joint venture feedback, Board members are updated on these conversations partners, and suppliers in the areas of ethical business practices, with investors and the chairperson of our NGCR participates environmental responsibility, human rights, labor, and health directly in some of these conversations. and safety. Cybersecurity ESG Governance Under the direction of the Finance and Risk Committee of We recognize the importance of understanding, evaluating, the Board, we periodically update our information technology and monitoring ESG-related opportunities and risks as part of policies that are designed to sustain and protect our information our vision and strategy. As of 2018, the NGCR is responsible technology systems, equipment and data. for periodically reviewing our strategies, activities, policies including our Sustainability Investment Policy, Environmental Whistleblower Policy Policies, and Human Rights and Human Capital Management In 2018, we implemented a confidential hotline for reporting Policies as well as communications regarding sustainability and potential violations and concerns. All reports will be taken other ESG-related matters and make recommendations to the seriously, and, when appropriate, we will fully investigate each Board accordingly. allegation and take appropriate action. More details can be found in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics available on Executive Compensation our website at: We have designed our executive compensation program to https://investors.hannonarmstrong.com/govdocs. be aligned with the interests of stockholders, focused on sustainable long-term growth, and to attract and maintain effective executives in a competitive market for talent. A portion of all executive compensation is linked to our success For Your Reference in overall corporate performance in executing our business Hannon Armstrong has published the following strategy, aspects of which include investments in climate change materials relevant to our ESG initiatives, which solutions. As a result, executive compensation is linked to our serve as additional background on our ESG-related progress in advancing ESG initiatives. policies, strategies and communications. Please visit www.hannonarmstrong.com for more details. In addition, we monitor the relationship between the compensation of our executive officers and the compensation » 2019 Form 10-K of our non-managerial employees. For 2018, the total compensation of Jeffrey Eckel, our President & CEO » 2019 Proxy Statement of $5,226,786 was approximately 23 times the total » Sustainability Investment Policy compensation of the median employee whose compensation » Environmental Policies was calculated in the same manner and was $230,951. Please refer to our 2019 Proxy Statement for more detail. » Human Rights & Human Capital Management Policies » Code of Business Conduct and Ethics » Business Partner Code of Conduct » 2019 Environmental Metrics » 2019 Sustainability Report Card -25SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARD The seventh annual edition of our Sustainability Report card discloses the CarbonCount® associated with each investment. CarbonCount® is an award-winning tool that evaluates the efficiency with which capital is employed to reduce greenhouse gases by estimating the carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emissions avoided annually per $1,000 of investment. HA NN ON ARM ST RONG Sustainability Report Card 2019 MARKET REGION CARBONCOUNT® MARKET REGION CARBONCOUNT® BTM National 6.15 BTM West 0.29 BTM National 5.12 BTM West 0.27 BTM Northeast 1.49 BTM West 0.27 BTM West 0.95 BTM West 0.25 GC West 0.78 BTM Asia Pacific 0.25 GC South 0.59 BTM West 0.24 GC South 0.59 BTM West 0.24 GC South 0.59 BTM West 0.23 GC South 0.59 BTM West 0.20 BTM South 0.58 BTM South 0.20 BTM Midwest 0.58 BTM N/A 0.19 GC West 0.57 BTM West 0.19 BTM National 0.54 GC Northeast 0.18 BTM Midwest 0.54 BTM West 0.16 GC Northeast 0.51 BTM Canada 0.16 GC Northeast 0.51 BTM National 0.15 GC Northeast 0.51 BTM Asia Pacific 0.15 BTM Midwest 0.50 BTM Midwest 0.14 BTM Midwest 0.48 BTM South 0.13 BTM Midwest 0.47 BTM South 0.08 BTM National 0.47 BTM Midwest 0.06 BTM South 0.45 BTM Midwest 0.04 BTM Midwest 0.44 BTM National 0.04 BTM South 0.42 BTM South 0.03 GC West 0.41 BTM West 0.01 BTM West 0.33 BTM NE, S, MW, W 0 BTM West 0.31 BTM National 0 BTM West 0.30 SI / Seismic West * Totals Metric Tons of CO2 Avoided Gallons of Water Saved 384,800 0.30 381 Million BTM = Behind-The-Meter, which includes energy efficiency, distributed solar, and storage investments. GC= Grid-Connected, which includes solar land and onshore wind investments SI = Sustainable Infrastructure, which includes clean water, ecological restoration, and other resiliency investments. *Investments in seismic retrofits provide resiliency in the event of an earthquake. A secondary benefit of such retrofits includes the preservation of carbon embedded in the built environment. CarbonCount® is a scoring tool that evaluates investments in U.S.-based, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects to determine estimated CO2 emissions avoided annually per $1,000 of investment. Estimated carbon savings are calculated using the estimated kilowatt hours (“kWh”), gallons of fuel oil, million British thermal units (“MMBtus”) of natural gas and gallons of water saved as appropriate, for each project. The energy savings are converted into an estimate of metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions based upon the project’s location and the corresponding emissions factor data from the U.S. Government and International Energy Administration. Portfolios of projects are represented on an aggregate basis. Estimated water savings are calculated as the sum of the direct annual estimated water savings from energy efficiency measures such as low flow water fixtures and the annual indirect water savings associated with the annual kWh generated and saved by our investments. The annual kWh of electricity generated and saved by our investments are multiplied by a the amount of water withdrawn and not returned to local water systems based upon the project’s location and the existing grid electricity generating units in that region. Indirect water savings is estimated using data prepared by the U.S. Government’s Energy Information Administration and the Union of a Scientists. -26HA NN ON ARM ST RONG Environmental Metrics for Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019 REPORTING BOUNDARY % of Occupied Facilities Covered in Reporting 100.0% Revenues Covered in Reporting 100.0% Full Time Employees 60 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION Total Annual Energy Consumption (MWh) 218 Total Annual Renewable Energy Consumption 218 Percentage of Total Energy Consumed Supplied by Renewable Energy 100.0% Total Onsite Power Generated (MWh) 0 Self Generated Renewable Electricity 0 Onsite Fuel Used Natural Gas (mmbtu) 0 Onsite Fuel Used Oil/Diesel (mmbtu) 0 Onsite Fuel Used Coal/Lignite (mmbtu) 0 Onsite Fuel Used Biomass (mmbtu) 0 Renewable Energy Certificates (MWh) 0 Renewable Energy Purchased Under Power Purchase Agreement 0 Alternative Fuel Use % 0.0% Solar % Total Energy 0.0% Nuclear % Total Energy 0.0% Biomass Fuel Use % 0.0% GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTED IN METRIC TONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT EMITTED OR (OFFSET) OVER ANNUAL REPORTING PERIOD1 Scope 1 01 Scope 2 Location Based 751 Scope 2 Market Based 01 Scope 3 Total (excluding Category 15 Investments) 532 Scope 3 Upstream Subtotal 532 Scope 3 Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services 37 Scope 3 Category 2 Capital Goods 0 Scope 3 Category 3 Fuel and Energy Related Activities 0 Scope 3 Category 4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 0 Scope 3 Category 5 Waste Generated in Operations 21 Scope 3 Category 6 Business Travel 3261 Scope 3 Category 7 Employee Commuting 1671 Scope 3 Category 8 Upstream Leased Assets 0 Scope 3 Downstream Subtotal 0 Scope 3 Category 9 Downstream Transportation and Distribution 0 Scope 3 Category 10 Processing of Sold Products 0 Scope 3 Category 11 Use of Sold Products 0 Scope 3 Category 12 End of Life Treatment of Sold Products 0 Scope 3 Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets 0 Scope 3 Category 14 Franchises 0 1) FY 2019 Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Emissions have been Verified by Apex -27HA NN ON ARM ST RONG Environmental Metrics for Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTED IN METRIC TONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT EMITTED OR (OFFSET) OVER ANNUAL REPORTING PERIOD (CONTINUED) Direct CO2 Emissions 0 Indirect CO2 Emissions 6071 Total CO2 Emissions 0 Methane 0 Direct Nitrous Oxide Emissions 0 Direct Sulfur Hexafluoride Emissions 0 Direct Methane Emissions 0 Direct Nitrous Oxide Emissions 0 Direct SF6 Emissions 0 Direct HFC Emissions 0 Direct PFC Emissions 0 OTHER EMISSIONS REPORTED IN METRIC TONS Criteria Pollutants 0 HFC 0 PFC 0 SF6 0 VOC Emissions 0 Sox Emissions 0 Nox Emissions 0 Particulate Matter 0 HAPs 0 CO Emissions 0 ODS Emissions 0 Particulate Emissions 0 Gas Flaring 0 SO2 Emissions 0 TOTAL WATER USE REPORTED IN KGALS Total Water Withdrawal for Corporate Uses 89 Municipal Water Use 89 Groundwater Withdrawals 0 Salt Water Withdrawals 0 Surface Water Withdrawal 0 Reclaimed Water Use 0 Total Water Recycled 0 Process Water Use 0 Water/Unit of Prod 0 Cooling Water Inflow 0 Cooling Water Outflow 0 Water Discharged 0 Discharges to Water 0 Biological Oxygen Demand of Discharges 0 -28HA NN ON ARM ST RONG Environmental Metrics for Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019 TOTAL WATER USE REPORTED IN KGALS (CONTINUED) Chemical Oxygen Demand of Discharges 0 Nitrogen Discharges 0 Phosphorus Discharges 0 % Water Recycled 0 Water Stress Exposure % 0 TOTAL WASTE REPORTED IN METRIC TONS Total Paper Consumed 4 Waste Recycled 3 Hazardous Waste 0 Waste Sent to Landfills 12 Post-Consumer Recycled Paper as Percentage of Total Paper 100% FINES Environmental Fines # 0 Environmental Fines $ 0 INVESTMENTS/COSTS Investments in Operational Sustainability 0 Certified Sites 0 Number of Sites 0 ISO 14001 Certified Sites 0 % Sites Certified 0 -29The content in Hannon Armstrong’s Impact Report, including documents or reports incorporated herein by reference, is accurate as of December 31, 2019. This Impact Report should be read in conjunction with Hannon Armstrong’s Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2019 Proxy Statement, both of which contain additional information about our company. This report uses certain terms, including those that reflect the issues of greatest importance to Hannon Armstrong and our stakeholders. Used in this context, these terms should not be confused with the terms “material” or “materiality,” as defined by or construed in accordance with securities law, or as used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. Furthermore, any forward-looking statements contained in this report should not be unduly relied upon, as actual results could differ materially from expectations. For more information about such statements, please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” sections of our Form 10-K in Hannon Armstrong’s Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2019, which can be found at www.hannonarmstrong.com. This material does not constitute an offer or solicitation in any jurisdiction where or to whom it would be unauthorized or unlawful to do so. Nothing in this material is incorporated by reference or shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the documents that we have filed or will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Corporate Headquarters Stock Listing 1906 Towne Centre Boulevard, Suite 370 Hannon Armstrong Annapolis, MD 21401 Sustainable Infrastructure info@hannonarmstrong.com Capital, Inc.’s common Phone: 410 -571-9860 stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HASI.” Investor Relations Investors@hannonarmstrong.com Impact Report Design Phone: 410 -5716189 Thomas Puckett Brand Intelligence © 2020 Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Investing in Climate Change Solutions, Sustainable Yield, and CarbonCount are servicemarks of Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital, Inc. in the U.S. -30HASI LISTED NYSE Hannon Armstrong 1906 Towne Centre Boulevard, Suite 370 Annapolis, MD 21401 hannonarmstrong.com
