ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENRICHING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Our vision at Ooredoo is to enrich lives by connecting our communities to new opportunities for progress in a Digital Maldives. Sustainability remains at our core, as we continue to grow and achieve new breakthroughs in the Maldives. It’s an honor to highlight the work done we do to manage our economic, social and environmental impact, aligned with our corporate values of Caring, Connecting and Challenging. Our work is structured to support global initiatives such as United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”s) and the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”), which we have been a signatory of since February 2012. Our community-oriented projects, would not have been possible without the dedication and passion of the Ooredoo Maldives volunteers who gladly contribute their time and efforts. Looking towards 2020, I remain confident that we will continue to support the digital lifestyles of the communities and businesses in the Maldives through sustainable technologies and services. Najib Khan Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Ooredoo Maldives COMMITMENT TO ACHIEVING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In October 2015, Ooredoo Maldives pledged its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“Global Goals”), which aims to eradicate extreme poverty, improve the lives of people and create an all-round healthier world for tomorrow. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. At its heart are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”s), which are an urgent call for action by all countries developed and developing in a global partnership. They recognize that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests. These are ambitious targets which cannot be achieved without fully leveraging the reach and capabilities of mobile technology. Ooredoo Maldives continues its work to stimulate human growth and contribute to the sustainable development of local communities across the nation. With a strong belief in the transformative power of digital, Ooredoo Maldives is strongly aware of the role that it can play in supporting the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals; focusing on good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality, innovation, reduced inequalities, sustainable cities and climate action. Donation of Smart Campus, Digital Classroom to Maafushi Prison Ooredoo Maldives donated a Smart Campus, Digital Classroom to Maafushi Prison. The Digital Classroom can hold different courses and educational programs of different levels to build skills and prepare the detainees to reincorporate themselves in the society and for employment. Ooredoo Smart Campus is an internationally recognized distance learning digital platform. NIRU Accelerator Program NIRU Accelerator Program is a 360-degree programme for new entrepreneurs, especially those more inclined towards ICT development, and offers access to the right resources, seed funding and connecting to great mentors with valuable connections to powerful networks. The program was continued with the winning startups from 2018. This year, NIRU hosted its first ever demo day, showcasing the accomplishments of the three innovative startup companies chosen to participate in the 12-week accelerator program. At the event, Ooredoo Maldives also announced further investment and provision of seedfunding for the three startups. 2019 also saw the proud official launch of the first incubated startup from the program, Supply.mv the first B2B market place in Maldives. Fathaalamaa Ooredoo Maldives initiated ‘learn to swim’ sessions for children and women of islands in Baa Atoll, namely, Eydhafushi, Maalhos, Dharavandhoo, Dhonfanu, Kihaadhoo, Kudarikilu and Kendhu. The main purpose of these swim lessons was to promote healthy lifestyle choices and to ensure safety of the citizens as we are an island nation surrounded by water. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 m-Faisaa Donations on World Cancer Day Ooredoo Maldives participated in the World Cancer Day by enabling donation options to the Cancer Society via m-Faisaa. Roadshows were held to promote the feature and encourage people to donate to this noble cause. International Day of Women & Girls in Science Celebrations On International Day of Women and Girls in Science, Ooredoo Maldives celebrated women and girls in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) by sharing their profiles on social media to inspire the younger generation and advocate for a gender-balanced world. Awareness Video for International Mother Language Day Ooredoo Maldives marked International Mother Language Day with a special video featuring the different mother languages to celebrate diversity within the workforce. World Down Syndrome Day Awareness On World Down Syndrome Day, Ooredoo Maldives shared a video that featured children with Down Syndrome showcasing their unique talents and aspirations aiming to inspire and encourage society to support and empower children and adults with Down Syndrome to create a more inclusive community. Participation in Zero Plastic Run Zero Plastic Run organized by ICS Maldives Pvt Ltd was held in February 2019 to create awareness about the negative impact caused by the use of plastic. Team Ooredoo Maldives participated in this 5K run to show support to the cause and discourage the use of single use plastic across Maldives. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 49 Ooredoo Blood-Drive On the Occasion of World Thalassaemia Day 2019, Ooredoo Maldives hosted a blood bank to help sustain a sufficient blood bank during the month of Ramadan. Sports Fiesta As Platinum Partners of Mihaaru Sports Awards we participated at a Sports Fiesta at K.Thulusdhoo where children had the opportunity to meet their favorite local sports stars. It was a fun filled afternoon with displays of cultural performances and fun activities. Distribution of Iftar Packs Ooredoo Volunteers distributed iftar packs (juice & dates) to people on the road during Iftar time. This initiative was carried out in multiple locations throughout Ramadan. Iftar at Children’s Orphanage for Children’s Day Ooredoo Maldives celebrated Childrens Day by hosting a special iftar at Fiyavathi Orphanage in Hulhumale’. The event included special performances by the children of Fiyavathi, an interactive magic show and a music show. Iftar for expatriates workers In partnership with Male’ City Council, Ooredoo Maldives hosted a special iftar for expatriate workers as a token of appreciation for their hard work and contribution in building our communities. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Road Safety Awareness Campaign Participated in Government’s Road Safety Campaign, where passersby’s took photos with frames that had Road Safety awareness messages and shared them on social media. Twitsaafu Addu Edition Ooredoo Maldives collaborated with Twitsaafu and hosted Twitsaafu Addu Edition with 604 volunteers and cleared three tons of trash from Addu City. Twitsaafu is a volunteer led clean-up movement that began with a single tweet early in June 2019. Donation of PCs and Internet Connection for Blue Hearts Ooredoo Maldives donated computers and internet connections for Blue Hearts, an online platform providing mental health support/referral in the form of live chat and raising of awareness about mental health issues to promote help seeking behaviour. Blue Hearts is also one of the winners of Miyaheli Social Innovation Camp (2017) conducted by UNDP Maldives in partnership with Ooredoo Maldives and Soneva Fushi Resort. Digital Partner for International Conference on Social Research and Innovation (“ICSRI 2019”) Ooredoo Maldives was the Digital Partner for the ICSRI 2019, which provided a platform for academics and researchers to present their research in an academic and scholarly setting, encouraging Maldivian academics to conduct high quality research on pertinent thematic areas. Digital Partner for Youth Tech Fair Ooredoo Maldives was the Digital partner for the Youth Tech Fair carried out by the Ministry of Youth, Sports & Community Empowerment to educate the younger generation about modern technology. Participants showcased innovative technology in the form of a development, product or idea, which can have a tangible impact on our society. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 51 Miyaheli Miyaheli 2019 focused on new innovative & creative ideas by youth to eliminate barriers faced by Persons with Disabilities (PWD) to create a more inclusive community. Five teams participated and pitched their ideas to the judges from which the first team, ThaanaMello and second-team, Silent Coffee were awarded seed funding and enrolment in the Youth Co: Lab Regional Springboard Program. Ooredoo Maldives has partnered with UNDP since 2016 to host Miyaheli the first Social Innovation Camp in Maldives to improve our community through innovative solutions, which is followed by an itch workshop where they are trained to turn the ideas into reality. Assistance to Kudakudhinge Hiyaa (Children’s Orphanage) Ooredoo Maldives made a special donation of a pet area to Kudakudhinge Hiya to fulfil the children’s wish of being able to have pets at the orphanage. Donation of Mus’hafs’ and Prayer Mats Ooredoo Maldives was pleased to donate Mus’hafs’ and Prayer Mats to prayer rooms in schools around the country. Distribution of bondibaiy at midnight to WAMCO employees Ooredoo Maldives started off its anniversary day by celebrating with the hardworking staff of WAMCO, who clean the streets of Male’ City at the late hours of the night. It was a pleasure to distribute bondibaiy to WAMCO employees during midnight before they set off for their daily contribution to the community. Distribution of Gifts in Hospitals and Health Clinics around the Country Ooredoo Maldives continued its 14th Anniversary celebrations by visiting the local hospitals and regional health centers with gifts for the patients. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Twitsaafu Laamu Ooredoo Maldives partnered with Twitsaafu, the volunteer led clean-up movement, and held Twitsaafu The Laamu Edition on the International Coastal Clean Up Day 2019 and collected 1.3 tonnes of trash from Laamu Atoll Gan and Fonadhoo. Support to Hithaanee Festival We distributed gifts to children who were getting circumcised around the country as part of the Hithaanee Festival (circumcision festival). Support to Maldives Deaf Association, the Charity Partner for Ooredoo Color Run 2019 Ooredoo Maldives donated MVR 50,000 to Maldives Deaf Association, the Charity Partner of Ooredoo Color Run 2019. Maldives Deaf Association is a non-governmental organization that advocates for the rights of the deaf community, by working to break the communication barrier, implementing good practices and works to create equal opportunity in all areas without discrimination. Creating a positive environment for the deaf and accepting deaf community as a part of society is important and we provided a 3-week Sign Language Training to our staffs at customer touch points in a move towards becoming a more inclusive company, which can cater to all customers. Partnership with Ministry of Higher Education for the Corporate Scholarship Scheme We collaborated with the Ministry of Higher Education for the Corporate Scholarship Scheme to offer more opportunities for those seeking higher studies. This scheme seeks to enhance and diversify higher education and training opportunities available both locally and internationally. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 53
