Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Leading the way to a sound economy Contents About Intrum Intrum in brief 2 2019 in brief 4 Statement by the CEO 6 Intrum’s strengths 8 Our mission to generate value 12 Trends, driving forces and stakeholders 16 Our clients and customers 20 Our employees 26 Our social contribution 32 The share 38 Five-year summary 40 Governance and control Corporate Governance Report 42 Board of Directors 48 Group Management 50 Board of Directors’ Report 53 Risk and risk management 59 Financial statements Consolidated income statement 65 Consolidated balance sheet 66 Consolidated cash flow statement 68 Consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity 69 Parent Company income statement 70 Parent Company balance sheet 70 Parent Company cash flow statement 71 Parent Company changes in shareholders’ equity 71 Notes 72 Audit report 100 Sustainability information About the Sustainability Report 103 Sustainability data 105 Targets for 2019 108 Index for the Sustainability report 108 Auditor’s statement regarding the statutory 109 Sustainability Report GRI index 110 Definitions 112 Information for shareholders 113 This Annual and Sustainability Report includes financial information and disclosures regarding sustainability. The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and is designed in accordance with GRI Standards Core. The sustainability report also constitutes Intrum’s Communication of Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact and contains information on how Intrum contributes to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda. The Sustainable Report comprises pages 20–37 and 103–108. The Auditor´s statement regarding the statutory Sustainable Report is on page 109. Follow Intrum on Linkedin We help companies and individuals alike find solutions for a sound economy. As a leading player in credit management and purchased debt, our goal is to lead the way to a sound economy. Our employees explain how we generate value for our stakeholders. “Our strength lies in being “Access to cash is essential the largest player” for all businesses” Viktor Lindeberg, Head of Investor Relations Torben Friis Serritzlev, Key Account Manager Read more on page 14. Read more on page 25. “You have to be a good listener” Lietta Pennucci, Customer Operations Manager Read more on page 31. “We want to lead the development of a sustainable credit market” Lina Rollby Claesson, Chief Compliance Officer Read more on page 36. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 1 Intrum’s purpose is to lead the way to a sound economy. A credit market in which people and companies can efficiently provide and receive credit is a prerequisite for the business community to be able to function. The opportunities increase for a society and its economy to flourish if companies are paid on time, as this enables them to invest, employ and grow – at the same time, individuals lift themselves out of debt and are therefore able to improve their circumstances. Intrum in brief A client offering provided Simplified structure with through two service lines three business areas We ensure that compaSince 1 January 2020, our operations have been Credit nies are paid by offering two organised into three business lines: Management types of services – credit • Credit Management Services (CMS) Services management services and • Portfolio Investments (PI) portfolio investments. We perform credit management • Strategic Markets (Greece, Italy and Spain) services on behalf of companies to ensure that their The latter of these business areas is new and Portfolio customers pay them for the reflects Intrum’s strong growth in recent years, parInvestments goods and services they ticularly in Southern Europe. Similar operations are sell. In our portfolio investconducted in these three countries, building on ment operations, we assume partnerships with major financial institutions in the responsibility for overdue receivables, whereby form of “carve outs” and joint ventures in which we we pay the client and then seek a solution with the focus on our core operations. customer for settling the receivable. Beyond this, we offer a full range of services covering compaBy contrast, the account presented in the Board of nies’ entire credit management chain. Directors’ Report in the Annual Report, the financial statements and the notes is in accordance with the former business area structure (four geographical regions) as reported until 31 December 2019. For further information, please see pages 53–63. Each day, our 10,000 employees take care of 250,000 customer contacts About 10,000 people work at Intrum. We help our clients develop by caring for their customers. This is achieved through the roughly 250,000 customer contacts that our employees have on a daily basis, in which we help people and companies become debt-free while our clients secure payment. 2 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Vignette Our vision: To be trusted and respected by everyone who provides and receives credit. 80,000 clients in 25 countries Intrum has some 80,000 clients in the 25 countries in which we operate. They are active in many sectors, and we specialise in assisting major companies and financial institutions with large volumes of receivables. Our clients also include tens of thousands of small and medium-sized companies. What they have in common, regardless of their size and sector, is that they recognise the value in concentrating on their core operations, rather than dealing with payment management. Three strategic areas driving our efforts to achieve a sound economy Enable sustainable payments Growing by making Being trusted and respected By ensuring sustainable payment a difference A basic prerequisite for us to sucflows between companies and Our market-leading position allows ceed in our efforts is that we have individuals, we fulfil an important us to drive the development of the the complete trust of our clients function in society and promote a entire industry in a more ethical and their customers. sound economy. direction, thereby creating value Read more on pages 20–25. and meaning for our employees. Read more on pages 32–37.  Read more on pages 26–31. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 3 2019 in brief Net revenues, SEK M Adjusted operating earnings, SEK M Average number of employees 15,985 6,208 9,190 2019 2019 2019 13,442 4,500 7,910 2018 2018 2018 9,434 3,128 6,293 2017 2017 2017 Culture Index, 0-100 Client Satisfaction Index, 0-100 Engagement Index, 0-100 80 73 76 2019 2019 2019 80 73 74 2018 2018 2018 n/a 71 76 2017 2017 2017 Key figures SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Revenues 15,985 13,442 9,434 Portfolio investments Operating earnings (EBIT) 2,060 3,978 2,728 Collected amounts 10,772 10,056 7,198 Items affecting comparability -4,148 -522 -400 Investments in portfolios 7,324 11,854 7,170 – whereof goodwill impairment -2,700 0 0 Book value portfolio investments 35,429 32,261 21,242 Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) 6,208 4,500 3,128 Return on portfolio investments, ROI, % 15 14 16 Net earnings -285 1,943 1,503 Sustainable enterprise Number of financial education Cash EBITDA as defined in loan initiatives 11 10 n/a agreements 11,444 9,776 9,204 Carbon dioxide emissions, tCO2e 6,808 8,454 n/a Net debt/RTM Cash EBITDA 4.3 4.3 4.1 Number of languages spoken by employees 34 36 n/a Credit management services Averade number of employees 9,190 7,910 6,293 Service line earnings -415 2,433 1,704 Adjusted revenues, The share Credit Management 11,273 9,257 8,852 Earnings per share, SEK -2.76 14.18 14.62 Adjusted operating margin, Dividend, SEK 11.00 9.50 9.50 Credit Management, % 26 27 28 Share price, SEK 279.40 205.70 303.30 4 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Events during the year Strategic acquisition in Greece Greece, Italy and Spain, which are large and For Intrum, 2019 was an eventful year. We continimportant markets with similar operations based on ued our expansion, particularly in southern Europe, partnerships with major financial institutions. The where the foremost event was the partnership we simplified organisational structure came into effect established with Piraeus Bank in Greece. Intrum at the start of 2020. acquired 80 percent of the bank’s service platform for managing overdue receivables. In this Improved financing structure way, we created a leading credit management During the year, Intrum strengthened its financplatform in Greece. The transaction is a long-term ing by issuing a number of bonds and expanding its strategic partnership, in which Piraeus Bank holds credit facilities. As a result, a more even maturity the remaining 20 percent of the shares in the new profile was achieved while securing a satisfactory company. liquidity buffer and future investment capacity. Increased efficiency and simplified organisation Clear governance of sustainability matters The year was pervaded by continued efficiency It is important for Intrum to integrate sustainabilimprovements, with a major cost programme being ity work into all of its operations in a meaningful implemented in the autumn. At the same time, way. During the year, a clear governance structure efforts continued to centralise and standardise for driving sustainability matters was established, processes, work methods and systems. All of this with the Board of Directors remaining the highest is designed to benefit from Intrum’s size and to decision-making body, followed by Group Mancontinue being able to meet client expectations, agement, which is responsible for strategy on susenhance efficiency and further increase profitability. tainability. To successfully integrate sustainability In November, a simplified organisational strucinto the day-to-day operations, an internal group of ture was also presented, in which the four georepresentatives of the relevant functions, business graphical regions were discontinued and a third lines and countries was established. The group’s business area “Strategic Markets” was established focus is to secure support for targets and strategies alongside Credit Management Services and Portin the area of sustainability and to pursue these folio Investments. The new business area includes issues throughout the organisation. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 5 Statement by the CEO A strong 2019 provides firm foundations in turbulent conditions At the time of writing, we are experiencing what is a new and challenging situation for us all due to the spread of Covid-19 – one that will have repercussions for virtually all businesses around the world. In Europe, countries in the south have been hardest hit by the ongoing virus outbreak, which has affected all aspects of society. Intrum’s Strategic Markets business line is experiencing delays in cash flows due to general restrictions brought in across countries and reduced activity in legal systems. 20% The health and safety of Intrum employees is our collections, while completing as planned the intetop priority. Since January, we have taken extengration work that started in 2017 following the sive measures to enable us to conduct business merger. As part of our efforts to integrate and cenas normally as possible, with working from home tralise common functions, we also launched a increased adjusted being a key aspect of how we are managing the sitbroader efficiency programme that will deliver revenues compared uation. Intrum’s financial position is strong with bottom line improvements totalling some SEK to 2018. good liquidity, which is a good starting point given 600M in 2020 and beyond. current circumstances. Intrum entered 2020, after an eventful and New organisational structure reflecting business momentous 2019. During the year, we took sevactivity eral important steps to further consolidate our On January 1st, 2020, we introduced a new organisamarket-leading position in Europe. Our integrated tional structure that better reflects our current operbusiness model, that combines Credit Manageations. Our three large southern European markets, ment Services (CMS) with acquisitions of non-perGreece, Italy and Spain, were designated as a new forming loan portfolios, enables close co-operation business line, “Strategic Markets”, alongside our existwith our clients that in turn enables us to meet their ing segments Credit Management Services and Portspecific needs at different points in time. folio Investments. We also removed the geographical The single most important event during the year segmentation of our four regions. These changes are was our partnership with Piraeus Bank in Greece, designed to simplify internal reporting and reduce which was announced in June and consolidated costs. We also believe that these measures will in October. We added 1,300 new colleagues and improve external transparency related to the develcreated a strong platform on which to further build opment of our three large south European markets. our presence in Greece. In Italy, our partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo gained momentum and made Continued progress towards “One Intrum” an important contribution to our growth for the Our work on harmonising and centralising our year. The acquisition of Solvia in Spain was finalprocesses, systems and operations continued ised in the second quarter, giving us a robust presthroughout 2019. Intrum is the leading player in our ence on the Spanish market. In combination with industry and our extensive presence on 24 martaking steps to address our cost base in Spain, the kets in Europe means that we have unique opporSolvia acquisition gives us reason to expect stable tunities to operate effectively, concertedly and business development in Spain going forward after benefit from best practice across the organisation. two challenging years. Our global service centre in Vilnius was expanded We can summarise a strong 2019 with solid during the year, providing us with excellent opporunderlying results and new record levels of cash tunities to serve our clients, especially major inter6 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Statement by the CEO Intrum’s purpose – to lead the way to a sound economy – is at the core of our strategy. national companies that operate in several of our achieve a more predictable and improved matumarkets, in more co-ordinated and joined-up ways. rity profile, while also securing a reassuring liquidIntrum’s business and culture is characterised by ity buffer, which is very important given the general our four values: Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and global outlook in the first quarter of 2020. Solutions. We ensure that these values guide us in our daily operations and in our work with clients and A strong platform for long-term growth customers. All employees are taking regular train2019 was an eventful year for Intrum, particularly ings in our Code of Conduct and this year a revised in terms of transactions. Today, we are the natuversion was launched. ral partner on the European market for non-perThis is an important tool for ensuring that our forming loans – a position we are determined to external target groups – not least our clients – expecement further. rience “One Intrum” irrespective of which country Intrum’s purpose – to lead the way to a sound or in what context they come into contact with us. In economy – is at the core of our strategy. During 2019, these challenging times with the spread of Covid-19, we intensified our efforts to integrate sustainability our values of Empathy and Ethics are more importinto our business and we implemented a clear govant than ever; and in this spirit, we have developed ernance structure to address these matters. Stakeadditional guidelines to ensure that we are responholder dialogues have been held, including with sive to our customers. the majority of our shareholders. It is of the utmost importance for us to act ethically in our daily collecStrong underlying performance growth tion work by treating individuals with respect fairly We saw strong financial performance during 2019. and by carefully selecting the clients and portfolios Adjusted revenues increased by approximately 20 we acquire. It is also important for us to retain and per cent compared to 2018, while adjusted EBIT develop our employees by ensuring their wellbeing. increased 38 per cent. The Board of Directors proSince 2016, Intrum has been a signatory to the poses an increase in the dividend to SEK 11.00 per UN Global Compact. Every year, we report how share (SEK 9.50). Items affecting comparability we implement the Compact’s 10 sustainability totalled SEK 4.1 billion, of which SEK 2.9 billion was principles and outline how we will work on further write-downs of our intangible assets in Spain. This implementing the principles in our activities in the adjustment reflects the earnings level observed in coming year. We are also continuing our work on recent quarters compared to earlier periods when national and European level to, together with legSpain was characterised by different market condiislators and other actors, develop our industry in a tions. Of the SEK 4.1 billion in total items affecting responsible and more professional direction. comparability, SEK 3.1 billion were non-cash items. I am extremely proud to lead Intrum’s 10,000 The total value of portfolio investments, including or so highly competent and determined employreal estate and shares in joint ventures, increased ees. With our size and diversification, we are well by 10 per cent to reach SEK 35.4 billion. Portfolio positioned to continue to grow sustainably and ¬investments during the year amounted to SEK 7.3 profitably. billion (11.9), which was in line with the more norDue to the current global situation, we have malised level we anticipated. Return on investment decided to postpone our capital markets day that was 15 per cent (14), excluding revaluations. had originally been planned for May 19th until the autumn. Improved financing profile During the year, we strengthened our financial Mikael Ericson position with a number of bond issues and an President and CEO increased credit facility. This has enabled us to Stockholm, March 2020 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 7 Over the past two years, we have successfully consolidated our marketleading position in credit management in Europe. The next step is to continue creating efficiency in everything we do and to benefit from our economies of scale. As a market leader, we are also a role model for others and our focus on ethical debt collection helps us push development in the sector in a more sustainable direction. Intrum’s strengths Sustainable credit management Trends shaping the industry Credit management services turnover in proportion to the company’s We perceive several driving forces affecting the total turnover dynamics of the market in our sector. Significant % among these are the regulatory changes brought 100 about by the recent financial crisis, encouraging banks to address their overdue receivables to 80 reduce the risks in their balance sheets. We benefit from this development because the banks seek 60 a long-term partner, always able to manage overdue receivables. 40 Another force driving the market is that, for various reasons, many companies stress the impor20 tance of late-paying customers being treated respectfully regardless of whether a third party, 0 such as Intrum, has been enlisted to secure payment or the debt portfolio has been sold. In our treatment of customers, focusing on ethics and empathy, we aspire to be role models in our sec1–5 5–15 15–25 Geographical reach (number of markets) tor. We are also seeing continued consolidation of the sector, in which Intrum has participated with its Intrum has the largest revenues, widest geographical reach and most diversified business model (2018). acquisitions in recent years. Technological development and digitisation are other trends in which we see great opportunities. Read more about us to offer service in several markets to pan-Eurotrends, driving forces and stakeholders on pages pean clients. 18-19. Our foremost strengths also include our balanced and integrated business model. About 60 Market leader with integrated business model percent of our revenues derive from credit manWe are Europe’s largest company in credit management, in which we act on behalf of companies agement and purchased debt in terms of revenues, that have not been paid for their goods or services. profit, geographical presence and workforce. We The remainder derive from acquired portfolios of are established in 24 European markets and are overdue receivables. Through our business model, the leading player or among the “top-five” in most we interact with our clients to meet their needs at of these. In addition, we have a small-scale unit in different times. Brazil. Large multinational corporations often need a There are many benefits of being the largest strategic partner able to service their debt portand having a broad geographical coverage. Covfolios or, if necessary, to acquire these portfolios. ering 98 percent of the European market for NPL This applies particularly to banks which, due to (non-performing loans) portfolios, brings us signi– regulatory changes, must allocate more capital to ficant opportunities for portfolio investment. Our cover future loan losses. We are a priority partner, broad geographical presence in Europe also allows able to collaborate with the banks, either acquiring 8 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our position large, existing debt portfolios or bringing predictrity when we take over the contact with their brings with it a ability by acquiring debt portfolios on an ongoing customers. responsibility basis. A significant portion of our portfolio investto act as a role ments originate in the banking sector. Banks for Advantages of scale in offering and data analysis model in our secwhom we are a priority partner include Nordea, Numerous opportunities can be derived from tor and to lead Swedbank and DNB in the Nordic countries. being the largest. We can flexibly offer a wide development in Our integrated business model sets us apart range of services meeting the changing needs of a more sustainfrom many of our sector colleagues who often our clients and customers. We are also able to able direction. specialise either in credit management services standardise services and to tailor offerings accordWe want to conor portfolio purchases. Our competitors in credit ing to clients’ unique needs. tribute with our management are often smaller players operating Our large scale increases our access to data and experience in locally, of whom only a limited number are listed our capacity to invest resources in more intelligent credit manageon a stock exchange. Where very large portfolio data analysis. Investments in data analysis make ment and portfoinvestments are concerned, the competition often it possible to achieve further efficiency enhancelio investments. consists of mutual funds or more opportunistic ments and cost reductions in the collection operacapital. tions. Data and data analysis also form the basis for A major advantage over our competitors is our the development of our collection strategies and collection management platform. We control the portfolio investment models. entire process, ensuring efficient case manageThe economies of scale also include the possiment and offering our clients a sense of secubility of consolidating our operations internally and increasing our efficiency by sharing administraEuropean banks’ NPL portfolios, tion, IT and acquisitions services, for example. We EUR billion – Sept 2019 can also learn from one another’s knowledge and experience to improve and streamline operations by applying “best practice”. Italy 127.1 France 124.2 Strong brand focusing on sustainability Spain 83.5 An important element in our brand is our puropse of leading the way to a sound economy. Our purGreece 74.5 pose has a bearing on all that we do, why we UK 56.3 exist, and how we act. By connecting our purpose Netherlands 34.7 closely to our strategy, we generate mutual value Germany 31.9 for ourselves and our stakeholders. Our position brings with it a responsibility to act Portugal 19.6 as a role model in our sector and to lead developBelgium 17.0 ment in a more sustainable direction. We want to Austria 12.0 contribute our experience in credit management Our broad geographical footprint increases the range of and portfolio investments to build functioning paypossible portfolio investments. ment flows, benefiting individuals, clients, share 1) Source: European Banking Authority holders and society in general. We do this as, for Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 9 Intrum’s strengths example, an invited partner in discussions at the Proposed dividend, SEK European Commission in the process of facilitating a functioning market for portfolios of overdue 11,00 receivables. 2019 9.50 Financial strength 2018 The business lines, Portfolio Investments and 9.50 Credit Management Services are mutually sup2017 portive. One part ties up capital while the other generates strong free cash flow. This cash flow can be disbursed as dividends or reinvested in the portfolio operations. In recent years, Intrum has Growth: In 2019, our expansion in Europe conboth provided favourable dividends and impletinued. The transaction with Piraeus Bank repremented major acquisitions. This demonstrates our sented a decisive acquisition in strengthening our financial strength, as well as the expansion of our presence in all key European markets. balance sheet. Read more about Intrum’s risk management on pages 59-63. Efficiency: For us, efficiency means doing the right things correctly, focusing on the client and cusStrong growth over the past two years tomer experience. During the year, the process of The past two years have taken Intrum on a jourrealising the synergies from the merger was comney of evolution. This began with the merger in pleted, with these amounting to SEK 680 million 2017. Both companies, Intrum Justitia and Lindorff, annually, more than expected at the time of the complemented one another well, being strong in merger. Additional efficiency enhancements were different geographical markets and in different also presented with the aim of improving earnings customer segments. Lindorff was well-rooted in by SEK 600 million in 2020. We also conducted a the financial sector and Intrum Justitia in the SME successful refinancing process to extend the matusegment. rity of our bonds and achieve a more even maturity Through the merger, we established a marprofile. At the end of the year, a simplified organiket-leading position facilitating most of the sational structure was presented, with three busitransactions and partnerships that we have subseness areas: Credit Management Services, Portfolio quently implemented in Southern Europe. These Investments and Strategic Markets. The new include the strategic partnership with the Italian organisational structure, which has replaced the bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which was completed at former regional structure since the beginning of the end of 2018, the acquisition of management 2020, increases our efficiency and strengthens our company Solvia in Spain, which was completed customer focus. in the second quarter of 2019, and the acquisition of Piraeus Bank’s platform in Greece, which was Digitisation and automation: Intrum’s digital jourcompleted in October 2019. ney involves our customers, our clients and our Together with Intesa Sanpaolo, we own a marown internal processes. Digitisation offers opporket-leading platform for handling overdue receivtunities for automation, but also for harmonising ables and an NPL portfolio. In accordance with various areas of our operations. During the year, a ten-year agreement, we will also manage the the process commenced of centralising parts of bank’s future NPL portfolios. In Spain, we strengthIntrum’s collection operations in Vilnius. This will ened our position through the acquisition of Solvia, strengthen the customer experience with a beta management company in the property manageter user interface while international clients will ment services sector, with assets in the form of varreceive uniform treatment. ious types of receivables and property portfolios. In Greece, we acquired Piraeus Bank’s platform for The way ahead handling overdue receivables, with which we will Strategic priorities for 2020–2023 manage Piraeus Bank’s NPL portfolios, with the We have several opportunities for growth in credit possibility of adding new clients in the future. management, by centralising, automating and digiThese acquisitions are in line with our strategy to tising more, for example. By developing a stancontinue expanding in Europe. What these partdardised platform with solutions for handling nership share is that they combine our 100 years of overdue receivables for smaller clients and develexperience in managing overdue receivables with oping complementary, customised services for our strategic partners’ in-depth knowledge of the larger clients, we can both generate growth and local market. enhance efficiency. In addition, our proven services for small and medium-sized companies Activities in 2019 can, for example, be launched in several of our Over the year, our strategy for growth, efficiency, geographical markets. Similarly, the services in digitisation and analysis actively guided our opersecured debt that we offer in southern Europe ations towards our targets for 2020, as well as can be extended to our Northern European bank towards a stronger Intrum in the long term. clients. 10 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Intrum’s strengths Portfolio investment growth Operational efficiency Banks and investment funds still hold major stocks We should conduct our operations as efficiently of NPL portfolios. Expanding e-commerce also as possible. We do this by benefiting from our size, brings with it a growing supply of credit and NPL which, for example, allows us to spread our costs portfolios. The sector remains fragmented and and investments across a larger organisation. We major players like Intrum have the opportunity to must also be as efficient as possible within each aid consolidation by capturing market shares from market, centralising relevant resources at a Eurocompetitors or by conducting value-generating pean level to generate synergies and cost benefits. acquisitions that add new clients, new markets or other assets. Improved data and analysis We are continuing to develop modern approaches Gaining from comparative advantages and more intelligent services by standardising our Our integrated business model lays the foundation data collection and data analysis. We combine for securing transactions and growing our earnings. our substantial access to data with new technoloBy meeting the needs of our clients, regardless of gies to achieve the best possible effect for our clitheir sector or geographic market, we also increase ents, our customers and for ourselves. By using our opportunities to acquire NPL portfolios from more data from our operations we can, for examour clients in the credit management operations. ple, reduce the risks associated with acquiring NPL We seek, in this way, to build more integrated and portfolios and increase our chances of winning coordinated client relationships. auctions of NPL portfolios in more markets and including more classes of assets. Net debt in relation to Earnings per share Return on purchased debt operating earnings2 Target 2020: SEK 35/share Target 2020: 13% Target 2020: 2.5–3.5 Outcome Outcome Outcome -2.761 15 4.3 2019 2019 2019 2019 14.18 14 4.3 2018 2018 2018 14.62 16 4.1 2017 2017 2017 The target represents a 75-percent increase by The return on purchased debt should be at least Net debt in relation to operating earnings before 2020 compared with 2016, that is, an average 13 percent on a rolling 12-month basis. depreciation and amortisation shall be in the annual increase of 15 percent. interval 2.5-3.5. 2) B efore depreciation and amortisation, and pro-forma acquistions 1) Adjusted earnings per share = SEK 27.8 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 11 Our mission to generate value We help companies prosper by caring for their customers Stakeholder expectations Business model Customers 250,000 daily contacts Clients Customers Our clients’ customers, that is, our end-customers, wish to be treated Credit respectfully when seeking support and Management advice from us in order to find solutions Services to become debt-free. Clients 80,000 clients Companies of different sizes from many sectors hire us to secure payment for their goods and services. Portfolio Investments Employees 10,000 employees Our employees want meaningful, stimulating and developing work. A value-driven approach towards our stakeholders We are driven by our purpose of leading the way to a Society sound economy and are guided in this by our four val25 markets ues, ​​which describe who we are and how we behave in Our market-leading position imposes our day-to-day work. Our values: considerable responsibility and we are expected to contribute knowledge and expertise, and to generate social and Empathy financial value. Ethics Dedication Solutions Shareholders 22,000 shareholders By generating positive financial results Our position: and acting responsibly, we can generate The undisputed market leader. sustainable returns. Read more about our stakeholders on page 19. 12 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Value generated for our stakeholders Social value Financial value Example outcomes 80 Customers SEK 9,7 million Through an ethical approach, respectWe provide support and debt counseling the circumstances of each individling for customers, with 9,7 million debt ual, we help our end-customers find cases settled over the year. out of 100 in the sustainable solutions for sound private Culture Index finances. 73 Clients SEK 67 billion It is our mission to help companies prosIn 2019, we generated SEK 67 billion per by caring for their customers. for our clients, of which SEK 60 billion derived from Credit Management Serout of 100 in the vices and SEK 7 billion from Purchased Satisfaction Index Debt. 76 Employees SEK 3,95 billion At Intrum, our employees can particA total SEK 3,95 billion was paid in salaipate in meaningful work with good ries and pensions to our employees over opportunities for development, with the year. out of 100 in the everyone having the opportunity to Engagement Index grow and make a difference. 14,000 Society SEK 424 million By helping companies secure payment Intrum’s total corporate tax for 2019 was and helping individuals rid themselves SEK 424 million. We also pay taxes and of debt, we build sustainable payment social security contributions on salaries Individuals reached flows, development, and employment, and benefits, value added tax, as well as by our educational promoting a sound economy for sociexcise taxes on vehicles, property rent, initiatives in 2019 ety as a whole. We work pro-actively energy, etc. to disseminate knowledge on personal finances. 11 Shareholders SEK 1.4 billion We generate returns for our shareFor 2019 the proposed share dividend is holders through profitability and social SEK 1.4 billion to our shareholders. SEK responsibility. Dividend per share Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 13 Viktor Lindeberg, Head of Investor Relations, is convinced that communication with the capital markets can be further strengthened. Improved and clearer information to generate a better understanding of the business is a project that has already been launched and that will continue in 2020. ”Our strength lies in being the largest player” What makes Intrum a good investment? tance with that too. Our size allows us to hold stra“Although we let the market make its own assesstegic discussions that few others can.” ment of the share, our strengths include being the largest industrial player among credit management How does this diversification benefit investors? companies and purchased debt companies. We “Our presence in numerous countries reduces our have extensive experience of handling late paydependence on individual markets. In addition, ments and, in relation to our industry colleagues, one part of our operations generates strong free we also have the largest balance sheet and greatcash flow while the other is more capital intensive. est profits, we have the broadest geographical With the portfolio investment operations partly presence and also hold the strongest position in being financed through loans, we are pleased that most of the countries in which we operate.” our diversification affords us competitive financing terms, further strengthening our market position. How do you benefit from having both credit Strong cash flow has also enabled us to pay rising management and purchased debt operations share dividends, while at the same time reinvesting within the same company? and expanding our portfolio operations.” “We benefit from the different pillars of our business in several ways. For us, our clients and their Why do you think Intrum’s share has been one of needs are fundamental. There are times at which the most short-traded on the Stockholm Stock clients may need to sell a portfolio and we are then Exchange? ready to be of service in that regard. If, on the other “If you take a negative view of the sector, Intrum’s hand, a client has a different strategic focus and share is the easiest to sell short. That’s because our instead seeks assistance in servicing a portfolio shares are more liquid. Looking at Intrum more speof overdue receivables, we are able to be of assiscifically, some believe we have been a bit too expansive and are negative towards Intrum for that reason. In the latter case, the burden of proof lies with us and I Interesting facts believe we can improve at conveying a more accurate Intrum’s principal shareholders The private equity company Nordic Capital owns 57.7 million picture of us to the market.” shares, corresponding to 44 percent of the votes (2019). Nordic Capital is an active shareholder, represented on Intrum’s Board You stepped in as the Head of IR in 2019. What is of Directors. your plan for the future? “There are areas in which we can improve further regardContacts with shareholders and bond investors Intrum generally meets its shareholders in connection with the ing how we communicate. We want to facilitate the marquarterly reports. For credit investors, dedicated road-shows ket’s comprehension of Intrum and, after a period of are presented, as in connection with the refinancing of Intrum’s strong growth and expansion, are confident in what we bonds in the third quarter of 2019, for example. do. In turn, this involves, to a certain extent, how we presWhat bondholders and shareholders want to know ent the Company and its accounts. Accordingly, we have In simple terms, credit investors generally focus more on risk and initiated a project to improve the level of detail in the equity investors more on potential. Common to both is that they accounts, as we will demonstrate in 2020. closely monitor both the financial targets and the key figures. 14 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 “My job is to help the market understand Intrum as a company.” Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 15 New technology, regulatory changes causing banks to seek long-term partners and online commerce resulting in increased consumption on credit, are among the trends affecting the market dynamics. Among our clients, the customer experience is crucial, as well as their customers being met with care and respect. Our market-leading position and more than 100 years of experience afford us a unique capacity to meet customer requirements and trends alike. Trends, driving forces and stakeholders Several trends benefit Intrum Amended legislation Risks/opportunities Following the latest financial crisis, new regulations We perceive highly promising opportunities to be have come into effect requiring banks to sell their a part of the current market trend and to benefit debt portfolios to a greater extent to reduce the risk from it. in their own balance sheets. This has increased the supply of debt portfolios in the market. At the same Focus on the client journey time, sellers’ need to find a strong, long-term partCompanies’ focus on the customer journey, or the ner has increased, meaning that additional factors client experience that causes clients to stay, makes beyond the price of the portfolio are of significance. it increasingly important to have a long-term partner in credit management. The trend is for clients Impact on Intrum and our response to ask that, as a credit management player, we start As the market-leading credit management comhelping them with late payments at an ever earlier pany, we have a unique capacity to meet the stage. banks’ new requirements. We are also among the players invited to participate in discussions as the Impact on Intrum and our response European Commission prepares legislative proWe are tailoring our IT systems and processes to posals and new regulations to build a functioning ensure smooth transitions for customers when we marketplace for overdue loans. take over credit management from clients. This 16 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The trend is for clients to ask that, as a credit management player, we start helping them with late payments at an ever earlier stage. is all designed to provide the best possible client New technologies and new sector players journey. Rapid technological development is affecting the credit management segment and the financial secRisks/opportunities tor as a whole. New innovations, artificial intelliThere is a risk that Intrum’s systems are perceived gence, robotics and advanced analytical models as diverse in our different geographical operations, enable an improved customer experience and primarily by multinational companies encountering more efficient processes. Innovations challenging us in several markets. For this reason, we are worktraditional approaches go hand in hand with new ing to streamline many of our processes and to players entering the market. centralise parts of case management. Impact on Intrum and our response Sustainable credit management Technological development and new players presEven if a debt portfolio changes owners, there is ent us with challenges, which is positive as it aids a risk that the client’s reputation will be affected our own development, requiring that we make use unless its customers are treated ethically and with of opportunities created by new technology. respect throughout the process until they are debtfree. Accordingly, it is increasingly important for Risks/opportunities clients, as sellers of debt portfolios, to find a partOur size brings economies of scale when financner who cares for the customers whose cases it ing investment in new technology. We also have handles. access to large amounts of data that can be used in this development. Our size and long history also Impact on Intrum and our response allow us to learn from one another’s knowledge We have worked for a long time as a pioneer in susand experience to improve and streamline the tainable credit management and are very familiar operations. with the various situations that may underlie late or non-payment. We are guided by our values and Increased digital interaction strive to understand each individual situation as we Like other sectors of society, credit management is help our customers find solutions to lift themselves becoming increasingly digital. Increasingly, commuout of debt. nications and services are provided through online portals. Multinational corporations demand that serRisks/opportunities vices be designed in accordance with a model that Our task is to identify solutions generating mutual looks the same in several countries. Another trend value for clients and customers, solutions helping is for companies to seek the most innovative digital customers free themselves of debt while our cliservices, requiring continuous product develop­ment ents receive payment for their goods and services. suited to clients and customers’ needs. This relationship entails a risk of a conflict of interests. At the same time, we believe we can act as Impact on Intrum and our response a role model, leading our sector in a more ethical This means that we and others are required to and sustainable direction by being guided by our maintain leading-edge positions in developing digvalues. ital systems and services. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 17 Trends, driving forces and stakeholders Risks/opportunities Cashless society and changing payment We perceive opportunities in participating in the behaviours digital development driving the sector forward. Online shopping is causing consumers to change There is otherwise a risk that we will lose signifitheir payment behaviours. Increasingly, transaccance in relation to competitors or new players in tions are cashless, with payment being made on the sector. credit. This is causing more people than previously to fall into debt and that the credit market is now Consolidation of the sector booming for serious and less serious players alike. Traditionally, credit management companies have been locally rooted, but this is changing as larger Impact on Intrum and our response companies acquire the smaller ones. The current We are meticulous about the types of receivables consolidation is driven by the large companies we purchase and manage. Accordingly, we refrain benefiting from economies of scale in connection from purchasing debt portfolios from companies with increased regulation and digitisation, with operations that deliberately or indeliberately for example. help exacerbate consumers’ debt problems. Impact on Intrum and our response Risks/opportunities We lead the European market, driving developWith the number of purchases made on credit ment through several acquisitions in recent years. increasing, the risk of late payment also increases. Our capacity is also increasing to meet the needs We do our part by helping companies secure payof international companies uniformly across ment from customers who have not paid for some several markets. reason, and by helping people become debt free. Risks/opportunities As a market leader, we are able to meet clients’ needs, both locally and across borders, with both tailor-made solutions and standardised concepts. 18 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Trends, driving forces and stakeholders Dialogue with our stakeholders Our key stakeholders are those affected by our operations analysis, which in turn sets the framework of our sustainability and whose expectations have a significant impact on how we agenda. In 2019, we expanded and strengthened our dialogues, develop our operations. By means of an ongoing dialogue with particularly those with our shareholders. our stakeholders, we build up the basis for our materiality Read more about our sustainability work on pages 20–37. Customers Clients Employees Society Shareholders Our customers are the indiOur clients are companies In the 25 markets in which Society is a broad stakeOur existing and potential viduals in debt whom we in various sectors, including we operate, Intrum has holder group including citshareholders. meet in our day-to-day banking and finance, telesome 10,000 employees izens and policy makers, operations. They are our com, energy and consumer in total. consumers and companies, Material issues clients’ customers, whose products, for whom we help authorities and organisaEthical collection, responsicases we take on when they secure payment. Clients Material issues tions, to name just a few. ble selection of clients and pay late or fail to pay. span all scales of enterprise, For our employees, the debt portfolios, the well-befrom multinational corpokey, overarching conMaterial issues ing of our employees and Material issues rations to small and medicern is well-being. Material A well-functioning credit a reduced climate footOur customers expect um-sized companies. issues include the workmarket for both providers print, are among the issues and appreciate a perplace environment and and receivers of credit is the highlighted as material. An sonal response, that we disMaterial issues health, inclusion, skills supoverarching significant conincreasing number of invesplay empathy and are able Regardless of their size and ply and opportunities for cern. Priority issues entail tors attach considerable to identify individually taithe sectors in which they development. helping individuals become importance to our work on lored solutions. We are also operate, liquidity is essendebt-free, thereby improvsustainability-related risks. expected to provide usertial for companies. How we ing their circumstances, friendly tools and offer good treat their customers is also while contributing to sound accessibility. crucial as we are part of the finances for companies. This customer’s journey. In addiis to be achieved by applytion, our clients seek a proing a responsible and ethical fessional partner offering approach. user-friendly and customised solutions. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 19 As a supplier of credit management services, we operate within the gap between clients and customers – a position that imposes demands on both products and services, as well as on how we treat customers. Our clients and customers We lead the way towards a sound economy We help companies prosper by caring for their cusviduals find solutions for a sound economy, which, Revenues by business area tomers. Our clients are the companies that engage in turn, contributes positively to society at large. us to help them secure payment for their goods and services. Our customers are the individuals or sometimes companies that, for various reasons, With around 80,0000 clients and close to 250,000 daily contacts with customers, Intrum is the European market leader in credit management 60/40 Credit management have experienced difficulties meeting their finanservices. Our clients operate in various sectors, services 60% Portfolio investments, cial obligations. It is our job to find solutions that including banking and finance, telecom, energy and 40% generate mutual value for our clients and customalso include small and medium-sized companies. ers. In this way, we help both companies and indiFor us, it is a natural choice to cooperate only with Sustainability targets and activities in 2019 Material sustainability issues Targets for 2020 Strategic Uniformly measure satisfaction among customers in at least 12 • E thical collection by treating customsustainability of our 25 markets. ers fairly area: Enable • R esponsible selection of clients and UN’s Sustainable Development Goals sustainable portfolios (SDG) payments • Sound finances for our clients With our training initiatives, we teach • F avourable payment terms between more people to understand their percompanies sonal finances, including financial concepts. With our proactive • Sound transactions efforts to disseminate information of the impact of late payment on the economy, and by helping companies secure pay• Increased financial literacy in society ment for their goods and services, we can contribute to the realisation of UN Sustainable Development Goal 17.13 Enhance Activities in 2019 global macroeconomic stability. • Streamlining of internal processes for a smoother credit management process for all parties. • Training initiatives to enhance know– ledge of personal finances. 20 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Digital solutions companies and suppliers who share our values of competition for customers is fierce. Here, complay an increasgood business ethics. We choose our clients and panies seek a partner who can be part of the cusingly important partners with care. In practice, this means that we tomer journey, regardless of where the customer role in our do not, for example, collaborate with clients whose is in the purchasing process. This applies to comoperations. invoices lack a legal foundation, that apply unethical panies in the telecom and energy segments, for Credit managelending terms or that use aggressive sales methods. example, but also within banking and finance. ment is viewed as Other forces driving demand for products and sera strategic The market for credit management services and vices are macroeconomic events and new legal element of the overdue receivables requirements and regulatory changes. One examcustomer journey According to our European Consumer Payment ple is the banking sector, where increased regu– one that can Report 2019, 24 percent of Europe’s consumers lations in recent years have led to an increased help strengthen need to borrow money to pay their bills, compared focus on costs, a trend that has generated greater both customer with 20 percent in 2018. As a consequence, an opportunities for us to acquire entire portfolios of loyalty and the increasing number of companies also suffer from overdue receivables (read more about trends and brand. late payments, both for corporate and consumer driving forces in the market on pages 16–19). loans. There are several consequences when companies do not receive payment for the goods and Credit management – a strategic part of the services they have sold. In Intrum’s European Paycustomer journey ment Report 2019, many European companies As a leading player in credit management, we offer state that they experience strained liquidity (30 a complete range of services covering the entire percent), revenue losses (28 percent) and growth credit management process, from credit optimisconstraints. More than one in five companies also ation and payment services to late payments and say that they could employ more people if they collection, where our customer focus is on the received payment on time. latter. Stable cash flow and strong liquidity form the To better meet our clients’ changing needs, basis for stable finances in all operations. For during the year we began work on segmenting our SMEs, support in managing late payments, includoffering more clearly. Many of our international cliing associated administration, can be crucial to the ents, particularly e-commerce companies with company’s survival. a large number of consumers spread across sevMany of our clients also operate in sectors where eral geographic markets, are looking for standard Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 21 Our clients and customers solutions that can be implemented quickly and on With a more centralised process, we are building a broad front. Similarly, we have clients requiring the conditions on which we can develop into an more specially-adapted and tailor-made solutions. even more data-driven company, in which artificial This applies to the Nordic banks, for example, who intelligence, data analysis and business intelligence often seek support early in the value chain, with are parts of everyday life. This can generate value both invoicing and reminders. We also have clients in all markets through, for example, the developwho are looking for a strategic partner in portfolio ment of customised products and services for spetransactions. In all cases, we also offer to take over cific customer needs. entire portfolios of overdue receivables, if the client so wishes. Our clients show the way Digital solutions play an increasingly importOur clients’ experience of our products and serant role in our operations. Credit management is vices is important to us. To understand how we viewed as a strategic element of the customer jourcan develop our approach, an independent surney – one that can help strengthen both customer vey is conducted each year to derive a satisfacloyalty and the brand. In 2019, work began to tion index. According to the latest survey, which establish a centralised and more automated credit was conducted in the autumn of 2019, the index management process and infrastructure. The aim was 73, which was in line with the preceding year. is to enable greater efficiency in both data manA total of 2,200 companies from 22 of our markets agement and analysis, as well as in the interaction participated. with clients and customers. Among other things, The trend shows that Intrum is generally perwe have developed standardised portal solutions ceived as a competent company that enjoys the for both clients and customers. It will be possitrust of its clients. Intrum’s employees are perble to integrate these into our clients’ own systems ceived as respectful in their communications with as necessary, thereby contributing to a smoother customers. credit management process for all parties. Digital solutions also bring increased access to Values strengthening the customer encounter data that can generate value in a wider context. Falling into debt can be very stressful, and it is not Today, we already aggregate data available locally uncommon that the customers we talk to experito gain a better understanding of our clients’ and ence major social ordeals. We are aware that peocustomers’ situations, and their support needs. ple can find themselves in different degrees of 22 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our clients and customers Culture Index debt, with differing financial circumstances. For focus on credit and borrowing and the European 80 this reason, we attach great importance to offering Payment Report asks some 10,000 European comsupport in finding a sustainable solution, regardpanies about their experiences of late or defaulted less of the cause of the debt or late payment. We payments. The reports are used in our dialogue know that the reason for falling into debt and not with clients, at seminars, conferences and in other Following the merger being able to pay on time can be anything from a forums where we can share our insights. to form Intrum, new values were elaborated forgotten bill to life-changing events that can have The European Consumer Payment Report in 2017. Since 2018, we major financial consequences. 2019 revealed a knowledge gap regarding issues have surveyed how With Intrum’s shared values as the fundamental of personal finance. To respond to this need, well our employees principle, the objective is always to treat each cuswe also work pro-actively with education initiafeel we live up to our four values – Empathy, tomer with empathy and respect for their individtives across Europe. In Sweden, for example, we Ethics, Dedication and ual situation. Since 2018, we have measured how have developed an interactive online lesson in Solution – in our daywell our employees feel we live up to our four valpersonal finance called Spendido. The contents to-day efforts. During the year, we achieved a ues – Empathy, Ethics, Dedication, Solutions – respond to a number of requirements in the curscore of 80/100 in our in our day-to-day efforts (read more on page 27). rent upper-secondary curriculum and explain what Culture Index (80). In 2019, we achieved a Cultural Index of 80/100, buying on credit entails by highlighting the potenwhich is in line with the preceding year. tial consequences of a careless approach. Given our size, we consider it our responsibility to To lead the way towards a sound economy work pro-actively, disseminating knowledge to both Our annual public surveys provide us with useful clients and customers on issues related to a sound insights on personal finances and how companies economy. The purpose is to pre-empt late payments are affected by late payments. In the European and excessive debt and to encourage sustainable Consumer Payment Report, 24,000 European payment flows. By spreading and increasing know– consumers discuss their personal finances, with a ledge about personal finance, credit and debt, we also have the opportunity to contribute to UN Sustainability Goal 4: Quality education for all. Client Satisfaction Index Focus ahead 73 • Extend the screening of new clients with regard 2019 to social criteria, such as data protection. Based on an indepen73 2018 • Develop and formalise principles for our ethical dent survey among our clients. We achieved 71 approach to customers. 73/100 for the year. 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 23 Torben Friis Serritzlev works as a Key Account Manager at Intrum’s office in Denmark, where he is responsible for some of the company’s largest local clients, including SATS, the Nordic region’s leading fitness chain. “Access to cash flow is essential for all businesses” What do the market’s credit management needs How does Intrum generate value for clients? look like? “We have the people and solutions needed for a “To develop, all businesses need stable cash flow, smooth credit management process. Our employalthough, in reality, their conditions often vary. ees do a fantastic job for the customers. In addiMany of our clients struggle with the administration, intelligent products and services are in place, tion of outstanding credits where their customers’ supporting the needs of all parties. Something else payment capacity has been affected by various our clients value is our long-term approach to our causes. This is where Intrum comes in – as a link work. The collaboration with SATS, which began between companies and individuals who have back in 2008, is a telling example. Since then been unable to pay in time. We offer the tools and we have, as a strategic partner, helped gradually processes needed for companies to secure paydevelop the credit management process, with the ment for their goods and services, and to help indiambition of optimising value creation for SATS and viduals free themselves of debt.” its customers alike.” What is the most common reason for companies to What are the products and services needed for an contact Intrum? effective credit management process? “The most common reason of all is resources need “Our systems consist of digital platforms that to be freed up to be able to focus on the core operstreamline the entire workflow by increasingly autoations, and to find ways to facilitate increased mating processes. These systems are also often growth. Small businesses in particular may not integrated into our clients’ customer management have the resources and capacity needed to handle systems, meaning we can quickly and easily assist outstanding loans. Although the reasons vary, they our clients’ customers without delay, reinstating, share in common that we help strengthen compafor example, access to a service when a debt has nies’ cash flow and liquidity – which is prerequisite been settled. In this way, we function as our clients’ for growth, development and long-term survival.” extended arm. The credit management process is part of the customer journey and we are happy to also be able to support our clients in this regard.” Interesting facts1 • Having declined steadily since 2016, credit losses among What makes the job as Key Account Manager at companies, rose from 1.69 percent in 2018 to 2.31 percent Intrum most meaningful for you? in 2019. “That would be helping our clients strengthen their • More than a fifth of the companies believe they could recruit profitability and create conditions for development more if they received payment on time. and growth with the right mix of products and ser• Half of the companies believe that their home countries will be cashless within ten years. vices. And we do all of this while helping vulnerable 1) European Payment Report 2019 – a survey of 11,856 European companies people find their way back to a sound economy.” 24 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 “We work as a strategic partner, helping companies free up resources so that they can focus on their core operations.” Torben Friis Serritzlev and Jakob Hansen. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 25 Our employees’ skills, motivation and drive determine our opportunities to generate value for our stakeholders. As an employer, we seek to offer opportunities to grow by making a difference. Our employees Together we generate value for people, companies and society 34 Working at Intrum means becoming part of our our size and position as a company provide favourpurpose as a company – to lead the way towards a able opportunities to specialise, advance or rotate sound economy for people, companies and sociinto new roles, or even to test one’s wings in a new ety. We believe this conveys a deeper sense of country. Our position in the market also affords The number of difmeaning in the work we perform, a chance for pereach employee an opportunity to join us on our ferent languages we sonal development in addition to the opportunities broader journey as a corporate citizen, as well as speak and in which we for professional development that we are able to being involved in the advancement of the credit are able to serve our customers and clients. offer as an international company. management industry. In addition, we are able to offer a corporate culture and value base that supAn eventful year port our day-to-day efforts. Our values are conOur objective is to be the most attractive employer ceived by our employees, they are inclusive and in our sector. During the year, we involved our take each individual into account while also posing employees in the development of Intrum’s Groupchallenges and rewarding each effort made. wide employer brand and this resulted in four To support our managers in their role as ambasareas that, combined, describe who we are and sadors for the company’s values, we elaborated who want to be for our employees. Besides offernew leadership principles during the year. These ing an opportunity to grow by making a difference, are tied to our core values and are designed to guide our managers in their daily work – Trust, Clarity, Change and Growth. These principles Sustainability targets and activities in 2019 address how we build trust and achieve clarity Material sustainability issues internally and externally, how we lead change in a Strategic dynamic world and how we facilitate our employ• A ttract and retain talented individuals, sustainability area: including employee well-being ees’ personal development. With the acquisition, Growing by • Diversity and inclusion during the year, of Piraeus Bank’s unit for overdue making a receivables, through which about a thousand new difference Activities in 2019 • Development of leadership principles employees joined the Group, some 200 managers connected to our values participated in training programme focusing spe• Implementation of a central HR system cifically on these management principles. Our journey of growth in recent years has also Targets for 2020 increased our focus on harmonising processes Reduce the turnover initiated by employand methods within the Group and one of our ees from 18 % to 15 percent by 2020. Human Resources (HR) function’s largest projects UN’s Sustainable Development Goals in 2019 involved implementing a new Group-wide (SDG) HR system. The system encompasses all employWe value being responsive to the needs of ees globally, providing a robust tool, enabling the our employees and we strive to provide a good working environment pervaded by harmonisation of all central HR processes, associequality, inclusion and respect. ated with recruitment and skills development, for 26 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our values help us take the lead Thousands of our employees have together helped formulate the values we share as a company – Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and Solutions. These values guide us in all that we do, from how we work with our clients to how we respond to our customers. Empathy Ethics Dedication Solutions Our day-to-day operations Our ethical standards and Our committed employWhat makes us stand out in entail generating value for expectations extend beyond ees are one of our greatthe market is our capacity to people, companies and socithe requirements of the law. est strengths. By trying to identify and develop the best ety. Each situation is unique We behave as role models improve a little every day, solutions and to create winand has its own financial and and consider it our responwe bring out the best in one win situations for our clients social impact. We strive to sibility, and an opportuanother. We grow as individuand their customers. By being meet people on their own nity, to set new standards to als and as a team to shape our innovative and efficient, we terms and to treat others change people’s view of the company’s future, thereby exceed expectations and with dignity and respect. This credit management sector. providing added value for our assume a role as a knowledge applies to all – our clients, This entails treating our cliclients and their customers. leader in our sector. customers and colleagues. ents’ customers with considOur industry is changing conThis approach allows us to eration and respect under all stantly, we are always movWe focus on results, not find meaning and value in circumstances and cooperating forward and never cease problems. what we do and to achieve ing with companies and cusdeveloping. our shared vision. tomers who share our values. We collaborate to provide To achieve this, we behave our clients and customers We share knowledge across with innovative solutions. We listen actively and seek to fairly and honestly in everyborders. understand. thing we do. We value quality and We are committed to, and professionalism. We keep an open mind and responsible for, our own are flexible. We focus on society and susdevelopment. tainable enterprise. We show patience and offer We go that little bit further support. We take responsibility for our and never give up. actions. We do the right thing – living and acting according to our values ​​and our Code of Conduct. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 27 Our values are conceived by our employees, they are inclusive and take each individual into account while also posing challenges and rewarding each effort made. Engagement Index 76 2019 74 2018 76 2017 example. With its interactive features and accessithe acquisition began earlier but was completed bility through multiple digital devices, the tool simduring the year. plifies the practical efforts of both managers and Our HR Policy provides a framework for how HR employees. work within the Group should be conducted, and Issues of skills supply and succession planguides managers at all levels in their day-to-day ning were also high on the agenda during the year. efforts. We also have a Remuneration Policy and Credit management services is a complex area, various other regulations on the management of and local support for the different country organispecific HR areas, including recruitment. sations, safeguarding appropriate skills and capacity, plays an important role. This will remain a key The importance of engaged employees issue for the HR function in further strengthening To ascertain our employees’ well-being and Intrum’s position. engagement, we conduct My Voice, an annual comprehensive employee survey. In the most Clear framework for HR work recent survey, conducted in the spring of 2019, Group-wide HR work is headed by our global the response rate was 84 percent, which was Chief Human Resources Officer. Local HR funcslightly higher than in the preceding year (82 pertions play a key role in managing our local employcent). The engagement index rose to 76 (74). This ees and support the business operations in the index measures energy and motivation combined different countries by providing the necessary HR with employees’ perception of clarity and tarprocesses, policies, tools and support and by aidgets in their daily work. The survey shows engageing their implementation. ment among both employees and managers to Naturally, we comply with local employment have risen, although there are local variations in the legislation and regulations in all countries. Intrum results. respects the right to collective bargaining, as well Several initiatives were taken during the year as our employees’ rights to form and join the trade that, combined, helped strengthen the commitassociations of their choosing in accordance with ment of our employees. national labour laws. When restructuring, our In addition to My Voice, several smaller local objective is always to offer favourable solutions pulse surveys are conducted each year to monitor in dialogue with both individual employees and development and facilitate local measures based the trade unions. As part of the Group-wide effion needs. ciency improvement programme announced in the autumn of 2019, which seeks, among other things, Skills development for the future to generate synergies within the Group, negotiaLike all companies, we are dependent on our tions with the trade unions commenced during the employees’ skills and experience in building our year in certain markets. In Spain, these negotiacompetitiveness. The duties of about 6,000 of our tions involved the integration of the property manapproximately 10,000 employees involve speakagement company Solvia Servicios Immobiliarios, ing with our customers over the phone – a job 28 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our employees: requiring both specialist knowledge of local laws Increased diversity strengthens us and regulations, as well as empathic skills. InteractWith operations in 25 countries and with employing with people in vulnerable situations demands ees speaking 34 languages, we are proud to be a capacity for listening to and relating to peoa multicultural company. We are certain that ple’s circumstances. It is also important to be soluincreased diversity increases our competitiveness, tions-oriented – to find good new approaches that making us collectively more responsive to our cliare sustainable, both for the individual, as well as ents and customers’ needs. for the company that has yet to be paid. An analytAs an employer, we do our utmost to treat all ical capacity and technical skills are also essential employees with respect and to afford equal develin making use of the different digital tools we apply. opment opportunities to all. To highlight this issue It is crucial that our employees be afforded sufat the management level, diversity and inclusion ficient resources, knowledge and opportunities have been an integral part of our management to perform their duties, and we work continuously principles since 2019. Although 62 percent of the to ensure that we meet the needs of each individcompany’s employees are women, the proportion ual in the regard. Each employee shall attend an is lower among senior roles and this is something annual development talk at which plans are comwe are working to change. piled for the employee’s professional and personal During the year, training was also provided on development in consultation with his/her immethe social work environment, which included diate managers. At the same time, our own urge to issues of workload and harassment. The purpose is develop is important in today’s rapidly changing to discuss work environment issues at the manageworld. All of our employees have access to a digital ment level and to communicate what sort of workdevelopment platform supporting this self-teachplace we seek to be. As an initial step, managers ing culture, through which they are also encourat headquarters received this training and, lookaged to book brief, regular meetings with their ing ahead, it will reach additional managers in the managers. The platform is part of our new HR sysoperations. tem and includes training both online and in real Preventive efforts in diversity and inclusion are life, for which employees can register voluntarily. guided by our HR Policy and Code of Conduct that To attract talented individuals and develop them together provide the basis on which all employees within the company, we foster internal mobilshall enjoy their fundamental freedoms and rights ity and work actively to illuminate internal career as individuals. Incidents associated with discrimipaths. For graduates, our “Next Generation Pronation or harassment in the workplace can always gramme” plays an important role in developing be reported through our whistle-blower channel future leaders and analysts within the company. and are then handled by the heads of compliance, The purpose is also to strengthen our employer HR and the Internal Audit. brand and to attract and develop future leaders. In 2019, eight new participants were inducted into Focus ahead the programme, all with different backgrounds • Efforts to further increase diversity and inclusion from our European markets. Over a 12-month are continuing. period, participants have opportunities to work in • Activities for increased engagement. different parts of our operations and to build net• Internal launch of leadership principles. works and develop. The programme also offers participants the opportunity to spend two months working in another of our markets. With operations in 25 countries and with employees speaking 34 languages, we are proud to be a multicultural company. It is our conviction that increased diversity makes us more competitive. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 29 With more than five years’ experience working in customer support in Intrum’s UK operations, Lietta Pennucci, Customer Operations Manager, knows what she is talking about. ”You have to be a good listener” What is the typical customer like that you How do you prepare to encounter these people, encounter in your day-to-day work? whose whole lives may have been turned upside“I would probably say someone encountering down? unforeseen financial difficulties. They are often “Everyone starting here receives introductory people who have lost their jobs, had a relationship training. You learn how to listen to people in vulfall apart or suffered serious illness. Serious diffinerable situations and how to respond to them. culties can affect us all in life. Our task is to help Empathy and a capacity to see the way forward these people rid themselves of debt and find their for each individual are crucial. In the initial conway back to sound finances.” tact with a new customer, you never know who you have at the other end of the line. Naturally, the What help does Intrum offer and how does this training also includes learning about what laws and work practically? regulations apply, as well as what systems we use.” “The first thing we do is work out a payment plan that is sustainable over time and that takes into account Do you ever find yourself personally involved in the customer’s capacity to pay. If the situation so the customer’s situation? demands, we can adjust or even pause a payment “Of course we do, even though we never meet plan. This can mean a great deal to someone who them in person. At the end of the day, they are may be seriously ill and has no savings at all. Besides people. And we have been in contact with some setting up payment plans, we advise on where to find customers for a long time. You think about the other help. This may include providing contact details most vulnerable people in particular and hope that of charities providing free counselling and support for it all turns out well for them. At the same time, it is people in financial difficulties.” our job to handle these situations professionally.” What gives you most pride in your work? Interesting facts “Being able to help so many people. Many of those • According to our European Consumer Payment Report we encounter are desperate and can see no way 20191, nearly half (45 percent) of European consumers state that their bills are increasing faster than their income. out at first. Our ability to show them the way and • Intrum’s call centre in the UK helps nearly 1,000 customers help them rid themselves of debt makes me proud. every day. It’s rewarding to see that it works. Also, in our focus • For the sixth consecutive year, our UK operations were groups, where we invite customers to participate awarded the gold standard in the independent customer in a dialogue and give us feedback, many have also experience assessment conducted by Investor in Customers express their gratitude. People feel that we make a (IIC). Intrum is the first IIC customer ever to have achieved gold in its first assessment and has maintained the maximum difference for them.” rating for six consecutive years. 1) Survey conducted among 24,000 consumers in Europe. 30 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 “Our most important task is to see the person behind the debt and to work out sustainable payment plans.” Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 31 Our vision is to be trusted and respected by everyone who provides and receives credit. We strive on a daily basis to approach our vision, and do so by assuming responsibility for how we interact with our clients and customers. Our market-leading position affords us substantial opportunities to drive the credit management industry in a more sustainable direction. Our social contribution Our contribution to a sustainable credit market When credit is offered and used responsibly, the collection procedures. During the year, we parcredit market is a strong financial asset for comticipated, on-site in Brussels, in efforts to analyse, panies, individuals and society in general. We play comment on and communicate aspects of the proan important role in the financial system by ensurposal. In addition to the Commission’s working ing that money flows securely between lenders group on the NPL Directive, we met with a number and borrowers. With services that generate growth of representatives of the European Parliament and while helping people become debt-free, we build representatives of the Member States in the Counvalue for individuals, companies and society. cil of Europe. Alongside this, we also participated Both nationally and internationally, we are in consultations ahead of the EU’s revision of the engaged in dialogues with legislators, authorexisting Consumer Credit Directive. ities and sector organisations. Several regulaWork is also in progress in the area of data protory changes have had an impact on the sector in tection aimed at strengthening consumer protecrecent years, with the EU’s Non-Performing Loans tion. As a member of sector association FENCA Directive (NPL) being an example of regulations (Federation of European National Collection Assothat will have a major impact throughout the secciations), we have been involved in developing tor if introduced. The directive aims to improve a GDPR Code of Conduct to be certified by the the conditions for banks to manage NPL efficiently European Data Protection Board. The purpose of while also reducing the risk of such loans accumuthe GDPR Code is to establish shared practices in lating in the future. The contents of the directive the sector on how data protection requirements include requirements for more consumer-friendly are to be interpreted in relation to the large amount Sustainability targets and activities in 2019 Material sustainability issues Targets for 2030 Strategic To achieve climate neutrality at the latest by 2030 and to • Anti-corruption sustainability reduce our total greenhouse gas emissions by at least area: • Reduced environmental impact 20 percent compared with 2019. Be a respected • Responsible value chain and partnerships and highly • Data security and privacy UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) trusted actor We observe zero tolerance of corruption and brib• R elations with decision makers and organisations ery and work to counteract all forms of illegal behaviour within the framework of our operations. Activities in 2019 Thereby, we help combat corruption. • During 2019, 2,368 employees attended our training in counteracting money laundering. • Environmental plans were formulated locally in all countries to minimise our impact on the climate. 32 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We consider participating actively in the debate on current issues in the sector and helping develop new credit management regulations as one of our most important tasks as a good corporate citizen. of personal data that collection agencies need to Our commitment under the Global Compact handle on a regular basis. represents an important part of our Code of ConWe consider participating actively in the debate on duct, which summarises the Group’s ethical guidecurrent issues in the sector and helping develop new lines and encompasses all of our employees and credit management regulations as one of our most others representing the Company, including supimportant tasks as a good corporate citizen. In this pliers and partners. To support the implementaway, we are driving the future development of our tion and follow-up of the Code of Conduct among industry in a sustainable direction. With our extenour employees, during the year, we developed a sive experience and knowledge of credit managetailor-made digital education package, specifically ment, we are also happy to share our expertise. Each adapted to operations like ours. The training packyear we produce two reports on European consumage includes scenarios with examples of actual ers (European Consumer Payment Report) and comethical dilemmas taken directly from our operpanies’ views on payments and credit management ations. The launch took place in early 2020, and (European Payment Report). For several years, we the target is for all of our employees to have comhave regularly presented these reports to the instipleted the training before the end of the year. tutions of the EU, which have, in turn, referred to the In 2019, a game based on our values was also reports in, for example, the Late Payments Directive. launched in our employees’ local languages. The game includes dilemmas associated with our valOur commitment for sustainable operations ues and seeks to direct increased focus on ethiInternally, we focus on developing sustainable cal issues, among other things. It encourages active business practices that generate value for our dialogue among employees on desired behaviours, stakeholders. In addition to procedures for comand communicates clearly where employees can pliance with laws and regulations, we connect our turn for support in making decisions. assessment and management of risks and opporBeyond strengthening the implementation of our tunities to our material sustainability issues. Impleethical guidelines among our employees, we have menting policies and instructions that guide our gradually increased the requirements we impose on employees with regard to our ethical stance repsuppliers. Today, our largest suppliers are required resents an important part of these efforts. to sign our Code of Conduct and to adhere to it Our core values (read more on page 27) gives us as part of their supplier agreement with Intrum. To a stable and secure foundation on which to stand ensure good control, risk management and regulaon in our work with sustainability. We have also tory compliance, we reserve the right to conduct signed the UN Global Compact, thereby underreviews and audits of our suppliers’ operations. taking to implement its ten principles regarding Alongside the Code of Conduct, there are also human rights, labor, anti-corruption and the envia large number of other policies and instrucronment throughout our operations. This work is tions providing guidance on specific sustainongoing on a daily basis and involves many key ability issues, such as data protection and functions in the Group. anti-corruption. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 33 Our social contribution For a complete presentation of our sustainability materiality analysis and preliminary work on the Given the large governance, see page 103. sustainability strategy on its agenda. amounts of data on customers Internal sustainability work Data security a priority and clients that Our prioritsed sustainability issues have been Given the large amounts of data on customers and we handle, data defined in collaboration with Intrum’s stakeholdclients that we handle, data security and data mansecurity and data ers. To reinforce our capacity to focus optimally agement represent one of our most important susmanagement on sustainability work, this dialogue continued tainability issues. We have both a legal and an represent one of in 2019, involving shareholders in particular. As a ethical responsibility to handle sensitive data in a our most importresult of the dialogue, certain adjustments were manner guaranteeing respect for personal privacy, ant sustainability made in our materiality analysis, in which we conand paying due consideration to the human right of issues. ducted interviews with Intrum’s largest shareholdfreedom from arbitrary interference with privacy. ers, corresponding to approximately 60 percent of Incorrect use of sensitive details or loss of data, the total shareholdings in the Company (read more could cause great harm to the individuals affected, on page 103-104). as well as to clients and to us as a company. Our various functions each play an important The fundamental principle is that we only prorole in our sustainability work, which is ultimately cess personal data for which we have legal led by the Board of Directors and Group Managegrounds to do so and that are necessary for our ment. To simplify coordination and integration and operations. For legal reasons, we are required to to strengthen the governance of the sustainabilprovide certain personal data to authorities to preity work in the Group as a whole, an internal Susvent and monitor suspected cases of money launtainability Integration Committee was also formed, dering and other criminal activities. Our Privacy with representatives from our Credit Management and Data Protection Instructions guide our operServices and Portfolio Investments business areas, ations and serve to ensure that personal data is as well as from HR, Risk, Compliance, Finance, and handled correctly. These are adapted to our operCommunications and two of our country managational activities and all operating Group comers. The group met first in the autumn of 2019, with panies have appointed data protection officers 34 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our social contribution who assure and regularly monitor our GDPR money laundering and terrorist financing and on compliance. the sanctions to be implemented summarise how Whenever changes are implemented in our operwe work to prevent Intrum’s operations from being ations (for example, changes in systems support) used illegally. and whenever changes are made to our services and product offerings, these must be assessed in We care about our climate and the environment terms of their bearing on data protection. In the The climate issue is one of the greatest challenges area of GDPR, systems support and other aspects of our time and is an issue affecting individuals, are under rapid development, while demands from companies and society in general. As an internapublic authorities for more detailed documentational company, seeking to minimise our negation are also increasing. Assessing and managing tive climate footprint is a matter of course. Intrum’s such changes in the operations is a key component principal source of emissions derives from energy in the work of our regulatory compliance function. consumption at our offices, followed by business travel. A smaller proportion of CO2e emissions also Anti-corruption and transparency derives from transport using company cars. As a player in 25 markets, we are, like other compaIn 2019, our emissions decreased from 8,454 nies, exposed to corruption risks. to 6,808 tCO2e. The Group’s work to mitigate its For us, applying zero tolerance of corruption is environmental and climate impact is regulated by a matter of course, and our Code of Conduct and our environmental instructions and Code of Coninstructions against bribery and corruption guide duct. Each of the Group’s local operations has also our employees and others representing the Comformulated a plan of action to reduce its environpany in how we should act to manage this risk. To mental impact. This involves measures including ensure that we cooperate only with companies reducing travel and conducting meetings online, as sharing our values on good business ethics, we regwell as improving energy efficiency in our offices, ularly review clients and suppliers alike. for example. The compliance function has received a number of inquiries from the operations regarding, for Incident management example, planned corporate events and customer Despite active sustainability efforts, we are aware representation where the application of the reguthat incidents adversely affecting us or the external lations is relevant. community can occur. We are committed to ensurIn addition to corruption, players in the finaning that all employees and others feel secure in cial and credit markets also run the risk of being reporting incidents that violate our ethical guideexploited for money laundering, which has lines, and we urge them to report suspected regubecome a growing problem in society. In 2016, latory violations either to their immediate manager we implemented “Know Your Client” processes or someone else in a position of responsibility or that have also now been implemented in the units to use our whistle-blower function – the Code of acquired from Lindorff in 2017, meaning that cliConduct Hotline. This is provided by an indepenents are reviewed both before and during our coldent external supplier and is available around the laboration with them. Suspicious transactions are clock via the Internet or by phone in the national reported regularly to the relevant financial authorlanguage of all countries in which we operate. It ity. The Group’s instructions on counteracting is of course possible for a whistle-blower submitting a report in this way to remain anonymous. Reported incidents are addressed confidentially Our climate footprint, CO2e1 emissions by our ethics council, which evaluates incoming cases and takes the necessary measures. In 2019, two incidents were reported via the whisScope 1 pertains to tle-blower function prompting further investigaemissions from cars that tion and measures. Although these incidents we own. were not in violation of the law, they were found to Scope 2 pertains to emissions from energy be in contradiction of our Code of Conduct and consumption at our offices involved an investigation of harassment and the and includes consumption handling of conflicts of interest. of electricity, heat and cooling. Focus ahead Scope 3 pertains to emissions from business • Annual risk assessment of regulatory compliance S  cope 1, 174 tonnes (3%) travel, including by air risks. Scope 2, 1,815 tonnes (27%) and rail. Scope 3, 4,819 tonnes (71%) • Risk-based training initiatives in, for example, 1) GWP 100 (IPCC 2014). anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation. 2) Location-based. More informaTotal tCO2e emissions: 6,8082 tion is available on page 107. • Reduced climate footprint. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 35 As Chief Compliance Officer, Lina Rollby Claesson is developing Intrum’s compliance work. ”We want to lead the development of a sustainable credit market” What is Intrum’s most important task as a which is good. Several countries have also begun corporate citizen? to implement the new regulations, pertaining to “Daring to place the consumer foremost, workthe collection segment, designed to counteract ing actively to help people get out of debt quickly money laundering.” and easily. The boundary between collection and debt counselling is becoming blurred. It is equally What is your most important task as Compliance important for companies to actually get paid for Officer? the goods and services they sell. Effective collec“Ensuring that our employees understand the regtion processes are needed for the credit market to ulations applicable to our operations and that they function and to be able to contribute to society’s are able to apply them in everyday life. To streamline expanding economy. We play an important functhese efforts, we have built up a network of local tion here in ensuring that this is achieved in an ethiCompliance Officers, all applying the same riskcal and balanced way.” based methods, which has contributed to a more proactive dialogue internally. This also applies to How mature is the credit management segment? our dialogues with authorities and investors, which “Traditionally, the segment has had a somewhat is also important in being able to contribute to the dubious reputation in some countries, although general development of regulatory compliance.” the trend is now favourable. Several new regulations have been introduced in recent years, helpHow do you know whether employees really ing strengthen the maturity of the sector, including understand where the ethical boundaries lie? the new NPL Directive that introduces licensing “Information and training are fundamental, but to get requirements, management testing and other geneveryone on board, you have to work with these issues eral requirements in the area of collection. Another practically. For reasons including building commitexample is GDPR. People are now becoming ment, when developing our new course on the Code aware of their rights in the field of data protection, of Conduct, we solicited examples of real ethical dilemmas from the local operations. The other side of the coin involves monitoring and review, and maintainInteresting facts ing good procedures for reporting violations.” • As a member of sector organisation FENCA’s Legal Affairs Committee, Lina has been involved in developing a new What is in focus for the future? GDPR Code of Conduct that is to be certified by the Euro“The launch of our new course on the Code and pean Data Protection Board. Conduct in early 2020 represents an important • Lina is also involved in lobbying regarding the EU’s proposal milestone. Other issues on my desk, looking ahead, for a Non-Performing Loans Directive and for an active dialogue with the EU institutions on its contents. The directive are GDPR, where the systems-support and docuaims to strengthen the requirements imposed on the players mentation requirements are becoming increasingly in the credit management segment. detailed, as well as the money laundering regulations • In 2019, 2,368 employees participated in our anti-money that are increasingly mandatory. Also essential is a laundering training. The course forms part of our work to strengthen compliance within the Group and to increase continued dialogue with consumers, clients and repour employees’ understanding of our material sustainability resentatives at the EU level, on the mission and funcissues. tion of the credit management segment in society.” 36 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 “It’s a matter of building trust in our operations.” Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 37 The share The share Intrum’s shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange since June 2002. Since January 2014, the shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list of companies with a market capitalisation of more than EUR 1 billion. Share capital Shares traded On 31 December 2019, Intrum AB’s (publ) share capital Index Number of shares amounted to SEK 2,899,805,490,910 distributed between 400 100,000 131,541,320 outstanding shares, of which 600,000 were treasury shares. Each share entitles the holder to one vote and an equal share in the Company’s assets and earnings. 300 75,000 Market capitalisation, price trend and turnover In 2019 the price of Intrum’s share rose from SEK 205.7 to SEK 200 50,000 279.4, an increase of 35.8 percent, adjusted for a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share. During the same period the Stockholm 100 25,000 Stock Exchange’s index (OMXS) rose by 29.6 percent. The lowest price paid for the share during the year was SEK 204.9 on 3 January, and the highest was SEK 289.0 on 19 January. 0 0 The price at the end of the year gave a market capitalisation Intrum OMX Stockholm for Intrum of SEK M 36,753 M (27,058). Share trades were conNumber of shares traded on Nasdaq Stockholm cluded on every business day of the year. An average 299,285 shares were traded per day (420,599) on the Nasdaq StockShare repurchase holm Exchange. A total of 75,521,981 shares were traded Between 2013 and 2015, the Company repurchased shares, during the year. Trading also took place on other exchanges, but in 2016 and 2017 there were no repurchases. In 2018, such as Chi-X and Turquoise, as well as through “dark pools” 250,000 shares were repurchased and 350,000 shares were and other OTC trading. repurchased in 2019, constituting treasury shares at the end of the year. Shareholders At the end of 2019 Intrum had 22,413 shareholders, compared Dividend policy to 20,744 the year before. The 11 members of Group ManIntrum’s Board of Directors also aims to annually propose agement had a combined holding in Intrum of 416,958 shares a dividend or its equivalent to shareholders that over time and Intrum's Board members held a combined total of 75,800 averages at least half of the net earnings for the year after tax. shares. Decisions relating to dividend proposals take into account the Company’s future revenues, financial position, capital Shareholder communications requirements and the situation in general. For the 2019 financial Intrum places considerable focus on investors and meets year the Board is proposing a dividend of SEK 11.00 per share. them and other market participants regularly to increase The proposed record date for the dividend is 8 May 2020. interest in the Company and the understanding of it. 38 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The share Data per share 2019 2018 20171 2016 2015 Earnings before and after dilution, SEK –2.76 14.18 14.62 20.15 15.92 Operating cash flow, SEK 48.77 46.84 – 46.64 39.74 Shareholders’ equity before and after dilution, SEK 168.12 180.26 170.59 55.88 42.66 Dividend/proposed dividend, SEK 11.0 9.50 9.50 9.00 8.25 Dividend payout, % n/a 67 65 45 51 Share price, SEK 279.4 205.70 303.30 307.40 288.60 Yield, % 3.9 4.6 3.1 2.9 2.9 Price/sales multiple 2.3 2.0 3.3 3.7 3.7 Price/earnings multiple n/a 13.90 20.75 15.25 18.12 Number of shares at end of year 130,941,320 131,291,320 131,541,320 72,347,726 72,347,726 Average number of shares before and after dilution 131,065,781 131,390,632 102,674,307 72,347,726 73,096,665 1) Data for 2017 are based on pro forma reporting for the combined Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. Ownership structure as of 31 December 2019 Shareholdings by country Total no. of shares 130,941,320 No. of shares Equity, % Country No. of shares1 Equity, % Nordic Capital 57,728,956 43.9 Sweden 91,719,885 69.7 Sampo Oyj 6,877,968 5.2 USA 12,151,268 9.2 Handelsbanken Fonder 6,452,532 4.9 Finland 8,333,763 6.3 NN Investment Partners 6,438,582 4.9 Netherlands 7,412,112 5.6 Vanguard 2,664,911 2.0 Norway 4,739,680 3.6 AMF Försäkring & Fonder 2,588,940 2.0 France 2,287,696 1.7 Lannebo Fonder 2,551,760 1.9 UK 1,840 759 1.4 Odin Fonder 2,309,398 1.8 Belgium 1,533,238 1.2 TIAA – Teachers Advisors 2,163,671 1.6 Denmark 904,480 0.7 AFA Försäkring 2,057,821 1.6 Luxembourg 814,576 0.6 Total, ten largest 91,834,539 70.8 Others 1,861,053 1.4 shareholders 1) Distribution of ownership by country has not been possible to identify of 2,057,190 shares and has thus not been deducted from the table. Changes in share capital Transaction Change in share capital Total share capital Total number of shares Par value per share 2001 Founding of the Company 100,000 100,000 1,000 100 2001 Split 5000:1 0 100,000 5,000,000 0.02 2001 New share issue1 778,729.4 878,729.4 43,936,470 0.02 2002 New share issue2 208,216.72 1,086,946.12 54,347,306 0.02 2002 New share issue3 612,765.96 1,699,712.08 84,985,604 0.02 2005 Redemption4 –140,587.06 1,559,125.02 77,956,251 0.02 2007 Exercise of employee stock options5 22,672 1,581,797.02 79,089,851 0.02 2008 Exercise of employee stock options6 10,046.40 1,591,843.42 79,592,171 0.02 2009 Exercise of employee stock options7 8,049.60 1,599,893.02 79,994,651 0.02 2011 Reduction of share capital8 –5,000 1,594,893.02 79,774,651 0.02 2014 Cancellation of treasury shares9 0 1,594,893.02 77,360,944 0.02 2015 Cancellation of treasury shares10 0 1,594,893.02 73,421,328 0.022 2016 Cancellation of treasury shares11 0 1,594,893.02 72,347,726 0.022 2017 New share issue12 1,304,912.48 2,899,405.49 131,541,320 0.022 1) Directed to Industri Kapital 1997 Fund and Synergy at a subscription price of SEK 0.02 per share as 7) During the period 1 January – 31 December, 2009 Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased from SEK part of the legal restructuring of the Intrum Justitia Group. 1,591,843.42 to SEK 1,599,893.02, corresponding to 402,480 new shares and the same number of votes, as new shares were subscribed for through the exercise of employee options. 2) 1 ,402,228 shares each to Industri Kapital 1997 Fund and Synergy at a subscription price of SEK 4.432 per share, and 3,803,190 shares each to Industri Kapital 1997 Fund and Synergy at a subscription price 8) The Company’s own holding of 250,000 shares was cancelled in 2011. of SEK 0.02 per share. 9) The Company’s share capital was reduced by SEK 47,674.14 through the cancellation of 2,383,707 3) 30,638,298 shares to the public and institutional investors at a subscription price of SEK 47 per share. treasury shares, while the share capital was increased through a bonus issue for the corresponding amount without any new shares being issued. Following cancellations, the Company has a total of 4) Redemption of 7,029,353 shares for a cash payment of SEK 84 per share. The procedure involved the 77,360,944 shares outstanding, representing the same number of votes. distribution of a total of SEK 590,325,064.94 to the Company’s shareholders, whereby the Company’s share capital was reduced by SEK 140,587.06, while the share premium reserve was reduced by 10) T  he Company’s share capital was reduced by SEK 81,220.13 through the cancellation of 3,939,616 SEK 590,325,064.94. treasury shares, while the share capital was increased through a bonus issue for the corresponding amount without any new shares being issued. Following cancellations, the Company has a total of 5) D uring the period 1 July – 31 December, 2007 Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased from SEK 73,421,328 shares outstanding, representing the same number of votes. 1,559,152.02 to SEK 1,581,797.02, corresponding to 1,133,600 new shares and the same number of votes, as new shares were subscribed for through the exercise of employee options. 11) T  he Company’s share capital was reduced by SEK 23,322 through the cancellation of 1,073,602 treasury shares. In addition, share capital was increased through a bonus issue of the same amount with6) During the period 1 January – 31 December, 2008 Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased from SEK out any new shares being issued. Following cancellations, the Company has a total of 72,347,726 1,581,797.02 to SEK 1,591,843.42, corresponding to 502,320 new shares and the same number of shares outstanding, representing the same number of votes. votes, as new shares were subscribed for through the exercise of employee options. 12) The Company’s share capital increased by SEK 1,304,912.43 through a new share issue (non-cash issue) of 59,193,594 new shares to Lindorff’s shareholders. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 39 Five-year summary Five-year summary Income statement SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net revenues 15,985 13,442 9,434 5,869 5,419 Cost of goods and services sold –9,807 –7,369 –5,049 –3,069 –2,957 Gross earnings 6,178 6,073 4,385 2,800 2,462 Sales, marketing and administration expenses –2,597 –2,201 –1,667 –871 –881 Disposal of operations/Goodwill impairment –2,700 – – – – Reversal of liability for additional purchase – – – – consideration Participations in associated companies and joint 1,179 106 10 –8 –4 ventures Operating earnings (EBIT) 2,060 3,978 2,728 1,921 1,577 Net financial items –1,921 –1,363 –973 –165 –160 Profit before tax 139 2,615 1,755 1,756 1,417 Taxes –424 –599 –389 –329 –273 Net earnings for the year from continuing operations –285 2,016 1,366 1,427 1,144 Net earnings for the year from discontinued operations 0 –73 137 41 28 Net earnings for the year –285 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 Of which, attributable to the Parent Company’s –362 1,936 1,501 1,458 1,164 shareholders Non-controlling interests 77 7 2 10 8 Net earnings for the year –285 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 Balance sheet SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Assets Total fixed assets 77,869 67,904 54,815 12,304 10,294 of which, portfolio investments 28,508 24,830 21,149 8,733 7,027 Total current assets 8,267 8,129 4,646 2,100 1,851 Assets in operations held for sale 0 0 8,314 0 0 Total assets 86,136 76,033 67,775 14,404 12,145 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Total shareholders’ equity 24,893 25,672 22,439 4,130 3,166 Total liabilities 61,243 50,361 44,168 10,274 8,979 Liabilities in operations held for sale 0 0 1,168 0 0 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 86,136 76,033 67,775 14,404 12,145 In accordance with the rules in IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, discontinued operations are reported in the income statement as discontinued throughout the five-year period by recalculating comparative figures for previous years, while in the balance sheet, they are reported as assets and liabilities in operations held for sale from the date on which the decision was taken to make the divestment, without recalculating the comparative figures. 40 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Five-year summary Key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net revenues, SEK M 15,985 13,442 9,434 5,869 5,419 Revenue growth, % 19 42 61 8 9 Cash EBITDA, SEK M 7,489 8,732 5,953 3,668 3,193 EBITDA, SEK M 6,344 4,878 3,165 2,090 1,736 EBIT, SEK M 2,060 3,978 2,728 1,921 1,577 Non-recurring items in EBIT, SEK M1 –4,176 –742 –397 10 –54 Items affecting comparability in EBIT, SEK M 0 132 0 0 0 Revaluations of portfolio investments, SEK M 28 88 –3 45 32 Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT), SEK M 6,208 4,500 3,128 1,866 1,599 Net earnings, SEK M –285 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 Net debt, SEK M 49,105 42,122 37,322 7,260 6,026 Earnings per share, SEK –2.76 14.18 14.62 20.15 15.92 Dividend/proposed dividend per share, SEK 11 9.50 9.50 9.00 8.25 Average number of shares, thousands 131,066 131,391 102,674 72,348 73,097 Number of shares at year-end, thousands 130,941 131,291 131,541 72,348 72,348 Return on portfolio investments, % 15 14 16 20 20 Portfolio investments, SEK M 7,324 11,854 7,170 3,084 2,271 Average number of employees 8,777 7,910 6,293 3,865 3,738 For definitions, see Note 37, page 98 and page 112. Net revenues, SEK M Cash EBITDA, SEK M EBIT, SEK M 15,985 7,489 2,060 2019 2019 2019 13,442 8,732 3,978 2018 2018 2018 9,434 5,953 2,728 2017 2017 2017 5,869 3,668 1,921 2016 2016 2016 5,419 3,193 1,577 2015 2015 2015 Dividend, SEK Portfolio investments, SEK M Average number of employees 11 7,324 8,777 2019 2019 2019 9.50 11,854 7,910 2018 2018 2018 9.50 7,170 6,293 2017 2017 2017 9.00 3,084 3,865 2016 2016 2016 8.25 2,271 3,738 2015 2015 2015 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 41 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Intrum’s corporate governance serves to strengthen the confidence of clients, society and the capital markets through a clear allocation of responsibilities and well-balanced rules between owners, the Board, Group Management Team and the different control functions. Intrum AB (publ) (“Intrum”) is a Swedish public company domiciled in Stockholm. The Company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Proposal Information Nomination Shareholders Auditors Committee Appointment at the Annual General Meeting Election Election Information Board of Directors Investment Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Targets Strategies Reports Steering instruments and Control Group Risk & Internal Compliance President and CEO Audit Group Management Risk & Investment Committee Credit management services Portfolio investments Strategic markets Group Brand & Group Group Group Group Group Communication Finance HR Legal IT Operations Internal rules External control instruments Corporate governance at Intrum Examples of external regulations affecting governance at Examples of internal regulations affecting governance at Intrum: Intrum: • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Accounting legislation and recommendations • Rules of procedure for the Board of Directors and its com• Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers mittees and Instructions to the CEO • Euronext Dublin Rule Books I and II • Internal rules and guidelines, such as the Code of Conduct, • Rulebook LuxSE Securities Official List (SOL) resolution and delegation procedures, anti-corruption policy, environmental policy, internal control policy, etc. • Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code • UN Global Compact 42 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report This corporate governance report has been prepared in to acquire and transfer treasury shares in accordance with accordance with the rules of the Annual Accounts Act and that programme the The Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) • to authorise the Board of Directors to repurchase (and, in order to describe how Intrum applied the Code during under certain conditions transfer) up to 10 percent of the 2019. Corporate governance at Intrum comprises structures Company’s treasury shares on Nasdaq Stockholm. and processes for management and control of the Company’s operations for the purpose of creating value for the ComAt the Annual General Meeting, 71 percent of the shares conpany’s owners and other stakeholders. veying voting rights were represented. All individuals proIntrum has applied the Code effective from 1 July 2005. posed for election or re-election as Board members were Intrum’s corporate governance also adheres to the applicable present. The Board of Directors was represented by a quorules in the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act, Nasrum at the Annual General Meeting. The CEO, auditor and daq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish Securities chairman of the Nomination Committee were present. Council’s resolutions, Intrum’s Articles of Association, as well The 2020 Annual General Meeting is scheduled for 6 May 2020. as laws, regulations and official guidelines and rules in counResolutions of the Annual General Meeting are published in tries where the Intrum Group operates (in some cases subject a press release following the Meeting, and the minutes of the to licensing). Meeting are published on the Company’s website. The Code is based on the principle of “comply or explain”, meaning that deviations from the Code are permitted if it Nomination Committee is possible to explain why the deviation occurred. During The task of the Nomination Committee, among others, is to the period to which the Annual Report pertains, Intrum has nominate Board members for election at the next Annual adhered to the Code in its entirety. The code is available at General Meeting. The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved www.bolagsstyrning.se (with new wording as of 1 January that the Chairman of the Board shall convene the five largest 2020), where the Swedish model of corporate governance is shareholders of the Company based on known voting power also described. at the end of August to appoint a member each to the NomiIntrum’s Articles of Association are available on nation Committee. www.intrum.com. The composition of the Nomination Committee ahead of the 2020 Annual General Meeting was announced on 9 OctoShareholders ber 2019: Robert Furuhjelm (appointed by (Nordic Capital) At the end of the year, Intrum’s largest shareholder, Cidron (chairman), Ricard Wennerklint1 (appointed by Sampo plc), 1748 Sarl (”Nordic Capital”, held approximately 43.9 perMats Gustafsson (appointed by Lannebo Fonder), Carl Cedcent of all shares outstanding in the Company. See also page erschiöld (appointed by Handelsbanken Fonder) and Tomas 38–39. Flodén (appointed by AMF and AMF Fonder). The Chairman of the Board serves as a co-opted member of the Nomination Annual General Meeting Committee. The Group’s legal counsel has served as the secThe Annual General Meeting is Intrum’s highest deciretary of the Nomination Committee. sion-making body at which the shareholders exercise their Besides nominating the Board members, the Chairman of right to make decisions regarding the Company’s affairs. Each the Board and the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, share corresponds to one vote. Shareholders are entitled to the duties of the Nomination Committee include evaluating have matters addressed at General Meetings, they are also the Board and its work, proposing a Chairman for the Annual entitled to ask questions regarding the Group’s operations at General Meeting, proposing compensation for the Board and the Annual General Meeting. its committees, and proposing candidates for auditors’ elecThe Annual General Meeting was held on 26 April 2019. tions and compensation for auditors. The Chairman of the Among other things, the Meeting resolved: Board has reported the results of the annual Board evalua• to adopt the income statements and balance sheets for the tion to the Committee, which also held individual meetings Company and the Group, with certain Board members. Shareholders have been offered • to pay a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share in accordance with the opportunity to submit proposals to the Nomination Comthe proposal by the Board of Directors, mittee. At the time of the publication of this report, the Nom• to discharge the Board of Directors and the President from ination Committee had held three minuted meetings. No liability for the 2018 fiscal year, compensation has been paid to the members of the Nomination Committee. • to elect the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board The requirement for versatility and breadth on the Board and a Deputy Chairman of the Board, has been taken into account and the Nomination Commit• to agree on remuneration to the Board of Directors and tee seeks to achieve an even gender distribution. In draftauditor, ing its proposals to the 2019 Annual General Meeting, and • to adopt guidelines on compensation for senior executives, as presented in greater detail in the Nomination Commit• to adopt guidelines for the appointment of a new Nominatee’s reasoned opinion to the 2019 Annual General Meeting, tion Committee, the Nomination Committee has applied item 4.1 of the Code • to introduce a new long-term incentive programme, and as its diversity policy. An assessment was also made regarding each member’s capacity to dedicate sufficient time and 1) Ricard Wennerklint left in February 2020 after Sampo divested its holding. commitment to their Board assignments. The Nomination Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 43 Corporate governance report Committee made the assessment that it would be desirable • number of Board meetings and decision points normally on to further strengthen the Board with members with internathe agenda at each meeting, tional experience, skills relevant to the Company’s investment • the duties of the Chairman, the committees, the President activities and experience of change processes. Assisted by and CEO, and their decision-making authorities, as well as recruitment companies, the Nomination Committee sought a clear regulation of the issues that require a decision by the individuals with appropriate skills and interviewed the most Board of Directors, relevant candidates. After assessing these, the Nomination • the assessment of the Board of Directors and its work, the Committee found that Liv Fiksdahl and Andrés Rubio were assessment of the President, and those best corresponding to the requirements. Of the Company’s Board Members, 33 percent are women (unchanged). • the forms of the Board’s meetings and minutes. Board of Directors Meetings of the Board The Board of Directors has the overarching responsibility for The Board meets regularly in accordance with the schedule administering Intrum’s affairs in the interests of its shareholdlaid down in the rules of procedure. Every Board meeting folers. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board lows a predetermined agenda. The agenda and background of Directors shall comprise at lease five and at most nine meminformation on each information or decision point are sent bers with at most four deputies. From the 2018 Annual General to all Directors well in advance of each meeting. Decisions Meeting until the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Board of by the Board are preceded by an open discussion led by the Directors comprised nine members elected by the Annual GenChairman. The Board held 19 meetings in 2019 (22 in the preeral Meeting, of whom, six were men and three were women. At ceding year). Over the year, the Board devoted particular the 2019 Annual General Meeting, nine ordinary Board Memfocus to the following issues: bers were elected, with no deputies, of whom six were men and • the Company’s strategies and objectives, two were women. Per E. Larsson was elected as Chairman of • cost-efficiency, the Board and Magnus Yngen as Deputy Chairman. There are • the Group’s earnings and financial position, no employee representatives on the Board of Directors. Further • interim reporting, information about Board members, including their shareholdings, can be found on pages 48–49. • the Group’s financing, corporate governance, risk manageHans Larsson, Magdalena Persson, Andrés Rubio, Liv Fiksdahl, ment and internal control, Ragnhild Wiborg and Magnus Yngen are considered indepen• the partnership with Piraeus Bank and Greece, corporate dent in relation to the Company and company management as acquisitions and acquisitions of major portfolios of receivwell as in relation to major shareholders. Per E. Larsson, Andreas ables, including follow-up of completed acquisitions, Näsvik and Kristoffer Melinder have been deemed by the Nom• the Company’s risk appetite and investment objectives, ination Committee to be independent in relation to the Com• incentive programmes and pany and company management but not in relation to major • the assessment of the work of the Board and the assessshareholders. The composition of the Board thereby comment of the CEO. plies with the requirements of the Code in this respect. The CEO of the Company is not a member of the Board, but attends The Company’s auditor attended one Board meeting all Board meetings except when the evaluation of the Board’s during the year (as well as all meetings of the Audit and Risk work and the President are on the agenda. The Secretary of the Committee). Board is the Group’s General Counsel. The Board of Directors has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Remuneration Assessment of the Board and CEO Committee and an Investment Committee. Each year, the Board assesses the composition of the Board The committees are mainly subordinated to the Board and and its work with the purpose of illuminating matters condo not relieve the Board members of their duties and responcerning the Board’s composition, areas of focus, materials sibilities. The committees are presented in more detail on the and meeting climate, as well identifying areas for improvefollowing pages. ment. In the third quarter of 2019, an assessment of the CEO and management group was performed with the assistance The Board’s rules of procedure of an external adviser and the Chairman has reported the Each year, the Board of Directors reassesses and sets rules of results of that assessment to the Nomination Committee. The procedure, instructions for the committees and instructions Board makes continuous evaluations of the President and disfor the President. The latter also includes instructions regardcusses this at least one meeting without his presence. ing financial reporting. These control documents contain instructions on the delegation of responsibilities and work Attendance at Board meetings in 2019 between the Board, the President and the Board committees, Per E. Larsson 19/19 Ragnhild Wiborg 19/19 as well as the forms of the Company’s financial reporting. Magnus Yngen 19/19 Liv Fiksdahl 12/13 The Board’s rules of procedure are based on the overarching Andreas Näsvik 19/19 Andrés Rubio 12/13 Hans Larsson 19/19 Synnöve Trygg 6/6 rules included in the Swedish Companies Act on the overall Kristoffer Melinder 16/19 Fredrik Trägårdh 5/6 responsibilities of the Board and President and otherwise on Magdalena Persson 19/19 the decision-making procedure approved by the Board. The rules of procedure also regulate other issues, including: 44 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Remuneration for directors Remuneration Committee In accordance with the decision by the 2019 Annual GenThe tasks of the Remuneration Committee include prepareral Meeting, fees and other compensation to the Board of ing the Board’s decisions on matters involving remuneration Directors are payable totalling SEK 6,940,000, of which SEK principles, remunerations and other terms of employment for 1,000,000 to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 565,000 to senior management, following-up and evaluating programs the Deputy Chairman of the Board, SEK 465,000 to each of for variable remunerations for senior management, and monthe other Board members, SEK 200,000 to the Chairman itoring and assessing general remuneration structures and of the Audit and Risk Committee, SEK 150,000 each to the compensation levels in the Group. other two members of the Audit and Risk Committee, SEK The Annual General Meeting also assists the Board in draft250,000 to the Chairman of the Investment Committee, SEK ing proposals for guidelines for remuneration for senior 150,000 each to the other eight members of the Investment management that the Board presents to the Annual GenCommittee and SEK 85,000 each to the two members of the eral Meeting, and also to monitor and assess the use of Remuneration Committee. Additional compensation of SEK these guidelines. Since the 2019 Annual General Meeting, 20,000 for travel time is paid to Board Member Andrés Rubio the Remuneration Committee has consisted of Per E. Larsfor each physical Board meeting held in Sweden. son (Chairman) and Magnus Yngen. Per E. Larsson is considered to be independent in relation to the Company, company Audit and Risk Committee management but not to major shareholders. Magnus Yngen The Audit and Risk Committee has a preparatory role and is considered to be independent in relation to the Company reports its work to the Board of Directors. Among other and its management as well as in relation to the principal things, the duties of the Audit and Risk Committee include shareholders. monitoring the Group’s financial reporting and the efficacy The CEO and Human Resources Director normally particiof the Group’s internal control, internal auditing and risk pate in the Committee’s meetings. The latter is also the secremanagement with regard to the financial reporting in other tary of the Committee. During 2019, the Committee met four regards. The Annual General Meeting shall also keep itself times (four meetings in the preceding year) with all Commitinformed regarding the audit process, consider the auditor’s tee members present. Among other matters, efforts focused impartiality and assist the Nomination Committee in conon determining remuneration for the new company mannection with the election of an auditor. The Annual General agement and preparing a proposal for a long-term incentive Meeting has established guidelines for which services, other programme that was adopted by the 2019 Annual General than auditing services, the Company may procure from the Meeting. auditor. Since the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Audit and Risk Investment Committee Committee has consisted of Ragnhild Wiborg (chairman), In 2018, the Board established an Investment Committee. Hans Larsson and Andreas Näsvik. The first two of the aforeThe Investment Committee is tasked with making decisions mentioned individuals are considered independent in relation on matters involving investments in companies (or operato the Company and its management, as well as in relation to tions) and portfolios of receivables, to the extent that such the principal shareholders. Andreas Näsvik is considered to matters require decisions being made outside ordinary Board be independent in relation to the Company, company manmeetings. agement but not to major shareholders. Normally, the audiThe Investment Committee consists of all Board members tor, the Company’s CFO, the head of the internal audit, the with Per E. Larsson as chairman. Chief Risk Officer and the Group’s Chief Accountant particiIn 2019, the Committee met eight times with all Commitpate in the Committee’s meetings. The latter is also acted as tee members present with the exception of Hans Larsson the Committee’s secretary. (attended seven out of eight meetings), Magdalena Persson The Audit and Risk Committee met four times in 2019 (attended seven out of eight meetings), Liv Fiksdahl (attended (seven times in 2018). All ordinary members of the Comsix out of seven meetings during the period in which she was a mittee attended all of the meetings. The external auditors member) and Fredrik Trägårdh (did not attend the sole investalso attended all of the meetings. The issues addressed by ment meeting held during the period in which he was a memthe Annual General Meeting over the year included interim ber). The work have focused exclusively on investments in reporting, risk management, aspects of internal control. The companies or portfolios of receivables. Committee has paid special attention to issues relating to acquisitions and divestments, new regulations and data secuRemuneration principles for senior executives rity. The Committee has also addressed the annual accounts The 2019 Annual General Meeting adopted the Board’s proand the Group’s audit procedures, recommendations regardposal on the principles of compensation and other terms of ing the election of external auditors at the Annual General employment for the senior executives. The guidelines reguMeeting, changes in accounting rules, particularly regardlate the relationship between fixed and variable remuneration ing leasing, Brexit, changes in the Group’s finance organisaand the relationship between performance and remuneration, tax and financing issues, as well as the preparation of tion, non-monetary benefits, issues related to pensions, disthe Board’s efforts to assure the quality of the Group’s finanmissal and severance payments and how the Board deals cial reporting, especially regarding the accounting of portfolio with these issues. The principles for remunerations for senior investments and goodwill. executives applied in 2019 are described in Note 28, on pages 91–92. The Board of Directors’ proposed guidelines for 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 45 Corporate governance report are reported in full in the Directors’ Report on page 57. For a reports to the Audit Committee on reviews it conducts, some more detailed account of wages and remunerations for senior 40 of which were made over the year. executives, see Note 27 on page 91. Auditor Group Management At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the accounting firm Intrum’s Group Management comprises the Chief Executive Ernst & Young AB was elected as the auditor of the Parent Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Chief Company. Authorised Public Accountant Jesper Nilsson is Investment Officer (CIO), the Chief Brand & Communications the auditor in charge. The auditor was elected for the period Officer (CBCO), the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO), extending until the close of the 2020 Annual General Meetthe Chief Legal Officer (CLO), the Chief Operating Officer ing. The auditor is considered to be independent. Beyond (COO), the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), the Chief Technology the audit assignment, the Company has also consulted Ernst Officer (CTO), the Managing Director (MD) CMS, Secured & Young AB on specific other assignments such as matters of Assets & M&A, Managing Director (MD) CMS Sales & Service taxation and reporting, following approval by the Audit ComDevelopment & Markets, Managing Director (MD) for Italy, the mittee. The scope of the compensation paid to Ernst & Young Managing Director (MD) for Spain and the Managing Director AB is presented in Note 29 on page 92. As Intrum’s auditor, (MD) for Greece. Ernst & Young AB is obliged to test its independence prior to The Group Management Team meets regularly to discuss every decision when providing independent advice to Intrum financial targets and results, strategy issues and Group-wide alongside its auditing assignment. guidelines. These discussions, decisions and guidelines are also part of the control of financial reporting. More informaInternal control tion about the Group Management Team can be found on The Board is responsible for the Company having sound pages 50–51. internal control and ensuring that the Company has forDuring the year, a simplified organisational structure was malised procedures to ensure that established principles for adopted to increase efficiency. A new business area – “Strafinancial reporting and internal control are adhered to. The tegic markets” was established and the four geographical Board’s Audit Committee monitors adherence to set guideregions were removed. lines for financial reporting and internal control and mainThe changes took effect on 1 January 2020 and are tains ongoing contacts with the Company’s auditors. The reflected in the financial reporting from the first quarter of objective is to ensure that applicable laws and regulations are 2020. The Managing Directors for Greece, Italy and Spain adhered to, that the financial reporting complies with Intrum’s report directly to the CEO and the other 21 Country Managers accounting principles in accordance with IFRS and that operreport either to the Managing Director (MD) CMS Sales & and ations are conducted in an efficient and appropriate way. Service Development & Markets or to the Managing Director (MD) CMS, Secured Assets & M&A. Control environment The basis for good internal control is the control environment, Risk and Investment Committee which includes the values and Code of Conduct on which the The CEO has established a Risk and Investment CommitBoard, Management and the Company’s shareholders base tee consisting of members of the Group Management Team, their actions, but also the Group’s organisation, leadership, decitasked with making decisions, within defined financial limsion-making paths, authorities and responsibilities, as well as its, on investment matters, primarily regarding portfolios of the skills and knowledge of the employees. Intrum’s managereceivables. Investment decisions above a certain amount ment model is based on a clear delegation and follow-up of require Board approval. powers and authorities, which pervades all business areas, staff units and control functions. The annual process of revising the Risk and Compliance Group’s targets and strategies constitutes a major effort, which The Company has a Risk and Compliance function that includes all units and is systematically followed up. The strategy is headed by the CRO. The function is tasked with proacprocess also includes risk analyses of the operations. tively promoting risk awareness and continuously and indeCorporate governance comprises the Group’s system of pendently monitoring and verifying compliance among the rules, procedures and processes by which the Company Group’s financial and operational units. The function reports Management controls the operations. The implementation of on its work to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. the Group-wide rules in the subsidiaries is reviewed annually to ensure compliance. The Group’s Code of Conduct is conInternal Audit tained within these rules and is communicated to all employThe Internal Audit constitutes an independent review funcees by means of associated training programs. The Group’s tion that reports directly to the Board via the Audit Commitinternal regulations are revised annually. tee. The role of the Internal Audit is to provide independent Intrum operates according to the principle of three lines of assurance to the Board of Directors and CEO of the effecdefence, where the operations, along with the support functiveness of internal control, risk management and the Group’s tions, form the first line of defence. These are responsible for governing processes. The Internal Audit also provides advice risk management in their respective areas and report risks to Management and the Board of Directors regarding how regularly to the second line of defence. the control environment can be improved and how risks in The second line of defence consists of the Risk and Compliinternal control can be limited. On a quarterly basis, the unit ance functions. These serve to support to the operations in the 46 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report first line of defence and provide them with training and advice. lations or if there have been any deviations from these. These The functions are also tasked with following-up and controlling reports are reviewed and followed up by the Group’s finance the operations in the first line of defence. The Risk and Comfunction. The Group finance function also conducts a number pliance function comprises four main areas: Investment Risk, of control activities in the Group’s subsidiaries to ensure good Operational Risk, Compliance Risk and Data Security. In addiquality in the financial reporting. tion, a central anti-money laundering unit was set up within In each country where Intrum operates, local compliance Compliance and a Data Protection Officer was appointed. and data protection officers report on compliance risks and The third line of defence comprises internal and exterregulatory matters to the central compliance function on a nal audits, which are tasked with following-up, in terms of quarterly basis. Operational subsidiaries, also draw up annual risk, the operations in the first and second lines of defence to compliance programmes that include both risk-based conensure that the Company’s internal control works satisfactotrols and supportive measures in the form of information and rily and that operations are conducted efficiently. The Internal training in new regulations. Audit reports to Intrum’s Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. Information and communication The Company works continuously to improve the awareness Risk assessment among employees of the control instruments and reviews appliThe Group’s risks are assessed and managed in coordination cable in financial reporting, both external and internal. Responbetween the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, Group sibilities and authorities are communicated within the Group to Management and local operations. The Board of Directors enable reporting and feedback from operations to Group Manand Group Management work to regularly identify and management and the Board’s Audit Committee. The Group’s interage risks at the Group level. In addition, the management of nal guidelines can be accessed via the Company’s Intranet and each local unit is responsible for identifying, evaluating and employees receive training on an ongoing basis. There is also managing the risks associated predominantly with the local cooperation within and between the different staff and finance operations. Risk & Compliance assists operations in risk functions, aimed at increasing coordination and opportunities to assessment. compare analyses, monitoring of accounting and business sysThe risk assessment of the financial reporting serves to tems, and the development of various key figures. identify what risks may impact reporting by the Group’s companies, business areas and processes. The assessment Follow-up is based partly on evaluations performed by the Group’s Group Management exercises control through regular reviews finance function as well as the dialogue with local finance of financial and operational performance, local meetings, and managers. These assessments form the basis for the continthrough participation in local company boards. Each month, ued control and improvement of financial reporting. the subsidiaries submit their monthly closing reports, which consist of income statements divided by service line, balance Control activities sheets and key performance indicators in the Group’s reportControls are designed to ensure that the risks identified in the ing system. The closing figures are consolidated as a monthly work described above are managed by the operations. To a report to Group Management. Consolidated accounts are prelarge extent, the risk level determines control activities aimed at pared each month for internal follow-up and analysis. The subensuring that the Group applies a risk-based approach. In the sidiaries receive feedback from the Group on their reporting and financial reporting, the controls are based on the Group’s minin-depth follow-up meetings are held with each country organiimum requirements for internal controls in financial reporting sation on a monthly basis. and consist both of company-wide controls, controls at transacThe follow-up of the internal control with regard to financial tion level and general IT controls. reporting is conducted primarily by the Group Finance funcFor a number of years, the Group has applied a specific tion and is reported to the Board’s Audit Committee. decision-making process, “New Product Approval Process” At the assignment of the Board, the internal audit also (NPAP), applied in connection with material changes, such reviews and assesses how the internal control is organised as acquisitions, launches of new products or services, major and its efficacy, as well as following up on outstanding matereorganisations or the establishment of new Group-wide sysrial observations from previous audits. tems or processes. This decision-making process is mandatory at both the local and central levels. Emergency and continuity plans have also been set up in all operating units Standardisation and centralisation within the Group. The intention is for such plans to be subject In 2019, a decision was made to standardise and centralise to annual assessment. financial reporting within the Group, meaning, among other Control activities encompass operations in all subsidiarthings, that the subsidiary Intrum Global Business Services ies and include, among other things, a) methods and activiUAB in Vilnius will be the centre for financial reporting. This ties to hedge assets, checks on the accuracy and reliability of work will continue in 2020, and is expected to be completed internal and external financial reports, and ensuring compliin the second quarter of 2021. ance with laws and established internal rules and guidelines. As part of this process, the presidents and finance managers of the subsidiaries report quarterly that the financial reporting has been conducted in accordance with the internal reguAnnual and Sustainability Report 2019 47 Corporate governance report Board of Directors According to Intrum’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall consist of no less than five and no more than nine ordinary members with no more than four deputies. All members are independent in relation to the Company, its management and its major shareholders, although three of the members are, in the assessment of the Nomination Committee, not independent in relation to the principal shareholder, Nordic Capital Fund VIII. Per E. Larsson Magnus Yngen Chairman Deputy Chairman Born: 1961 Born: 1958 Elected: 2017 Elected: 2013 Education: Business Administration Education: Master of Engineering and Economics Uppsala University, and Licentiate in Technology from Sweden. the Royal Institute of Technology in Per E. Larsson has previously served Stockholm. as CEO of OMX, UBS in Middle East Magnus Yngen has previously been North Africa and Member of the CEO of Camfil, Dometic and HusqGlobal Managing Board, Dubai Intervarna and has held several senior national Financial Exchange and positions within Electrolux. Yngen is Borse Dubai, as well as Chairman of the Chairman of the Board of Duni, the Board of the Stockholm Stock Fractal Design, Välinge Group and a Exchange, and several other board Board Member in Dometic. assignments. He is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors in ItivShareholding in Intrum AB (publ): iti, and Senior Advisor and Operating 7,500 Chairman to the Nordic Capital Funds. Independent of the Company, its Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): management and major shareholders. 33,500 Independent in relation to the Company and its management but not in relation to major shareholders in the Company. Andreas Näsvik Magdalena Persson Born: 1975 Born: 1971 Elected: 2017 Elected: 2018 Education: M.Sc. in Economics and Education: M.Sc. in InternaBusiness Administration, Stockholm tional Economics and Licentiate School of Economics. in Industrial Economics, Linköping Andreas Näsvik has previously University. worked with corporate finance and Magdalena Persson has been the private equity investments in DeutCEO of Interflora and has held sevsche Bank and Goldman Sachs. He eral roles in Microsoft, SamSari and has also been a board member in WM Data. She is the Chairman of the Lindorff AB. Näsvik is currently a Board of Directors of Iver AB, the board member of Munters AB (publ) Chairman of the Board of Directors and Ryds Bilglas and Partner, Nordic of Nexon Asia Pacific, a Board MemCapital Advisors. ber of NCAB Group and an indusShareholding in Intrum AB (publ): 0 trial advisor to EQT Partners. She Independent in relation to the Comhas previously been the Chairman of pany and its management but not to the Board of Affecto Plc and a Board major shareholders in the Company. Member of Aditro and Fortnox. Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): 0 Independent of the Company, its management and major shareholders. 48 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Liv Fiksdahl Hans Larsson Kristoffer Melinder Born: 1965 Born: 1961 Born: 1971 Elected: 2019 Elected: 2017 Elected: 2017 Education: Finance and manageEducation: M.Sc. in Business AdminEducation: M.Sc. in Economics and ment, Trondheim Business School, istration and Economics, University Business Administration, Stockholm and executive programs at Stanford of Uppsala. School of Economics. University and Massachusetts InstiHans Larsson has previously held Kristoffer Melinder has previously tute of Technology. various leading positions within worked with leveraged finance and Liv Fiksdahl is Vice President (Assothe Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken M&A at JP Morgan. He has also been ciated) of Capgemini Invent. She group. He has also served as a Board a board member in AniCura, Linhas held several senior roles within Member in Nordax Bank AB (publ) dorff, Greenfood, Binding Site, Ellos, DNB and has been a member of the and Deputy CEO for the Lindorff Convatec, Resurs, Dynal Biotech, Group Executive Management for Group. Current assignments include KappAhl, Nycomed and Atos Medten years. Her most recent role was Board Member at Nordnet AB and ical. Current assignments include Group EVP, CIO/COO. Liv Fiksdahl Nordnet Bank AB, as well as Board board member in GHD Gesundis a board member of Posten Norge Member at the Swedish Export heits and Managing Partner in NorAS, Arion Banki and Scandinavian Credit Corporation (SEK). He is also dic Capital Advisors AB. Airlines, SAS. the CEO and owner of Linderyd Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): 0 Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): 0 Advisory AB. Independent in relation to the ComIndependent of the Company, its Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): pany and its management but not to management and major shareholders. 34,500 major shareholders in the Company. Independent of the Company, its management and major shareholders. Auditors Ernst & Young AB Andrés Rubio Ragnhild Wiborg Jesper Nilsson Born: 1968 Born: 1961 Born: 1964 Elected: 2019 Elected: 2015 Chief Auditor since 2017 Education: Bachelor of Science in Education: Bachelor’s degree in Jesper Nilsson is an Authorised PubForeign Service, Georgetown UniBusiness Administration from the lic Accountant at Ernst & Young AB. versity, Washington D.C. Stockholm School of Economics and Other auditing assignments: HanAndrés Rubio was previously a Senior Master’s studies at Fundacao Getudelsbanken, Alecta, Fora, FOREX Partner and member of the manlio Vargas, São Paolo. Bank. agement committee of Apollo ManRagnhild Wiborg is the Chairman of agement International LLP as well as the Board of EAM Solar AS and a Board Global Co-Head of Morgan Stanley Member of Gränges AB, REC Silicon Principal Investments. He has served ASA, Sbanken ASA and INSR Insuras Chairman of the Board of Altamira ance ASA . She was previously active Asset Management S.L., Vice Chairin asset management as CIO and Portman of EVO Banco S.A. and Direcfolio Manager at Odin Fonder and tor of Avant Tarjeta EFC, S.A.L. Rubio Wiborg Kapitalförvaltning. Prior to that, is currently Founding Partner of IMAN she worked for investment banks in the Capital Partners Ltd. and Trustee at Nordics and London. Fundación Endesa, as well as an indeShareholding in Intrum AB (publ): pendent member of the investment 300 committee at Quarza Inversiones. Independent of the Company, its Shareholding in Intrum AB (publ): 0 management and major shareholders. Independent of the Company, its management and major shareholders. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 49 Corporate governance report Group Management Mikael Ericson Anders Engdahl Johan Brodin President and CEO Chief Financial Officer Chief Technology Officer and Born: 1960 Born: 1974 Acting Chief Risk Officer Mikael Ericson took up the position Anders Engdahl was appointed Born: 1968 of President and CEO on 1 March Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of In November 2019, Johan Brodin 2016. He has previously held sevIntrum in June 2019. Prior to that, he was appointed Chief Technology eral senior positions in the banking was Intrum’s Chief Investment OffiOfficer (CTO), but continues to hold and financial sectors, most recently cer and before that he held the role the role of Chief Risk Officer (CRO) as Head of International Banking of EVP of Debt Purchasing at Linuntil the recruitment of his succesat Danske Bank. He was previously dorff. He has extensive international sor is completed. Johan Brodin was CEO of Carnegie AB and before experience in investment banking appointed CRO at Intrum in 2011, that held a number of leading roles and management consulting from joining the Company most recently at Svenska Handelsbanken. Ericson Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, from the role of CRO at SBAB Bank. holds a B.Sc. (Econ.) Credit Suisse and McKinsey. At MorHe previously held several posifrom Stockholm University. gan Stanley he held the role of Mantions in risk management and conOwn holdings and/or holdings of aging Director and Head of Nordic trol at Handelsbanken, and worked closely affiliated persons: 66,000. Financial Institutions Investment as a management consultant in Banking. Anders Engdahl holds a financial services at KPMG and Olimaster’s degree in Business Adminver Wyman. Johan Brodin holds a istration and Economics from the B.Sc. (Econ.) from the University of Stockholm School of Economics. Örebro. Own holdings and/or holdings of Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 202,000. closely affiliated persons: 250. Marc Knothe Niklas Lundquist Harry Vranjes Country Manager Italy Chief Legal Officer Chief Operating Officer Born: 1968 Born: 1970 Born: 1970 Marc Knothe was appointed as Niklas Lundquist was appointed Harry Vranjes was appointed Chief Regional Managing Director in 2017. Chief Legal Officer at Intrum in Operating Officer (COO) on 1 JanSince 2018, he has also been the 2011, after previously having held uary 2020. Until the end of 2019, Country Manager for Italy, a role that the same role at Trade doubler AB he was Head of Credit Managehe has been focusing on fully since (publ). He has experience from two ment Services. Harry Vranjes joined 1 January 2020, after Intrum disprominent law firms and has served Intrum in 2002, and between 2015 continued its former regional strucin Swedish courts. Niklas Lundquist and 2017, he was Regional Manager ture. Between 2016 and 2017, he was holds a law degree from Stockholm for Western Europe. He was Chief Country Manager for the NetherUniversity. Technology Officer (CTO) between lands at Lindorff. Between 2011 and Own holdings and/or holdings of 2008 and 2015 and prior to that he 2016, he served as Executive Board closely affiliated persons: 2,000. was a project manager and business Member at GFKL (Advent Intl), developer between 2002 and 2008. one of Germany’s largest accounts Harry Vranjes previously worked receivable companies. Prior to that, as an IT management consultant at he was CIO at Bawag PSK (CerbeWM-Data between 1998 and 2001. rus) in Austria, COO at GE Money Harry Vranjes holds a BA in systems Bank in Russia and Germany, and science from Lund University. he also held prominent positions Shares held, personally and through at Citigroup in Italy and Germany. closely related parties: 0. Marc Knothe has studied Business Management at Hochschule Ludwigshafen in Germany. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 20,067. 50 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Per Christofferson Anna Fall Jean-Luc Ferraton Managing Director Secured Assets, Chief Brand & Communications Chief Human Resources Officer M&A, BPOs and Markets Officer Born: 1973 Born: 1968 Born: 1969 Jean-Luc Ferraton was appointed Per Christofferson was appointed Anna Fall was appointed Chief Chief Human Resources Officer Managing Director Secured Assets, Brand & Communications Officer (CHRO) in 2012. Jean-Luc FerraM&A and Markets on 1 January (CBCO) for Intrum in October 2018. ton held several positions at Intrum 2020. He then left his previous role She has an extensive background between 2006 and 2012. He was the as Regional Managing Director, in the financial sector, joining the Group’s HR Manager in 2011–2012, when Intrum discontinued its forCompany most recently from Första HR Manager for Western Europe mer regional structure. Per ChristAP-fonden where she held the role in 2010–2012, and HR Manager for offerson has also previously been of communications manager. In Southern Europe in 2006–2012. responsible for Intrum’s credit man2004–2016, Anna Fall was Nordic Jean-Luc Ferraton was previously agement. Prior to joining Intrum in Head of Marketing and CommuniHR Manager at JTEKT of Toyota 2009, he worked in the consultcations for The Royal Bank of ScotGroup between 2001 and 2006. He ing industry, including at KPMG and land (RBS) and before that she held holds an MBA from ESDES in Lyon Acando, where he served as vice various roles at the property leasand an MA in management from president and business area maning company Nordisk Renting and INSEAD. ager. He holds a master’s degree within the construction and propIn November 2019, Jean-Luc Ferfrom CWRU (Case Western Reserve erty group NCC. She holds a degree raton was appointed Country ManUniversity), Cleveland, Ohio, as well in Political Science, Business Adminager for Intrum in France, a role he as a civil engineering degree from istration and Communication from will assume in the first half of 2020. Linköping University. Uppsala University. Own holdings and/or holdings of Own holdings and/or holdings of Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 220. closely affiliated persons: 15,000. closely affiliated persons: 750. Anette Willumsen Alejandro Zurbano George Georgakopoulos was The Board of Directors Managing Director CMS Sales & SerCountry Manager Spain appointed Country Manager for vice Development and Markets Greece on 1 January 2020. At the signature of the Corporate Born: 1967 same time, Javier Aranguren was governance report Born: 1963 Alejandro Zurbano was appointed appointed Chief Investment OffiAnette Willumsen was appointed Regional Managing Director in 2017. cer (CIO). Both have since been part Managing Director CMS Sales & SerSince then, he has also been the Stockholm on 1 April 2020 of Intrum’s Group Management, vice Development and Markets on Country Manager for Spain, a role reporting directly to the President 1 January 2020. At that time, she he has been focusing on fully since 1 and CEO Mikael Ericson. The Board of Directors of left the role of Regional Managing January 2020, after Intrum disconIntrum AB (publ) Director after Intrum discontinued tinued its former regional structure. its former regional structure. She He was previously Country Manager was previously Managing Director for Lindorff Spain between 2015 of Lindorff Norway between 2012 and 2017. Prior to that, he was CEO and 2017 and was Acting Managing of Emergia, for example, and CounDirector of Lindorff Denmark for two try Manager for Spain, Chile, Colomyears. She was previously head of bia and Portugal at SITEL. Alejandro the Corporate Client Division within holds a law degree from Universidad Lindorff Norway between 2009 and Complutense de Madrid and a PDG 2012. She has also been SVP of EDB from IESE University. Business Partner (EVRY). She holds Own holdings and/or holdings of an EMP from INSEAD and an MA in closely affiliated persons: 16,780. Finance and Business Administration from the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH). Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 56,891. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 51 Corporate governance report Auditor’s statement regarding the Corporate Governance Report To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556607-7581. The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Governance Report for 2019 presented on pages 42–51 and for it having been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We have read the Corporate Governance Report and, based on that reading and our knowledge of the Company and the Group, we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report has a different focus and is substantially less in scope compared to the focus and scope of an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing practices in Sweden. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared, and we consider its statutory information to be consistent with the annual and consolidated accounts. Stockholm on 7 April 2020 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant 52 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors’ Report Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Intrum AB (publ) hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2019 fiscal year. Intrum Group Consolidated net revenues for 2019 increased to SEK Intrum AB (publ) (corporate identity number 556607-7581) is 15,985 M (13,442). domiciled in Stockholm and is a public limited liability company and conducts operations in accordance with the SwedOperating earnings amounted to SEK 2,060 M (3,978). ish Companies Act. Intrum’s operations were founded in The operating earnings of SEK 2,060 M include goodwill Sweden in 1923 and have, through acquisitions and organic impairment of SEK 2,700 M (0) and other items affecting growth expanded to become one of Europe’s leading credit comparability of SEK 1,448 M (522). Accordingly, operating management companies. In 2017, a merger with Lindorff was earnings excluding goodwill and items affecting comparabileffectuated. The Parent Company of the Intrum Group was ity (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) increased to SEK registered in 2001 and has been listed on the Nasdaq Stock6,208 M (4,500). holm exchange since June 2002. As of 31 December 2019, Net earnings for the year amounted to SEK 285 M (1,943) the share capital amounted to SEK 2,899,805 and the number of shares to Revenues, SEK M Operating earnings, SEK M 131,541,320, of which 600,000 are treasury shares. The Group is present in 25 markets. 15,985 2,060 2019 2019 Revenues and earnings 13,442 3,978 2018 2018 Definitions of the performance mea9,434 2,728 sures applied, key financial indica2017 2017 tors and alternative indicators are to be 5,869 1,921 found on page 97–98 . For reconcilia2016 2016 tion of key financial indicators, see Note 5,419 1,577 37 on page 97–98 . 2015 2015 Significant events during the year On 22 February 2019, Intrum completed the refinancing of the property portfolio On 22 August 2019, Intrum extended its MTN bond, of which SEK 900 M acquired by Ibercaja Banco SA in December 2018, and has also sold some of the matures in 2023. The extension has been priced at 102.00 percent, indicating an shares in the Company that owns the portfolio to a co-investor, all of which was in interest rate of STIBOR 3m +263 basis points. The extension was arranged within accordance with the plan previously communicated. the framework of the existing Swedish MTN programme and will be listed on NasOn 1 March 2019, Intrum added Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEB) as a daq Stockholm. new lenders in the existing credit facility (RCF), on the same terms as other lendOn 10 September 2019, it was announced that Intrum had successfully issued an ers, thereby increasing the Company’s financial flexibility. eight-year, senior unsecured bond at a fixed interest rate of 3.5 percent. An appliOn 24 April 2019, as planned and following the approval of the relevant authorcation will be made for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange’s official list. ities, Intrum completed the acquisition of Solvia Servicios Inmobiliaros (Solvia) On 23 October 2019, Intrum and Piraeus Bank completed the transaction, from Spanish Banco Sabadell, as was announced in December 2018. Through the establishing a leading credit management platform in Greece. Among other agreement, Intrum acquired 80 percent of the shares in Solvia. Banco Sabadell, things, the transaction entails Intrum acquiring Piraeus Bank’s platform for manone of Spain’s largest banks, retains a 20-percent holding. Through this acquisition, aging overdue receivables and consolidating this into a newly formed comIntrum strengthens and expands its business relationship with Banco Sabadell, pany, which will be named Intrum Hellas. Intrum holds 80 percent of the shares in deepening the partnership and broadening the collaboration. The acquisition of Intrum Hellas and Piraeus Bank the remaining 20 percent. Solvia entails a long-term positive reinforcement of the Spanish operations. On 4 November 2019, Intrum announced that it would be simplifying the organThe Annual General Meeting on 26 April re-elected Board members Per E. isation to increase efficiency. Intrum has grown strongly in recent years, particuLarsson, Hans Larsson, Kristoffer Melinder, Andreas Näsvik, Ragnhild Wiborg, larly in southern Europe. To reflect this, a third business area has been established, Magdalena Persson and Magnus Yngen. Liv Fiksdahl and Andrés Rubio were comprising Intrum’s key markets in southern Europe, in parallel with the existing elected as new Board members. The Annual General Meeting re-elected Per E. business areas Credit Management Services and Portfolio Investments. The four Larsson as Chairman of the Board and Magnus Yngen as Deputy Chairman. The previous geographical regions were discontinued. These changes will take effect Annual General Meeting approved the Board’s proposal for a dividend of SEK from 1 January 2020 and will be reflected in Intrum’s financial reporting from the 9.50 per share. first quarter of 2020. On 3 June 2019, Intrum agreed with Piraeus Bank (PB) to acquire PB’s RecovOn 13 November 2019, it was announced that Intrum AB had issued a two-year, ery Business Unit (“RBU”). The RBU will be separated from the bank and consolnon-covered bond for SEK 1.1 billion, at STIBOR 3m +180 basis points within the idated fully by Intrum in a separate legal entity (”NewCo”) valued at EUR 410 M. existing Swedish MTN programme that will be listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Intrum will acquire 80 percent of the shares in NewCo for a purchase considerOn 6 December 2019, Intrum extended the maturity of its credit facility (RCF) ation of EUR 328 M, of which EUR 296 M will be paid in cash on completion of the by five years plus on, increasing the amount from EUR 1.375 billion to EUR 1.8 biltransaction, with the remainder planned to be paid after the end of 2022. lion. The new facility took effect in January 2020. On 24 June, it was announced that Intrum had issued a four-year, non-covered On 9 December 2019, it was announced that Intrum had issued a five-year, bond for SEK 2 billion, at STIBOR 3m +325 basis points within the existing Swedish three-month, senior unsecured bond of EUR 75 M at a fixed interest rate of 3 perMTN programme and that will be listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. cent. An application will be made for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange’s On 25 July 2019, Intrum successfully issued a seven-year, senior unsecured official list. bond of EUR 800 M at a fixed interest rate of 3.5 percent. An application will be made for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange’s official list. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 53 Board of Directors’ Report and earnings per share were a negative SEK 2.76 (positive Geographical regions 14.18). Northern Europe Central and Eastern Europe Geographical regions Western and Southern Europe Northern Europe Iberian Peninsula and Latin America The region consists of the Group’s operations for customers in Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Sweden. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 4,125 M (3,979) and an operating profit of SEK 1,206 M (1,294). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluations increased to SEK 4,162 M (4,002), with operating earnings, excluding revaluations and non-recurring items (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) of SEK 1,491 M (1,425). Net earnings for full-year 2019 were stable, with both the credit management and portfolio investment operations performing positively despite the unfavourable trend in the fourth quarter, when the underlying earnings were negatively impacted by strikes in the Finnish postal service and by tax refunds being paid out early. Central and Eastern Europe The region consists of the Group’s operations for customers in Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary and Austria. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 4,862 M (3,790) and an operating profit of SEK 1,965 M (1,377). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluations increased to SEK 4,580 M (3,681), with operating earnings, excluding revaluations and non-recurring items (“adjusted Share of consolidated revenues operating earnings (EBIT)”) of SEK 2,005 M (1,442). Profit growth was strong in 2019, even when adjusted for the acquisition in Greece. Underlying growth has been driven partly by a significant improvement in the Polish operations thanks to both internal operational improvements and partly to new portfolio investments following a period of challengNorthern Europe, 26% ing market conditions. Central and Eastern Europe, 30% Western and Southern Europe, 22% Western and Southern Europe Iberian Peninsula and Latin America, 22% The region consists of the Group’s operations for customers in Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 3,519 M Number of employees by geographical region (2,564) and an operating profit of SEK 1,464 M (228). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluations increased to SEK 3,715 M (2,622), with operating earnings, excluding revaluations, non-recurring items and items affecting comparability (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) of N  orthern Europe, 26% SEK 2,048 M (664). Central and Eastern Europe, 24% The region’s earnings performance was good, mainly Western and Southern Europe, 23% thanks to the partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo in Italy, where Iberian Peninsula and Latin America, credit management operations were consolidated in the 26% fourth quarter. Other, 1% Iberian Peninsula and Latin America The region comprises the Group’s operations for customers in Spain, Portugal and Brazil. by terminated service contracts in the credit management The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 3,479 M operations, negatively impacting profitability, while the syn(3,109) and an operating profit of SEK 2,575 M (1,079). On a ergies from the acquisition of Spanish Solvia are expected pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluato show results beginning in 2020. As a consequence of the tions and items affecting comparability, decreased to SEK lower earnings level, impairment of SEK 2.7 billion was rec3,323 M (2,826), with operating earnings, excluding revaluaognised in goodwill at the end of the year. tions, non-recurring items and items affecting comparability (“adjusted operating earnings ”EBIT”) of SEK 664 M (969). Service lines The decline in the region is explained, among other things, The services that Intrum offers are divided into two service lines: 54 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors’ Report Share of consolidated revenues Carrying value, portfolio investments (SEK M) 28,508 2019 24,830 2018 21,149 2017 8,733 C  redit Management, 60% 2016 Financial Services, 40% 7,027 2015 • Credit Management. Collection services, credit informaother financial items of a negative SEK 447 M (197). Net intertion services and payment services. est income was negatively affected by higher borrowing com• Financial services Portfolio investments, i.e. acquisition of pared with the preceding year. portfolios of overdue receivables at less than their nominal Other financial items for the full-year include SEK –252 M value, after which Intrum collects the receivables on its own (0) in expenses for premature redemption of bonds. behalf. Real estate acquisitions, primarily through the seizure of collateral for purchased covered receivables, other Taxes financing services and payment guarantees. The tax expense for the year was equivalent to 15 percent of earnings before tax and goodwill impairment and has been Credit management with a focus on late payment and affected positively by deferred receivables for previous years’ collection losse for the full-year, compared with 23 percent in the preService line revenues for the year amounted to SEK 11,450 ceding year. For further information on the Group’s taxes and M (9,480), with service line earnings of SEK –415 M (positax disputes, see also Note 8. The Company’s assessment is tive 2,433). Revenues for the year, excluding items affecting that the tax expense will, over the next few years, be around comparability increased to SEK 11,273 M (9,257), with service 20–25 percent of earnings before tax for each year, excluding line earnings, excluding revaluations non-recurring items and the outcome of any tax disputes. items affecting comparability, of SEK 2,912 M (2,489). Credit Management increased its earnings due to acquisiCash flow and investments tions in Spain, Italy and Greece. The underlying business in Cash flow from operating activities during the year amounted Spain developed below expectations, which had a negative to SEK 6,392 M (6,154). The increase is attributable to impact on the operating margin during the year, although this increased cash flow deriving from the merger with Lindorff. was offset by favourable development in other countries. Cash flow from investing activities over the year, adjusted for cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies, was negaPurchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables tive in the amount of SEK 12,030 M, compared with a negative Service line revenues for the year amounted to SEK 7,055 M SEK 1,488 M in the preceding year, including the positive cash (6,394), with service line earnings of SEK 4,960 M (3,600). flow of SEK 7,511 M from the sale of companies in accordance Earnings grew strongly, driven partly by the joint venture with the European Commission’s conditions. portfolio acquired in the fourth quarter of the preceding year and partly by favourable underlying growth in the other portResearch and development folio operations. The Group is not engaged in any research and developThe return on portfolio investments was 15 percent (14). ment other than the development of its IT systems. The year’s investments in tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted Expenses to SEK 699 M (306) and largely involved hardware and softThe gross profit margin was slightly below the level for the ware for IT systems, primarily for production. Technical develpreceding year. opment is rapid and correctly used, new technical solutions Earnings for the year was burdened by goodwill impairment can enhance efficiency in the management of collection of SEK 2,700 M and other items affecting comparability of cases and the utilisation of the Group’s databases. In pace SEK 1,448 M. with increasing demands for customer-adapted IT solutions, it is of strategic importance for Intrum to continuously be able Write-down and impairment to meet changes in the demand scenario. Operating earnings for the year were burdened by writedown and impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets Financing by SEK 1,246 M (900). Operating earnings before depreciaConsolidated net debt increased by SEK 7.0 billion since the tion/amortisation (EBITDA) therefore amounted to SEK 6,344 end of the preceding year. Disbursements have been made M (4,878). for the year’s dividend, as well as investments in portfolios, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Net financial items Net debt in relation to pro forma rolling 12-month adjusted Net financial items amounted to an expense of SEK 1,921 M cash EBITDA amounted to 4.3 at the end of the year. This ratio is (1,363) and consisted of a net interest expense of SEK 1,492 calculated by placing current consolidated net debt at the end M (1,185), exchange rate differences of SEK 18 M (19) and of the quarter in relation to pro forma cash EBITDA, calculated Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 55 Corporate governance report cash EBITDA throughout the period for larger units acquired ued high supply of defaulted credits, as well as our ability to during the period, and excluding non-recurring items (NRIs). leverage our broad geographical footprint. We expect a conIn 2019, 350,000 shares were repurchased for SEK 86 M. tinuously stable development during 2020. Accordingly, the average number of shares outstanding over In 2020, we will continue the transformation of our credit the year was 131,065,782 compared with 131,390,632 in the management operations by taking advantage of our size preceding year. and scale, capitalising on the efficiency improvements we worked to implement in the autumn of 2019, while also ensurGoodwill ing that the partnership with Piraeus Bank in Greece delivers Consolidated goodwill amounted to SEK 33,358 M as per as planned. and we also look forward to being an active part31 December 2019, compared with SEK 33,055 M as per 31 ner on a continuously dynamic and attractive market across December 2018. Of the increase, SEK 2,381 M is attributEurope. Intrum’s size, diversification and highly cash-generaable to new acquisitions made during the year, SEK 33 M to tive operations, mean we have the scope and flexibility to We the adjustment of the acquisition analysis and SEK 754 M to will invest selectively, making sure to steer towards our 2020 exchange rate differences. During the year, impairment of SEK targets while assuring continued favourable long-term growth. 2,700 M was recognised in goodwill and SEK 165 M in goodwill was reclassified to customer relationships. Parent Company The Group’s publicly listed Parent Company, Intrum AB Sustainability (publ), owns the subsidiaries, provides the Group’s head Intrum has prepared a sustainability report which is included office functions and handles certain Group-wide developin the annual report on pages 20–37 and 104–109. The audiment work, services and marketing. tor’s statement regarding the statutory sustainability report The Parent Company reported net revenues of SEK 402 M can be found on page 110. (215) for the year and earnings before tax of a negative SEK 783 M Intrum’s sustainability work is rooted in our mission of leading (positive 346). The decline in earnings is attributable to increased the way towards a sound economy. In a sound economy, comimpairment of shares in subsidiaries and last year’s increased panies are paid on time for the goods and services they have income from participations in subsidiaries, in connection with sold, while all people have sufficient knowledge of personal disposals of subsidiaries and share dividends received. The Parfinance and credit to be able to make informed decisions. This ent Company invested SEK 166 M (43) in fixed assets during the contributes to a sound economy for society as a whole. year and had, at the end of the year, SEK 220 M (251) in cash and As the leading player in credit management, and as experts equivalents. The average number of employees was 70 (68). in late payment and collection, Intrum bears a great responsibility to conduct its operations sustainably and ethically, The share and shareholders while also working proactively on issues of finance and excesAt the end of the year there were 131,541,320 shares in the sive debt. Company, of which 600,000 were treasury holdings. All shares outstanding carry equal voting rights and an equal Group Management share in the Company’s assets and earnings. At the end of the Intrum’s Group Management the 31st of December 2019 comyear, the largest shareholders in the Company were (Nordic prised Mikael Ericson (President and CEO), Anders Engdahl Capital (43.9 percent of shares outstanding), Sampo Oyj (5.2), (Chief Financial Officer and Acting Chief Investment Officer), Handelsbanken Fonder (4.9), NN Investment Partners (4.9), Anette Willumsen (Regional Manager Northern Europe), Harry and Vanguard (2.0). Vranjes (Head of Credit Management Services), Jean-Luc FerSee also the table on page 39. The Articles of Association raton (Chief Human Resources Officer), Johan Brodin (Chief do not contain any pre-emption clauses or other limitations Technology Officer and Acting Chief Risk Officer), Marc Knoon the transferability of the shares, and there are no other cirthe (Regional Manager Western and Southern Europe), Niklas cumstances that the Company is obliged to disclose accordLundquist (Chief Legal Officer), Per Christofferson (Regional ing to the provisions in chapter 6, section 2a, pages 3–11 of Manager Central and Eastern Europe), Anna Fall (Chief Brand the Annual Accounts Act. & Communications Officer) and Alejandro Zurbano (Regional Manager Iberian Peninsula and Latin America). Board work During the year, Cathrine Klouman, Chief Operating OffiAccording to Intrum’s Articles of Association, the Board of cer and Danko Maras, Chief Financial Officer left Intrum and Directors shall consist of no less than five and no more than Group Management. nine ordinary members with no more than four deputies. All members are elected by the Annual General Meeting. Market outlook and future prospects During 2019, the Board held 19 meetings (22 in the precedIn Intrum’s integrated business model, consisting of Credit ing year). For a description of the work of the Board of DirecManagement Services (CMS) focusing on late payments and tors, please see the Corporate Governance Report on pages collection, and Portfolio Investments, we see good develop42–51. On pages 46–47, the Corporate Governance Report ment in both areas. also includes details of the most important elements of the Within our credit management operations we have graduGroup’s systems for internal control and the preparation of ally begun to centralise, standardise and improve large parts financial reports]. The Corporate Governance Report is also of the collection process. We anticipate all the actions we available at the corporate website www.intrum.com. take in this area will continue to improve efficiency and the CMS margin in the future. Events after the reporting year We see a continued high activity across Europe in the On 13 March 2020 the Board of Directors of Intrum AB (publ) non-performing loan market. Our investments’ return levels resolved to initiate a share buyback program with the purwere stable during 2019, which was a result of both a continpose to reduce Intrum’s share capital through cancellation of 56 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report the shares that are repurchased. Through the program, Intrum fore excluded from these guidelines. The LTIP proposed by will return further funds to shareholders and it is the Board of the Board and submitted to the Annual General Meeting Directors’ assessment that this will give the company a more 2020 for approval is excluded for the same reason. The prooptimal capital structure. The maximum number of shares posed LTIP essentially corresponds to existing LTIPs. The that can be repurchased is 12,554,132. LTIPs includes the GMT and other senior managers and key On 25 March 2020 Intrum informed that the effects of employees in the company. The evaluation metrics used to Covid-19 vary from market to market. To date, countries in assess the outcome of the LTIPs are distinctly linked to the southern Europe have been hardest hit by the ongoing virus business strategy and thereby to the company’s long-term outbreak, which has affected all aspects of society. Intrum’s value creation. At present, these metrics are linked to the Strategic Markets business line is experiencing delays in cash company’s Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) target established by flows due to general restrictions brought in across counthe Board. tries and reduced activity in legal systems in particular. The Variable cash remuneration covered by these guidelines secured assets relating to the cash flows however remain. In shall aim at promoting the company’s business strategy and other European markets however, the effect on Intrum’s activlong-term interests, including its sustainability. ities has been relatively limited. Global events related to the spread of Covid-19 are Forms of remuneration expected to have negative impacts on the company’s proRemuneration in the company should reflect job complexity, ductivity and results for a period of time. Our preliminary responsibility and performance, and it should be competitive assessment is that reported earnings will be affected to a in comparison with similar companies within similar indusgreater extent than cash EBITDA, but it is currently too early tries in the relevant geography. The remuneration shall consist to quantify the financial effects. of the following components: annual fixed cash salary (“Base Intrum has decided to reduce the rate of investment and Salary”), annual variable cash remuneration (“Variable Salary increase the yield requirements on new portfolio investPart/VSP”), pension benefits and other benefits. Additionments while also to a very limited extent review M&A projects. ally, the General Meeting may – irrespective of these guideReduced M&A activity and lower investment in portfolio activlines – resolve on, among other things, share-related or share ities frees up a greater degree of cash flow in the business. price-related remuneration such as LTIPs. As a result of the impact of Covid-19 on Intrum’s business, updated financial targets will be communicated at the capital Base Salary markets day, which is planned to be held in the coming autumn. The Base Salary is based on three cornerstones: job complexity & responsibility, performance and local market conditions. The Board’s proposal for guidelines for executive The Base Salary is subject to annual revision. remuneration Variable Salary Part/VSP The Board proposes that the following guidelines for execThe VSP seeks to drive, and is designed to vary with, shortutive remuneration shall be approved by the annual general term business performance, and is set for one year at a time. meeting. The proposal has been prepared by the RemuneraThe evaluation metrics are individually decided for each tion Committee of the Board. member of the GMT, and consist of Earnings Before Interest The guidelines will apply to the CEO and other members of & Tax (“EBIT”) (on group level or country level/s, as applicaIntrum’s Group Management Team (“GMT”). The guidelines ble) for all GMT members, except for the CIO for whom the are forward-looking, i.e. they are applicable to agreements on metrics Portfolio Investment Service Line Earnings, Return remuneration, and on amendments to remuneration already On Investments and Book Value Growth are also applied. The agreed, enter into after adoption of the guidelines by the Board may also decide to adjust the metrics targets or apply Annual General Meeting 2020. These guidelines do not apply other similar evaluation metrics if deemed appropriate. to any remuneration to be separately resolved or approved by The maximum VSP pay-out is 100 percent of the Base Salary the General Meeting. for the CEO and the CFO. For the other members of the GMT The guidelines’ promotion of the company’s business (except for the Chief Risk Officer, who is not eligible for VSP) the strategy, long-term interests and sustainability normal maximum VSP pay-out shall be 30 to 50 percent of the Intrum’s business strategy is, in short, to continue to grow, Base Salary, but for 2020 a maximum of 45 to 75 percent of the both in existing and new markets, and to continue to build its Base Salary shall apply (the “One Off Remuneration”/”OOR”). position as the undisputed market leader within the credit The CEO and the CFO are not eligible for the OOR. management industry. For more information regarding the To which extent the evaluation metrics for awarding VSP company’s business strategy, visions and goals, please see have been satisfied shall be evaluate and determined when www.intrum.com. the measurement period has ended. The company’s RemuA prerequisite for the successful implementation of the neration Committee is responsible for preparing the VSP company’s business strategy and safeguarding of its longevaluation for all GMT members. The determination of the term interests, including its sustainability, is that the company VSP outcome is then resolved by the Board in its entirety. is able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. To this end, it No deferral periods are applied in relation to VSP and the is necessary that the company offers competitive remuneraVSP agreement does not contain any clause entitling the tion. These guidelines enable the company to offer the GMT a company to reclaim VSP. competitive total remuneration. Base Salary and VSP costs Long-term share-related incentive programmes (“LTIPs”) The costs are estimated not to exceed MSEK 45.8 for the Base have been implemented in the company. Such LTIPs have Salary, and MSEK 33.2 for VSP 2020, including the OOR but been resolved by the Annual General Meeting and are thereAnnual and Sustainability Report 2019 57 Board of Directors’ Report excluding social security contributions. These estimates do not lines shall be in force until new guidelines are adopted by the take into account possible changes to the GMT during the year. Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee shall also monitor and evaluate programs for variable remuneraPension benefits and other benefits tion for the GMT, the application of the guidelines for GMT as Intrum applies a retirement age of 65 for all members of the well as the current remuneration structures and compensaGMT, unless otherwise follows from applicable national rules. tion levels in the company. For the CEO, pension benefits, including health insurance The members of the Remuneration Committee are inde(Sw: sjukförsäkring), shall be premium defined. VSP does not pendent of the company and the GMT. The CEO and other constitute pensionable income. The pension premiums for members of the GMT do not participate in the Board’s propremium defined pension shall amount to not more than 35 cessing of and resolutions regarding remuneration-related per cent of the Base Salary. matters in so far as they are affected by such matters. For other GMT members, pension benefits, including health insurance, shall be premium defined unless the indiDerogation from the guidelines vidual concerned is subject to defined benefit pension under The Board may temporarily resolve to derogate from the mandatory collective agreement provisions. Variable cash guidelines, in whole or in part, if in a specific case there is speremuneration shall qualify for pension benefits to the extent cial cause for the derogation and a derogation is necessary required by mandatory collective agreement provisions. The to serve the company’s long-term interests, including its suspension premiums for premium defined pension shall amount tainability, or to ensure the company’s financial viability. As to not more than 30 per cent of the Base Salary. set out above, the Remuneration Committee’s tasks include Other benefits than pension benefits may include, for preparing the Board’s resolutions in remuneration-related example, life insurance, medical insurance (Sw: sjukvårdsmatters. This includes any resolutions to derogate from the försäkring), housing and company cars. For GMT members guidelines. with housing benefits, such benefits may not amount to more than 20 per cent of the Base Salary. For GMT members withDescription of material changes to the guidelines and how the out housing benefits, such benefits may not amount to more views of shareholders’ have been taken into consideration than ten per cent of the Base Salary. These guidelines do not entail any significant changes in relaFor employments governed by rules other than Swedish, tion to the company’s existing guidelines, apart from the VSP pension benefits and other benefits may be duly adjusted for levels for the CEO and CFO, the OOR and applying EBIT as compliance with mandatory rules or local practice, taking into VSP evaluation metric (previously, EBIT after Cost of Capital account the overall purpose of these guidelines. was used as a main VSP evaluation metric). The company has not received any views from shareholders Termination of employment to take into consideration. The notice period may not exceed twelve months if notice of termination of employment is made by the company. Base SalInformation on remuneration resolved but not yet due and on ary during the notice period, severance pay and compensaderogations from the remuneration guidelines resolved by tion during a non-compete period may together not exceed the Annual General Meeting 2019 an amount equivalent to twenty-four months Base Salary. The Previous Annual General Meetings have resolved on guidenotice period may not exceed six months without any right to lines for executive remuneration and other terms of employseverance pay when termination is made by the GMT member. ment for the period up until the next Annual General Meeting. Remuneration for non-compete undertakings shall comIn short, these guidelines entail that Base Salary and VSP shall pensate for loss of income. The remuneration amounts to not be payable on conditions similar to what has been described more than 100 per cent of the Base Salary at the time of terin these guidelines. Base Salary and VSP is expensed during mination of employment, unless otherwise provided by manthe financial year, and VSP is paid out after the year-end datory collective agreement provisions, and be paid during report has been adopted by the Board. the time the non-compete undertaking applies, however The guidelines adopted by the Annual General Meeting not for more than twelve months following termination of 2019 have been adhered to without derogation, and all previemployment. ously approved remuneration that has not yet been paid out is in line with the framework set out above. Remuneration and employment conditions for employees In preparation of the Board’s proposal for these guidelines and Proposed appropriation of earnings when evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitations The Board of Directors and the President propose that SEK 11 set out herein are reasonable, account has been taken regardper share (9.50) be distributed to shareholders, corresponding the remuneration and employment conditions for employing to a total of SEK 1,440 M (1,250). The full dividend proees of the company. This has been done by reviewing e.g. the posal is presented on page 99. For further information on the employees’ total remuneration, the components of their remuearnings and financial position of the Parent Company and neration and remuneration growth and growth rate over time. the Group, please refer to the income statements, balance sheets, statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, cash The decision-making process to determine, review and flow statements and notes. implement the guidelines The Board has established a Remuneration Committee. Publication of the Annual Report The Remuneration Committee’s tasks include preparing the This information is such that Intrum AB (publ) is required to Board’s decision to propose these guidelines. The Board shall disclose pursuant to the EU’s markets abuse directive and the prepare a proposal for new guidelines at least every fourth Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for year and submit it to the Annual General Meeting. The guidepublication at 12.00 noon CET on 15 April 2019. 58 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and risk management Proactive and effective risk management Risk management within Intrum shall comprise effective analysis and monitoring of significant risks in the operations. Our ability to prevent and manage risks is crucial for effecWe also have a documented process for risk analysis and tive governance and control, and thus also for the Compafor approving new or significantly altered products, services, ny’s opportunities to generate profitability and value. A key markets, acquisitions, processes and IT systems and in conprerequisite for being able to manage risk in a balanced way, nection with major changes in the Company’s organisation the risks must first be identified, analysed, reported and and operations. reviewed. In recent years, we have worked purposefully to strengthen both the organisation and the risk management Risk strategy process. Intrum’s risk strategy details the management and assessment of the risks to which its operations are, or may be, exposed. Intrum’s risk framework The strategy comprises: Our risk management shall support the business operations, • clear and documented internal procedures and control, maintain a high level of quality to ensure risks are kept under • an appropriate organisational structure with clearly defined control, safeguard the Company’s survival and limit the voland documented roles and authorisations, atility of Intrum’s financial development. Risk control serves as protection safeguarding the Company’s value, where the • documented decision-making procedures, ability to assess and manage price risks regarding new trans• risk assessment methods and systems support tailored to actions, for example, combined with monitoring the developthe needs, complexity and scope of the operations, ment of the investment portfolio is of great importance. This • control of the Company’s compliance with laws and other builds on an ongoing internal dialogue about the risks generregulations applicable to the Company’s operations, ated by the operations and the resources necessary to coun• adequate resources and skills to achieve the desired quality teract them. in both business and control activities, We continuously strive to identify, mitigate and monitor the • regular incident reporting in operations, risks to which the Group is or may be exposed. Good internal control is important, as is a functioning and effective risk • documented and disseminated contingency and business framework. continuity plans. Intrum strives to expose itself only to risks directly attributable to, or deemed necessary for, our business operations. Our risk strategy follows a clear division of roles and responAs part of their regular work, all employees are responsible sibilities according to the three lines of defence model and for managing the Company’s risks. Continuous information where responsibility is divided between business operations, and training on the risks inherent in the operations form an risk control and compliance, and the internal audit function. important part of Intrum’s internal processes. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 59 Risk and risk management Control of risk management and compliance Intrum applies the principle of the three lines of defence, framework, Intrum’s “risk appetite”, which is the level of risk a well-established model with clear roles and responsibilithat Intrum considers acceptable in achieving its business ties, illustrated below. In accordance with Intrum’s risk polobjectives. icy, identified risks have been classified on the basis of a risk Governance Board of Directors Managing Director The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the Company’s organIntrum’s CEO is subordinate to the Board and is responsible for executisation and for there being appropriate systems and policies in place for ing the risk strategy adopted by the Board of Directors in Intrum’s ongomanaging the risks associated with Intrum’s operations. ing management. Risk management – three lines of defence 1. The business operations – 2. Risk and Compliance – controls risks and compliance 3. Internal audit reports to are responsible for the risks The second line of defence comprises the functions for risk control and complithe Board they take. ance. Risk control ensures that there is sufficient risk awareness in the first line The internal audit funcThe first line of defence comand shall play both a supportive and challenging role in the transaction process. tion works completely indeprises Intrum’s business operaTo strengthen its independence, the Information Security function has been pendently of the operations on tions, which are the risk-taking moved from the first line of defence to the Risk and Compliance function in the behalf of the Board of Direcpart of the organisation. This second line of defence. tors and reports directly to the entails responsibility for daily Audit Committee. The funcrisk management and compliRisk control Compliance tion carries out risk-based, ance with the Group’s internal Also works to provide the busiVerifies that the business operations independent reviews of and external regulations. ness operations with the proceadhere to legislation and regulations, the first and second lines of dures, systems and tools required to and support the business operadefence. uphold the on-going management of tions within their area of responsibilinvestments. ity. Compliance reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and has a dotted reporting line to the Board of Directors. The CRO reports to the CEO and also has a dotted reporting line to the Board of Directors. Risk appetite Intrum’s risk appetite is expressed in, among other things, pol• Intrum’s investment operations entail the greatest inherent icies, instructions and guidelines established for the operrisks with a potential impact on the income statement and ations. Intrum defines risk as all factors which could have a balance sheet and are therefore a central concern in the negative impact on the ability of the Group to achieve its area of risk, where particular emphasis is placed on both business objectives. Intrum’s risk appetite is based on the foltransaction management and reporting. lowing principles: • The risk appetite forms the basis for an ongoing dialogue • To be able to pursue our strategy, the culture at Intrum shall within the management regarding Intrum’s decision-making be such that there is a built-in balance between risk-taking processes and is integrated into these. It determines what and value generation. risk levels are appropriate and how the Group’s business • The risk culture defines how the business operations are to strategy are adapted to these. act with acceptable risks, within the limits set by the Board. 60 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and risk management Risk factors Strategic risks A Macroeconomic risk B Competitive risk and price pressure Critical O C Acquisition risk P L D Transformation risk Financial risks E Liquidity risk M F Currency and interest rate risk Major K G Tax risk C D J H Credit risk Impact I Portfolio investment risk B Operational risks N J Data security risk Limited I F K Political and regulatory risk L IT security risk G M Employee risk N Corruption risk E O Reputational risk Minor Q A P Epidemioch pandemirisk Q Climate risk H Unlikely Potential Likely Expected Probability 1–10 years Material risks As a leading player in credit management and purchasing of The risks can be divided into three general risk categories; overdue receivables, there are a number of risks that are of strategic, financial and operational. particular importance in safeguarding Intrum’s future develSustainability risks are integrated into the same three risk opment and profitability. These constitute Intrum’s most categories as above, and are primarily related to risks associmaterial risks. The likelihood of these risks occurring and the ated with portfolio investments, reputational risks, data secuimpact they would have on Intrum are illustrated below. rity, employees, climate and corruption. Strategic risks Risks Description Management A Macroeconomic risk To a certain extent the credit management sector would We maintain an ongoing dialogue with the Company’s be negatively affected by a weaker economy. However, country management teams and conduct regular checks on Intrum’s assessment is that, historically, it has been less development in each market. We also monitor macro trends affected by economic fluctuations compared with other in each country by following up and analysing a number of sectors. macroeconomic variables. B Competitive risk and Increased competition can adversely affect operations Intrum’s platform for handling debt collection cases is price pressure and earnings. The European credit management industry a competitive advantage, as this gives us control over is fragmented, with thousands of companies with different the entire process, enabling us to ensure efficient case orientations. The price level is an aspect of competition, but management. By means of a large European database, we can also, for example, reflect players accepting lower return also have good opportunities to ensure pricing based on levels. risk, to avoid incorrect pricing and to make well-founded investment decisions. C Acquisition risk Opportunities to successfully complete acquisitions are Ahead of an acquisition, a detailed review of the company, dependent on Intrum’s capacity to identify and assess due diligence, is always performed, generally in conjunction acquisition targets, to identify and manage risks in the with external consultants, with the aim of identifying risks acquired operations and to integrate these effectively into and providing a basis for the valuation of the acquisition Intrum’s existing operations. A potential acquisition may object. The Group also has a documented and standardised require approval from an authority or other third party. process for how acquisitions are to be implemented and followed up. D Transformation risk Intrum is currently undergoing a transformation, in which we A continuous internal dialogue is maintained regarding the are centralising and standardising systems, processes and Company’s goals, direction and strategy for the organisation working methods alike. The purpose is to derive economies to understand Intrum’s objectives and the path for reaching of scale and to work even more efficiently to meet the these. We also apply a standardised process for approving expectations of our customers and other stakeholders. It major changes and always ensure that automation solutions is important that employees understand and participate in are supported by control systems. this development. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 61 Risk and risk management Financial risks Risks Description Management E Liquidity risk Intrum is dependent on access to loan credits, both from Intrum’s policy is to always have liquidity available to cover banks and the capital market, to have liquidity available for our contractual financial flows and outstanding binding meeting contractual obligations. offers, both for corporate acquisitions and portfolio investments. Furthermore, at most 35 percent of Intrum’s outstanding debt may fall due within 12 months. In order to ensure liquidity to cover liabilities that mature for payment, Intrum sets a target that in any individual year no more debt may fall due than Intrum is able to repay with self-generated funds. Intrum works actively to diversify its sources of financing and to maintain good relations with capital market players, including investors and credit rating agencies. P Currency  and interest Intrum is partly exposed to fluctuations in exchange and In each country, investments, revenues and most operating rate risk interest rates. These risks can affect our earnings and expenses are denominated in local currencies, and thus financing costs. currency fluctuations have a relatively minor effect on operating earnings within the relevant country. Revenues and expenses in national currency are thereby hedged in a natural way, which limits transaction exposure. The translation exposure is limited through loans and currency forward transactions in foreign currencies. Intrum strives to match the fixed interest term on the debt with the Group’s cash flow from purchased portfolios. G Tax risk Changes in tax law or practice in the area of taxation To meet our obligation to pay the tax amount that we are could result in financial losses or increased expenses required to pay in each territory in accordance with the for the Company. There is also the risk of mistakes or laws and regulations laid down in each jurisdiction, a clear misinterpretation with regard to tax regulations, or that the internal framework is followed and regular internal checks tax authorities in a particular country may not agree with the are performed. Intrum shall not make transactions with the conclusion reached by Intrum on some particular matter of main or sole purpose to generate a tax advantage. assessment. The risk is particularly substantial with regard to value added tax (VAT), since a systematic error could cause a rapid build-up of large amounts. H Credit risk Intrum’s counterparties may be unable to meet their Cash and cash equivalents: Deposited at established banks obligations towards the Company. Financial assets that where the risk of loss is considered remote. Accounts potentially are subject to the Group to credit risk include receivable: Most involve previously known customers cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, portfolio whose creditworthiness is good. The receivables are investments, outlays on behalf of clients, derivatives and both geographically and industrially diverse. Portfolio guarantees. investments: See below, and Note 34. I Portfolio investment risk Intrum acquires portfolios, primarily past-due consumer Purchased debt portfolios are usually purchased at prices receivables and takes efforts to collect on these. Unlike in significantly below the nominal value of the receivables, conventional collection operations in which we work on and Intrum retains the entire amount it collects, including behalf of clients in return for commissions and fees, in this interest and fees. See also Note 34. Our instructions require case, all the rights and risks associated with the receivables that we regularly collect information about our clients are assumed. The risk in this business is that Intrum, at the and their shareholder relationships. This means that the time of acquisition, overestimates its ability to collect the Company must sometimes refrain from doing business with amounts or underestimates the costs of collection. The counterparties deemed unsuitable. maximum theoretical risk is of course that the entire carrying value would become worthless and have to be written off. In addition, there are risks associated with the nature of portfolios, such as the type of receivables in the portfolios and their previous owners. Today, Intrum has portfolios of receivables that are secured, primarily in property, in ca 10 countries. Operational risks Intrum’s definition of operational risks is based on the Basel Committee’s principles for sound management of operational risks. Operational risks include risks linked to defective or failed internal processes, individuals and systems or from external events, including legal and compliance risks. Risks Description Management J Data protection risk In our operations, we are dependent on a large amount of Intrum prioritises privacy, and restricted and controlled information containing personal data. access to information. The fundamental principle is that, in accordance with applicable regulations, we only process personal data for which we have legal grounds to do so and that are necessary for our operations. All operating Group companies have appointed data protection officers who assure and regularly monitor our GDPR compliance. Further guidance can also be found in Intrum’s privacy and data protection instructions. Read more on pages 34–35. 62 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and risk management Risks Description Management K Political and regulatory Political developments at the national and international We continuously monitor regulatory developments in the risk level can have an impact on Intrum’s operations. Through countries in which we operate and cooperate pro-actively new regulations, political decisions or official action, with policy makers, both at the EU and national levels. A authorities can, influence the operations in both a positive number of units within the Group are subject to financial and a negative direction. supervision and are operated in accordance with specific regulations. L IT functionality and We depend on accessible and well-functioning IT systems. IT functionality and security risks are managed through security risk Interruptions and errors in business-critical systems a combination of technical and administrative controls, can pose risks to the operations and our reputation. such as regular checks and monitoring of systems, security Despite measures being taken, there is also a risk of illegal training, risk assessments, centralised logging, auditing and infringement into our systems providing unauthorised prevention of intrusion. access to information or loss of data due to malicious software. Intrum’s collection of payments also creates the risk of illegal exploitation of the Company’s trademark (phishing). M Employee risk Intrum’s employees are crucial to our success. We need to We attach great importance to clear values, good leadership attract and retain competent and motivated employees and continuous skills development. With our market-leading and managers and we work actively with skills development position, we can offer good development opportunities and health promotion measures in order to achieve set in different countries. We measure and monitor the goals. This obliges us to look after the well-being of our employees’ well-being and motivation annually. We carry employees. Dependency on key individuals also poses a risk out regular development interviews among our employees, to the business continuity. which aids good skills supply. Efforts to reduce key person dependency are in progress, supported by our work with business continuity and automation of processes to name a few initiatives. N Corruption risk Our employees face corruption, bribery and money We apply zero tolerance to corruption and bribery, and laundering attempts both internally and in relation this is established in our internal instructions and training. to external stakeholders. Thus, there is a risk that Among other things, these require that we regularly employees will use their position of power in order to collect information about our clients and their shareholder benefit themselves, or to influence decision makers. relationships. Our regulatory compliance function works Like other companies, Intrum also risks being exploited to identify, evaluate and manage risks in this area, as well as for laundering money from criminal activities, through to train our organisation. All employees are asked to report insufficient knowledge of our clients or through the payment suspected cases of corruption or illegal activity through transactions undertaken. Intrum’s whistleblower channel, which is provided in the local language and can be reached 24 hours a day. It is also possible to submit a report anonymously. O Reputational risk A good reputation is crucial to being able to successfully Our Code of Conduct plays a central role in the operations conduct debt collection operations in the long term. and describes the view of Intrum’s role in society, our values, It is therefore extremely important that our customers our relationship with our stakeholders and sustainability (consumers) are always treated fairly and equally. Generally, issues. We also expect our suppliers to comply with confidence risks are of great importance for the Company’s our Code of Conduct. At the end of 2019/beginning of relationship with all stakeholders; clients, customers, 2020, a new digital training programme on our Code of employees, board members, investors, authorities and Conduct was launched, targeting all employees. Suspected suppliers. irregularities are reported through internal reporting channels or through the whistleblower function. The compliance function, and the authorities, also follow up our collection companies regularly to ensure that good collection practices are applied throughout the Group. P Epidemic and An epidemic or pandemic with long-term consequences Intrum has business continuity plans for all markets and pandemic risk for society and the corporate world also affects Intrum, units within the company. In these plans, different measures as we interact with a large number of both companies for dealing with potential situations are being described, in and individuals across all our markets. During the first case of for example offices are being shut or employees are quarter 2020, the spread of Covid-19 has vastly impacted prohibited to come to work due to illness. Our employees’ companies and individual around the world. health and security is Intrum’s top priority. All our units have during March 2020 executed their continuity plans in order to, as far as it is possible, ensure business continuity also during a continuous negative development. During the first quarter 2020, Intrum has revised the business guidelines and also introduced temporary guidelines for how to treat customers during this Covid-19 situation. Intrum co-operates with local authorities, and follows their guidelines and recommendations. Q Climate risk We work to minimise our negative impact on the Through Intrum’s environmental instructions and Code environment in areas where we have the opportunity of Conduct, we work to reduce our environmental and to make a difference. Climate change may pose a risk to climate footprint. For the past two years, we have measured Intrum’s operations in the longer term. This may involve Intrum’s climate footprint and drawn up local environmental purchasing portfolios of secure assets, for example, where plans to reduce this. When acquiring portfolios of secure property values could change in climate-exposed areas. assets, the climate is one of the aspects assessed in relation to our collateral. The risk is relatively low as our sales horizon is around 10-15 years. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 63 Financial statements Contents Group Note Income statement 65 1 Significant accounting and valuation principles 72 Balance sheet 66 2 Information by geographical region and service line 78 Cash flow statement 68 3 Revenue distribution 79 Changes in shareholders’ 69 4 Amortisation and depreciation 79 equity 5 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 79 6 Financial income 79 Parent Company 7 Financial expenses 79 Income statement 70 8 Taxes 80 Balance sheet 70 9 Earnings per share 81 Cash flow statement 71 10 Intangible fixed assets 81 Changes in shareholders’ 71 11 Tangible fixed assets 82 equity 12 Group companies 83 Notes 72 13 Associated companies and joint ventures 85 14 Purchased debt 86 15 Other long-term receivables 86 16 Accounts receivable 86 17 Other receivables 86 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 87 19 Liquid assets 87 20 Equity 87 21 Pensions 87 22 Other provisions 88 23 Borrowing 88 24 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 89 25 Pledged assets, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 89 26 Average number of employees 90 27 Salaries and remunerations 91 28 Terms and conditions of employment for senior executives 91 29 Auditor’s fees 92 30 Leasing 92 31 Investing commitments 92 32 Financial instruments 93 33 Financial risks and financial policies 93 34 Acquisitions of operations 96 35 Critical estimates and assumptions 96 36 Related parties 97 37 Reconciliation of key figures 97 38 Discontinued operations 98 39 Events after the reporting year 98 64 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Income from customers 2, 3 9,368 7,240 Income from portfolio investments in accordance with the effective interest method 14 6,589 6,114 Positive revaluations of portfolio investments 14 920 795 Negative revaluations of portfolio investments 14 –892 –707 Total revenues 2, 3 15,985 13,442 Cost of goods and services sold 3 –9,807 –7,369 Gross earnings 6,178 6,073 Sales, marketing and administration expenses 3 –2,553 –2,170 Goodwill impairment 4 –2,700 0 Provisions for credit losses on accounts receivable 16 –44 –31 Participations in joint ventures 5 1,179 106 Operating earnings (EBIT) 2, 3, 4 2,060 3,978 Financial income 6 63 60 Financial expenses 7 –1,984 –1,423 Net financial items –1,921 –1,363 Profit before tax 139 2,615 Taxes 8 –424 –599 Net earnings for the year from continuing operations –285 2,016 Earnings for the period from discontinued operations after tax 38 0 –73 Net earnings for the year –285 1,943 Of which, attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders –362 1,936 Non-controlling interests 12 77 7 Net earnings for the year –285 1,943 Earnings per share before and after dilution 9 Average number of shares before and after dilution, thousands 131,066 131,391 Earnings from continuing operations –2.76 14.73 Earnings from discontinued operations 0.00 –0.56 Total earnings per share before and after dilution –2.76 14.18 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net earnings for the year –285 1,943 Other comprehensive income, items to be reallocated to earnings: The year’s change in translation reserve attributable to the translation of foreign operations 1,021 1,867 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to hedging of currency risks in foreign –703 –1,320 operations Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 318 547 Other comprehensive income, items not to be reallocated to earnings: Revaluations of pension liability for the year 8, 21 –32 6 Total other comprehensive income 286 553 Comprehensive income for the year 1 2,496 Of which, attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders –94 2,486 Non-controlling interests 95 10 Comprehensive income for the year 1 2,496 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 65 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Intangible fixed assets 10 Goodwill 33,358 33,055 Capitalised expenditure for IT development 611 393 Client relationships 6,079 3,670 Other intangible fixed assets 191 63 Total intangible fixed assets 40,239 37,181 Tangible fixed assets Rights of use 30 888 0 Property investments 0 256 Computer hardware 11 53 56 Other tangible fixed assets 11 159 181 Total tangible fixed assets 1,100 493 Other fixed assets Shares and participations in joint ventures 13 6,539 4,746 Other shares and participations 0 1 Portfolio investments 14 28,508 24,830 Deferred tax assets 8 1,300 620 Other long-term receivables 15 183 33 Total other fixed assets 36,530 30,230 Total fixed assets 77,869 67,904 Current assets Accounts receivable 16 1,860 719 Property holdings 382 2,429 Client funds 1,060 917 Tax assets 382 273 Other receivables 17 1,334 1,553 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 1,343 890 Liquid assets 19 1,906 1,348 Total current assets 8,267 8,129 TOTAL ASSETS 86,136 76,033 66 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial statements SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 20 Share capital 3 3 Other paid-in capital 18,237 18,237 Reserves 1,475 1,175 Retained earnings including net earnings for the year 2,299 4,251 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 22,014 23,666 Shareholders’ equity attributable to non-controlling interests 12 2,879 2,006 Total shareholders’ equity 24,893 25,672 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 23 6,186 6,534 Bond loan 23 40,644 33,254 Non-current lease assets 474 0 Other long-term liabilities 1,303 395 Provisions for pensions 21 387 263 Other long-term provisions 22 19 5 Deferred tax liabilities 8 1,938 1,729 Total long-term liabilities 50,951 42,180 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 23 0 296 Bond loan 23 1,000 1,000 Commercial papers 23 2,794 2,123 Client funds payable 1,060 917 Accounts payable 512 488 Income tax liabilities 422 241 Advances from clients 88 59 Current lease assets 443 0 Other current liabilities 810 852 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 3,014 2,056 Other short-term provisions 22 149 149 Total current liabilities 10,292 8,181 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 86,136 76,033 For information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 67 Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from continuing operations Operating activities Operating earnings (EBIT) 2 2,060 3,978 Not included in cash flow: Amortisation/depreciation and impairment 4, 10, 11 4,284 900 Amortisation/revaluation of portfolio investments 14 4,146 3,854 Other adjustments for items not included in cash flow 2 –1,059 –351 Interest received 62 60 Interest paid –1,454 –1,244 Payments for other financial expenses –474 –42 Income tax paid –802 –590 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 6,763 6,565 Changes in factoring receivables –47 –67 Other changes in working capital –324 –344 Cash flow from operating activities 6,392 6,154 Investing activities Purchases of intangible fixed assets 10 –247 –232 Purchases of tangible fixed assets 11 –452 –74 Portfolio investments in receivables and property holdings 14 –7,323 –6,872 Purchases of shares in subsidiaries and associated companies 34 –5,135 –8,587 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired/divested subsidiaries 34 384 –400 Divestments of shares in subsidiaries and associated companies 1,199 7,511 Other cash flow from investing activities –72 729 Cash flow from investing activities –11,646 –7,925 Financing activities Borrowings 95,943 24,963 Amortisation of loans –88,714 –21,430 Share repurchases –86 –56 Share dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders –1,247 –1,250 Share dividend to non-controlling interests –58 0 Cash flow from financing activities 5,838 2,227 Cash flows from continuing operations 584 456 Cash flows from discontinued operations 0 –372 Change in liquid assets 584 84 Opening balance of liquid assets 1,348 1,253 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents –26 11 Closing balance of liquid assets 19 1,906 1,348 Of which, cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations Discontinued operations Cash flow from operating activities 0 13 Cash flow from investing activities 0 –589 Cash flow from financing activities 0 204 Group total Cash flow from operating activities 6,392 6,167 Cash flow from investing activities –11,646 –8,514 Cash flow from financing activities 5,838 2,431 68 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity See also Note 20. Other Retained earnings NonTotal Number of shares Share paid-in incl. net earnings controlling shareholders’ SEK M outstanding capital capital Reserves for the year Total interests equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 131,541,320 3 18,237 631 3,615 22,486 3 22,489 Comprehensive income, 2018 Net earnings for the year 1,936 1,936 7 1,943 Other comprehensive income for the year: The year’s change in translation 1,864 1,864 3 1,867 reserve attributable to the translation of foreign operations Comprehensive income for the year –1,401 –1,401 –1,401 attributable to hedging of currency risks in foreign operations Revaluations of pension liability for 8 8 8 the year Income tax on other comprehensive 81 –2 79 79 income Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 544 1,942 2,486 10 2,496 Transactions with Group owners in 2018 Share dividend –1,250 –1,250 –1,250 Share repurchases –250,000 –56 –56 –56 Acquired minority interest 0 1,993 1,993 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 131,291,320 3 18,237 1,175 4,251 23,666 2,006 25,672 Amended accounting principle in –155 –155 –155 accordance with IFRIC 23 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 131,291,320 3 18,237 1,175 4,096 23,511 2,006 25,517 Comprehensive income, 2019 Net earnings for the year –362 –362 77 –285 Other comprehensive income for the year: The year’s change in translation 1,003 1,003 18 1,021 reserve attributable to the translation of foreign operations Comprehensive income for the year –878 –878 –878 attributable to hedging of currency risks in foreign operations Revaluations of pension liability for –40 –40 –40 the year Income tax on other comprehensive 175 8 183 183 income Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 300 –394 –94 95 1 Transactions with Group owners in 2019 Share dividend –1,247 –1,247 –58 –1,305 Share repurchases –350,000 –86 –86 –86 Changes in Group structure –70 –70 836 766 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 130,941,320 3 18,237 1,475 2,299 22,014 2,879 24,893 At the end of 2019, exchange rate differences accumulated since the transition to IFRS amounted to SEK M 1,475 (1,175) including tax effects. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 69 Financial statements Parent Company Income statement Statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net revenues 3 402 215 Net earnings for the year –687 155 Gross earnings 402 215 Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income for the year –687 155 Sales and marketing expenses –25 –46 Administrative expenses 4 –793 –726 Operating earnings (EBIT) –416 –557 Income from participations in subsidiaries 6, 7 976 2,008 Exchange differences on monetary items 7 –578 –589 classified as expanded investment Interest income and similar items 1,297 1,017 Interest expenses and similar items 7 –2,062 –1,533 Net financial items –367 903 Profit before tax –783 346 Tax on net earnings for the year 8 96 –191 Net earnings for the year –687 155 Balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M Note 2019 2018 SEK M Note 2019 2018 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND Intangible fixed assets 10 LIABILITIES Capitalised expenditure for IT development 141 43 Shareholders’ equity 20 Total intangible fixed assets 141 43 Share capital 3 3 Statutory reserve 282 282 Tangible fixed assets 11 Total restricted equity 285 285 Computer hardware 13 5 Total tangible fixed assets 13 5 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 17,442 17,442 Financial fixed assets Earnings brought forward –2,613 –1,435 Participations in Group companies 13 34,137 30,812 Net earnings for the year 12 –687 155 Deferred tax asset 8 104 9 Total non–restricted equity 14,142 16,162 Receivables from Group companies 15 35,386 24,148 Total shareholders’ equity 14,427 16,447 Total financial fixed assets 69,627 54,969 Long-term liabilities Total fixed assets 69,781 55,017 Liabilities to credit institutions 23 6,187 6,534 Bond loan 23 40,645 33,254 Current assets Liabilities to Group companies 8 3,361 3,207 Current receivables Total long-term liabilities 50,193 42,995 Receivables from Group companies 1,213 11,467 Other receivables 17 23 13 Current liabilities Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 248 271 Overdraft facility 23 0 11 Total current receivables 1,484 11,751 Bond loan 23 1,000 1,000 Commercial papers 23 2,794 2,123 Liquid assets Accounts payable 72 33 Cash and bank balances 220 251 Liabilities to Group companies 1,994 3,825 Total liquid assets 220 251 Other current liabilities 4 3 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 1,001 582 Total current assets 38 1,704 12,002 Total current liabilities 6,865 7,577 TOTAL ASSETS 71,485 67,019 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND 71,485 67,019 LIABILITIES For information on pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. 70 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial statements Cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 SEK M Note 2019 2018 Financing activities Operating activities Borrowings 96,485 26,327 Operating earnings –416 –557 Amortisation of loans –88,140 –21,430 Amortisation/depreciation and impairment 61 5 Net loans to subsidiaries –2,862 –4,664 Interest received 1,298 1,017 Share dividend to Parent Company’s –1,247 –1,250 Interest paid –1,024 –1,351 shareholders Payments for other financial expenses –110 Share repurchases –86 –56 Cash flow from operating activities before –81 –996 Cash flow from financing activities 4,150 –1,073 changes in working capital Change in liquid assets –31 156 Changes in working capital –608 65 Cash flow from operating activities –689 –931 Opening balance of liquid assets 251 95 Closing balance of liquid assets 19 220 251 Investing activities Investments in intangible fixed assets –156 –38 Investments in tangible fixed assets –10 –5 Purchases of shares in subsidiaries and –3,326 –67 associated companies Disposal of subsidiary 1,907 Share dividend from subsidiaries 363 Cash flows from investing activities –3,492 2,160 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity See also Note 20. Earnings Net Total shareNumber of shares Statutory Share premium Fair value brought earnings for holders’ SEK M outstandingShare capital reserve reserve reserve forward the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 131,541,320 3 282 17,442 248 –380 17,595 Comprehensive income, 2018 Net earnings for the year 155 155 Other comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 Comprehensive income for the year 0 3 282 17,442 0 155 155 Disposition of previous year’s earnings –380 380 0 0 Transactions with Group owners in 2018 0 Share dividend –1,250 –1,250 Share repurchases 0 0 –53 –53 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 131,541,320 3 282 17,442 –1,435 155 16,447 Comprehensive income, 2019 Net earnings for the year –687 –687 Other comprehensive income for the year 0 Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 0 0 –687 –687 Disposition of previous year’s earnings 155 –155 0 Transactions with Group owners in 2019 0 Share dividend –1,247 –1,247 Share repurchases –350,000 –86 –86 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 131,191,320 3 282 17,442 –2,613 –687 14,427 Share capital and statutory reserve are restricted equity. Other items are non-restricted equity. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 71 Notes Notes Note 1 Significant accounting and valuation principles at the marginal loan rate. Intrum applied the modified retroactive method, General meaning that the effect of introducing IFRS 16 was recognised directly against The Parent Company Intrum AB (publ) is a registered company domiciled in the opening balance without the comparison figures being recalculated. The Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the Company’s headquarters is Hesselprincipal effects on Intrum’s accounting were that the Group’s total assets mans Torg 14, Nacka, SE–105 24 Stockholm, Sweden. During 2019, the Comincreased by SEK 709 M, calculated as per the beginning of 2019, with both an pany was listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, Large Cap list. asset and a liability being reported for leases in effect (and where the amount The consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the Comis updated annually), and with operating earnings improving over the first year pany’s Board of Directors on 1 April 2020. The balance sheets and income by SEK 43 M annually through the implicit interest expense in the leases being statements will be presented to the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020. reported in net financial items rather than in operating earnings. The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which Leases of low value (assets that, in new condition, have a value of less than is also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The approximately SEK 50,000) – primarily comprising IT and office equipment financial statements are therefore presented in SEK. All amounts, unless indi– are not included in the leasing debt but continues to be expensed on a cated otherwise, are rounded off to the nearest SEK M. straight-line bases over the lease term. Accordingly, the amended accounting The consolidated and annual accounts pertain to 1 January – 31 December relates mainly to rented office premises and cars. for income statement items and 31 December for balance sheet items. Intrum applies IFRIC 23 — Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, from 1 January 2019. IFRIC 23 requires that a reservation be made, based Accounting standards applied on a probability assessment, for all tax risks where it is probable that the tax With regard to the consolidated financial statements, the Annual Report for authorities, in the event of a full review, would disagree with the CompaIntrum AB (publ) has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts ny’s assessment. In conjunction with the introduction of IFRIC 23, Intrum has Act and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the increased its provisions for potential tax disputes attributable to intra-Group International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Group applies IFRS as transactions. The effect is an increase of SEK 155 M in the Group’s income tax adopted by the European Union (EU). For 2018 and 2019, there are no new liabilities, which is reported directly against the opening balance without the accounting standards relevant to Intrum in the IFRS issued by the IASB that comparison figures being translated. have not yet been adopted by the EU. This means that the Group’s applicaOther changes to IFRS are not expected to have any material effect on the tion of IFRS as adopted by the EU during the year also corresponds to the consolidated accounts. application of IFRS as issued by the IASB. Further, recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary accounting rules for Classification issues groups from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board has been applied. Fixed assets and long-term liabilities in the Parent Company and the Group The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the consist of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than twelve Group except in the cases stated in the section “Parent Company accountmonths after the balance sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities in ing principles”. the Parent Company and the Group consist of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within twelve months of the balance sheet date. Assumptions Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, with the exception of Consolidation certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value. In subsidiaries The preparation of financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the The Group applies IFRS 3 Business combinations and IFRS 10 Consolidated Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions financial statements. that affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying valThe consolidated accounts include the annual accounts of all subsidiarues of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumptions ies, i.e., companies in which the Parent Company, directly or indirectly, holds are based on historical experience and a number of other factors that under more than 50 percent of the votes or otherwise can exercise control over current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of these estimates and operations. A controlling interest is achieved when the Group is exposed to, or assumptions is then used to determine the carrying values of assets and liahas rights to variable returns from, its commitment to the Company and is able bilities that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outto affect returns by means of its decisive influence. An influence arises when comes may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. the Group has existing rights enabling it to control the relevant operations, Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates that is, the operations that significantly affect the Company’s performance. are recognised in the period in which the change is made, provided it has The consolidated accounts are prepared according to the acquisition affected only this period, or the period the change was made and future perimethod, which means that the acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a transods if the change affects both current and future periods. action where the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and takes Estimates made by the Company that have a significant impact on the over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Group’s equity therefore financial statements and estimates, which could necessitate significant includes only the portion of the subsidiary’s equity added since acquisition. adjustments in financial statements in subsequent years, are described in The Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis in connection more detail in Note 36. with the acquisition. The analysis determines the cost of the shares or operThe accounting principles described below for the Group have been ations as well as the fair value of acquired, identifiable assets and assumed applied consistently for all periods in the Group’s financial statements, unless liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost of the subsidiary’s shares or otherwise indicated. The Group’s accounting principles have been applied operations consists of the fair value of the compensation on the transfer date consistently in the consolidation of the Parent Company, subsidiaries, assoand transaction expenses directly attributable to the acquisition. The cost ciated companies and joint ventures. includes conditional purchase considerations recognised as liabilities at fair value per the acquisition date. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Changes in accounting principles In acquisitions where the cost exceeds the net value of acquired assets Accounting standards that entered into force in 2019 and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported The Group applies IFRS 16 Leases as of 2019. IFRS 16 stipulates that for both as goodwill. When the difference is negative, it is recognised directly through financial and operational leases of significance, a right of use asset and a lease profit or loss. liability are to be recognised. The exception is short-term leases and lease Non-controlling interests arise in cases where the acquisition does agreements for lower-value assets, for which lease fees are expensed on a not relate to the entire subsidiary. There are two options for recognising straight-line basis. The right of use asset is recognised with linear amortisation non-controlling interests. The two options are to recognise the percentage of over the term of the contract or the assessed financial lifetime of the asset, non-controlling interests that makes up proportional net assets, or to recogwhichever is shorter. The lease liability is recognised including interest expenses nise non-controlling interests at fair value, which means that non-controlling in accordance with the effective interest rate method. The introduction of IFRS interests form a percentage of goodwill. The method used for recognising 16 entails lease liabilities being recognised for lease agreements previously non-controlling interests is made on a case by case basis. classified as operational leases in accordance with IAS 17. These liabilities are The financial reports of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated valued at the present value of the future minimum lease payments, discounted accounts from the acquisition date until control ceases. 72 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and unrealfinancial items if they refer to financial investments and borrowing in foreign ised gains and losses that arise from transactions within the Group are elimicurrency. nated in their entirety in the consolidated accounts. To avoid exchange rate differences, receivables and liabilities in foreign Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies and currency are sometimes hedged through forward exchange contracts. The joint ventures are eliminated to a degree corresponding to the Group’s ownGroup’s holding of forward exchange contracts is marked to market on each ership of those companies. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way balance sheet date, and changes in value are recognised through profit or loss. as unrealised gains, to the extent there is an indication of impairment. Translation of the financial statements of foreign operations Associated companies and joint ventures Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other The Group applies IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures, and Group surplus and deficit values, are translated from the functional curIFRS 11 Joint arrangements. rency to the Group’s reporting currency, Swedish kronor, at the exchange Associated companies are companies that are not subsidiaries but where rate on balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at the averthe Parent Company, directly or indirectly, has at least 20 percent of the age rate, which serves as an approximation of the rate that applied on each votes or otherwise exercises significant influence without having control over transaction date. Translation differences arise in the translation of subsidthe partly owned company. iary accounts in part because the balance sheet date rate changes each Participations in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised period and in part because the average rate deviates from balance sheet date in the consolidated accounts according to the equity method, which means rate. Translation differences are recognised directly in total comprehensive that the holding in the company is recognised at cost and subsequently income as the year’s change in the translation reserve. adjusted to the Group’s share of the change in the associated company’s net Long-term receivables and liabilities between the Parent Company and assets. The value of the shares includes goodwill from the acquisition. The subsidiaries can be seen as an extension or reduction of the net investment consolidated income statement includes the Group’s participation in the in each company. If this is the case, translation differences are recognised company’s earnings less goodwill impairment. The amount is reported under under other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements. Participations in the earnings of associates and joint ventures. Dividends When foreign operations are sold, accumulated translation differences received from the company are not recognised in the income statement and attributable to those operations are realised. instead reduce the carrying value of the investment. The Group has hedged certain cash flows in a foreign currency by entering Any difference between the cost of an acquisition and the owner’s share into a series of forward exchange contracts. The effects of market valuation of the net fair value of the associated company’s identifiable assets, liabilities of the forward exchange contracts are initially reported in other comprehenand contingent liabilities is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3. sive income, but are recognised in operating profit in pace with the reporting The equity method is applied from the date a significant influence arises of the planned underlying cash flows. until the time it ceases or the associated company becomes a subsidiary. If the Group’s share of reported losses in the company exceeds the carryFinancial assets and liabilities ing value of its participations, the value of those participations is reduced to The Group applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IFRS 9 Finannil. Losses can also be offset against the Group’s unsecured receivables from cial Instruments, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IFRS 13 Fair the company if they constitute part of the net investment. Further losses are Value Measurement. not recognised provided the Group has not issued guarantees to cover them. A financial instrument is any form of agreement giving rise to a financial asset in a company and a financial liability or equity instrument in a Joint ventures counterparty. The Group applies IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include, on the asset Joint arrangements pertain to companies in which Intrum and other side, cash and bank balances, accounts receivable and other equity instrupart-owners manage operations jointly in accordance with a shareholder ments, loans receivable, portfolio investments and derivatives. Client funds agreement. are recognised on a separate line in the balance sheet and therefore are not Joint arrangements classified as joint ventures are reported in the consolincluded in the Group’s reported liquid assets. Included among liabilities and idated accounts in accordance with the equity method. Joint ventures are equity are accounts payable, client funds payable, debt and equity instrucompanies in which the Group, through collaborative agreements, shares a ments in issue, loan liabilities and derivatives. controlling interest with one or more parties, such that the Group is entitled On initial recognition, financial assets (except accounts receivable with to net assets rather than having a direct entitlement to assets and responsino significant financing component) and financial liabilities are valued at fair bility for liabilities. Jointly owned companies are recognised at cost and subvalue plus (in the case of financial instruments not measured at fair value via sequently adjusted for the Group’s share of the change in the company’s net the income statement) transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisiassets. The consolidated income statement includes the Group’s share of tion or issue. Accounts receivable with no significant financing component earnings, and this is reported under Participations in the earnings of associates are valued at the transaction price. and joint ventures. Dividends received from joint ventures are not recognised On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as valued at amortised in the income statement and instead reduce the carrying value of the investcost, fair value via other comprehensive income or at fair value via the income ment. The equity method is applied from the date on which joint control is statement. Financial assets are not reclassified after initial recognition, unless gained until the date that it ceases or transitions to the sole influence of Intrum. the Group changes its business model for managing financial assets, in which Shared operations, usually conducted in a company format, are joint case all of the financial assets concerned are reclassified from the first day of arrangements in which Intrum and one or more partners are entitled to all of the reporting period commencing after the change in business model. the financial benefits related to the assets of the operations. Shared operaA financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when tions are reported according to the profit split method, meaning that each the Company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. Receivparty to a joint venture reports its share of assets, liabilities, income and ables are recognised when the Company has performed and there is a conexpenses. tractual obligation on the counterparty to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts receivable are recognised in the balance sheet when Foreign currency an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when the counterparty The Group applies IAS 21 Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. has performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Trade accounts payable are recognised when an Transactions in foreign currency invoice is received. A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when Group companies prepare their accounts in the local functional currency the rights in the agreement are realised, expire or the Company loses control in the country where they have their operations. Transactions in a currency over them. A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the other than the local currency are recognised at the exchange rate in effect obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. on the transaction day. When such transactions are offset or settled, the The fair value of listed financial assets corresponds to their listed market exchange rate may deviate from the one that applied on the transaction day, price on the balance sheet date. The fair value of unlisted financial assets is in which case a (realised) exchange rate difference arises. Moreover, monedetermined by using valuation techniques, e.g., recently conducted transtary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the exchange actions, the price of similar instruments and discounted cash flows. For forrates on each balance sheet date, due to which an (unrealised) exchange rate ward exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps, fair value is difference arises. Both realised and unrealised exchange rate differences of determined based on listed prices. The fair value of forward exchange conthis type are recognised in the income statement – in the operating result if, tracts and currency interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the diffor example, they refer to accounts receivable or accounts payable, or in net ference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 73 Notes be secured on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract period. The Accounts receivable current value is obtained by discounting applying the Group’s weighted averAccounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be received age cost of capital. For further information, see Note 34. after deducting impaired receivables, which are determined individually or according to statistical models based on historical experience in each counPortfolio investments try. Provisions are made for doubtful accounts receivable as the receivables Portfolio investments consist of portfolios of delinquent receivables purarise, for expected losses, and are, if necessary, adjusted over the term of the chased at prices significantly below the nominal receivable. Portfolio investclaim. The anticipated maturity of accounts receivable is short, so they are ments usually refer to receivables from private individuals and are often carried at amortised cost without discounting. unsecured receivables. They are reported in accordance with the rules for acquired impaired (“credit-impaired”) receivables in IFRS 9, that is, at amorLegal outlays tised cost applying the effective interest method and an effective interest The Group incurs outlays for court fees, legal representation, enforcement rate reflecting the degree to which the receivable is impaired. The portfolios authorities, etc., which can be charged to and collected from end-customers. are attributable to the third stage of credit risk in accordance with the classiIn certain cases Intrum has agreements with its clients where any expenses fication in IFRS 9. that cannot be collected from end-customers are instead refunded by the In the income statement, income from portfolio investments is recognised, clients. The amount that is expected to be recovered from a solvent counterin accordance with the effective interest rate method, as the collected party is recognised as an asset in the balance sheet on the line Other receivamount less amortisation. The collection is often performed by the same ables. The anticipated maturity of these receivable is short, so they are personnel who handle collections and debt surveillance on behalf of external carried at amortised cost without discounting. clients within the Credit Management service line. The cost of collection is debited internally at market price and expensed in the income statement for Client funds the Portfolio Investments service line as a cost of services sold. Client funds, which are reported as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, Reporting follows the effective interest method, where the carrying value represent cash received on collection of a specific debt on behalf of a client of each portfolio corresponds to the present value of all projected future and payable to the client within a specified period. Client funds are liquid funds cash flows discounted by an initial effective interest rate determined on the with a restricted disposition right. The same amount is reported as a liability. date the portfolio was acquired, based on the relation between cost and the projected future cash flows on the acquisition date. Changes in the carryCash and cash equivalents ing value of the portfolios are comprised of amortisation for the period and Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, as well as immediately are recognised in earnings as a deduction item in the calculation of income in available balances with banks and similar institutions. Short-term investaccordance with the effective interest method. ments consist of investments with an insignificant risk of fluctuating in value, In connection with the purchase of each portfolio of receivables, a prowhich can easily be converted to cash and have a maturity of not more than jection is made of the portfolio’s cash flows. Cash flows include the loan three months from acquisition. amount, reminder fees, collection fees and late interest that, based on a probability assessment, are expected to be received from end customers, Liabilities less forecast collection costs. With this forecast and the acquisition price The Group applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IFRS 9 Finanincluding transaction costs as a basis, each portfolio is assigned an initial cial Instruments, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IFRS 13 Fair effective interest rate that is then used to discount cash flows through the life Value Measurement. of the portfolio. A financial liability is any form of agreement involving a commitment to Current cash flow projections are monitored over the course of the year deliver liquid funds or other financial assets to a counterparty, or that can be and updated based on, among other things, achieved collection results, resolved by providing an equity instrument. agreements reached with end-customers on instalment plans and macroLiabilities are initially recognised at the amount received following deduceconomic information, including forecasts of economic development and tion of transaction costs. Subsequent to acquisition, loans are carried at unemployment in each country. Cash flow projections are made at the portamortised cost according to the effective rate method. Long-term liabilities folio level, since each portfolio of receivables consists of a small number of have an anticipated remaining maturity of more than one year, while shorthomogeneous amounts. On the basis of the updated cash flow projections term liabilities have a maturity of less than one year. The Group’s long-term and initial effective interest rate, a new carrying value for the portfolio is calloans generally have short fixed interest periods, which means that the nomiculated in the closing accounts. nal loan amount plus accrued interest is a good approximation of the liability The accounting model assumes each portfolio to be relatively homogecalculated according to the effective rate model. neous and comprising a large number of receivables for smaller amounts. Portfolios comprising individual larger receivables, generally receivables Accounts payable with underlying collateral in the form of properties, are valued on acquisition Accounts payable are valued at amortised cost. However, accounts payable and at the level of the receivables in ongoing reporting over the lifecycle of have a short anticipated maturity and are carried without being discounting the portfolio and not at the portfolio level. to a nominal amount. The Group applies internal application rules which mean that the initial effective interest rate can be adjusted in certain cases without a change in Derivative instruments the carrying value of the portfolio for minor projection adjustments within a Derivatives consist of forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and predetermined interval. currency interest rate swaps used to reduce interest and exchange rate Changes over time in the book value can be divided into an anticipated risks attributable to assets and liabilities in foreign currency. Derivatives are time and interest rate component (amortisation) and a component related also contractual terms embedded in other agreements. Embedded derivto changes in estimates of future cash flows (revaluation). The effects of atives are recognised separately if they are not closely related to the host changes in cash flow forecasts, including changes in the anticipated financial agreement. lifetime of the portfolio, are referred to as revaluations and treated symmetriForward exchange contracts are classified as financial assets or liabilically, i.e., both increases and decreases in forecast flows affect the portfolios’ ties recognised at fair value via the income statement (held for trade) and book value and, as a result, earnings. This means that certain portfolios may assessed at fair value without deductions for transaction expenses that may be valued at an amount higher than their cost. arise on sale or similar. Although selling portfolios of purchased debt is not included in the busiHedge accounting is not needed for forward exchange contracts because ness model, when such sales do occur as an exception, the resulting sales the hedged item and the hedging instrument are carried at the price on the price received for the portfolio is reported in the same way as if it had been balance sheet date with changes in value recognised in the income staterecovered from the end-customers. The entire remaining carrying values of ment as exchange rate differences. Changes in the value of operations-rethe portfolios are recognised as amortisation. lated receivables and liabilities are recognised in operating earnings, while changes in the value of financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in Long-term receivables and other receivables net financial items. Long-term receivables and other receivables are those that arise when the Currency interest rate swaps are valued at fair value and reported in the Company provides money without the intent to trade its claim. If the anticibalance sheet together with hedge accounting via Other comprehensive pated maturity is longer than one year they constitute long-term receivables, income. Currency interest rate swaps may be signed in connection with the and if it is shorter they are other receivables. These receivables are recGroup issuing bonds in one currency that need to be exchanged to another ognised at amortised cost. currency to hedge net investments in foreign operations where the loan currency has been used in the operations. 74 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Hedge accounting with regard to exchange rate risk in the net investment in reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at cost less accumulated amorforeign subsidiaries tisation and impairment losses. Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodwill) are to some extent hedged through loans in foreign currency or forward exchange Tangible fixed assets contracts that are translated on the closing date to the exchange rate then in The Group applies IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investeffect. Translation differences for the period on financial instruments used to ment Property. hedge a net investment in a Group company are recognised in the degree the Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost less accumulated deprecihedge is effective in total comprehensive income, while cumulative changes ation and impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and costs are recognised in equity (translation reserve). As a result, translation differdirectly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utiences that arise when Group companies are consolidated are neutralised. lised in the way intended. Examples of directly attributable costs are delivery and handling, installation, consulting services and legal services. DepreciaProperty holdings tion is booked on a straight-line basis over the asset’s anticipated useful life The Group applies IAS 2 Inventories. (3–5 years). Useful life is reassessed annually. In connection with acquisitions of portfolio investments and in connection Operational properties are properties that have been acquired to be leased with the recovery of collateral for acquired receivables, Intrum may become to others or used within the Group’s operations rather than being sold. They owners of property holdings or other physical goods. They have been are reported in accordance with the cost method, applying depreciation over acquired for the purpose of being divested within the Group’s ongoing operthe estimated useful life of the buildings. Additional expenses are capitalised ations, and are therefore classified as inventories. These are reported in the only to the extent that they increase value in relation to performance on the balance sheet at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. date on which the property was acquired. No depreciation is applied for land. When goods from these inventories are sold, the sales price received is The carrying value of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the balance recognised as income and the amount recognised as an inventory asset is sheet when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no economic benefits are reported among expenses for goods and services sold in the same period. expected from its use or disposal of the asset. The gain or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of an asset is comprised of the difference between the Intangible fixed assets sales price and the asset’s carrying value less direct costs to sell. Gains and Goodwill losses are recognised as other operating earnings. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and In connection with each closing date, a determination is made of each the fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and contingent asset’s residual value and useful life. liabilities. Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if it is If the Group’s cost of the acquired shares in a subsidiary exceeds the marlikely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the Company and the ket value of the subsidiary’s net assets according to the acquisition analysis, cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. the difference is recognised as Group goodwill. The goodwill that can arise through business combinations implemented through other than a purchase Leasing of shares is recognised in the same way. The Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. For business combinations where the cost is less than the net value of IFRS 16 stipulates that for leases of significance, a right of use asset and a acquired assets and assumed and contingent liabilities, the difference is reclease liability are to be recognised. The exception is short-term leases and ognised directly through profit or loss. lease agreements for lower-value assets, for which lease fees are expensed Goodwill is recognised at cost less accumulated impairment. The fair value on a straight-line basis. The right of use asset is recognised with linear amorof goodwill is determined annually for each cash-generating unit in relation tisation over the term of the contract. The lease liability is recognised includto the unit’s performance and anticipated future cash flow. If deemed necesing interest expenses in accordance with the effective interest rate method. sary, goodwill is written down on the basis of this evaluation. Intrum’s operThese liabilities are valued at the present value of the future minimum lease ations in each geographical region (Northern Europe, Central and Eastern payments, discounted at the marginal loan rate. Europe, Western and Southern Europe, as well as the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America) are, in this context, considered to be the Group’s cash-generTaxes ating units. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a company with a funcThe Group applies IAS 12 Income Taxes. tional currency other than SEK is recognised as an asset in the functional Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are reccurrency and translated in the accounts at the balance sheet date rate. ognised in the income statement unless the underlying transaction is recognised directly in other total comprehensive income and in shareholders’ Capitalised expenditure for IT development equity, in which case the related tax effect is recognised in other total comThe Group applies IAS 38 Intangible Assets. prehensive income and in shareholders’ equity. Expenditures for IT development and maintenance are generally expensed Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received during the year in question as incurred. Expenditures for software development that can be attributed to applying the tax rates applicable on the balance sheet date; which includes identifiable assets under the Group’s control and with anticipated future ecoadjustment of current tax attributable to previous periods. nomic benefits are capitalised and recognised as intangible assets. These capiDeferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on talised costs include staff costs for the development team and other direct and temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and indirect costs. Borrowing costs are included in the cost of qualified fixed assets. their value for tax purposes. The following temporary differences are not taken Additional expenditures for previously developed software, etc. are recinto account: temporary differences that arise in the initial reporting of goodognised as an asset in the balance sheet if they increase the future economic will, the initial reporting of assets and liabilities in a transaction other than a benefits of the specific asset to which they are attributable, e.g., by improving business combination and which, at the time of the transaction, do not affect or extending a computer programme’s functionality beyond its original use either the recognised or taxable result, or temporary differences attributable to and estimated useful life. participations in subsidiaries and associated companies that are not expected IT development costs that are recognised as intangible assets are amorto be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of deferred tax is tised using the straight-line method over their useful lives (3–5 years). Useful based on how the carrying values of assets or liabilities are expected to be reallife is reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at cost less accumulated ised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules amortisation and impairment losses. that have been set or essentially are set as of the balance sheet date. Costs associated with the maintenance of existing computer software are Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax-loss expensed as incurred. carryforwards are only recognised if it is likely they will be utilised within the foreseeable future. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no Client relationships longer considered likely they can be utilised. Client relationships that are recognised as fixed assets relate to fair value revaluations recognised upon acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3. They Shareholders’ equity are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life (5–10 Share repurchases and transaction expenses are recognised directly against years). Useful life is reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at cost less equity. Dividends are recognised as a liability after they are approved by the accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Annual General Meeting. Other intangible fixed assets Provisions Other intangible fixed assets relate to other acquired rights are amortised on The Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life (3–5 years). Useful life is Assets. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 75 Notes A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or Pension obligations informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is likely that an The Group’s pension obligations are, for the most part, secured through offioutflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and cial pension arrangements or insurance solutions. Pension obligations vary a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. The carrying amount for the between countries on the basis of legislation and different pension systems. provision is based on an assessment of the most likely outcome, and can be See also Note 21 for a further description. calculated by weighing the various possible outcomes and multiplying this by Defined contribution pension plans are plans where the Company’s oblitheir estimated probability. Where it is important when in time payment will gation is limited to the fees it has committed to pay. The size of the employbe made, provisions are estimated by discounting the forecast future cash ee’s pension depends in part on the fees the Company pays to an insurance flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market estimates of the company and in part on the return generated and actuarial factors. Consetime value of money and, where appropriate, the risks associated with the quently, it is the employee who assumes the investment risk and actuarial liability. risk. The Company’s obligations for defined contribution pension plans are A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restrucexpensed through the income statement as they are vested by employees turing plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun who render services on behalf of the Company. or been publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating For defined benefit pension plans, the pension obligation does not cease expenses. until the agreed pensions have been paid. The Group’s net obligation for A provision for termination costs is recognised only if the persons in quesdefined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estition have known or presumed to have expected to be terminated by the balmating future compensation the employees has earned in current and preance sheet date. vious periods; this compensation is discounted to its present value. The A provision is recognised for a loss-making contract when anticipated discount rate is the interest rate as per the balance sheet date on high-quality benefits that the Group expects to receive from a contract are less than the corporate bonds, including covered bonds, with a maturity that, if possible, unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the contract. corresponds to the Group’s pension obligations. The calculation is perA provision for dilapidation agreements on leased premises is recognised formed by an actuary using the so-called Projected Unit Credit Method. The if there is a contractual obligation to the landlord to restore the premises to a fair value of Intrum’s share of any investment assets as of the balance sheet certain condition when the lease expires. date is calculated as well. Actuarial gains and losses may arise in the determination of the present value of the obligation and the fair value of investment Unidentified receipts and excess payments assets. They arise either because the actual outcome deviates from previous The Group receives large volumes of payments from end-customers for itself assumptions or the assumptions change. All changes in value associated with and its clients. There are instances where the sender’s reference information such changes in assumptions are recognised in other comprehensive income. is missing or incorrect, which makes it difficult to allocate the payment to the The balance sheet value of pensions and similar obligations is therefore right case. There are also situations where payments are received on closed equivalent to the present value on the balance sheet date less the fair value cases. In such instances a reasonable search and attempt is made to contact of assets under management. the payment sender but, failing this, the payment is recognised as income Pension costs for service in the current period are reported in the operafter a certain interval. A provision is recognised in the balance sheet correating earnings, while the calculated interest expense on the pension liability sponding to the anticipated repayments of incorrectly received payments on and the interest income from assets under management are reported in net a probability analysis. financial items. Pension obligations in Sweden that are met through pension insurance Contingent liabilities premiums to Alecta in the so-called ITP 2 plan are reported as defined contriA contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible obligation that bution pension solutions. arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events or when there is an obligation that is not recBorrowing costs ognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that an outflow of The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. resources will be required. Costs to secure bank financing are amortised across the term of the loan as financial expenses in the consolidated income statement by applying the Impairment effective interest method. The amount is recognised in the balance sheet as a The Group applies IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. deduction to the loan liability. The carrying value of the Group’s assets, with certain exceptions, is The Group capitalises borrowing costs in the cost of qualifying assets, that tested on each balance sheet date for any indication of impairment. IAS 36 is is, fixed assets for substantial amounts with long periods of completion. No applied in the impairment testing of all assets except financial assets, which such investments have yet commenced. are valued in accordance with IAS 9, investment assets for pension liabilities, which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, and tax Revenue recognition assets, which are valued in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. The Group applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. If there is any indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable value is Intrum’s principal income derives from sales of collection services and estimated. For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminate from investments in portfolios of overdue receivables. Income from the coluseful life and intangible assets not yet brought into use, recoverable values lection services is reported in accordance with IFRS 15 and consists of colare calculated annually. If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolection fees, commissions, debtors’ fees and subscription income. Income lated for individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest level where from investments in portfolios of overdue receivables is reported in accoressentially independent cash flows can be identified, i.e., a cash-generating dance with IFRS 9 and consists of income from the portfolios, calculated unit. Intrum’s operations in each geographical region are considered to be according to the effective interest method, as well as positive and negative the Group’s cash-generating units in this regard. revaluations. Impairment is recognised when the carrying value of an asset or cash-genRevenue, consisting of commissions and collection fees, is recognised erating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment is recognised in the on collection of the claim. Subscription revenue is recognised proportionincome statement. Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit ately over the term of the underlying service contracts, which is usually one are mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately year. Revenue from other services is reported when the service has been peramong other assets in the unit. formed, at a particular point in time that is. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is the higher of their fair In addition to income from collection services and investments in portfolios value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is measured by discountof overdue receivables, Intrum has certain other income, the most important ing future cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the of which is income from property sales and income from property services. In risk-free rate of interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. addition, Intrum has certain smaller sources of income from, for example, payImpairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment of other assets is ment guarantees, credit information sales, customer account management, reversed if a change has been made in the assumptions that served as the consulting services, factoring operations and VAT recovery services. basis for determining the recoverable amount. Impairment is reversed only Income from property sales refer mainly to sales of properties acquired to the extent the carrying value of the assets following the reversal does not together with portfolios of overdue receivables and properties pledged as exceed the carrying value that the asset would have had if the impairment collateral accruing to Intrum on the settlement of the claim. Income from had not been recognised property services is generated in a single country, where Intrum has companies that sell services to property owners, such as tenant administration, Employee benefits property valuations, key management and relocation of tenants. The Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 76 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Income from property sales and from property services are reported sepakia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary and Austria), Western and Southrately from other income in Note 2, as they are of greater importance in terms ern Europe (Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK), as of their amounts than the smaller items in other income, and, where they are well as the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America (Spain, Portugal and Brazil). considered different from one another and from Intrum’s other income with Central and joint expenses are spread across the geographical regions in proregard to their terms, nature and risk. These are not usually reported sepaportion to their purchasing power parity-adjusted revenues. The break-down rately in interim reports, presentations to investors or internal reports to the by geographical region is also used for internal monitoring in the Group. CEO, however. As of 2020, new operating segments will be applied: Credit Management To a certain extent, Intrum owns properties that are to be sold within the Services (CMS), Portfolio Investments (PI) and Strategic Markets (Greece, ordinary course of business. The properties are usually acquired together with Italy and Spain). portfolios of overdue receivables, by taking possession of pledged assets or Among other things, Note 2 details net revenue and operating earnings through acquisition at executive auction called for to liquidate pledged assets by geographic region. However, interest income, interest expenses, assets where Intrum is the creditor for the underlying receivable. The properties are and liabilities are not reported by segment. This is not considered relevant reported as inventory assets applying the valuation rules in IAS 2. because the distribution of financial items and parts of the balance sheet is Sales of properties constituting inventory assets are reported gross, that is, dependent on Group structure and financing, which are not affected by the the sales amount received is recognised as income in the income statement, actual performance of the regions. Nor are actual reported interest income, while the reported value of the property is reported as cost of goods sold. interest expenses, assets and liabilities by segment included in any internal Income from property sales is reported when the control passes to the reporting to the CEO. buyer when the buyer gains access to the property. Parent Company’s accounting principles Financial income and expenses The Parent Company has prepared the Annual Report according to the Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on bank balAnnual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting ances and receivables and interest-bearing securities, bank fees, interest for Legal Entities from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, realised and that the Parent Company, in the annual report for the legal entity, must apply unrealised gains on financial investments, and derivatives used in financial all EU-approved IFRS and statements as far as possible within the framework operations. of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between reporting and taxation. The recommendation specifies exemptions and addiPayment guarantees tions relative to IFRS. Intrum offers some of the Group’s clients the opportunity, against payment, As of 2019, Intrum has made a new interpretation of the rules in RFR 2 to obtain a guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from Accounting legal entities, entailing the Parent Company’s exchange rate diftheir customers. The guarantee entails an undertaking by Intrum to acquire ferences attributable to the hedging of the Group’s exchange rate risk in the receivable from the creditor at its nominal value, or a certain part thereof, foreign operations no longer being reported under Other comprehensive once it has fallen overdue for payment by a certain number of days. The income but under Net financial items in the Parent Company’s income stateincome, in the form of a guarantee fee, is recognised when the guarantees are ment. Comparison figures for the preceding year were recalculated in the issued, while a liability is recognised in the balance sheet for expected losses same way. The amended interpretation with regard to the Parent Company’s related to those guarantees. If the debtor fails to make payment, Intrum accounting has no impact on the consolidated financial statements. acquires the claim. The disbursement is then recognised as portfolio investments, less the liability recognised when the guarantee was issued. Differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s accounting principles Cash flow statement The differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s accountThe Group applies IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements. ing principles are indicated below. The accounting principles for the Parent The cash flow statement includes changes in the balance of liquid assets. Company as stated below have been applied consistently to all periods preThe Group’s liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances. Cash flow is sented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. divided into cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures Cash flow from investing activities includes only actual disbursements for Shares in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are recinvestments during the year. Disbursements for the purchase of portfolios of ognised by the Parent Company at cost, including transaction costs less any overdue receivables are reported under cash flow from investing activities, impairment. Only dividends received are recognised as income. Credit risks while the collection and repayment of such portfolios are reported under in the Parent Company’s receivables from subsidiaries have been considcash flow from operating activities. ered, showing no significant need for impairment. Foreign subsidiaries’ transactions are translated in the cash flow statement at the average exchange rate for the period. Acquired and divested subsidiarGroup contributions and shareholders’ contributions for legal entities ies are recognised as cash flow from investing activities, net, after deducting The Company reports Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions in liquid assets in the acquired or divested company. accordance with statement RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Group contributions received are recognised as dividends and Group conEarnings per share tributions paid are recognised as shareholders’ contributions. Shareholders’ The Group applies IAS 33 Earnings per Share. contributions are recognised directly in the shareholders’ equity of the recipiEarnings per share consist of net earnings for the year (attributable to the ent and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, Parent Company’s shareholders) divided by a weighted average number of to the extent impairment is not required. outstanding shares during the year. In this context, treasury holdings of repurchased shares are not included in outstanding shares. With regard to treaOther sury shares that may be reissued in the future to fulfil commitments under the The presentation format for the Parent Company’s income statement and balincentive programme for company management, no dilution effect is calcuance sheet follows the rules in the Annual Accounts Act, which deviate marlated until the vesting requirements of the incentive programme have been ginally from the consolidated presentation format in accordance with IFRS. met. The accounting rules for leasing in accordance with IFRS 16 that are applied in the consolidated accounts are also applied in the Parent CompaSegments ny’s accounts. The Group applies IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Intrum has also made a new interpretation of the rules in RFR 2 AccountAn operating segment is a part of the Group from which it can generate ing legal entities, entailing the Parent Company’s exchange rate differences income and incur expenses and for which separate financial information is attributable to the hedging of the Group’s exchange rate risk in foreign operavailable. that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, ations no longer being reported under Other comprehensive income but i.e. the CEO in deciding how to assess performance and allocate resources to under Net financial items in the Parent Company’s income statement. Comthe operating segment. parison figures for the preceding year were recalculated in the same way. The Intrum’s operating segments are the geographical regions of Northern amended interpretation with regard to the Parent Company’s accounting has Europe (Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Sweden), no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Central and Eastern Europe (Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, SlovaAnnual and Sustainability Report 2019 77 Notes Group Note 2 Information by geographical region and service line SEK M 2019 2018 Information by geographic region and service line Investments in tangible and intangible fixed assets Group Northern Europe 79 78 SEK M 2019 2018 Central & Eastern Europe 72 65 Net revenues by geographical region from external Western & Southern Europe 36 74 Northern Europe 4,125 3,980 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 164 22 Central & Eastern Europe 4,862 3,790 Group-wide/eliminations 176 56 Western & Southern Europe 3,519 2,564 Total 527 296 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 3,479 3,109 Total 15,985 13,442 Amortisation/depreciation, impairment including goodwill Income from customers Northern Europe –228 –93 Northern Europe 2,683 2,650 Central & Eastern Europe –222 –97 Central & Eastern Europe 1,564 1,016 Western & Southern Europe –360 –94 Western & Southern Europe 2,552 1,461 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America –3,354 –520 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 2,569 2,113 Group-wide/eliminations –121 –96 Total 9,368 7,240 Total –4,285 –900 Income from portfolio investments in accordance Goodwill impairment with the effective interest method Iberian Peninsula & Latin America –2,700 Northern Europe 1,428 1,330 Total –2,700 – Central & Eastern Europe 3,302 2,774 Western & Southern Europe 977 1,103 Not included in cash flow Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 910 995 Northern Europe 69 –27 Total 6,617 6,202 Central & Eastern Europe 106 –32 Western & Southern Europe –1,215 –122 Total 15,985 13,442 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 62 –206 Group-wide/eliminations –80 36 Net revenues from external clients by country Total –1,058 –351 Spain 2,212 2,689 Norway 1,575 1,587 Participations in associated companies Italy 1,473 578 Northern Europe 0 Hungary 1,434 1,197 Central & Eastern Europe 0 Finland 1,061 1,026 Western & Southern Europe 1,248 106 Germany 940 857 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America –69 France 940 1,019 Group-wide/eliminations 0 Sweden 925 882 Total 1,179 106 Other countries 5,425 3,606 Total 15,985 13,442 Net revenues from external clients by service line Credit Management 9,368 7,240 Intra-Group revenues by geographical region Financial Services 6,617 6,202 Northern Europe 360 336 Total 15,985 13,442 Central & Eastern Europe 804 737 Western & Southern Europe 409 372 Net revenues by service line Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 312 267 Credit Management 11,450 9,480 Elimination –1,885 –1,711 Financial Services 7,069 6,394 Total 0 0 Elimination of inter-service line revenue –2,534 –2,432 Total 15,985 13,442 Operating earnings by geographical region Northern Europe 1,206 1,294 Operating earnings by service line Central & Eastern Europe 1,965 1,377 Credit Management –415 2,433 Western & Southern Europe 1,464 228 Financial Services 4,961 3,600 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America –2,575 1,079 Central expenses –2,486 –2,055 Total operating earnings 2,060 3,978 Total 2,060 3,978 Net financial items –1,921 –1,364 No individual customer is responsible for generating more than 4 percent of Profit before tax 139 2,615 total consolidated revenue. The distribution of revenues and earnings by geographical region is based on where clients are located. Assets by country The geographical regions are Northern Europe (Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Norway 9,742 9,359 Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Sweden), Central & Eastern Europe (Greece, Spain 9,275 10,382 Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Germany, HunItaly 5,894 5,909 gary and Austria), Western & Southern Europe (Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Germany 3,877 3,788 the Netherlands and the UK) and Iberian Peninsula & Latin America (Spain, Greece 3,764 51 Portugal and Brasil). Central and joint expenses are spread across the geoFrance 1,537 1,490 graphical regions in proportion to their purchasing power parity-adjusted Finland 1,259 1,213 revenues. The break-down by geographical region is also used for internal Other countries 5,990 5,484 monitoring in the Group. Total 41,338 37,674 Intra-Group sales between the regions are made on commercial terms. Internal transactions between the business areas Financial Services and 78 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Credit Management Services relate to payment on commercial terms for Depreciation has been charged to each function as an operating expense as work carried out within Credit Management regarding handling and collecfollows: tion of the Group’s purchased debt. Payment is made in the form of a comCosts mission that is recognised as a cost within purchased debt, but which is Group Parent Company eliminated in the Consolidated Income Statement. SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income and expenses are not reported by segment. This is not Cost of sales –1,057 –766 –6 –5 considered relevant because the distribution of financial items is dependent on Group structure and financing and is not affected by the actual perforGoodwill depreciation –2,700 mance of the regions. Nor are actual reported interest income and expenses Sales and marketing –7 by segment included in any internal reporting to the CEO. expenses –520 –2 –56 Administrative expenses –132 Total –4,284 –900 –61 –5 Note 3 Revenue distribution Income Group Parent Company Note 5 Participations in associated companies and joint SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 ventures Income from customers Group Collection fees, commissions and 7,152 5,741 SEK M 2019 2018 debtor fees Joint ventures Subscription income 68 67 Itacha Investment DAC (Ireland) 1,247 106 Commission income from 25 9 Northwind Finco SL (Spain) –68 payment guarantees Total participations in earnings 1,179 106 Sale of properties 832 278 Income from Group companies 0 0 380 215 Property services 577 547 Other income 714 600 Note 6 Financial income Total 9,368 7,242 380 215 Group Parent Company SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Income from portfolio Interest income from Group 1,243 1,004 investments companies Collections on purchased debt 10,763 10,056 Other interest income 63 60 55 13 Amortisation of purchased debt –4,174 –3,942 Dividends from Group companies 216 195 Revaluation purchased debt 28 88 Group contributions received 965 2,968 Total income from portfolio 6,617 6,202 0 0 from Group companies investments Gain on disposal of participations 1,646 in Group companies Total 15,985 13,444 380 215 Total 63 60 2,479 5,826 Income from purchased debt consists of collected amounts less amortisaAll interest income is attributable to items that are not carried at fair value in tion, i.e., the decrease in the portfolios’ book value for the period. the income statement. Operating earnings in accordance with the effective interest rate method Costs include interest income attributable to portfolio investments amounting to Group Parent Company SEK 6,589 M (6,114), defined as the difference between the year’s collected SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 amount and amortisation for the year. Amortisation comprises the portion of the cost of the portfolio that, owing Personnel expenses –3,781 –4,253 –127 –202 to allocation under the effective interest method, accrues over the current Amortisation/depreciation and –4,284 –900 –61 –5 year. impairment Expenses for properties sold –202 –95 Impairment property inventories –18 –9 Other expenses –4,119 –4,313 –629 –565 Note 7 Financial expenses Total –12,404 –9,570 –818 –772 Group Parent Company SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest expenses to Group –128 –154 Note 4 Amortisation and depreciation companies Other interest expenses –1,686 –1,428 –1,793 –1,376 Group Parent Company Translation differences 18 19 –578 740 SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Expensed shareholder –43 –1,800 Capitalised expenditure for IT –427 –159 –56 –5 contributions to subsidiaries development Gain on disposal of participations –205 Client relationships –780 –596 in Group companies Other intangible fixed assets –64 –54 –2 Other financial expenses –273 –14 –141 –13 Computer hardware –31 –31 –2 Total –1,984 –1,423 –2,845 –2,603 Other tangible fixed assets –282 –60 –1 Goodwill impairment –2,700 All interest expenses pertain to items not carried at fair value via the income Total –4,284 –900 –61 –5 statement. Exchange rate differences from accounts receivable and accounts payable are reported in operating earnings. The amounts were negligible. Other financial expences includes –252 SEK M (0) related to early redemption of bonds and credit facilities Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 79 Notes Group 2019 2018 Note 8 Taxes Asset/ Income/ Asset/ Income/ The tax expense for the year breaks down as follows: SEK M liability expense liability expense Portfolio investments –1,538 –1,509 Group Intangible assets –288 –558 SEK M 2019 2018 Tax-loss carryforwards 1,193 935 Current tax Provisions for pensions 49 17 Tax expense attributable to net earnings for the year –594 –429 Other –54 6 Tax attributable to previous years –6 –58 Total –638 176 –1,109 –112 Deferred tax Deferred tax related to temporary differences –200 –127 Deferred tax assets 1,300 620 Deferred tax expense attributable to net of previously 375 15 Deferred tax liabilities –1,938 –1,729 capitalised and non-capitalised tax value in tax-loss Total –638 176 –1,109 –112 carryforwards Total tax expense –424 –599 The deferred tax assets and income tax liabilities are expected to be due for payment in over one year. Deferred tax assets are reported in the balance No tax is recognised for capital gains. sheet, when it is expected to be possible to offset the loss carryforwards The Group has operations in more than 20 countries in Europe, with variagainst taxable profits within the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets ous tax rates. The current tax expense for the year relates mainly to income and liabilities are reported net if they relate to the same tax authority or are taxes in Finland, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the Czech planned to be utilised simultaneously. Republic, Germany and Hungary. The Group’s Swedish companies paid no Intrum has reported net income in a foreign subsidiary in accordance with income tax for the relevant year as they were able to utilise tax-loss carryforthe so-called CFC taxation of earnings in foreign subsidiaries with low taxed wards from historic losses, as well as from the loss for the year attributable to income in the Swedish income tax returns. Income recognition has been interest expenses and exchange rate losses. Intrum AB is seated in Sweden based on accounting in accordance with Swiss law and a deferred tax liability where the nominal corporate tax rate is 21.4 percent. The following reconhas been recognised, attributable to temporary differences in the accountciliation explains the difference between the Group’s actual tax cost and the ing period, which also affected the income statement . The income recogniexpected tax cost taking the Swedish corporate tax rate into account: tion will be adjusted in accordance with Swedish accounting rules, entailing a Group 2019 2018 reduction in deferred tax liabilities for portfolio investments, which will partly Reconciliation of effective tax rate SEK M % SEK M % be offset by loss carryforwards and an increased current tax liability. Profit before tax 139 2,615 The Group has tax-loss carryforwards that can be utilised against future Income tax calculated at –29.7 21.4 –575 22.0 taxable surpluses totalling SEK 5.952 M (6.293). standard rate in Sweden, 21.4 Deferred tax assets related to loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 1,193 percent M at 31 December 2019 and include SEK 854 M in Sweden, SEK 163 M in Norway, SEK 68 M in Spain, SEK 38 M in the Netherlands, SEK 36 M in Italy, SEK 18 Effect of different tax rates in –115 82.8 121 –4.6 M in the UK and SEK 15 M in Austria. other countries As a consequence of the costs for the head office expenses and financing Tax effect of tax-exempt income –561 404.5 –48 1.8 costs, the Parent Company has for several years incurred a tax deficit, even and non-deductible expenses when taking in to account the Group contributions received from the profUnrecognised tax assets –70 50.3 –82 3.1 itable companies conducting business in Sweden. In accordance with CFC pertaining to tax-loss taxation and investments in profit participating notes in foreign subsidiaries carryforwards liable for taxation in Sweden, the assessment is that the loss carryforwards Utilised previously unrecognised 375 –270.6 14 –0.5 can be utilised. tax assets pertaining to tax-loss Loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax assets are reported relate carryforwards primarily to the UK with SEK 461 M, Denmark with SEK 44 M, Sweden with Adjustments to previous years –24 17.3 –29 1.1 SEK 44 M and Italy with SEK 21 M. and other Tax expenses reported in other comprehensive income during the year Total tax on net earnings for the –424 305.7 –599 22.9 amounted to SEK 174 M (79), of which SEK 175 M (81) pertained to currency year hedging and SEK –5 M (–2) pertained to revaluations of pension provisions. The tax effect of implementing the new accounting principle/IFRIC 23 was SEK –154 M and is reported directly against shareholders’ equity. Non-deductible costs are mainly attributable to goodwill impairment in Iberian Peninsula & Latin America. Parent Company 2019 2018 Unrecognised tax assets regarding tax-loss carryforwards relate to the negative tax effect during the year attributable to losses in countries where no Reconciliation of Parent Company deferred tax asset is recognised because it is not probable that enough taxtax rate SEK M % SEK M % able surplus will arise within the foreseeable future. Utilised previously Loss after financial items –783 1,666 unrecognised tax assets pertaining to tax-loss carryforwards relate to the Income tax calculated at positive tax effect over the year arising through the utilisation of tax-loss carstandard rate in Sweden, ryforwards never previously recognised as deferred tax assets. 21.4 percent 167 21.4 –367 22.0 When differences arise between the tax value and carrying value of assets Tax effect of tax-exempt income –72 –9.2 176 –10.5 and liabilities, a deferred tax asset or tax liability is recognised. Such tempoand non-deductible expenses rary differences mainly arise for portfolio investments, provisions for penUtilised previously unrecognised 0 0.0 sions and intangible assets. Deferred tax assets include the value of tax-loss tax assets pertaining to tax-loss carryforwards in the instances where they are likely to be utilised to offset carryforwards taxable surpluses within the foreseeable future. Total tax on net earnings for the 96 12.2 –191 11.4 year Non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses in the Parent Company consist primarily of dividends from subsidiaries, as well as gains on disposals of shares. At the end of the year, the Parent Company had accumulated loss carryforwards of SEK 487 M (68). To the extent that it is expected to be possible to utilise them against future taxable surpluses, deferred tax assets are reported for these loss carryforwards in the amount of SEK 104 M (8). 80 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Group Parent Company Note 9 Earnings per share SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Client relationships SEK M 2019 2018 Acquisition cost, opening balance 5,209 3,954 Net earnings for the year attributable to Parent –362 2,009 Investments 90 10 Company’s shareholders, continuing operations Capitalised expenditures for the 0 (SEK M) year Net earnings for the year attributable to Parent – –73 Disposals 0 -979 Company’s shareholders, discontinued Reclassification 165 0 operations (SEK M) Purchased via acquisition 2,896 2,059 Net earnings for the year attributable to Parent –362 1,936 Translation differences 56 165 Company’s shareholders, total (SEK M) Amortisation/depreciation, 8,416 5,209 0 0 Number of shares at beginning of year 131,291,320 131,541,320 closing balance Share repurchases –350,000 –250,000 Number of shares at end of year 130,941,320 131,291,320 Amortisation/depreciation, –1,539 –1,251 Weighted average no. of shares during the year 131,065,782 131,390,632 opening balance before and after dilution Disposals 0 359 Earnings per share before and after dilution: Reclassification 0 1 Earnings from continuing operations (SEK) –2.76 14.73 Amortisation/depreciation for –780 –594 Earnings from discontinued operations (SEK) 0.00 –0.56 the year Total earnings per share before and after –2.76 14.18 Translation differences –18 –54 dilution (SEK) Amortisation/depreciation, –2,337 –1,539 0 0 There are no instruments outstanding that could lead to dilution. closing balance Planned residual value, closing 6,079 3,670 balance Note 10 Intangible fixed assets Other intangible fixed assets Group Parent Company Acquisition cost, opening balance 379 338 3 0 SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Discontinued operations 0 0 Goodwill Capitalised expenditures for the 15 22 16 3 Acquisition cost, opening balance 33,055 29,565 year Acquisitions for the year 2,414 2,235 Disposals –16 0 Impairment for the year –2,700 Reclassification 0 0 Adjustment PPA 177 Purchased via acquisition 170 Reclassification –165 0 Translation differences 11 19 Translation differences 754 1,078 Accumulated acquisition cost, 559 379 19 3 Carrying values, closing balance 33,358 33,055 closing balance Capitalised expenditure for IT Amortisation/depreciation, –312 –253 0 development opening balance Acquisition cost, opening balance 1,658 1,455 67 31 Discontinued operations 0 10 Capitalised expenditures for the 332 190 139 36 Disposals 24 0 year Reclassification 0 0 Disposals –95 –47 0 0 Amortisation/depreciation for –64 –54 –2 0 Reclassification 0 0 0 0 the year Purchased via acquisition 256 Translation differences –11 –15 Translation differences 27 60 Accumulated impairment, –363 –312 –2 0 Accumulated acquisition cost, 2,178 1,658 206 67 closing balance closing balance Amortisation/depreciation, –1,242 –1,091 –10 –5 Impairments, opening balance –4 –4 opening balance Impairments for the year 0 0 Discontinued operations 0 0 Accumulated impairment, –4 –4 0 0 Disposals 95 14 closing balance Reclassification 0 0 Amortisation/depreciation for –420 –159 –56 –5 Planned residual value, closing 192 63 17 3 the year balance Translation differences –23 –6 Accumulated impairment, –1,545 –1,242 –66 –10 Goodwill closing balance MSEK 2019 2018 Northern Europe 12,544 12,223 Impairments, opening balance –23 –23 –16 –16 Central & Eastern Europe 7,005 5,486 Impairments for the year 0 0 Western & Southern Europe 6,249 6,229 Disposals 0 0 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America 7,559 9,117 Translation differences 0 0 Total 33,357 33,055 Accumulated impairment, –23 –23 –16 –16 closing balance Planned residual value, closing 611 393 124 41 balance Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 81 Notes Impairment testing of goodwill for each cash-generating unit was done prior to preparation of the annual accounts. The recoverable amount is deterNote 11 Tangible fixed assets mined through an estimation of its value in use. For each cash-generatGroup Parent Company ing unit, management has compiled a projection of annual future cash flows SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 based on historical experience and the Company’s own plans and estimates Property investments for the future. The calculation is generally based on a detailed forecast for Acquisition cost, opening balance 256 0 the years 2020–2022 and thereafter an annual increase of 1 percent. ExcepPurchased via acquisition 256 tions are for Iberian Peninsula & Latin America where the assumption for the Sales and disposals -256 period after 2022 is an everlasting growth in cash flows that are essentially Accumulated acquisition cost, 0 256 unchanged. closing balance The cash flows have been discounted to present value applying the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which is estimated at 6.0 percent (6.2) per year before tax, corresponding to 4.2 percent (4.8) per year after Computer hardware tax. Acquisition cost, opening balance 328 322 6 1 The recoverable amount has been compared for each unit with the Investments for the year 42 24 9 5 Group’s net book value of the unit’s assets and liabilities. Sales and disposals -78 -5 Impairment testing is based on a number of assumptions, where the outReclassification 3 -27 come is judged to be most sensitive to some of those assumptions in parPurchased via acquisition 0 ticular: For 2021, annual revenue growth of 4 percent (4) is assumed, and for Divested through business sales 2022, 4 percent (1), with each SEK 1,000 in increased revenue being assumed Translation differences 6 14 to result in an increase in working capital of SEK 250 (250), that is, an “increAccumulated acquisition cost, 301 328 15 6 mental increase in earnings” of 25 percent (25). For the period after 2022, closing balance perpetual growth in cash flow of 1 percent (1) annually is assumed. Most of the assumptions were applied for all four geographical regions. The same disAmortisation/depreciation, -272 -264 -1 -1 count rates were also applied, since no significant long-term difference can opening balance be identified between the regions’ growth potential or risk. Sales and disposals 63 7 With these assumptions, it was necessary to impair goodwill attributReclassification -2 27 able to the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America region by approximately SEK Purchased via acquisition 0 2.7 billion as a consequence of challenges in Spain and lower earnings levDivested through business sales 0 els compared to previous periods with other market conditions. There is no Amortisation/depreciation for -31 -30 -2 need for impairment for the other three regions. the year Translation differences -5 -12 Sensitivity analysis Amortisation/depreciation, -247 -272 -3 -1 A sensitivity analysis has been performed, in which cash flows have been closing balance discounted at 6 percent interest after tax. With this assumption, it was necessary to impair goodwill attributable to the Iberian Peninsula and Latin Planned residual value, closing 54 56 12 5 America region by approximately SEK 3 billion, in addition to the aforemenbalance tioned approximately SEK 2.7 billion, and Western and Southern Europe approximately SEK 1.8 billion. Other equipment Acquisition cost, opening balance 594 530 Discontinued operations -1 Investments for the year 48 53 Sales and disposals -75 -14 Reclassification -8 0 Purchased via acquisition 21 5 Divested through business sales 0 Translation differences 10 21 Accumulated acquisition cost, 590 594 0 0 closing balance Amortisation/depreciation, -413 -343 opening balance Discontinued operations -4 Sales and disposals 55 10 Reclassification 2 0 Purchased via acquisition -15 0 Divested through business sales 0 Amortisation/depreciation for -53 -60 0 the year Translation differences -8 -16 Amortisation/depreciation, -432 -413 0 closing balance Planned residual value, closing 158 181 0 0 balance Disbursements during the year regarding investments in tangible fixed assets for the Group amounted to SEK 452 M (74) 82 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Share of Note 12 Group companies Corp. identity no. Domicile capital SEK M No. of shares 2019 2018 Latvia Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, 729 37 37 SIA Intrum Global Technologies 40103314641 Riga 100% S.A Netherlands Intrum A/S, Denmark 40 377 188 Intrum BV 33.273.472 Amsterdam 100% Intrum Estonia AS, Estonia 430 1 1 Norway Intrum Finans AB 66,050,000 75 75 Lock TopCo AS 913,852,508 Oslo 100% Intrum Oy, Finland 14,000 1,649 1,649 Poland Intrum SAS, France 5,000 345 345 Intrum Spzoo 5212885709 Warsaw 100% Intrum Holding Greece AE 24,000 21 0 Intrum K & WKP SK 000270515 Wroclaw 99% Intrum Global Technologies SIA, Latvia 2,000 0 0 Intrum Detektyw Spzoo 0000223801 Wroclaw 100% Intrum BV, Netherlands 40 377 377 Intrum Service Spzoo 0000364126 Wroclaw 100% Intrum Portugal Unipessoal Lda. 68,585 71 71 Portugal Intrum AG, Switzerland 7,000 942 942 Intrum Portugal Unipessoal Lda. 503,933,180 Lisbon 100% Intrum Justitia Ibérica S.A.U., Spain 600.000 107 32 Intrum Real Estate Management 514,167,041 Lisbon 100% Intrum Holding Spain S.A.U. Spain 3,314,468 3,067 0 Portugal SA Intrum UK Group Ltd, UK 88,100,002 0 0 Romania Intrum Sverige AB, Sweden 22,000 1,749 1,749 Intrum Romania SA 18496757 Bucharest 100% Intrum International AB, Sweden 1,000 601 601 Intrum Financial IFN SA 39041618 Bucharest 100% Intrum Financial Services GmbH 0 0 36 Switzerland Intrum Austria GmbH 72,673 37 37 Intrum AG CH-020.3.020.656-9 Zurich 100% Intrum Spzoo, Poland 40,000 0 0 Inkasso Med AG CH-020.3.913.313-8 Zurich 70% Intrum Romania SA, Romania 39 26 16 Byjuno AG CH-020.3.921.420-2 Zug 100% Intrum Financial IFN SA 3,000,000 30 30 Intrum Finance Service AG CH-020.3.912.665-1 Zurich 100% Lock TopCo AS, Norway 861,952,839 24,625 24,626 Intrum Brugg AG CH-400.3.023.076-0 Brugg 100% Total carrying value 34,137 30,812 Spain Intrum Justitia Ibérica S.A.U. A28923712 Madrid 100% Opening balances 30,812 25,777 Segestion Gabinete Tecnico B61210696 Madrid 100% Acquisition 3,503 67 Empresarial, S.L Capital contributions paid 295 5,254 Seguridad en la gestión, S.L B58182973 Madrid 100% Impairment of shares in subsidiaries -437 0 Intrum Holding Spain SAU A86128147 Madrid 100% Disposal -36 -286 Intrum Servicing SAU A85582377 Madrid 100% Closing balance 34,137 30,812 Intrum Spain Real Estate S.L.U. B88174131 Madrid 100% Lindorff Iberia Holding SLU B87523262 Madrid 100% Disposals in 2018 refer to acquisitions of shares in Intrum Brasil Consultoria Aktua Soluciones Financieras B86538279 Madrid 85% e Participaçoes, S.A, Brazil, Intrum Holding Greece AE, Greece and Intrum Holdings SL Financial IFN SA, Romania. Aktua Soluciones Financieras SL B84983956 Madrid 100% Disposals in 2019 refer to acquisitions of shares in Fair Pay Please AS, NorAktua Soluciones Immobiliaras SLU B50509447 Madrid 100% way (divested to the Lowell Group, as part of the compensation required as a condition of the Lindorff Group merger) and Intrum Justitia SpA, Italy Solvia Servicios Inmobilarios SL B62718549 Madrid 80% (divested to Intrum Italy Holding srl). UK Disposals in 2019 refer to disposals of shares in Intrum Financial Services Intrum UK Group Ltd 03515447 Reigate 100% GmbH (divested by Intrum Finanzholding Deutschland GmbH, owned by Intrum UK Holdings 2 Ltd 01356148 Reigate 100% Intrum Holding AB). Intrum UK 2 Ltd 01918920 Reigate 100% Acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries in 2019 refer to the acquisition of Intrum UK Funding Ltd 05265651 Reigate 100% shares in Intrum Holding Spain S.A.U. Spain and Intrum Spzoo, Poland (both Intrum UK Acquisitions Ltd 05265652 Reigate 100% acquired from Intrum Holding AB). Intrum UK Holdings Ltd 04325074 Reigate 100% The Parent Company of the Group is Intrum AB (publ) with corporate Intrum UK Ltd 03752940 Reigate 100% identity number 556607-7581 and domiciled in Stockholm. The Group’s subIntrum UK Finance Ltd 04140507 Reigate 100% sidiaries are listed below. Intrum UK Finance 6 Ltd 07694793 Reigate 100% Share of Intrum UK Finance 7 Ltd 07694791 Reigate 100% Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Intrum UK Finance 8 Ltd 07694764 Reigate 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum AB (publ) and Intrum UK Finance 9 Ltd 08149397 Reigate 100% their subsidiaries in the same country Sweden Brazil Intrum Sverige AB 556134-1248 Stockholm 100% Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Partic29.063.190 São Paulo 51% ipaçoes, S.A. (formerly Iplatform Intrum Intl AB 556570-1181 Stockholm 100% Consultoria e Paricipaçoes, S.A.) Intrum Finans AB 556885-5265 Stockholm 100% Denmark Austria Intrum A/S DK 10613779 Copenhagen 100% Intrum Austria GmbH FN 48800s Vienna 100% Estonia Intrum Estonia AS 10036074 Tallinn 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Sverige AB and their Finland subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Oy FI14702468 Helsinki 100% Luxembourg Intrum Rahoitus Oy FI25086904 Helsinki 100% Intrum Luxembourg sarl B 183336 Luxembourg 100% France Sweden Intrum SAS B322 760 497 Lyon 100% Intrum Delgivningsservice AB 556397-1414 Stockholm 100% Intrum Corporate SAS B797 546 769 Lyon 100% Intrum Shared Services AB 556992-4318 Stockholm 100% Socogestion SAS B414 613 539 Lyon 100% Cabinet PPN SAS B380 637 405 Vernon 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Intl AB and their subsidiaries in the same country Intractive SAS B431 312 677 Lille 100% Métropole Mauritius Greece Intrum Mauritius Ltd 127206 Port Louis 100% Intrum Holding Greece AE 800914045 Greece 100% Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 83 Notes Share of Share of Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Switzerland Subsidiary of Indif AB Intrum Debt Finance AG CH-020.3.020.910-7 Zug 100% Sweden Intrum Debt Finance Domestic AG CH-170.3.026.065-5 Zug 100% Intrum Holding AB 556723-5956 Stockholm 100% Intrum Licensing AG CH-020.3.926.747-8 Zug 100% Sweden Subsidiaries of Intrum Holding AB and Fair Pay Management AB 556239-1655 Stockholm 100% their subsidiaries in the same country Fair Pay Please AB 556259-8606 Stockholm 100% Finland Lindorff Finland Oy 1858518-2 Helsinki 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Debt Finance AG Ireland and their subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Investment No 1 DAC 584295 Dublin 100% Luxembourg Intrum Hellas DAC 613412 Dublin 100% LDF65 S.a r.l. B 134749 Luxembourg 100% Intrum Hellas 2 DAC 626396 Dublin 100% IDF Luxembourg S.a r.l. B188 281 Luxembourg 100% FAR Red Investment No 2 590912 Dublin 100% Poland Designated Activity Comp Intrum Justitia Towarzystwo 108-00-01-076 Warsaw 100% FAR Red Investment No 3 590795 Dublin 100% Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A Designated Activity Comp Intrum Justitia Debt Fund 1 108-00-01-900 Warsaw 100% Italy Fundusz Inwestycyjny Zamknięty LSF West Srl 09409950962 Milan 100% Niestandaryzowany Fundusz Intrum Italy Holding Srl 08724660967 Milan 100% Sekurytyzacyjny Cross Factor SPA 09490900157 Milan 100% Lindorff I NSFIZ RFI 752 Wroclaw 100% Isabel SPV Srl 04614020263 Milan 100% Intrum Italy Spa 10311000961 Milan 51% Subsidiaries of Fair Pay Please AB and FT Real Estate Srl 09421851008 Rome 100% their subsidiaries in the same country Alicudi SPV srl 04703580268 Conegliano 100% Belgium Veneto (TV) Intrum N.V BE 0426237301 Ghent 100% Latvia Outsourcing Partners N.V BE 0466643442 Ghent 100% Intrum Latvia SIA 40203088409 Riga 100% Lithuania Subsidiaries of Intrum BV and their Intrum Lietuva UAB 304615887 Vilnius 100% subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Global Business Services 303,326,659 Vilnius 100% France UAB FCT IJ Invest SAS — — 100% Netherlands Ireland Intrum Nederland Holding BV 08178741 Amsterdam 100% Intrum Ireland Ltd 175808 Dublin 100% Intrum Nederland BV 05025428 Amsterdam 100% Netherlands Mirus International BV 30150149 Amsterdam 100% Intrum Justitia Data Centre BV 27.306.188 Amsterdam 100% Marjoc I BV 08203108 Ede 100% Slovakia Norway Intrum Slovakia s. r. o. 35,831,154 Bratislava 100% Lindorff Holding Norway AS 992,984,899 Oslo 100% Czech Republic Lindorff AS 835,302,202 Oslo 100% Intrum Czech s.r.o. 27221971 Prague 100% Lindorff Obligations AS 945,153,547 Oslo 100% Hungary Poland Lakóingatlan-Forgalmazó Kft 01-09-268230 Budapest 100% Intrum Global Technologies 0000654943 Wroclaw 100% Intrum Justitia Zrt. 01-10-044857 Budapest 100% Spzoo Intrum Justitia ASC Kft 01-09-298952 Budapest 100% Sweden Intrum Hitel Zrt. 01-10-045485 Budapest 100% Intrum Holding 2 AB 556664-5460 Gothenburg 100% Lindorff International AB 559077-1274 Stockholm 100% Subsidiaries of Fair Pay Management AB Germany and their subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Finanzholding HRB 87998 Heppen100% Sweden Deutschland GmbH heim Intrum Invest AB 556786-4854 Varberg 100% Intrum Holding Deutschland HRB 88008 Heppen100% GmbH heim Subsidiaries of Intrum Spzoo Intrum Deutschland GmbH HRB 87484 Heppen100% and their subsidiaries in the heim same country DMV Debitorenmgt.– und HRB 81939 Hamburg 100% Sweden Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Intrum Holding AB 556723-5956 Stockholm 100% HIT Hanseatische InkassoHRB 52053 Hamburg 100% Treuhand GmbH Subsidiaries of Intrum Holding AB and AssetGate GmbH HRB 29415 Essen 100% their subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Financial Services GmbH HRB 4709 Darmstadt 100% Cyprus Intrum Justitia Bankenservices HRB 5345 Darmstadt 100% Casus Management Ltd HE 310705 Nicosia 100% GmbH Intrum Information Services HRB 85778 Darmstadt 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Holding Spain SAU Deutschland GmbH and their subsidiaries in the same country Colombia Subsidiaries of Lindorff Investment DAC No 1 and Intrum Colombia SAS 900965120 Bogota 100% their subsidiaries in the same country Greece Locairol ITG, S.L.U. B87882528 Madrid 100% Intrum Hellas A.E.D.A.D.P. 801215902 Greece 80% Venira ITG, S.L.U. B88001128 Madrid 100% Greece Alternative REO 801212579 Greece 80% Solutions Single Member SA. Subsidiaries of Intrum Holding 2 AB Sweden and their subsidiaries in the same country Indif AB 556733-9915 Stockholm 100% Lindorff Capital AS 958.422.830 Oslo 100% 84 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Share of Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Note 13 Associated companies and joint ventures Companies without a shareholding that Koncernen are consolidated on the basis of contractual MSEK 2019 2018 controlling interest Joint venture Italy Ithaca Investment Designated Activity Company, 6,245 4,746 IJ DF Italy Srl 08438930961 Milan 100% Dublin Northwind Investments Holdings, S.L.U. 294 Subsidiaries that are not consolidated Summa joint ventures 6,539 4,746 but that are included in Note 13 Shares and participations in joint ventures Ithaca Investment DAC Ithaca Investment DAC 636421 Dublin 80% Since 2018, Intrum has held profit participating notes corresponding to 80 Penelope SPV S.R.L. 4934510266 Conegliano 20.9% percent of the capital in Ithaca Investment DAC. The company is subject, by Veneto (TV) agreement, to controlling influence shared by Intrum and CarVal Investors. Savoy Reoco S.R.L. 4949060265 Conegliano 0% Ithaca Investment DAC invests in junior notes and mezzanine loans issued by the Italian company Penelope SPV S.R.L., corresponding to 51 percent of Northwind Investments Holdings,B88213012 Madrid 50% the capital in Penelope SPV. Penelope has invested in overdue receivables S.L.U. acquired from Banca Intesa Sanpaolo in 2018. Penelope also controls propNorthwind Finco, S.L. B88250774 Madrid 40% erty company, Savoy Reoco S.R.L., which assumes control of seized colGlobal Zappa, S.L.U. B88208822 Madrid 40% lateral in the form of properties. Summary financial information on a 100 percent basis for Ithaca Investment DAC including the consolidated compaSubsidiaries in which the Company has holdings without a controlling nies Penelope SPV S.R.L. and Savoy Reoco S.R.L: interest (minority interests) Minority interest in Minority interests in Ithaca Investment DAC and Penelope SPV S.R.L equity earnings Income statement SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Inkasso Med AG, Switzerland 4 4 0 0 Total revenues 4,537 379 Intrum Brasil Consultoria e 6 7 -1 -3 Operating earnings (EBIT) 3,643 308 Participaçoes, S.A Net financial items -942 –75 Intrum Italy SPA 1,963 1,136 94 15 Profit before tax 2,701 233 CAF Spa 0 660 0 0 Taxes 0 0 Gextra Srl 0 25 -23 -5 Earnings for the period 2,701 233 Northwind Finco, S.L. 0 174 -1 0 Solvia Servicios Inmobilarios SL 361 0 -27 0 Of which, attributable to: Intrum Hellas A.F.D.A.D.P 544 0 34 0 Parent Company’s shareholders 1,593 132 Greece Alternative REO Solutions 1 0 1 0 Non-controlling interests 1,109 101 Single Member SA. Earnings for the period 2,701 233 Total 2,879 2,006 77 7 Balance sheet Ärtztekasse Genossenschaft Urdorf is a minority shareholder in Inkasso Med AG. SEK M 2019 2018 Private individual Lucilla Ines Tchira holds 49 percent of the shares in Assets Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, S.A. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA is a minority shareholder in Intrum Italy SpA, holding Other fixed assets 49 percent of the shares in that company. (CAF SpA and Gextra SrL, in which Portfolio investments 26,475 27,031 Intesa Sanpaulo SpA holds 49 percent of the shares, merged with Intrum Italy SpA in 2019). Current assets Northwind Finco, S.L. is no longer a subsidiary with minority ownership Property holdings 82 73 since 50 percent of the shares were sold to Solitare LB DAC (Napier Park Other receivables 513 137 Global) during the year. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 305 43 Banco Sabadell is a minority shareholder in Solvia Servicios Inmobilarios Cash and bank balances 1,584 1,096 SL, holding 20 percent of the shares in this company. Total assets 28,959 28,380 Piraeus Bank is a minority shareholder in Intrum Hellas A.E.D.A.D.P., holding 20 percent of the shares in this company. Piraeus Bank is a minority shareholder in Greece Alternative REO Solutions Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Single Member SA., holding 20 percent of the shares in this company. Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 1,676 135 In addition, Banco Santander holds 15 percent of the shares in Aktua SoluAttributable to non-controlling interests 1,196 98 ciones Financieras Holdings SL, which is not, however, reported as non-conTotal shareholders’ equity 2,872 234 trolling interest, but as a long-term liability to Santander, as there are mutual buy and sell options between the owners that Intrum assumed would be Interest-bearing liabilities 25,290 27,962 utilised. Current liabilities 206 78 Accrued income 592 107 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 28,959 28,380 Northwind Investments Holding Northwind refers to the Property Investment shares Intrum acquired from Ibercaja Banco SA at the end of 2018. Due to the divestment of shares to a co-investor during the first quarter of 2019 the shares are subsequently reported as a joint venture. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 85 Notes Note 14 Purchased debt Note 16 Accounts receivable Group Group SEK M 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Acquisition cost, opening balance 44,216 35,775 Non-delinquent receivables 974 402 Effect before tax of amended Accounts receivable < 30 days overdue 344 114 accounting principle in accordance with IFRS 9 56 Accounts receivable 30–60 days overdue 111 30 Purchased Debt 7,323 6,882 Accounts receivable 61–90 days overdue 126 29 Sales and disposals -65 Accounts receivable > 90 days overdue 381 175 Translation differences 1,080 1,568 Total accounts receivable 1,935 751 Accumulated acquisition cost, closing balance 52,619 44,216 Amortisation, opening balance –19,386 -14,626 Accumulated reserve expected credit losses, opening -31 -24 Amortisations and revaluations for the year -4,146 -3,854 balance Sales and disposals -12 Reserve for expected credit losses for the year -51 -17 Reclassification -24 -83 Realised client losses for the year 1 1 Translation differences -555 -811 Withdrawals from reserve for expected credit losses 5 9 Accumulated amortisation, closing balance -24,111 –19,386 for the year Translation difference 1 -1 Closing book value 28,508 24,830 Accumulated impaired receivables, closing balance -75 -31 Amortisation and revaluations for the year Carrying values 1,860 719 Group No collateral has been obtained regarding accounts receivable. In some SEK M 2019 2018 countries, it is possible to offset accounts receivable against funds collected Time and interest component -4,174 -3,942 for the same customer. Positive revaluations in connection with changes in 920 795 expectations in projections of future cash flows Negative revaluations in connection with changes in -892 -707 expectations in projections of future cash flows Total amortisation and revaluations for the year -4,146 -3,854 Note 17 Other receivables Group Parent Company Disbursements during the year regarding purchased debt investments SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 amounted to SEK 7,323 M (6,872). Outlays on behalf of clients 201 165 For a description of Intrum’s accounting policy for purchased debt, see Less: reserve for uncertainty in -6 -3 Note 1. outlays on behalf of clients Total 195 162 Factoring receivables 498 437 Note 15 Other long-term receivables Acquired VAT refund claims on 11 54 Group purchased debt SEK M 2019 2018 To be recovered from Netherlands 67 87 Deposits 175 16 bailiffs Loan receivables 8 17 Receivable, co-financier of joint 0 373 Total 183 33 venture Receivable, joint venture 52 145 Opening balances 33 36 Other 512 295 23 13 Paid -12 -3 Total 1,140 1,391 23 13 Repaid 162 0 Reported through acquisitions of subsidiaries 0 0 Carrying values 1,335 1,553 23 13 Carrying values 183 33 In the Netherlands, a VAT receivable arises in connection with portfolio investments. The VAT portion of the acquired receivable can be recovered from the tax authorities if it is not collected from the end-customer and is therefore recognised as a separate receivable. The portion that is expected to be recovered within 12 months is recognised as current. In the Netherlands, bailiffs are private companies and expenses for collection cases paid to them can sometimes be recovered from the bailiffs if their collection measures fail. When it emerges that Intrum is entitled to request that the amount be returned from the enforcement authorities, the amount is moved from Outlays on behalf of clients, to To recover from enforcement authorities. In the third quarter of 2019, Intrum reclassified a receivable as done in previious year to the acquisition cost for the ownership share in the joint venture and thus at a surplus value in the underlying assets. 86 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes Fair value reserve Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Refers to unrealised exchange rate gains or losses on external loans in forGroup Parent Company eign currency, which are intended to hedge the Group’s translation exposure attributable to net assets in foreign subsidiaries. The fair value reserve is SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 non-restricted equity. Prepaid rent 20 14 Prepaid insurance premiums 4 4 1 2 Earnings brought forward Prepaid expenses for purchased 2 58 Refer to retained earnings from the previous year less the dividend paid and debt share repurchases. Retained earnings are non-restricted equity. Accrued income 984 480 Derivative assets (forward 204 229 204 229 Capital structure exchange contracts) The Company’s definition of capital corresponds to shareholders’ equity Other 130 105 43 40 including holdings without a controlling interest, which at year-end totalled Total 1,344 890 248 272 SEK 24,893 M (25,672). The measure of the Company’s capital structure used for control purposes is consolidated net debt in relation to pro forma rolling 12-month-adjusted cash EBITDA, which at year-end amounted to 4.3 (4.3). This ratio is calcuNote 19 Liquid assets lated by placing current consolidated net debt at the end of the year in relation to pro forma cash EBITDA, including operations being phased out and Group Parent Company including a calculated cash EBITDA throughout the period for larger units SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 acquired during the year, and excluding non-recurring items (NRIs). Net debt Cash and bank balances 1,811 1,315 220 251 is defined as the sum of interest-bearing liabilities and pension provisions Restricted bank accounts 95 33 0 0 less liquid funds and interest-bearing receivables. Total 1,906 1,348 220 251 The Board of Directors has established financial targets for the Group, in which net debt divided by pro forma rolling 12-month-adjusted cash EBITDA, as stated above, shall be between 2.5 and 3.5 in the long term Note 20 Equity Share capital According to the Articles of Association of Intrum AB (publ), the Company’s Note 21 Pensions share capital will amount to not less than SEK 1,300,000 and not more than SEK Employees in Intrum’s companies are covered by various pension benefits, 5,200,000. All shares are fully paid in, carry equal voting rights and share equally some of which are defined benefit plans and others as defined contribution in the Company’s assets and earnings. No shares are reserved for transfer. plans. The Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which contains, among There are 131,541,320 shares in the Company, and the share capital other things, uniform regulations on the actuarial calculation of provisions for amounts to SEK 2,899,805.49. See below regarding repurchased shares. pensions in defined benefit plans. Group employees in Switzerland, and certain employees in Germany, are Share repurchase covered by pension plans funded through assets under the management In 2018, 250,000 shares were repurchased for SEK 56 M and, in 2019, of insurance companies and are reported as defined benefit pension plans. 350,000 shares were repurchased for SEK 86 M. Accordingly, the numOther employees in Germany and employees in Norway and Italy are covber of shares outstanding at the end of 2018 was 131,291,320 and, at the end ered by unfunded defined benefit pension plans that can be paid out as a of 2019, there were 130,941,320 shares. The average number of shares outone-time sum or as monthly payments following retirement. In France, the standing over the year was 131,065,782 (131,390,632). Company makes provisions for one-time payments made to employees on retirement, and these provisions are also reported according to the rules Other shareholders’ equity in the Group for defined benefit pension plans. In Belgium and Sweden, there are penOther paid-in capital sion plans, funded through insurance, which theoretically should have been Refers to equity other than share capital contributed by the owners or arising reported as defined benefit plans, but which are recognised as defined conowing to the Group’s shared-based payment programmes. Also included are tribution plans since the Company lacks sufficient data to report them as share premiums paid in connection with new issues. defined benefit plans. See also below regarding the ITP 2 plan. Among other things, IAS 19 requires pension costs for service in the current Reserves period to be reported in the operating earnings, while the calculated interest Includes the translation reserve, which contains all exchange rate differexpense on the pension liability and the interest income from assets under ences that have, since the transition to IFRS in 2004, arisen in the translation management are reported in net financial items. Actuarial revaluations are of financial statements from foreign operations as well as long-term intrarecognised in other comprehensive income. Group receivables and liabilities that represent an increase or decrease in the Provisions for pensions reported in the balance sheet can be analysed as Group’s net investment in the foreign operations. The amount also includes follows: exchange rate differences arising in the Parent Company’s external loans in Group foreign currency, which are intended to hedge the Group’s translation expoSEK M 2019 2018 sure attributable to net assets in foreign subsidiaries. Present value of fully or partly funded obligations 555 321 Retained earnings including net earnings for the year Fair value of plan assets -266 –253 Refer to earnings in the Parent Company and subsidiaries, joint ventures and Deficit in the plan 289 68 associated companies. Provisions to the statutory reserve, excluding transferred Present value of unfunded obligations 98 195 share premium reserves, were previously included in this item. Accumulated Total provisions for pensions 387 263 revaluations of the Group’s defined benefit pension provisions are also included. Dividends paid and share repurchases are deducted from the amount. Changes in net obligation: Following the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed a divGroup idend of SEK 11 per share (9.50), or a total estimated payout of SEK 1,440 M SEK M 2019 2018 (1,247). Opening balances 263 175 Expenses for employment in current year 21 15 Other shareholders’ equity in the Parent Company Interest expense 3 5 Statutory reserve Pensions paid -33 –19 Refers to provisions to the statutory reserve and share premium reserve prior to 2006. The statutory reserve is restricted equity and may not be reduced Pension provisions in acquired operations 88 86 through distributions of earnings. Revaluations 40 –8 Exchange rate differences 5 9 Share premium reserve Closing balance 387 263 When shares are issued at a premium, the amount exceeding their quota value is transferred to the share premium reserve. Provisions to the share premium reserve as of 2006 are non-restricted equity. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 87 Notes Reconciliation of fair value of assets under management: Group Note 22 Other provisions SEK M 2019 2018 Group Opening balance 253 243 SEK M 2019 2018 Fees paid 43 41 Opening balances 154 152 Compensation paid -44 –43 Amounts utilised during the year –99 –134 Interest revenue 2 2 Unutilised amounts reversed during the year -65 -18 Assets under management in acquired operations 0 0 New provisions for the year 146 33 Revaluations -7 –7 Provisions in acquired operations 29 114 Exchange rate differences 18 17 Provisions in divested operations 0 1 Closing balance 266 253 Translation differences 3 6 The pension cost recognised in the income statement can be specified as Closing balances 168 154 follows: Group Group SEK M 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Expenses for employment in current period 21 15 Of which, long-term provisions Net interest income/expense 3 5 Expenses for returning leased office premises to their 0 2 Total pension expense in net earnings for the year 24 20 original condition Personnel expenses 3 2 Costs for employment in the current period are reported in operating earnRent and additional costs 16 1 ings. Net interest income/expense is reported under net financial items. Revaluations of the pension liability are included in other comprehensive Of which, short-term provisions income in the amount of SEK 8 M (negative 18) before tax. In calculating Provisions for pensions, the following assumptions are used: Expenses for returning leased office premises to their 1 0 original condition Group Expenses for termination of personnel and other 91 0 % 2019 2018 restructuring expenses Discount rate 0.85-2.50 0.85–2.50 Additional purchase consideration for shares 0 138 Assumed rate of increase in compensation 1.0-2.5 1.0–2.5 Consulting (legal, tax and compliance) 2 11 Assumed return on assets under management 1.0-2.0 1.0–2.0 Other 55 0 Assumed pension increases 0.4-2.0 0.4–2.0 Total 168 154 Future adjustment to social security base 2.0-4.2 2.0–4.2 Current provisions are expected to be settled within 12 months from of the The Group also finances a number of defined contribution plans, Consolibalance sheet date. The Company reports the policies as an asset. dated expenses for these amounted to SEK 146 M (146). Funded defined benefit pension plans For Group employees in Switzerland, commitments exist in the form of obligatory service pension plans funded through insurance policies in the Swiss Life Note 23 Borrowing Collective BVG Foundation and in Transparenta BVG Foundation. The funded Group Parent Company commitments currently amount to SEK 335 M (307), and the fair value of the SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 assets under management is SEK 240 M (237). Consequently, the net pension Long-term liabilities liability is SEK 94 M (70). The pension commitment is funded through insurBank loans 6,186 6,534 6,186 6,534 ance contracts. During the year Intrum paid SEK 41 M (42) to the plan, while disBond loan 40,644 33,254 40,644 33,254 bursements to retirees amounted to SEK 56 M (43). Current liabilities For Group employees in Norway, mandatory occupational pensions comCommercial papers 2,794 2,123 2,794 2,123 mitments exist that were previously secured through a funded defined benefit pension solution, although these were replaced in 2019 by an unfunded Bond loan 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 defined benefit solution and a defined contribution solution. Bank loans 296 11 Total 50,624 43,207 50,624 42,922 ITP 2 plan The commitments for retirement and family pensions for the Group’s Swedish Since June 2017, Intrum AB has had a revolving syndicated loan facility totalemployees are secured through insurance with Alecta according to the so-called ling EUR 1,100 M with a bank consortium of five Nordic banks. In February ITP 1 and ITP 2 plans. ITP 1 includes employees born in 1979 or later, while ITP 2 2019, the banking group was expanded to six and the limit to EUR 1,375 M. covers employees born in 1978 or earlier. ITP 1 is a defined contribution plan. On The loan framework of EUR 1,375 M can be utilised for borrowing in a numthe other hand, according to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting ber of different currencies. As of 31 December 2019, the loan framework had Board, UFR 10, the ITP 2 plan is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Alecta’s been utilised for loans in Swedish kronor totalling SEK 6,186 M (6,534), in customers have not had access to such information for the fiscal year that would euro totalling EUR 435 M (295) and in Norwegian kronor totalling NOK 1,550 make allow them to report their proportional share of plan assets, liabilities and M (3,000). The unutilised portion of the facilities amounted to SEK 8,178 M costs, preventing it from being possible to report the plan as a defined benefit (4,241). The loan carries a variable interest rate based on the interbank rate plan. Nor is there a contractual agreement how surpluses and deficits in the plan in each currency, with a margin. All operational and financial covenants were are to be distributed among plan participants. The ITP 2 plan secured through fully met in 2019. insurance with Alecta is therefore reported by Intrum as if it were a defined conIn December 2019 a new agreement regarding a new syndicated loan tribution plan. The premium is individually calculated, depending on salary, facility of EUR 1,800 M was signed with a bank consortium of 14 banks. The previously vested pension and anticipated remaining term of employment. At facility has a duration of five plus one years and came into effect on 15 Januyear-end Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 142 perary 2020. In connection with this, the previous facility, agreed in June 2017, cent (154). The collective funding ratio consists of the market value of Alecta’s was annulled. The new loan facility contains operations-related and finanassets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Aleccial covenants, including limits on financial indicators. In addition, the new ta’s actuarial assumptions, which do not conform to IAS 19. Under the provisions credit agreement includes covenants that may restrict, condition or prohibit of the ITP 2 plan, measures must be taken if the funding ratio falls below 125 perthe Group from incurring additional debt, making acquisitions, disposing of cent (for example, in connection with an increase in the price of the subscription) assets, making capital and finance lease expenditures, allowing assets to be or exceed 155 percent (for example, in connection with a premium reduction). encumbered, changing the scope of the Group’s business and entering into a merger agreement. During 2017, Intrum AB issued public bonds divided into four tranches of a total EUR 2,700 M and SEK 3,000 M. In 2018, Intrum issued a public bond for SEK 1,000 M. In 2019, Intrum issued an MTN bond of SEK 2,000 M, which was later increased by SEK 900 M. In November, Intrum issued another bond of 88 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes SEK 1,100 M, upon which the MTN programme was fully utilised. In addition, Change in borrowings during the year Group Intrum issued two bonds of EUR 800 M and EUR 850 M, respectively, the Group liquidity was used to repay two bonds with variable interest rates (EUR 300 SEK M 2019 2018 M and SEK 3,000 M), and to reduce a fixed-rate bond by EUR 750 M, all of Opening balance 43,207 38,024 the earlier bonds had been issued in 2017 and were due to mature in 2022. In December 2019, a bond of EUR 75 M was issued with a maturity of five years Borrowings 96,485 24,963 and three months. Consequently, Intrum has outstanding bond loans for a Amortisation of loans -88,140 -21,430 total SEK 41,645 M (34,254). In 2019, Intrum also issued a commercial paper Acquisitions and divestments -57 286 that, at the end of the year, amounted to SEK 2,794 M (2,123). Translation differences -871 1,364 Closing balance 50,624 43,207 Bonds outstanding as per 31 December 2019 Interest rate for fixed-rate bonds and margin Designation Currency Nominal amount in SEK maturity date for variable-rate bondsMarket value of bond SEK 2020 Float SEK 1,000,000 1,000,000 6 July 2020 1.90% 1,005,890 SEK 2021 Float SEK 1,100,000 1,100,000 22 November 1.80% 1,102,074 2021 EUR 2022 Fix EUR 750,000 7,835,100 15 July 2022 2.75% 7,987,806 EUR 2013 Float PP EUR 160,000 1,671,488 22 June 2023 1.31% 1,651,130 SEK 2023 Float SEK 2,900,000 2,900,000 3 July 2023 3.25% 2,975,009 EUR 2024 FIX EUR 900,000 9,402,120 15 July 2024 3.13% 9,635,199 EUR 2025 FIX PP EUR 75,000 783,510 13 March 2025 3.00% 808,264 EUR 2026 FIX EUR 800,000 8,357,440 15 July 2026 3.50% 8,558,060 EUR 2027 FIX EUR 850,000 8,879,780 15 September 3.00% 8,755,641 2027 Total 41,929,438 42,479,073 Bonds with “Fix” in the denomination mature at fixed interest rates. Bonds with “Float” in the denomination mature at variable interest rates.Bonds with “PPP” in the denomination Private Placements. Maturities of long-term bank borrowings Note 24 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Maturities of long-term bank Accrued social security expenses 183 116 20 20 borrowings Accrued vacation pay 207 192 13 12 Between 1 and 2 years 1,100 1,000 1,100 1,000 Accrued bonus expense 205 241 51 55 Between 2 and 3 years 7,835 11,200 7,835 11,200 Prepaid subscription income 183 110 0 0 Between 3 and 4 years 4,572 21,466 4,572 21,466 Provisions for losses on charge 1 1 0 0 Between 4 and 5 years 10,185 1,646 10,185 1,646 card guarantees More than 5 years 17,237 9,233 17,237 9,233 Accrued interest 479 387 477 386 Total 40,929 44,545 40,929 44,545 Provision for expenses to pay 11 15 0 0 to collection authorities in the Unused lines of credit excluding Netherlands guarantee facility Individually related expenses 413 254 33 65 Expiring within one year 0 0 0 0 Derivatives 356 29 356 29 Expiring after more than one year 8,178 4,200 8,178 4,200 Office expenses 229 181 1 2 Total 8,178 4,200 8,178 4,200 Production costs 411 124 0 0 Other accrued expenses 337 407 50 14 Specification of maturity dates for short and long-term loans as per 31 Total 3,015 2,056 1,001 582 December 2019 SEK M 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Commercial papers 2,794 Bond loan 1,000 1,100 7,835 4,571 9,402 784 Note 25  ledged assets, contingent assets and contingent P Syndicated loan facility 6,186 liabilities Unutilised portion of facility 8,178 Group Parent Company Total 3,794 15,464 7,835 4,571 9,402 784 SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Specification of maturity dates for short and long-term loans as per 31 Pledged assets December 2018 Deposits 175 16 – – SEK M 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Restricted bank accounts 95 33 0 0 Commercial papers 2,124 Shares in subsidiaries 31,637 35,503 34,138 29,944 Bond loan 1,000 1,000 21,466 1,646 9,233 Total 31,907 35,552 34,138 29,944 Syndicated loan facility 7,000 Unutilised portion of facility 4,200 Contingent assets None None None None Total 3,124 1,000 11,200 21,466 1,646 9,233 Contingent liabilities Payment guarantees 92 120 – – Total 92 120 0 0 Pledged assets Pledged collateral includes deposits and restricted bank balances that can be claimed by clients, suppliers or authorities in the event that Intrum were not to meet its contractual obligations. Pledged collateral also includes shares in subsidiaries within the Group pledged as collateral for the Parent Company’s revolving credit facility. The Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 89 Notes reported value of pledged collateral in the table above refers to the consolitives for a competition commitment in his employment contract. Intrum has dated value of the subsidiaries’ net assets. won all disputes in the lower court, with the disputes over illegal dismissal having gained legal force and can no longer being possible to appeal. The remainPayment guarantees ing disputes are currently being addressed by the higher court. Intrum refutes The Group offers services whereby clients, against payment, obtain all of these claims. a guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from their In Poland, a dispute is in progress related to the acquisition of Casus Finanse customers. This entails a risk being incurred that Intrum must compensate S.A. in 2015. The dispute concerns the entitlement of the sellers, the former the customer for the guaranteed amount in the event that the invoices are management of Casus Finanse SA, to an additional purchase consideration and not paid on time. In those cases where the guarantee comes into play, Intrum remuneration for continued employment under the share transfer agreement. assumes the client’s claim against its customer and takes over the continued The former management of Casus Finanse SA was dismissed in December handling of the case within the Portfolio Investments area of operations. 2016, and Intrum’s position is that no entitlement to an additional purchase conAt the end of the year, the total amount guaranteed was SEK 92 M (120). sideration nor remuneration for continued employment applies. The dispute Intrum’s risk in this business is managed through strict credit limits and has been referred to the arbitration panel, which in December 2019 settled the analyses of the borrower’s credit status. As of year-end Intrum had allocated dispute substantially in Intrum’s favour. Although there is a theoretical possibilSEK 1 M (1) in the balance sheet to cover payments that may arise due to the ity for the counterparties to appeal against the arbitration panel’s ruling, the risk guarantee. of a successful appeal is considered small. The possible effect on the Group’s earnings of the above disputes is not Other assessed to be significant, and Intrum has made provisions for the disputes in In Spain, a number of disputes are in progress against two former executives, accordance with the anticipated outcome. attributable to their termination in June 2015. The disputes concern whether The Group is otherwise involved in disputes in the normal course of busithe dismissals were unlawful, the former executives’ entitlement to different ness. In the opinion of the Board, none of these disputes are expected to give bonuses and the entitlement to compensation for one of the former execurise to any significant cost. Note 26 Average number of employees Of which, the Parent Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Belgium 50 68 49 58 Brazil 10 9 13 10 Denmark 75 97 74 110 Estonia 4 20 5 20 Finland 124 324 120 324 France 196 451 200 443 Greece 76 103 Ireland 34 42 33 45 Italy 331 467 108 166 Latvia 168 91 148 73 Lithuania 100 247 59 220 Luxembourg 1 0 1 0 Mauritius 30 77 20 39 Netherlands 94 64 129 81 Norway 278 322 295 349 Poland 160 217 227 279 Portugal 69 141 77 150 Romania 63 136 65 117 Switzerland 123 128 130 140 Slovakia 34 62 34 65 Spain 736 1303 614 1,256 UK 83 96 65 82 Sweden 160 266 157 256 39 31 39 29 Czech Republic 28 51 32 46 Germany 147 347 157 340 Hungary 172 252 147 243 Austria 13 26 13 26 Total 3,359 5,407 2,972 4,938 39 31 39 29 Of the Group’s employees 21 percent are younger than 30 years old, 37 percent are 30–39 years old, 25 percent are 40–49 years old and 17 percent are 50 years old or older. 2019 2018 Men Women Men Women Gender distribution of senior executives Board of Directors 6 3 6 3 Group Management Team 9 2 10 3 Country Managers 19 3 20 3 Board members in subsidiaries 83% 17% 85% 15% Seven members of the Group Management Team are employees of the Parent Company. There is no special management team for the Parent Company. 90 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes earnings per share (EPS) is generally applied as a metric because this is conNote 27 Salaries and remunerations sidered a good indicator of the Group’s long-term success. As with the variGroup Parent Company able salary component, an effect of the programme’s design is that the salary cost varies alongside the Group’s financial performance. SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 The long-term incentive programme is proposed to be offered to Group manSalaries and other remuneration 148 141 21 16 agement through the allocation of Performance Shares. The maximum allocation to Board members, Presidents is 150 percent of fixed annual salary for the CEO, CFO and CIO and between 35 and Executive Vice Presidents and 50 percent of fixed annual salary for other members of Group Management. The outcome of the long-term incentive programme is not pensionable. Salaries and remunerations to other employees Pension benefits, etc. Northern Europe 1,118 1,096 Retirement pension, disability and health insurance and similar benefits are Central and Eastern Europe 823 690 to be designed to reflect the practices and requirements in the senior execuWestern and Southern Europe 958 718 tives’ home countries. Iberian Peninsula and Latin 981 656 America Expenses for variable salary components and long-term incentive Head offices and central 252 219 103 127 programmes operations For 2019, the expenses are expected to amount to at most SEK 19 M for the variTotal salaries and other 4,280 3,520 123 144 able salary component and at most SEK 35 M for the 2019 long-term incentive proremuneration, Group gramme, excluding social security contributions. The estimate does not take into account any changes in the composition of Group Management during the year. Social security expenses 830 728 54 58 Guidelines for individual share ownership Of which pension expenses 187 161 20 20 It is proposed that the guidelines for individual share ownership, applied Total 5,110 4,248 177 202 since 2015, be discontinued due to the share-based incentive programme Salaries and other remuneration in the Group also include remuneration in established in 2018. forms other than cash payments, such as a free or subsidised car, housing and meals. Parent Company figures refer strictly to cash payments, however. For Other information on compensation to the Group’s senior executives, see Note 28. In the event of termination by Intrum, severance pay (if applicable) shall not exceed 12 months’ fixed salary. The Board of Directors shall have the right to depart from these remuneration guidelines if there is particular justification for doing so in individual cases. Note 28 T  erms and conditions of employment for senior Role of the Remuneration Committee executives The Board of Directors has a Remuneration Committee whose task is to address Guidelines on compensation for senior executives the Group’s remuneration issues on behalf of shareholders and the Board. The The 2019 Annual General Meeting adopted guidelines for remuneration to Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparing the Group’s remunerasenior executives, the CEO and members of Group Management. The protion guidelines, which include general principles for how salaries and other remuposal has been prepared by the Board and its Remuneration Committee. nerations are determined, as well as addressing remuneration issues concerning the CEO and Group Management. The Remuneration Committee comprises Salary and remuneration philosophy two Board members. Since the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Remuneration Intrum is dependent on its employees to achieve ambitious objectives in a chalCommittee has consisted of Per E. Larsson (Chairman) and Magnus Yngen. The lenging environment. The salary and remuneration philosophy seeks to ensure CEO and the Company’s Chief Human Resources Officer are co-opted to the our employees are rewarded for their valuable contributions to the Company’s Committee’s meetings, though not when their own remuneration is discussed. earnings. We also strive to be able to recruit, develop and retain high-performance employees in a competitive international environment. At the same time, Terms of employment and remuneration of the CEO we try to ensure that our employees are offered salaries in line with the market. During 2019, Mikael Ericson, President and CEO, received remuneration in accorRemuneration levels should reflect duties, responsibility and performance, dance with the Group’s principles as detailed above. In 2019, his fixed monthly and should be competitive compared with similar companies in similar secsalary was SEK 510,000, which was two percent more than in 2018. In addition tors in the same geographic area. To ensure that appropriate behaviours are to his fixed salary, he had the opportunity to receive 50 percent of his annual salencouraged, and that efforts are focused in the appropriate areas, remunerary within the framework of the variable salary component and 50 percent of ation levels need to be related to the objectives closely associated with the his annual salary within the framework of the 2017 long-term remuneration proGroup’s business strategy and its core values. gramme. In 2019, he was offered long-term incentives with an initial allocation of The total remuneration is based on four principal components: fixed sal150 percent of his fixed annual salary. In addition to his salary, the Company paid ary, variable salary, long-term incentive programmes and pension benefits. pension contributions corresponding to 35 percent of his fixed annual salary. The Other benefits, such as a company car, may be offered as well. pension policy is a defined contribution plan and the retirement age is 65 years. He also had a company car in accordance with the Group’s car policy, as well as Fixed salary component subsidised meals under the same terms as other Group employees in Sweden. Fixed salary is set based on three perspectives: The complexity and responsibility of the post, individual performance and local market conditions. Terms of employment and remuneration for other members of Group Management Variable salary component During 2019, other members of Group Management also had benefit levels in Intrum’s variable salary component (VSP) serves to encourage short-term peraccordance with the Group’s principles as detailed described above. This includes formance. It is set for one year at a time. The metrics are set individually for fixed annual salary and the opportunity to receive 0–50 percent of annual salary each member of Group Management to reflect the Group’s business stratwithin the framework of the variable salary component and, for former members egy and priorities. The metrics reflect business targets or other generation of of Intrum Justitia’s Group Management, 20–50 percent within the framework of value for the Company. Short-term variable salary also entails the Company’s the 2017 long-term remuneration programme. In 2019, they were offered long-term expenses varying depending on the Group’s financial development. incentives with an initial allocation of 35–150 percent of their fixed annual salary. Short-term variable salary is capped at 50 percent of fixed annual salary Pension benefits vary from country to country. In several cases, they are included for the CEO and at between 35 and 50 percent for other members of Group in monthly salaries. Pension policies are defined contribution plans, and the retireManagement. However, the Chief Risk Officer does not receive a variable salment age is generally 65. Members of Group Management have company cars, in ary component. accordance with the Group’s car policy. Smaller benefits also occur according to Long-term incentives local practice, such as subsidised meals and travel. Our long-term variable salary programme (LTIP) brings Group Management’s In March 2017, certain senior executives, excluding the President and CEO, long-term interests and perspectives are brought onto an equal footing with were offered an additional bonus, amounting to two or three months’ salary, those of shareholders, while commitment to the Company is also reinforced. linked to the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. Since the predeterThis rewards long-term generation of value over a three-year period, allowmined terms have been met, the exceptional bonus was paid out in March 2018. ing Group Management to participate in the Company’s financial success. The variable remuneration for 2018 reported below includes the exceptional Performance targets set by the Board of Directors in terms of the Group’s bonus, which was vested during the period 22 March 2017 to 31 March 2018. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 91 Notes The notice of termination for members of Group Management Team varies from three to twelve months, regardless of whether termination is initiated by Note 30 Leasing the employee or the Company. As of 1 January 2019, the IFRS 16 leasing standard has significantly changed how the Company accounts for its lease contracts. According to the new Remuneration for the year accounting model, all contracts containing leases are to be recognised on Other senior executives in the table are defined as members of Group Manthe balance sheet as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. If leases meet agement (see pages 50-51) other than the CEO. In 2019, no new members were two criteria, 1) they are current leases (shorter than one year) and 2) they perappointed and two stepped down. At the end of 2019, there were 10 other tain to ”low-value assets”, such as personal computers, laptops, tablets, telesenior executives. phones, office equipment or other items where the purchase price is typically SEK thousands 2019 2018 below USD 5,000 (or EUR 4,300), they are not covered by IFRS 16 and are therefore recognised as ongoing expenses as prior to application of IFRS 16. President and CEO Leased items covered by IFRS 16 within Intrum are office premises, motor Mikael Ericson vehicles, ITC equipment and other leasing. The Company has implemented Base salary 6,120 6,000 the leasing standard applying the simplified method (modified retroactive Variable compensation 5,069 4,920 approach) and the transitional effects of IFRS 16 are reported as retained Other benefits 85 75 earnings as of 1 January 2019 without recalculating the comparative figures. Pension expenses 2,282 2,136 The foremost effect on the consolidated financial statements derives from Total, President and CEO 13,555 13,132 accounting for office premises. Prior to implementation of IFRS 16, Intrum’s leases were classified as operOther senior executives ational and financial leasing. As of 2019, all of Intrum’s leases are instead Base salary 33,704 36,094 reported as non-current assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. Rather than reporting the leasing fee as an operatVariable compensation 13,491 19,375 ing expense, Intrum reports depreciation and interest expenses under Total Other benefits 2,929 2,651 comprehensive income for the year. The right-of-use assets are depreciated Severance pay 2,708 0 over the term of the lease. The lease liability represents the present value of Pension expenses 6,047 5,615 future lease payments. Total other senior executives 58,871 63,735 The change in right-of-use assets and lease liabilities since implementation is summarised below. The amounts stated correspond to the full remuneration received during the period in which the individuals concerned were defined as senior executives, Right-of-use assets including vested but as yet unpaid variable remuneration for each year. This entails, for example, that the variable remuneration accrued and expensed Land and Motor ITC by the Company in 2018 was disbursed in 2019, while the variable remuneraSEK thousands buildings vehicles equipment Other Total tion for 2019 is to be disbursed in 2020. 2019 No share-based remunerations were paid in 2018 or 2019. Opening balance, 1 691,136 31,532 5,087 727,755 January Board of Directors Additions to right-of362,777 33,758 399 2,929 399,863 In accordance with the Annual General Meeting’s resolution, total fees paid use assets in 2019 to Board members for the year, including for committee work, amounted to Sales and disposals 2,879 -744 -494 1,641 SEK 6,940 thousand (6,795). Board fees are distributed between Directors as of right-of-use assets determined by the AGM according to the proposal by the Nomination Comin 2019 mittee. The Directors have no pension benefits or severance agreements. Depreciation over the -205,939 -20,832 -14 -2,213 -228,998 year Board fees Closing balance, 31 840,134 42,115 379 5,249 887,877 SEK thousands 2019 2018 December Per E. Larsson, Chairman 1,335 1,310 Lease liability in Statement of financial position as of 31 December 2019 Magnus Yngen, Deputy Chairman 800 700 Magdalena Persson 615 600 Current 442,815 Hans Larsson 765 750 Non-current 473,706 Kristoffer Melinder 615 600 Amount recognised in the income statement, 2019 Andreas Näsvik 765 600 Ragnhild Wiborg 815 800 SEK thousands Synnöve Trygg 750 Interest expense relating to lease liability -45,864 Fredrik Trägårdh 685 Amount recognised in Cash flow statement as of 31 December 2019 Andrés Rubio 615 SEK thousands Liv Fiksdahl 615 Total cash flow for leasing -253,175 Total Board fees 6,940 6,795 Board fees pertain to the period from the 2018 Annual General Meeting until the 2019 Annual General Meeting and from the 2019 Annual General Meeting until the 2020 Annual General Meeting respectively. Note 31 Investing commitments Commitments to acquire fixed assets amounted at year-end to SEK 0 M (1,949), of which SEK 0 M (1,949) refers to corporate acquisitions. Note 29 Auditor’s fees Group Parent Company SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Ernst & Young Audit assignments 24 21 3 4 Audit related services 7 5 5 0 Tax advisory 2 1 0 0 Other Audit firms Audit assignments 1 5 0 0 it related services 0 6 1 0 Total 34 37 9 4 92 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, carryNote 32 Financial instruments ing value corresponds to fair value. On the balance sheet date, cash and cash Group Parent Company equivalents amounted to SEK 1,906 M (1,348). For the Parent Company, the corresponding amount was SEK 220 M (251) on the balance sheet date. 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions Carrying value of financial The Parent Company’s and the Group’s loan liabilities carry market rate interinstruments est with short fixed interest terms. Liabilities in foreign currency are transFinancial assets valued at 35,835 29,507 37,400 35,880 lated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, carrying amortised cost value corresponds to fair value. On the balance sheet date, consolidated liaFinancial assets valued at fair 204 602 204 229 bilities to credit institutions amounted to SEK 6,186 M (6,831) and for the Parvalue ent Company, they amounted to SEK 6,186 M (6,545). Financial liabilities valued at 56,291 47,440 51,346 50,544 amortised cost Bond loans Financial liabilities valued at fair 666 29 356 29 The Parent Company and the Group had bond loans outstanding for a value value of SEK 41,644 M (34,254) on the balance sheet date. The bond loans are recognised at amortised cost. The fair value of the bonds, in accordance with The only financial instruments that are regularly restated at fair value are observable market data, is SEK 42,479 M (31,606) and classified as level 2 in derivatives (e.g. forward exchange contracts). They are valued based on a valuation technique that uses observable market data and thus falls under the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13 Level 2 in the valuation hierarchy according to IFRS 13. Financial assets include the balance sheet items: purchased debt, other Commercial papers long-term receivables, accounts receivable, client funds, other current The Parent Company and the Group had commercial papers outstanding for receivables, accrued income, derivatives with positive value, cash and cash a value of SEK 2,794 M (2,123) on the balance sheet date. equivalents and, for the Parent Company, intra-Group receivables. The total recognised value of consolidated financial assets amounted to Accounts payable SEK 36,039 M (30,109) on the balance sheet date. Financial assets amounted Accounts payable have short maturities. Liabilities in foreign currency are to SEK 35,835 M (29,507) and financial assets recognised at fair value via the translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, carincome statement amounted to SEK 204 M (602). rying value corresponds to fair value. Consolidated accounts payable The total recognised value of the Parent Company’s financial assets amounted to SEK 512 M (488). For the Parent Company, the equivalent amounted to SEK 37,604 M (35,909) on the balance sheet date. Financial amount was SEK 72 M (33). assets amounted to SEK 37,400 M (35,880) and financial assets recognised at fair value via the income statement amounted to SEK 204 M (229). Other liabilities Financial liabilities include the balance sheet items: non-current and curThe Parent Company’s and the Group’s other liabilities have short maturities. rent liabilities to credit institutions, bond loans, commercial papers, client Liabilities in foreign currency are translated in the accounts at balance sheet funds payable, accounts payable, advances from clients, other current liabilidate rates. Consequently, carrying value corresponds to fair value. Other liaties, accrued expenses for the Parent Company, intra-Group liabilities. bilities, including accrued expenses amounted to SEK 5,588 M (3,773) on the The total recognised value of consolidated financial assets amounted to balance sheet date. The item includes derivatives valued at SEK 356 M (29), SEK 56,647 M (47,469) on the balance sheet date. Financial liabilities recrecognised at fair value in the income statement (held for trade). Other liabiliognised at amortised cost amounted to SEK 56,291 M (47,440) and financial ties, excluding derivatives amounted to SEK 5,233 M (3,744). liabilities recognised at fair value amounted to SEK 356 M (29). For the Parent Company, other liabilities amounted to SEK 1,361 M (7,618) The total recognised value of the Parent Company’s financial liabilities on the balance sheet date and included liabilities to Group companies and amounted to SEK 51,702 M (50,573) on the balance sheet date. Financial liaaccrued expenses. Derivatives are recognised at fair value in the income bilities recognised at amortised cost amounted to SEK 51,346 M (50,544) and statement (held for trade) and amounted to SEK 356 M (29). Other liabilities, financial liabilities recognised at fair value amounted to SEK 666 M (29). excluding derivatives amounted to SEK 1,005 M (7,589). Portfolio investments Offset of financial instruments Portfolio investments consist of purchased debt reported at amortised cost accordFinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value comprise derivatives. ing applying an effective interest rate model with an effective interest rate reflecting Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the balance sheet. However, the risk of defaulted payment. Considering the purchased receivables are assessed to there are legally binding agreements that allow offsetting should one of the be in default they are classified to the third stage of credit risk as defined in IFRS 9. The counterparties for the Group’s derivatives suspend their payments. At the Group determines the carrying value by calculating the present value of estimated end of the year, Intrum had financial assets totalling SEK 29 M (29) that could future cash flows at the receivables’ original effective interest rate. Adjustments are be offset against debts should the counterparties suspend their payments. recognised in the income statement. With this valuation method, the carrying value is the best estimate of the fair value of debt portfolios, in the Company’s opinion. On the balance sheet date, the carrying value of purchased debt amounted to SEK 28,508 M (24,830). An account of purchased debt by year acquired is provided in Note 33. Note 33 Financial risks and financial policies Principles of financing and financial risk management Accounts receivable The financial risks that arise in Intrum operations are limited. Thanks to a Accounts receivable are recognised at amortised cost with no discount strong cash flow, combined with little need for investment and operating being applied since the remaining maturity is judged to be short. Accounts capital, external capital needs in the Group’s Credit Management operations receivable amounted to SEK 1,860 M (719) on the balance sheet date. are relatively low. The purchased debt operations have a greater need for capital, particularly during a growth phase. Other receivables Intrum’s financing and financial risks are managed within the Group in Other receivables have short maturities. Receivables in foreign currency are accordance with the treasury policy established by the Board of Directors. translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, carThe treasury policy contains rules for managing financial activities, delegating rying value corresponds to fair value. Other receivables, including accrued responsibility, measuring and identifying financial risks and limiting these risks. income, amounted to SEK 3,764 M (3,211) on the balance sheet date. The item Internal and external financial operations are concentrated in Group Treaincludes forward exchange contracts for SEK 204 M (229), recognised at fair sury in Stockholm and Oslo, which ensures economies of scale when pricing value in the income statement. The remaining SEK 3,561 M (2,982) is valued at financial transactions. Because Group Treasury can take advantage of temamortised cost. For the Parent Company, other receivables, including receivporary surpluses and deficits in the Group’s various countries of operation, ables from Group companies, amounted to SEK 36,825 M (35,857). The item the Group’s total interest expense can be minimised. includes forward exchange contracts for SEK 204 M (229), recognised at fair value in the income statement. The remaining SEK 36,622 M (35,628) is valMarket risk ued at amortised cost. Market risk consists of risks related to changes in exchange rates and interest rate levels. Cash and cash equivalents Liquid assets mainly consist of bank balances. Liquid assets in foreign curExchange rate risk rency mainly consist of bank balances. Liquid assets in foreign currency are Exchange rate risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will negaAnnual and Sustainability Report 2019 93 Notes tively affect the Group’s income statement, balance sheet and/or cash flows. All else being equal, an appreciation in the Swedish krona of 42 percentage The most important currencies for the Intrum Group, other than the Swedish points as per 31 December 2019 against EUR would have affected shareholdkrona (SEK), are the euro (EUR), the Swiss franc (CHF), the Hungarian forint ers’ equity in the Group positively by SEK 86 M, negatively against CHF by (HUF) and the Norwegian krone (NOK). SEK -42 M, positively against DKK by SEK 7 M, negatively against HUF by SEK The following exchange rates have been used to translate transactions in -56 M and negatively against NOK by SEK -42 M. foreign currency in the financial accounts: Regarding the currency risk attributable to currency interest rate swaps, Average Average see the description below under Interest rate risks. The Group hedges part of its translation exposure by means of currency Currency 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 2019 2018 hedging measures, consisting of external loans in foreign currency and derivCHF 9.62 9.11 9.52 8.88 ative instruments. Over the year, goodwill was excluded as a hedged balEUR 10.45 10.26 10.59 10.26 ance sheet item, contributing to a change year-on-year in the table above. HUF 0.0316 0.0319 0.0326 0.0322 There is an economic relationship between the hedged balance sheet items NOK 1.06 1.03 1.07 1.07 and the hedging instruments, in which the efficiency of the hedge is tested and adjusted monthly. The effects of the translation exposure and hedging Exchange rate risk can be divided into transaction exposure and translameasures have opposite values (negative/positive) and are reported under tion exposure. Transaction exposure consists of net operating and financial Other comprehensive income. The hedging instruments amounted to SEK receipts and disbursements in different currencies. Translation exposure con–41,645 (–34,185) at year-end. No inefficiencies were reported during the sists of the effects from the translation of the financial reports of foreign subyear regarding hedges of net investments in foreign operations. sidiaries and associated companies to SEK. Interest rate risks Transaction exposure Interest rate risks relate primarily to the Group’s interest-bearing net debt, In each country, all income and most operating expenses are denominated in local which amounted to SEK 49,105 M (42,122) on 31 December 2019. The loan currencies, and thus currency fluctuations have only a limited impact on the Comrate is tied to the market rate. . pany’s operating earnings in local currency. National operations seldom have receivIntrum has a strong cash flow which gives the Group the option of repaying ables and liabilities in foreign currency. Income and expenses in national currency loans or investing in portfolios. The Group’s loans have a fixed interest term – are thereby hedged in a natural way, which limits transaction exposure. The currency currently about 46 months (30) for the entire loan portfolio. exposure that arises within the operating activities is limited to the extent it pertains A 1-percent increase in market interest rates during the year would have to international collection operations. The subsidiaries’ projected flow exposure is adversely affected net financial items by approximately SEK 397 M. A 5-pernot hedged at present. All major known currency flows are hedged on a continuous cent increase would have adversely affected net financial items by SEK 1,986 basis in the Group and the Parent Company through forward exchange contracts. M. To establish an appropriate matching of currencies in the balance sheet Translation exposure and thus manage the currency risk between assets and liabilities, the ComIntrum operates in some 25 countries. The results and financial position of pany uses currency interest rate swaps in which the Parent Company swaps subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and later transliabilities in SEK and receives EUR at the same rate on both the start and lated into SEK for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements. Consematurity dates. In this way, the Company can maintain the desired level of quently, fluctuations in the SEK exchange rate affect consolidated income hedging of shareholders’ equity per currency while also maintaining an interand earnings, as well as equity and other items in the financial statements. est rate exposure in the same currency. The Group’s revenues are distributed by currency as follows: Liquidity risk SEK M 2019 2018 Liquidity risk is the risk of a loss or higher-than-expected costs to ensure the SEK 936 882 Group’s ability to fulfil its short and long-term payment obligations to outEUR 9,766 7,791 side parties. CHF 804 802 The Group’s long-term financing risk is limited by confirmed loan facilities. HUF 1,434 1,197 The Group’s objective is that at least 35 percent of total committed loans NOK 1,575 1,587 have a remaining maturity of at least three years and that not more than 35 Other currencies 1,470 1,183 percent of the total have a remaining maturity of less than 12 months. Total 15,985 13,442 In December 2019 a new agreement regarding a new syndicated loan facility of EUR 1,800 M was signed with a bank consortium of 14 banks. The An appreciation of the Swedish krona of 10 percentage points on average in facility has a duration of five plus one years and came into effect on 15 Janu2019 against EUR would thus, all else being equal, have affected revenues ary 2020. In connection with this, the previous facility, agreed in June 2017, negatively by SEK 977 M, against CHF by SEK 80 M, against HUF by SEK 143 was annulled. The new loan facility contains operations-related and finanM and against NOK by SEK 158 M. cial covenants, including limits on financial indicators. In addition, the new In terms of net assets by currency, shareholders’ equity in the Group, credit agreement includes covenants that may restrict, condition or prohibit including non-controlling interests, is distributed as follows: the Group from incurring additional debt, making acquisitions, disposing of assets, making capital and finance lease expenditures, allowing assets to be SEK M 2019 2018 encumbered, changing the scope of the Group’s business and entering into a merger agreement. SEK 21,303 7,497 During 2017, Intrum AB issued public bonds divided into four tranches of a EUR 17,470 32,811 total EUR 2,700 M and SEK 3,000 M. In 2018, Intrum issued a public bond for – less EUR hedged through foreign currency loans -27,151 -27,654 SEK 1,000 M. In 2019, Intrum issued an MTN bond of SEK 2,000 M, which was + EUR hedged through derivatives 8,817 5,817 later increased by SEK 900 M. In November, Intrum issued another bond of CHF 530 1,581 SEK 1,100 M, upon which the MTN programme was fully utilised. In addition, – less CHF hedged through foreign currency loans -110 -31 Intrum issued two bonds of EUR 800 M and EUR 850 M, respectively, the – less CHF hedged through derivatives 0 -957 liquidity was used to repay two bonds with variable interest rates (EUR 300 DKK -3 707 M and SEK 3,000 M), and to reduce a fixed-rate bond by EUR 750 M, all of – less DKK hedged through derivatives -70 -438 the earlier bonds had been issued in 2017 and were due to mature in 2022. In HUF 2,460 2,494 December 2019, a bond of EUR 75 M was issued with a maturity of five years – less HUF hedged through foreign currency loans 0 -516 and three months. Consequently, Intrum has outstanding bond loans for a total SEK 41,644 M (34,254). In 2019, Intrum also issued a commercial paper – less HUF hedged through derivatives -1,896 -1,050 that, at the end of the year, amounted to SEK 2,794 M (2,123). NOK 4,185 13,036 The Group’s aim is that the liquidity reserve, which consists of cash, bank – less NOK hedged through foreign currency loans -3,760 -5,135 balances and short-term liquid investments should amount to at least SEK – less NOK hedged through derivatives 0 -4,221 100 M more than the unutilised portion of committed lines of credit. The Other currencies 3,118 1,732 Group has deposited its liquid assets with established financial instituTotal 24,893 25,672 tions where the risk of loss is considered remote. The Group’s finance function prepares regular liquidity forecasts with the purpose of optimising the balance between loans and liquid funds so that the net interest expense is minimised without, for that matter, incurring difficulties in meeting external commitments. 94 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes The table below provides an analysis of the financial liabilities of the Portfolio investments Group and the Parent Company broken down according to the amount of As part of its portfolio investment operations, Intrum acquires portfolios of time remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts given in the consumer receivables and tries to collect them. Unlike its conventional coltable are the contractual, undiscounted cash flows. The amounts falling due lection operations where Intrum works on behalf of clients in return for comwithin 12 months agree with the reported amounts since the discount effect missions and fees, in this case it assumes all the rights and risks associated is negligible. with the receivables. The portfolios are purchased at prices significantly below their nominal value, and Intrum retains the entire amount it collects, Financial liabilities in the balance sheet – Group including interest and fees. Within Later than The acquired receivables are overdue and in many cases are from debtSEK M one year 2–5 years 5 years Total ors who are having payment problems. It is obvious, therefore, that the entire nominal amount of the receivable will not be recovered. On the other hand, 31 Dec 2019 the receivables are acquired at prices significantly below their nominal value. Accounts payable and other 5,541 5,541 The risk in this business is that Intrum, at the time of acquisition, overestiliabilities mates its ability to collect the amounts or underestimates the costs of collecLeasing liabliities 443 284 190 917 tion. The maximum theoretical risk is of course that the entire carrying value Liabilities to credit institutions 6,212 6,212 of SEK 28,508 M (24,830) would become worthless and have to be written Bond loan 2,216 27,175 19,416 48,807 off. Commercial papers 2,794 2,794 To minimise the risks in this business, prudence is exercised in purchase Total 17,206 27,459 19,606 64,271 decisions. The focus is on small and medium-sized portfolios with relatively low average amounts, to help spread risks. The average nominal value per 31 Dec 2018 case is approximately SEK 19,895. Portfolios are normally acquired from cusAccounts payable and other 4,262 4,262 tomers with whom the Group has had a long-term relationship. The acquiliabilities sitions have generally consisted of unsecured debt, requiring relatively less capital and significantly simplifying administration compared with collaterLiabilities to credit institutions 3,105 3,105 alised receivables. Since 2016, however, Intrum has also begun to acquire Bond loan 1,929 27,491 9,700 39,120 portfolios with underlying collateral, usually in the form of property mortCommercial papers 2,123 2,123 gages. Intrum places high yield requirements on the portfolios it acquires. Total 11,419 24,491 9,700 48,610 Before every acquisition, a careful assessment is made based on a projection of future cash flows (collected amount) from the portfolio. In these calcuFinancial liabilities in the balance sheet – Parent Company lations Intrum benefits from its extensive experience in debt collection and Within Later than from the Group’s scoring methods. Intrum therefore believes that it has the SEK M one year 2–5 years 5 years Total expertise required to evaluate these types of receivables. To enable acqui31 Dec 2019 sitions of larger portfolios at attractive risk levels, Intrum has, on occasion, Accounts payable and other 1,077 1,077 partnered with other companies such as Piraeus Bank and Ibercaja Banco to liabilities share the capital investment and return. Liabilities to credit institutions 6,212 6,212 The currency risk is attributable to the translation of the balance sheet Bond loan 2,216 27,175 19,416 48,807 item Portfolio investments is limited due to currency hedging using loans in the same currency as the assets, and currency forwards. A considerable proCommercial papers 2,794 2,794 portion of the acquisitions take place through forward flow agreements – Liabilities to Group companies 1,994 3,361 5,355 that is, Intrum may have previously agreed with a company to acquire all of Total 14,293 30,536 19,416 64,245 that company’s accounts receivable at a certain percentage of their nominal value once they are overdue by a certain number of days. In most of these 31 Dec 2018 agreements, however, Intrum has the opportunity to decline to acquire the Accounts payable and other 618 618 receivables if, for example, their quality decreases. liabilities Risks are diversified by acquiring receivables from clients in different secLiabilities to credit institutions 2,820 2,820 tors and different countries. The Group’s purchased debt portfolios include Bond loan 1,929 27,491 9,700 39,120 debtors in 24 countries. The Group’s total carrying amount for purchased Commercial papers 2,123 2,123 debt is distributed as follows: Liabilities to Group companies 3,825 3,207 7,032 Receivables by country Receivables by industry Total 11,315 30,698 9,700 51,713 Credit risks Credit risk consists of the risk that Intrum’s counterparties are unable to fulfil their obligations to the Group. Financial assets that potentially subject the Group to credit risk include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, portfolio investments, outlays on behalf of clients, derivatives and guarantees. For financial assets owned by Intrum, no collateral or other credit reinforcements have been received, with the exception of a certain portion of the Group’s portfolio investments. The maximum credit exposure for each class of financial assets corresponds to the carrying amount. Cash and cash equivalents Spain, 15% (12) Telecom companies, 5% (6) The Group’s cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of bank balances Norway, 13% (13) Bank sector, 63% (63) and other short-term financial assets with a remaining maturity of less than UK, 10% (7) Credit card receivables, 11% (10) three months. The Group has deposited its liquid assets with established Germany, 10% (11) Other financial operations, 15% (14) banks where the risk of loss is considered remote. Sweden, 7% (8) Other segments, 6% (7) Accounts receivable France, 6% (8) The Group’s accounts receivable from clients and debtors in various indusOther countries, 39% (41) tries, and are not concentrated in a specific geographical region. The Group’s largest client accounts for less than two percent of revenues. Most accounts Of the total carrying value on the balance sheet date, 25 percent represents receivable outstanding are with customers previously known to the Group portfolio acquisitions in 2019, 20 percent acquisitions in 2018, 18 percent and whose creditworthiness is good. For an analysis of accounts receivable acquisitions in 2017 and 10 percent acquisitions in 2016. The remaining 27 by age, see Note 16. percent relates to receivables acquired in or before 2015, which have therefore been past due for more than four years. In the case of a large share of the oldest receivables, Intrum has reached agreement with the debtors on payment plans. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 95 Notes Outlays on behalf of clients Acquisition As an element in its operations, the Group incurs outlays for court fees, legal Solvia representation, enforcement authorities, etc., which can be charged to and During the quarter, Intrum acquired Solvia Servicios Inmobiliaros (Solvia) collected from debtors. In many cases Intrum has agreements with its clients from Banco Sabadell. The acquisition entails Intrum acquiring 80 percent of whereby any expenses that cannot be collected from debtors are instead the shares in Solvia while Banco Sabadell retains 20 percent. Solvia is one of refunded by the client. The amount that is expected to be recovered from Spain’s leading suppliers of real estate management services. a solvent counterparty is recognised as an asset in the balance sheet on the The following preliminary acquisition analysis was prepared in connection line Other receivables. with the acquisition: Carrying Derivative contracts amounts before Fair value The Parent Company and the Group hold forward exchange contracts to SEK M the acquisition adjustments Fair value a limited extent. The credit risk in the Group’s forward exchange contracts Client relationships 0 708 708 is because the counterparty generally is a large bank or financial institution Other tangible and intangi603 –116 487 that is not expected to become insolvent. On the balance sheet date, assets ble fixed assets regarding forward exchange contracts were valued at SEK 204 M (229), and liabilities at SEK 356 M (29). See Note 33 regarding the possibility of offsetting Deferred tax asset 23 98 121 receivables and liabilities for derivative contracts. Other receivables 1,353 –398 955 The contracts have short maturities, typically one or more months. All Cash and bank balances 337 337 outstanding forward exchange contracts are restated at fair value in the Deferred tax liability 0 –177 –177 accounts, with adjustments recognised in the income statement. The purOther liabilities and –403 –12 –415 pose of these forward exchange contracts has been to minimise exchange provisions rate differences in the Parent Company attributable to receivables and liabilNet assets 1,913 2,016 ities in foreign currency. Non-controlling interests –404 Outstanding forward exchange contracts at year end in the Parent Company and in the Group comprise the following currencies: Paid in cash 1,937 Currency Local currency, buy Hedged amount, sell Deferred purchase 625 CHF 68,500,000 0 consideration CZK 675,000,000 0 Goodwill 950 DKK 116,000,000 -50,000,000 Cash and cash equivalents 337 EUR 1,583,200,000 -30,500,000 in acquired companies GBP 7,000,000 -157,000,000 Acquisition HUF 25,420,000,000 -500,000,000 Piraeus Bank Recovery Business Unit NOK 250,000,000 -330,000,000 In the second quarter, Intrum agreed with Piraeus Bank to acquire the bank’s PLN 6,000,000 -188,000,000 platform for management of overdue receivables. The transaction was RON 19,000,000 0 completed in the fourth quarter, and the acquired business has been conSEK 1,591,165,680 -19,132,747,088 solidated from the date on which Intrum gained a controlling influence, 1 October 2019. The operations have been separated from the bank and conThe Parent Company and the Group also hold currency interest rate swaps solidated by Intrum in separate legal entities, in which Intrum has acquired 80 that were signed in connection with the Parent Company’s issue of bonds in percent of the shares. SEK. To achieve suitable currency matching between assets and liabilities, liabilities in SEK were exchanged to EUR at the same rate on the starting date The following preliminary acquisition analysis was prepared in connection and the date of maturity. with the acquisition: Payment guarantees Carrying The Group offers services whereby clients, against payment, obtain a guaramounts before Fair value antee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from their customers. SEK M the acquisition adjustments Fair value This entails a risk being incurred that Intrum must compensate the customer Client relationships 3,236 –991 2,245 for the guaranteed amount in the event that the invoices are not paid on time. Other intangible fixed 426 –426 0 In those cases where the guarantee comes into play, Intrum assumes the cliassets ent’s claim against its customer and takes over the continued handling of the Tangible fixed assets 235 235 case within the Portfolio Investments area of operations. At the end of the Deferred tax asset 19 340 359 year, the total amount guaranteed was SEK 92 M (120). Intrum’s risk in this Other receivables 56 56 business is managed through strict credit limits and analyses of the borrowCash and bank balances 38 38 er’s credit status. At the end of the year Intrum had allocated SEK 1 M (1) in the Other liabilities and –302 –302 balance sheet to cover payments that may arise due to the guarantee. provisions Net assets 3,708 2,631 Non-controlling interests –526 Note 34 Acquisitions of operations Paid in cash 3,187 In the cash flow statement, SEK 5,135 M (8,587) is reported as acquisitions of Deferred purchase 310 subsidiaries and joint ventures. consideration In 2019, Intrum agreed with Piraeus bank to acquire 80% of the bank’s platform for management of overdue receivables for a cash payment of SEK 3,187 Goodwill 1,431 M and a possible deferred purchase price, which Intrum at the time of acquiCash and cash equivalents 38 sition valued at SEK 310 M. in acquired companies In the second quarter, Intrum acquired 80 percent of the shares in the Spanish company Solvia Servicios Inmobiliaros for an amount of SEK 1,937 M. Intrum gained a controlling influence over the acquired company on 24 April 2019. Note 35 Critical estimates and assumptions For 2018, the amount relates to the acquisition of 51 percent of the shares To be able to prepare the accounts in accordance with generally accepted in Intrum Italy Spa for an amount of SEK 1,883 M, the acquisition of 100 peraccounting practices, company management and the Board of Directors cent of the shares in Northwind Investment Holding Sl for an amount of SEK must make assessments and assumptions that affect reported income and 1,787 M, the acquisition of Iplatform Consultoria e Participacoes SA for an expense items, asset and liability items, as well as other disclosures. Manageamount of SEK 15 M, and the acquisition of profit participating notes in Ithaca ment has discussed with the Audit Committee the Group’s critical accountInvestment DAC for an amount of SEK 4,902 M (recognised as participations ing principles and estimates as well as the application of these. in a joint venture). Estimates and assumptions are continuously assessed on the basis of historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events 96 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes considered reasonable under prevailing conditions. Actual outcomes may Provisions for restructuring vary from the assessments made. As shown in Notes 3, 22 and 24, Intrum made provisions for future expenses The areas in which estimates and assumptions could entail significant risk in 2019, mainly for restructuring. These provisions have been made in accorof adjustment in the recognised amounts for assets and liabilities in future fisdance with the rules in IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent cal years are primarily the following: assets. Among other things, these rules entail provisions only being made when Intrum has an existing liability or obligation as a result of events that Impairment testing of goodwill have occurred. For restructuring, this only applies when a formal detailed As indicated in Note 10, an impairment test of goodwill was done prior to the plan has been drawn up and communicated to those concerned in sufficient preparation of the annual accounts. The geographical regions are judged detail that they have known or can be expected to have anticipated, by the to achieve a sufficient degree of integration that they form combined cash balance sheet date, the termination of their employment. Also under other generating units. Recoverable amounts for cash generating units have been circumstances, provisions are made and costs expensed only when Intrum established by calculating their value in use. The assumptions and assesshas an existing liability in the form of a legal or informal obligation to pay, by ments made with regard to expected cash flows and discount rates in the the balance sheet date, for goods or services received. form of weighted average cost of capital, as well as a sensitivity analysis are detailed in Note 10. Projections of future cash flows are based on the best Acquisitions possible assessments of future income and operating expenses. In 2019, Intrum entered into agreements on acquisitions, in particular the acquisition of Solvia in Spain and the companies acquired through the partPortfolio investments nership with Piraeus Bank in Greece. The acquisitions and acquisition analyAs indicated in Note 14, the recognition of portfolio investments in overdue ses are detailed in Note 35. The acquisitions were large and complex, and the receivables is based on the Company’s own projection of future cash flows from acquisition analyses may be adjusted in upcoming quarters. the acquired portfolios. Although the Company has historically had good projection accuracy with regard to cash flows, future deviations cannot be ruled out. The Group applies internal rules and a formalised decision-making process in the adjustment of previously established cash flow projections. These Note 36 Related parties entail, among other things, that cash flow projections are only in exceptional In addition to associated companies and joint ventures, related parties cases adjusted in the first year of ownership of a portfolio. Furthermore, an include the Board of Directors and senior executives, according to Note 28, amendment of the cash flow projection normally requires an agreement as well as close family members to these executives and other companies between local management in the country in question and the Group’s risk over which they can exert a significant influence. department. All changes in cash flow projections are ultimately decided on All transactions with related parties are conducted on market terms and at by a central revaluation committee. arm’s length. In 2019, Intrum purchased services from LBHF Joint Ventures Ltd for SEK Sales of portfolio investments 6.2 M, from Sothernwood Consulting for SEK 0.6 M and from CSA services The Group has occasionally sold certain portfolios of purchased debt. for SEK 0.4 M. Three individuals, including the country manager for the UK, Divestments of portfolios are not included in the business model for this Edward Nott, are members of the Board of LBHF Joint Venture. asset category. Intrum has assessed the transactions and concluded that a In 2019, Intrum purchased services from Telecredit IFN SA for SEK 1.0 M. sale of purchased debt should be recognised in the same way as if an amount Catalin Feneleom Neagu is a shareholder in the company. In 2019, his involveequivalent to the selling price had been collected as part of normal operment in Telecredit IFN was discontinued. ations. For Intrum’s accounting, it does not matter if the same amount is In 2019, Intrum purchased services from Telecredit IFN SA for SEK 1.0 M. received through collection from debtors or by sale to an external party. The Catalin Feneleom Neagu is a shareholder in the company. In 2019, his involveentire sale price for the portfolios sold has been reported as the amount colment in Telecredit IFN was discontinued. lected on purchased debt, and the entire carrying value remaining prior to ”Although the Parent Company has close relationship to its subsidiaries, the sale has been reported as amortisation of purchased debt. see Note 12, it has no transactions with other related parties. Over the year, the Parent Company received SEK 380 M (214) in income Useful lifetimes of intangible and tangible fixed assets from sales of services to Group subsidiaries, and incurred SEK 107 M (75) in Group Management establishes assessed useful lifetimes and thus consisexpenses attributable to services purchased from subsidiaries.” tent amortisation and depreciation for the Group’s intangible and tangible fixed assets. These estimates are based on historical knowledge of equivalent assets’ useful lives. Useful life and estimated residual values are tested on each balance sheet date and adjusted when necessary. Recognised values for each balance sheet date for intangible and tangible fixed assets, see Notes 10 and 11. Note 37 Reconciliation of key figures SEK M 2019 2018 Assessment of deferred tax assets Items affecting comparability in revenues Deferred tax assets for tax-loss carryforwards or other future tax deducPositive revaluations of portfolio investments 920 795 tions are recognised to the extent it is deemed likely that the deduction can Negative revaluations of portfolio investments -892 -707 be made against future taxable surpluses. Carrying amounts for deferred tax Impact from early termination of BPO contract 177 223 assets on each balance sheet date are provided in Note 8. Total items affecting comparability in revenues 205 311 Accounting of Polish investment funds Items affecting comparability in operating income The Group has operated in Poland since 2006 through investment funds Positive revaluations of portfolio investments 920 795 designed for the purchasing and holding of portfolio investments. From the Negative revaluations of portfolio investments -892 -707 Group’s perspective, the funds function in practice as a subsidiary. Against Integration costs Lindorff -224 -352 this backdrop, Intrum has resolved to consolidate the investment funds as a subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements. Transaction costs for M&A -274 -224 Impact from early termination of BPO contract 147 178 Joint venture Impairment write-down of goodwill -2,700 0 As stated in Note 13, in 2018, the Intrum Group invested in profit participating Efficiency Program -656 0 notes issued by the Irish company Ithaca Investment DAC. Through its holdOther reccurring items -469 -212 ing in the profit participating notes and the wording of the agreement, Intrum Total items affecting comparability in operating -4,148 -522 holds a position closely corresponding to that of a shareholder in the company, income and the consolidated accounts therefore treat the profit participating notes as though they were an equity instrument issued by Ithaca Investment DAC. Items affecting comparability by income statement line Although Intrum’s holding corresponds to 80 percent of the profit participatRevenues from clients 177 223 ing notes issued shareholder loans, through an agreement with another investor Positive revaluations of portfolio investments 920 795 holding 20 percent of the profit participating notes, the two parties share a conNegative revaluations of portfolio investments -892 -707 trolling influence, and Intrum therefore reports the investment according to the Cost of sales -819 -60 rules for joint ventures. Sales, marketing and administration costs -834 -773 Impairment write-down of goodwill -2,700 0 Total items affecting comparability in operating income -4,148 -522 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 97 Notes SEK M 2019 2018 Adjusted revenue Note 38 Discontinued operations In connection with the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff that was Revenues 15,985 13,442 implemented on the 27th of June 2017 , Intrum undertook to the European Items affecting comparability -205 -311 Commission to divest Intrum Justitia’s Norwegian subsidiaries, as well as LinAdjusted revenue 15,780 13,131 dorff’s Swedish, Finnish, Danish and Estonian subsidiaries. In November 2017, Intrum agreed to divest these subsidiaries to a company in the Lowell Group, EBIT Adjusted and the transaction was finalised in March 2018, in connection with which Operating income (EBIT) 2,060 3,978 Intrum received the purchase consideration of SEK 7,511 M. Items affecting comparability 4,148 522 In the income statement, the subsidiaries being divested in accordance Total EBIT Adjusted 6,208 4,500 with the above have been reported in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations as discontinued operaPortfolio income excluding revaluations tions, with the comparative figures for previous years being recalculated. Portfolio income 4,877 3,464 Earnings from discontinued operations are stated below: Revaluations -28 -88 Group Portfolio income excluding revaluations 4,849 3,376 SEK M 2019 2018 Net revenues 415 Average carrying value Operating expenses –335 Average carrying value receivables 26,669 22,990 Operating earnings (EBIT) 80 Average carrying value joint ventures 5,643 2,373 Net financial items –7 Average carrying value real estate 1,534 145 Profit before tax 73 Total average carrying value 33,845 25,508 Taxes –5 Return including revaluations 15 14 Earnings from discontinued operations 68 Return excluding revaluations 15 13 Loss on disposal including accumulated translation -141 differences Cash EBITDA Total earnings from discontinued operations -73 EBIT 2,060 3,978 Deprecation 1,246 900 The loss on disposal includes transaction costs of SEK 126 M. The above income statements include Intrum Justitia’s Norwegian subsidAmortization on portfolios 4,183 3,942 iaries up until the 31st of March 2018, as well as Lindorff’s Swedish, Finnish, Cash EBITDA 7,489 8,820 Danish and Estonian subsidiaries up until the 31st of March 2018. Net Debt Liabilities to credit institutions 6,186 6,830 Bond loans 41,644 34,254 Provisions for pensions 387 263 Not 39 Events after the reporting year Commercial paper 2,794 2,123 Buyback program Cash and cash equivalents -1,906 -1,348 On 13 March 2020 the Board of Directors of Intrum AB (publ) resolved to iniNet Debt at end of period 49,105 42,122 tiate a share buyback program with the purpose to reduce Intrum’s share capital through cancellation of the shares that are repurchased. Through the Return on portfolio investments program, Intrum will return further funds to shareholders and it is the Board Return on portfolio investments is the service line earnings for the period, of Directors’ assessment that this will give the company a more optimal capexcluding operations in factoring and payment guarantees, recalculated on ital structure. The maximum number of shares that can be repurchased is a full-year basis, as a percentage of the average carrying amount of the bal12,554,132. ance-sheet item purchased debt. The ratio sets the service line’s earnings in relation to the amount of capital tied up and is included in the Group’s financial targets. During the year, the definition of average book value for the full year was Impact of Covid-19 on Intrum’s business adjusted to be based on the average of the quarters instead of the opening and On 25 March 2020 Intrum informed that the effects of Covid-19 vary from closing book value for the full year. market to market. To date, countries in southern Europe have been hardest hit by the ongoing virus outbreak, which has affected all aspects of society. Intrum’s Strategic Markets business line is experiencing delays in cash flows EBITDA due to general restrictions brought in across countries and reduced activOperating earnings before depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) are operity in legal systems in particular. The secured assets relating to the cash flows ating earnings after reversal of depreciation of fixed assets except portfolio however remain. In other European markets however, the effect on Intrum’s investments. activities has been relatively limited. Global events related to the spread of Covid-19 are expected to have negCash EBITDA ative impacts on the company’s productivity and results for a period of time. Cash EBITDA is operating earnings after depreciation on fixed assets as well Our preliminary assessment is that reported earnings will be affected to a as amortisation and revaluations of portfolio investments are added back. greater extent than cash EBITDA, but it is currently too early to quantify the financial effects. Items affecting comparability Intrum has decided to reduce the rate of investment and increase the yield Significant earnings items that are not included in the Group’s normal recurrequirements on new portfolio investments while also to a very limited extent ring operations and that are not expected to return on a regular basis. review M&A projects. Reduced M&A activity and lower investment in portfoThese include revaluations of portfolio investments, restructuring costs, clolio activities frees up a greater degree of cash flow in the business. sure costs, reversal of restructuring or closure reservations, cost savings proAs a result of the impact of Covid-19 on Intrum’s business, updated finangrams, integration costs, ex¬traordinary projects, divestments, impairment cial targets will be communicated at the capital markets day, which is of non-current fixed assets other than portfolio investments, acquisition and planned to be held in the coming autumn. divestment expens¬es, advisory costs for discontinued acquisition projects, costs for relocation to new office space, termination nd recruitment costs for members of Group Management and country managers, as well as external expenses for disputes and unu¬sual agreements. Items affecting comparability are specified because they are difficult to predict and have low forecast values for the Group’s future earnings trend. Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) are operating earnings excluding revaluations of portfolio investments and items affecting comparability. 98 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Proposed appropriation of earnings Proposed appropriation of earnings The Parent Company’s distributable funds are at the disposal of the Board The Board of Director propose that the earnings be distributed as follows1: of Directors as follows: SEK SEK Dividend, 131,541,320 shares x SEK 11.00 1,440,354,520 Share premium reserve 17,441,835,284 Balance carried forward 12,701,420,814 Retained earnings -2,612,982,535 Total 14,141,775,334 Net earnings for the year -687,077,416 1) The total amount of the dividend payment and the amount carried forward as distributable retained earnings after the dividend pay-out, will be adjusted based on the amount of treasury shares held by Total 14,141,775,334 Intrum at the record date for the dividend payment. The Board of Directors’ complete statement motivating the proposed dispoThe annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of sition of earnings for the 2019 fiscal year will be presented in a separate docthe financial position and results of the Parent Company and the Group. The ument prior to the 2020 Annual General Meeting. It concludes, among other Board of Directors’ Report for the Parent Company and the Group gives a things, that the proposed dividend is in line with the Company’s dividend true and fair overview of the operations, financial position and results of the policy and that the Board, having considered the nature, scope and risks of Parent Company and the Group, and describes significant risks and uncerthe Company’s operations, as well as the Company’s and the Group’s containties that the Parent Company and the companies in the Group face. solidation requirements, liquidity and financial position in general, has found The annual and consolidated accounts were approved for publication by no indications that the proposed dividend is unjustified. the Board of Directors and the President on 1 April 2020 and are proposed The Board of Directors and the President certify that the Annual Report for approval by the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020. has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. Stockholm, 1 April 2020 Mikael Ericson President and CEO Per E. Larsson Magnus Yngen Hans Larsson Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman of the Board Board member Kristoffer Melinder Andreas Näsvik Magdalena Persson Board member Board member Board member Liv Fiksdahl Andrés Rubio Ragnhild Wiborg Board member Board member Board member Our audit report regarding this Annual Report was submitted on 7 April 2020. Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 99 Audit report Audit report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Intrum AB (publ), corporate Income recognition identity number 556607-7581 Description Consolidated net revenues for 2019 amounted to SEK 15,985 M. As is eviReport on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts dent from Notes 2 and 3 to the annual accounts, net revenues are distributed between the various revenue sources, including collection fees, commissions Opinions and fees, as well as amounts collected on portfolio investments less amorWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Intrum tisation. The number of transactions in the various flows is extensive, which AB (publ) for the year 2019. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts places high demands on the Company’s internal controls and administraof the company are included on pages 53-99 in this document. tive processes. We have therefore assessed the income statement and the In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance related IT systems as a particularly important area in the audit. with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its How our audit addressed this key audit matter financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance In our audit, we examined principles for revenue recognition, processes for with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been presignificant revenue streams and related IT systems. We have, among other pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in things, tested the Company’s controls, performed an analytical review and all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s controls for IT systems of rel2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended evance for income recognition. On a random basis, we have also examined in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as income against agreements and amounts paid in. Processes for proadopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administragramme development, programme changes and access management have tion report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and conbeen reviewed, as has the monitoring and handling of incidents. We have solidated accounts. also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements regarding income We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts recognition. the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Goodwill Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated Description accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has Goodwill is reported in the amount of SEK 33,358 M in the consolidated balbeen submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance ance sheet as per 31 December 2019. Over the fiscal year, goodwill increased with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. by SEK 303 M as a consequence of acquisitions during the year and currency effect, however reduced by recognised impairment losses. The ComBasis for Opinions pany tests, at least annually and when there is an indication of impairment, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on that the carrying values do not exceed the assets’ recoverable amounts. The Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our recoverable amounts are determined by calculating the value in use of each responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s cash generating unit, in connection with which estimated future cash flows Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the are discounted. The Company’s cash flow forecasts are based on historigroup in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and cal experience, business plans and other forward-looking assessments. The have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these impairment test for 2019 resulted in an impairment of SEK 2,700 M in the requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and Iberian Peninsula and Latin America region. A description of the accountbelief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) ing principles for goodwill is presented in Note 1 and the impairment testArticle 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, ing, as well as critical estimates and assumptions are presented in Notes 10 its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. and 35. As a consequence of the reported amounts being of material imporWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and tance to the financial reporting and the assessments and critical assumptions appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. required for the calculation of the value in use, we have assessed goodwill accounting as an area of particular importance in the audit. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgHow our audit addressed this key audit matter ment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and conWe have assessed the Company’s process for performing impairment testsolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in ing. We have examined valuation methods and calculations, the reasonthe context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual ableness of the assumptions made and sensitivity analyses for changed accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a assumptions supported by our valuation specialists. Comparisons have been separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of made with historical results, and other companies in the same sector. The how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. precision of previous forecasts has been evaluated. We have also reviewed We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responthe disclosures in the financial statements regarding goodwill. sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the Portfolio investments performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the Description risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our Portfolio investments is reported at SEK 28 508 M in the consolidated balaudit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matance sheet as per 31 December 2019. Reporting follows the effective interters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying est method, where the carrying value of each portfolio corresponds to the financial statements. present value of expected future cash flows. The expected cash flows are discounted at an effective interest rate determined on the acquisition of the respective portfolios. Current cash flow projections and book values 100 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Audit report are monitored over the course of the year based on, among other things, misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and achieved collection results, agreements reached with customers on instalare considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonment plans and macroeconomic information. Accounting principles for ably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the portfolio investments are presented in Note 1, critical estimates and assumpbasis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. tions are presented in Note 35, and a description of portfolio investments As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgis given in Note 14. The Company’s accounting of portfolio investments is ment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: considered to be a particularly important area in the audit due to reported • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual amounts being of significance for the financial reporting and the portfolio accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, valuations require the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgedesign and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain ments. audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from How our audit addressed this key audit matter fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve colluIn our audit, we have, among other things, evaluated the Company’s prosion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of cesses for valuing portfolio investments, related IT systems, the valuation internal control. models applied, and the reasonableness of the assumptions made in calcu• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our lating effective interest rates. We have also reviewed the company’s ongoing audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cirreview of book values. We have also reviewed the disclosures in the financial cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effecstatements regarding portfolio investments. tiveness of the company’s internal control. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonThis document also contains other information than the annual accounts ableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-52 and 103-114. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director. Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Maninformation. aging Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclucover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance sion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material conclusion regarding this other information. uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going conaccounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and cern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and conthe information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. solidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conobtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, presentation. concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the finanby the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responcial information of the entities or business activities within the group to sible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. solely responsible for our opinions. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit finddisclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going ings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is howthat we identified. ever not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we have to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to but to do so. communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonThe Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s ably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the compasafeguards. ny’s financial reporting process. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual Auditor’s responsibility accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important assessed Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misdescribe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation prestatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that cludes disclosure about the matter. includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 101 Audit report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give Opinions rise to liability to the company, or In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Managing Director of Intrum AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the proposal in the statreasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with utory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors the Companies Act. and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditBasis for opinions ing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibiliprofessional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the adminties in accordance with these requirements. istration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviaThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of tions and violations would have particular importance for the company’s sitthe company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an uation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requireactions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion conments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks cerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidaDirectors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examtion requirements, liquidity and position in general. ined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and porting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things accordance with the Companies Act. continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situaErnst & Young AB, Box 7850, SE-103 99 Stockholm, was appointed audition and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the tor of Intrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 26 accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs othApril 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 25 April 2012. erwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ Stockholm 7 April 2020 guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and Ernst & Young AB handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Jesper Nilsson Authorized Public Accountant Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: 102 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability information Sustainability information About the Sustainability Report Reporting principles tions. The Code of Conduct covers our employees, partners and suppliers. This Annual and Sustainability Report integrates financial data with sustainability Other governance documents of significance for the sustainability work information. The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the include our environmental instruction, HR instruction, privacy and data protecSwedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and is designed in accordance with the Global tion instructions, client and sales instruction and the instruction on anti money Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, Core level. The report also constitutes Intrum’s laundering and financing of terrorism. Communication of Progress (COP) at the Active level for the UN Global Compact Intrum’s management model is based on a clear delegation and follow-up and contains information on how Intrum contributes to the UN’s Sustainable Develof powers and authorities, which pervades all business areas, staff units and opment Goals and Agenda 2030. The Sustainability Report covers the period from control functions. More information on our governance model and control of 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. The preceding Sustainability Report was pubcompliance with our internal regulations can be found in the Corporate Goverlished on 4 April 2019. nance Report on pages 42–51. The report includes disclosures regarding our view on sustainability, value creation and risks associated with issues related to the environment, social Framework for sustainability work conditions, personnel, respect for human rights and anticorruption. The SusTo contribute to a global responsibility with regard to sustainability, Intrum has, tainability Report is accompanied by an auditor report on the statutory sustainsince 2016, been a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact business initiative and its ability report confirming that the report was prepared in accordance with the ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. These Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The auditor’s opinion is presented on page 109. are implemented through our internal instructions and our Code of Conduct, The report encompasses Intrum AB (publ) and our operations in 25 markets which also governs our work in the area of sustainability. We also support Agenda (see Note 12, pages 83–85). 2030 and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Significant changes since the preceding reporting period Stakeholder engagement A sustainability report was prepared in accordance with the amendment in the We interact with our stakeholders in various contexts daily. Through continuSwedish Annual Accounts Act for the first time in 2017. The Sustainability Report ous discussions, we can be responsive to our stakeholders’ expectations and was then prepared as an appendix to the Annual Report and thus constituted a develop our business in line with their expectations. separate report according to the Annual Accounts Act and the UN Global ComDuring the year, we held in-depth interviews with a selection of our largest pact’s Communication of Progress. Intrum’s first full calendar year following the shareholders, corresponding to more than 60 percent of the total shareholder merger of Intrum Justitia and Lindorff was 2018. In connection with this, the Susbase, regarding their expectations of our sustainability work today and in the tainability Report was integrated into the Annual Report and has since followed future. The results of the interviews have had a major bearing on the developthe GRI Standards at the accounting level Core. ment of the sustainability agenda. We will continue to develop and strengthen the dialogues with our stakeholders. Contact persons Our key stakeholders are those who are influenced by our operations to a Chief Communications Officer Anna Fall, anna.fall@intrum.com substantial extent and who play a significant role in our operations. Our main Sustainability Director Vanessa Söderberg, vanessa.soderberg@intrum.com stakeholders are customers, clients, employees, shareholders and society. We interact with them in a variety of ways, including through individual conSustainability governance versations, broader discussions, surveys and questionnaires. The results of Intrum’s strategic focus for the sustainability work is approved by the Board, these conversations and dialogues have formed the basis of our materiality which is also the highest decision-making body in the sustainability governance. analysis and played a significant role in setting our sustainability agenda. We The Group Management Team presents the strategy to the Board. The Group’s view stakeholder dialogues as a rewarding element in our operations, as they sustainability work is conducted through the Chief Brand and Communications facilitate development in the desired direction. Officer. To simplify coordination and integration of the work in the Group as a whole, an operational Sustainability Integration Committee (SIC) was formed Customers during the year. The committee is led by the Chief Brand and Communications Our customers are the individuals in debt whom we meet in our day-to-day Officer and the Sustainability Director, and in addition to them the committee operations. They are our clients’ customers, whose cases we take on when also has representatives from our Credit Management Services and Portfolio they pay late or fail to pay. Investments business areas, as well as from HR, Risk, Compliance, Finance and two of our country managers. The committee first met in the autumn of 2019, Examples of interactions with materiality analysis and basic work for the strategy on its agenda. Annual focus groups, regular customer surveys, daily contact through our webOur purpose, values, mission and vision lay the foundation for Intrum’s sussite, e-mail, phone and letters. tainability work alongside our Code of Conduct and related internal instrucSustainability governance overview Board of Directors Group Management Central Sustainability Integration Sustainability Team Committee Group Brand & Group HR Group CMS Communications Group Risk & Compliance Managing Director Chief Human MD CMS Sales & Service Chief Brand & Chief Risk Officer Norway and Sweden Resources Officer Development Communications Officer Group Brand & Group Finance Group Portfolio Investments Group Risk & Compliance Managing Director Communications Group Investor Group Director Chief Compliance Officer Poland Sustainability Director Relations Director Alternative Assets Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 103 Sustainability information Important issues Our customers expect and appreciate a personal response, that we display Stakeholder influence Meet expectations Focus empathy and are able to identify individually tailored solutions. We are also expected to provide user-friendly tools and offer good accessibility. • Anti-corruption • Ethical collection by treating • Reduced environmental customers fairly Handling of issues footprint • Responsible selection of cliOur daily work is guided by our values: Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and Solu• Diversity and inclusion ents and portfolios tions. Our Code of Conduct incorporates our values, which guide us in our • Attracting and retaining tal• Data security daily work and treatment of both customers and our other stakeholders. An ents, including employee effort is under way to formalise principles for how we behave ethically towards • Sound economy for our well-being our customers. clients Clients Maintain Develop Our clients are companies in various sectors, including banking and finance, • Sound transactions • Increase financial literacy in telecom, energy and consumer products, for whom we help secure payment. • Responsible value chain and society Clients span all scales of enterprise, from multinational corporations to small and medium-sized companies. partnerships • Relations with decision makExamples of interactions ers and organisations Annual survey of satisfaction among clients, annual interviews and the Euro• Favourable payment terms pean Payment Report, which is conducted annually. between companies Material issues Social, environmental and financial impact Regardless of their size and the sectors in which they operate, liquidity is Materiality analysis essential for companies. How we treat their customers is also crucial as we are The materiality analysis is presented in a new visual format and weighs in part of the customer’s journey. In addition, our clients seek a professional partsocial, environmental and financial impact, and the stakeholder impact. ner offering user-friendly and customised solutions. The issues that are of the highest priority in the immediate period end up in the upper-right corner under the category “focus”. In the upper-left corner Handling of issues under the category “meet expectations” are the aspects where we need We annually conduct a survey of our clients to be able to develop our operations to to work to ensure that we meet our stakeholders’ expectations of us. In the meet their expectations. Our daily work is guided by our values: Empathy, Ethics, lower-left corner under “maintain” are the issues that are on our agenda, Dedication and Solutions. Our Code of Conduct incorporates our values, which but currently do not require extra resources, and lastly, under “develop” are guide us in our daily work and treatment of both clients and our other stakeholders. the areas that are important for future development where we can have an impact, but are not considered central to our stakeholders. Society Society is a broad stakeholder group including citizens and policy makers, consumers and companies, authorities and organisations, to name just a few. Examples of interactions The annual employee survey MyVoice, the internal communication platform Examples of interactions Workplace with daily interactions, daily on-going interactions and discussions. Regular collaboration with the European Union’s bodies, regular cooperation with local decision-makers, regular financial training initiatives. Material issues For our employees, the key, overarching concern is well-being. Material issues Material issues include the workplace environment and health, inclusion, skills supply and A well-functioning credit market for lenders and borrowers is the overarching opportunities for development. significant concern. Priority issues entail helping individuals become debt-free, thereby improving their circumstances, while contributing to sound finances for Handling of issues companies. This is to be achieved applying a responsible and ethical approach. Our employee survey is an important tool for ensuring the well-being of our employees. Every local team works with its result of the employee survey to Handling of issues meet the needs in the team, and this work takes place in the whole Group. We annually conduct two surveys, the European Payment Report among more than 10,000 companies and the European Consumer Payment Report among Materiality analysis more than 24,000 consumers. Through these surveys, we gain insights into In 2019, the materiality analysis and the material aspects identified using stakehow the credit market is perceived by companies and consumers, as well as holder dialogues were developed. The work was prepared in the Sustainability the market’s development. These are important insights for our own operaIntegration Committee (SIC). The material aspects have been clarified and the tions, but also for society in general. We collaborate with decision-makers at number of aspects have been reduced compared with the previous year. various levels for a regulatory development in a desired direction. This work resulted in 13 material aspects in the three overall strategic focuses. Shareholders Our existing and potential shareholders. Enable sustainable payments • Ethical collection by treating customers fairly Examples of interactions • Responsible selection of clients and portfolios Interviews with shareholders, quarterly reporting including road shows, meet• Sound economy for our clients ings with shareholders, such as the General Meeting. • Favourable payment terms between companies Material issues • Sound transactions Ethical collection, responsible selection of clients and debt portfolios, • Increase financial literacy in society anti-corruption and a reduced climate footprint are among the issues highlighted as material. An increasing number of investors attach considerable Trusted and respected importance to our work on sustainability-related risks. • Anti-corruption Handling of issues • Reduced environmental footprint These are important questions for us, and we have a number of relevant steer• Responsible value chain and partnerships ing documents to manage the issues. As an important first step regarding sus• Data security tainability-related risks, these are incorporated into the Directors’ Report’s risk • Relations with decision makers and organisations section in a clearer way. The work on sustainability-related risks continues to be developed internally. Growing by making a difference Employees • Attract and retain talents, including employee well-being In the 25 markets in which we operate, Intrum has some 10,000 employees in total. • Diversity and inclusion 104 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability information Sustainability data Company specific key performance indicators– Sound finances for our clients 2019 2018 Client Satisfaction Index (0–100) 73 73 Enable sustainable payments Financial value created for our clients (SEK billion) 67 69 Sound transactions Ethical collection by treating customers fairly A growing problem in society is money laundering, and as an actor in the We attach extensive importance to treating our customers with empathy and finance sector, which handles payments, we run the risk of being affected. We respect for the individual’s situation. This concerns both how we communiregularly review transactions that take place in the scope of our operations, cate with customers, but also how we handle cases. For us, this is a basic preand suspected transactions are reported to the relevant authority. requisite for our clients to entrust us with their most important asset –their customers. Important internal steering documents We are guided by our values Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and Solutions. Our Instruction for anti money laundering, the financing of terrorism and sanctions Code of Conduct incorporates our values, which guide us in our daily work and treatment of both customers and our other stakeholders. Company specific key performance indicators– Sound transactions Work is under way to begin measuring customer satisfaction in a uniform way in our markets. We are also working to formalise principles for how we 2019 behave towards our customers. Number of transactions reviewed 1046 Since the development of our values in 2017, we measure in our annual Number of transactions reported 10 employee survey the degree to which our employees feel that we live according to our values. The employee survey is conducted among all employees and Increase financial awareness in society had an 84 percent response rate, which is slightly higher compared with the Over-indebtedness involves those who find they experience recurring probprevious year (82). lems with not being able to pay for the goods and services they have purchased. In certain countries and among certain groups of people, knowledge Important internal steering documents about private finances and the consequences of paying on credit is low, and Code of Conduct many people would like to learn more about these issues at young age. We see this as an opportunity and our responsibility to contribute to a higher level of Company specific key performance indicators – Ethical collection knowledge concerning sound finances by actively sharing our knowledge in 2019 2018 the scope of our daily operations and through targeted education initiatives. Value index (0–100) 80 80 We conduct a number of different educational initiatives in our various markets. During the year, we achieved our education initiative of around 14,000 Number of finally paid debt cases (millions) 9.7 10.5 people. Responsible selection of clients and portfolios Important internal steering documents For us, it is important to cooperate with clients that share our values of good Code of Conduct business ethics. Our clients and portfolios form the core of our value chain, and we therefore choose our clients and portfolios with care. In practice, this Company specific key performance indicators– Education initiatives means that we do not accept clients or portfolios whose invoices lack a legal Number of people reached by our education initiative: 14,000 foundation, that use unethical lending terms or aggressive sales methods, or are not considered ethical for other reasons. Country Description Our sales instructions stipulate the criteria for how we choose our clients Belgium Through collaboration with the organisation “Vlajo”, we have been and portfolios. Before we begin collaboration with a client, a screening is done involved in providing students financial education. according to these criteria. In our register system of clients, we monitor the percentage approved after screening as of 2019. Denmark During the year, a number of lectures were held at several uppersecondary schools to increase knowledge about credit and Important internal steering documents consequences of late payments. Code of Conduct Finland Cooperation with Haaga-Helia University where one of the goals Sales instruction of the partnership is to increase financial knowledge among young people. We also provide educational materials for financial Company specific key performance indicators– Selection of clients education through collaboration with SubjectAid. 2019 2018 France A group of employees are ambassadors for a game called Dilemma Percentage of new clients approved after review 94.5% n/a that has been created by the partner organisation CRESUS. The game contributes to greater awareness about consumption, budgets and Sound finances for our clients excessive debt, among other things. The core of our operations is about helping companies get paid for the goods and services they have sold. We offer our clients a long-term partner who Latvia The country manager for the Baltics was invited to hold a lecture in enables development and growth. We strive to offer our clients good service economics to a women’s network. and provide user friendly solutions. Norway We provide financial support and cooperate with the Norwegian Our daily work is guided by our values: Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and Red Cross in an initiative where we educate former convicts in Solutions. Our Code of Conduct incorporates our values, which guide us in our personal finances. daily work and treatment of both clients and our other stakeholders. To understand how we can develop our approach, an independent survey is Portugal Educational initiatives at a university. conducted each year to derive a satisfaction index. According to the latest surSpain A financial education programme for students. vey, which was conducted in the autumn of 2019, the index was 73, which was in line with the preceding year. A total of 2,200 companies from 22 of our marUK For the past five years, we have cooperated with a school where kets participated. we offered our internal training programme “Creditwise” to By helping our clients get paid for their goods and services by serving as a increase knowledge about personal finances and credit, and representative or buying portfolios, we generate financial value for them. We consequences of late payments. monitor this financial value, meaning how much money we have collected on behalf of our clients in our credit management services, and the value of the Sweden Spendido is an interactive digital lecture for upper-secondary portfolios we have bought from clients and thereby freed them from their balschool students and their teachers in Sweden, through which they ance sheets. can learn about issues related to credit and indebtedness. Hungary In 2017 we launched the annual competition Zsebpénzügyes Important internal steering documents (Pocket-money) for upper-secondary school students, in which they Code of Conduct can test their knowledge on financial education and personal finance. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 105 Sustainability information Favourable payment terms between companies tion principle of transparency and fairness. The decision was appealed to a We know that late payments have negative consequences for companies. court by Intrum and the first review will take place in 2020. Through our payment periods to suppliers, we have a direct impact, and we also work proactively to indirectly shorten the payment times towards compaRelations with decision makers and organisations nies and thereby contribute to their development and growth. This is through Both nationally and internationally, we are engaged in dialogues with legislavarious activities with the goal of shortening payment times for companies. tors, authorities and sector organisations. We consider participating actively in the debate on current issues in the sector and helping develop new credit Important internal steering documents management regulations as one of our most important tasks as a good corpoCode of Conduct rate citizen. In this way, we are driving the future development of our industry in a sustainable direction. Trusted and Respected Important internal steering documents Code of Conduct Anti-corruption As a player in 25 markets, we are, like other companies, exposed to corruption Company specific key performance indicators– Activities for maintaining risks in our business. For us, applying zero tolerance of corruption is a matter relationships with decision-makers of course, and our Code of Conduct and instructions against bribery and corCountry Description ruption guide our employees and others representing the Company in how we should act to manage this risk. Belgium We have been involved in the founding of the interest group We annually conduct an overall evaluation of corruption risks in our entire “Socrem”, which wants to unite the credit management business, which includes the following categories: risks linked to clients in the sector and collaborate with its stakeholders to shape the respective industries, geographic risks, internal risks, implementation risks. credit management services industry in a more sustainable On an overall level, the risks are classified as average. No significant risks have direction. We also actively participated in lobby work with been identified, but a high risk has been identified in relation to our operations decision-makers and other stakeholders in connection with a in Brazil; and to outsourced activities and external cooperative partners outnew legislative proposal from the Belgian government where side Europe due to geographic risks. we recommended possibilities for voluntary repayment plans. Denmark Member of a trade association through which we contributed Important internal steering documents to change in legislation linked to government claims. Instructions against corruption and bribes Code of Conduct Finland Member of a trade association for Finnish credit management companies through which we were consulted by decisionGRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken makers in connection with new legislative proposals. 2019 2018 Latvia Member of a local trade association through which we work Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 0 0 to promote the regulatory environment. Lithuania Collaboration with trade associations and NGOs, and the GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Latvian and Swedish chambers of commerce in Lithuania. Through this, we actively participate to drive the regulatory 2019 2018 development forward through, for example, statements on Share of operations assessed for risks related to 100% n/a legislative proposals. corruption Netherlands We collaborate with a parliament committee to promote the Company specific key performance indicators– Whistle-blower mechanism regulatory development of the industry. 2019 2018 Norway Upon invitation by Norway’s Ministry of Justice, we actively Number of cases in the whistle-blower mechanism 2 1 participated in submitting proposals in connection with new “Code of Conduct Hotline” that have led to action taken legislation in the industry. In 2019, two incidents were reported via the whistle-blower function promptPoland During the year, we coordinated two meetings with ing further investigation and measures. Although these incidents were not decision-makers, authorities and the trade association in violation of the law, they were found to be in contradiction of our Code of PZZW. The objective of these meetings was to create Conduct and involved an investigation of harassment and the handling of concollaboration and discuss legislative proposals. flicts of interest. Switzerland We have a leading role in the local trade association through which we worked for the development of laws. Data security Slovakia Members of the trade association ASINS (association of Given the large amount of data on customers and clients that we handle, data Slovakian credit management companies) where the local security and data management represent one of our most important sustaincountry manager is currently the chairman. We cooperate with ability issues. We have both a legal and an ethical responsibility to handle senthe Slovakian central bank in, for example, consultations on sitive data in a manner guaranteeing respect for personal privacy, and paying ethical collection operations. Collaboration with the Ministry due consideration to the human right of freedom from arbitrary interference of Justice in connection with new legislative proposals. with privacy. Incorrect use of sensitive details or loss of data could cause great harm to the individuals affected, as well as to clients and to us as a company. Spain We are members of a national trade association where the local country manager is the chairperson. We conduct Important internal steering documents activities in several initiatives to promote legislation in the Information security instructions industry as Spain’s credit management market is unregulated. Privacy policy Sweden Initiator of ”30-dagarsklubben”, a voluntary code for shorter Privacy governance payment terms between companies. Active members of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s network “gilla GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer din ekonomi” whose purpose is to contribute to increased privacy and losses of customer data knowledge of personal finances in Sweden. 2019 2018 United Kingdom We cooperate closely with decision-makers at various levels, The number of substantiated complaints concerning 9 n/a such as through membership in several industry-relevant breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data trade associations. We are on the board of the member In 2019, nine investigations were initiated by supervisory authorities in four organisation “The Money Advice Liaison Group”, which of our operating countries (Finland, Spain, Belgium, Hungary). Of these nine collaborates with organisations to improve the life situation investigations, three were concluded without action by the supervisory authorfor individuals in debt. ity. The remaining matters are on-going. Six of these matters were initiated due Czech Republic Membership in local trade association. to complaints from the registered person. One decision was sentenced by a supervisory authority regarding failure to comply with the basic data protec106 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability information Country Description Growing by making a difference Germany Active members in several trade associations, chamber of commerce and panels of experts. Diversity and inclusion Hungary Close cooperation with decision-makers at various levels It is our conviction that increased diversity makes us more competitive. With through regular contact with the central bank and the operations in 25 countries and with employees speaking 34 languages, we are ministry of justice, among others. We are also members of a proud to be a multicultural company. As an employer, we do our utmost to treat national trade association. all employees with respect and to afford equal development opportunities to all. Austria Members of the Austrian Collection Association (IVÖ) Important internal steering documents through which we are involved in lobby work. Code of Conduct HR instruction Reduced environmental footprint Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Business and GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees industry can play an important role in reducing the environmental and climate 2019 2018 impact, and we consider it our responsibility to minimise our impact where Gender distribution, Group Management Team we have the opportunity. Our impact on the environment mainly takes place Women 18% 23% through our business travel and the energy supply to our offices. Our starting year for measuring the climate and environmental footprints of Men 82% 77% our operations within scopes 1, 2 and 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol was 2018. During the year, we developed the process through a digital platform for Gender distribution, Board of Directors data gathering. Women 67% 67% Men 33% 33% Important internal steering documents Environmental instruction Gender distribution, employees Travel policy Women 62% 63% Instruction for company cars Men 38% 37% Code of Conduct Distribution of management positions with regard to gender and Data to calculate our greenhouse gas emissions in scope 1, 2 and 3 has been age gathered from the offices that have been part of the Group for at least six Age Women Men months of the year, where we have more than 15 employees. The data have been gathered through own measuring systems, invoices and in limited cases <30 57% 43% through estimates based on data from previous years and months. The emis30–40 48% 52% sion factors used to calculate carbon dioxide equivalents have been obtained 40–50 50% 50% from fuel suppliers, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Associ50+ 42% 58% ation of Issuing Bodies (AIB), the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the World Wide Fund for Nature and the Green House Gas Company specific key performance indicator– Spoken languages (GHG) Protocol. We speak and can serve our customers and clients in 34 different languages in the 25 markets in which we are active. Our climate footprint, CO2e1 emissions Albanian French Kurdish Portuguese Swedish Arabic Greek Latvian Punjabi Tamil Bosnian Hindi-Urdu Lithuanian Romanian Czech Danish Dutch Macedonian Russian Turkish English Icelandic Norwegian Serbo-CroatianGerman Estonian Italian Persian Slovakian Hungarian Finnish Catalan Polish Spanish Scope 1 pertains to emissions from cars Attract and retain talents, including employee well-being Our ability to attract and retain talents goes hand in hand with the well-being that we own. among our employees. To attract talents and develop them within the company, Scope 2 pertains to emissions from we foster internal mobility and work actively to illuminate internal career paths. energy consumption at our offices and It is crucial that our employees be afforded sufficient resources, knowledge and includes consumption of electricity, heat opportunities to perform their duties, and we work continuously to ensure that  cope 1, 174 tonnes (3%) S and cooling. we meet the needs of each individual in the regard. With us, all employees shall Scope 2, 1,815 tonnes (27%) Scope 3 pertains to emissions from be able to enjoy their fundamental freedoms and rights. Scope 3, 4,819 tonnes (71%) business travel, including by air and rail. 1) GWP 100 (IPCC 2014). Important internal steering documents Total tCO2e emissions: 6,8082 2) Location-based. Code of Conduct HR instruction GRI 305-1, 305-2 och 305-3 Emissions (tCO2e) GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2019 2018 Scope 1 174 155 2019 2018 Scope 2 1,815 2,886 Number of new hires 3,634 2,204 Scope 3 4,819 5,413 Personnel turnover 26% 28% Total 6,808 8,454 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Responsible value chain and partnerships Share of employees covered by collective bargaining >60% 50% For us, it is important to cooperate with companies that share our values of agreements. good business ethics. Besides our clients and portfolios, which are the core of our supply chain, this also applies to the purchases we make for our offices, in Company specific key performance indicators Well-being among the purchase of services and not least the partner networks we work with to employees serve our clients globally. 2019 2018 2017 Engagement Index 76 74 76 Important internal steering documents Sick leave 7% 6% 5% Code of Conduct Purchasing policy Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 107 Sustainability information Targets for 2019 Achieved Partly achieved Begun Status Comment Promote sustainable payments Expand the scope of training initiatives We want more people to get access to education in personal finance, The number of educational initiatives in the Group has increased since 2018. which is why we strive to increase the availability of our educational As of 2019, the number of people reached by our initiatives is measured. efforts. Increase customer satisfaction and develop measurement method We strive to increase the general satisfaction among our customers. We During the year, we conducted a survey to be able to develop our also want to increase the comparability of the customer satisfaction measurement method of customer satisfaction in our markets. between our markets by developing our measurement method. Increase client satisfaction Our clients have a generally high satisfaction with our work. From 0-100, We continuously strive to improve our service to our clients. Besides our we were rated 73 in 2018, and the goal is to increase satisfaction in annual survey among clients, we conducted a smaller survey to better coming years. understand our clients’ needs and expectations of us. During the year, we worked to improve the cooperation with our clients through technical solutions, our communication and through greater focus internally. This resulted in us achieving a satisfaction index of 73 among our clients on a scale of 0-100 this year, in line with the 2018 level. Respected and highly trusted Defining environmental and climate targets Based on the first extensive survey of our climate footprint in 2018, in The following environmental and climate target was defined in 2019: To 2019 we will formulate environmental and climate targets to reduce our achieve climate neutrality by 2030 and to reduce our total greenhouse gas negative impact. emissions by at least 20 percent from 2020. Strengthen the implementation of our Code of Conduct Through internal training efforts for our employees, we want to As a part of this recurring work, a course was planned to be conducted among strengthen the knowledge of our prepared Code of Conduct and all of our employees regarding our Code of Conduct. The course was launched compliance to it. in January 2020, and the goal is for all employees to have attended the course before the end of the year. Reinforced evaluation and monitoring of risks with respect to sustainability This work has begun during the year and its results will be reported in the During the year, we will strengthen our follow-up of risks linked to Directors’ Report’s risk section. The work in this area is continuing. sustainability through our risk tools that have been developed in 2018. Grow by making a difference Increase employee satisfaction The commitment index for 2018 decreased from 76 (2017) to 74. As a result of the work and activities in 2019 to increase the commitment The goal is to actively work to increase commitment and satisfaction among our employees, the commitment index increased from 74 in 2018 to internally among our employees from this year’s levels. 76 in 2019. Strengthen the implementation of our values We annually survey how our employees feel that we live according to our The value index remains at 80 out of 100 as in 2018. The work of values. It is an important measurement to ensure the implementation of strengthening our corporate culture is a constant effort that we continue to our values. Through a number of internal activities, we will continue the work on. work on our values in 2019. Formulate a plan for increased diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are one of our material areas, and in 2019 we To support our managers in their role as ambassadors for the company’s will formulate a plan to strengthen our ability to utilise our employees’ values, we elaborated new management principles during the year. These are various competencies, views and experiences. tied to our value base and are designed to guide our managers in their daily work – Trust, Clarity, Change and Growth. These principles integrate diversity and inclusion. During the year, work was also begun to further formalise diversity and inclusion in our internal frameworks. Index for the Sustainability report in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Information Page reference General Business model 20 Environment Policy in environmental issues 35, 107 Risks and their management in environmental issues 35 Targets and results related to environmental issues 32, 35, 107 Social conditions and labor Policy in social conditions and labor issues 26-29, 107 Risks and their management in social conditions and labor issues 26-29 Targets and results related to social conditions and labor issues 26-29, 107 Respect for human rights Policy in human rights issues 34-35 Risks and their management in human rights issues 34-35 Targets and results related to environmental issues 34-35, 106 Anti-corruption Policy in anti-corruption issues 35, 106 Risks and their management in corruption issues 35 Targets and results related to anti-corruption issues 32, 35, 106 108 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability information Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556607-7581. Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2019 on pages 20-37 and 103-108 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Stockholm, 07 April 2020 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 109 Sustainability information GRI Index GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment 101 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 53 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 53, 55 102-3 Location of headquarters 72 102-4 Location of operations 54, 83-85 102-5 Ownership and legal form 38-39, 42 102-6 Markets served 20, 54, 83-85 102-7 Scale of the organization 2-3, 4, 38, 54-57 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 90 102-9 Supply chain 2, 107 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 54 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 35 102-12 External initiatives 105-106 102-13 Membership of associations 105-106 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12-13, 27 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 42, 103 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 103-104 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 107 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 103 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 103-104 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 103-104 About the report 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 83-85 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 103-104 102-47 List of material topics 104 102-48 Restatements of information 103 102-49 Changes in reporting 104 102-50 Reporting period 103 102-51 Date of most recent report 103 102-52 Reporting cycle 103 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 103 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 103 102-55 GRI content index 110-111 102-56 External assurance 109 Topic-specific disclosures Finance 205: Anti-corruption 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 33-35, 104, 106 205-3 Confirmed corruption incidents and steps taken 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 33-35, 104, 106 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 106 305: Emissions 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 35, 103, 107 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 35, 103, 107 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 35, 103, 107 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 35, 103, 107 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 35, 103, 107 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 35, 103, 107 110 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability information GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment Social 401: Employees 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 26-29, 103, 107 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 107 405: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 26-29, 103, 107 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 107 418: Customer privacy 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 34-35, 103, 106 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 106 privacy and losses of customer data Company-specific issues Enableing sustainable payments 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 20-23, 103-104 Ethical collection by treating customers fairly 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 20-23, 103-104 Responsible selection of clients and portfolios 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 20-23, 103-104 Sound economy for our clients 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 20-23, 103-104 Favourable payment terms between companies 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 33-35, 103-104 Sound transactions 105 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 20-23, 103-104 Increase financial awareness in society 104-105 Trusted and respected 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 33-35, 103, 106 Anti-corruption Whistle blower mechanism 106 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 107 Responsible value chain and partnerships 20-23, 107 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 32, 36, 106-107 Relations with decision makers and organisations 105-106 Growing by making a difference 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 26-29, 103, 106 Employee well-being 106 103–1, 2, 3 Management approach 26-29, 103, 106 Languages spoken 107 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 111 Definitions Definitions Result concepts, key figures and alternative indicators Cash EBITDA Cash EBITDA is operating earnings after depreciation on fixed assets as well as Consolidated net revenues amortisation and revaluations of portfolio investments are added back. Consolidated net revenues include external credit management income (variable collection commissions, fixed collection fees, debtor fees, guarantee Non-recurring items (NRIs) commissions, subscription income, etc.), income from portfolio investments Significant income items that are not included in the Group’s normal recurring operations (collected amounts less amortization and revaluations for the operations and that are not expected to return on a regular basis. Non-recurperiod) and other income from financial services (fees and net interest from ring items include restructuring costs, closure costs, reversal of restructuring or financing services). closure reservations, cost savings programmes, integration costs, extraordinary projects, divestments, impairment of fixed assets other than portfolio investOperating earnings (EBIT) ments, acquisition and divestment expenses, advisory costs for discontinued Operating earnings consist of net revenues less operating expenses as shown acquisition projects, costs for relocation to new office space, termination and in the income statement. recruitment costs for members of Group Management and country managers, Operating margin as well as external expenses for disputes and unusual agreements. Non-recurThe operating margin consists of operating earnings expressed as a percentring items are specified because they are difficult to predict and have low foreage of net revenues. cast values ​​for the Group’s future earnings trend. Portfolio investments – collected amounts, amortisations and revaluations: Items affecting comparability Portfolio investments consist of portfolios of delinquent consumer debts Significant income statement items included in the Group’s regular recurring purchased at prices below the nominal receivable. These are recognized at operations and which may recur in any form, but which distort the comparison amortized cost applying the effective interest method, based on a collecbetween the periods. tion forecast established at the acquisition date of each portfolio. Net reveExpected remaining collections, ERC nues attributable to portfolio investments consist of collected amounts less Estimated remaining collections are the nominal value of expected future colamortization for the period and revaluations. The amortisation represents lections on the Group’s portfolio investments. the period’s reduction in the portfolio’s current value, which is attributable to collection taking place as planned. Revaluation is the period’s increase Pro forma financial data including Lindorff or decrease in the current value of the portfolios attributable to the period’s Pro forma financial information is issued for the Group as if Lindorff had been changes in forecasts of future collection. included in the Group for the entire period, as well as in the comparative figures. Pro forma earnings have been calculated by adding Intrum Justitia’s and Revenues, operating earnings and operating margin, excluding revaluations Lindorff’s actual results for each period without making adjustments for the The revaluation of portfolio investments in the period is included in consolperiods in which transaction costs would have been incurred if the acquisiidated net revenues and operating earnings. Revaluations are performed in tion had taken place at another time. Fair value adjustments made in the acquiconnection with changes in estimates of future collections, and are therefore sition analysis on Intrum Justitia’s acquisition of Lindorff are not recognised inherently difficult to predict. They have a low predictive value for the Group’s in earnings for any period, although they can be recognised as costs in the future earnings performance. Consequently, Intrum also reports alternative key acquired legal entity. figures in which revenues, operating earnings and operating margin are calculated excluding revaluations of portfolio investments. Portfolio investments Investments in portfolios of overdue receivables for the period, with and withOrganic growth out collateral, and investments in properties held for sale, acquired together Organic growth refers to the average increase in net revenues in local curwith portfolios of receivables. rency, adjusted for revaluations of purchased debt portfolios and the effects of acquisitions and divestments of Group companies. Organic growth is a meaCurrency-adjusted change sure of the development of the Group’s existing operations that management With regard to trends in revenues and operating earnings, excluding revaluahas the ability to influence. tions for each region, the percentage change is stated in comparison with the corresponding year-earlier period, both in terms of the change in the respecService line earnings tive figures in SEK and in the form of a currency-adjusted change, in which the Service line earnings relate to the operating earnings of each service line, effect of changes in exchange rates has been excluded. The currency-adjusted Credit Management and Financial Services, excluding common costs for sales, change is a measure of the development of the Group’s operations that manmarketing and administration. agement has the ability to influence. Service line margin Beta The service line margin consists of service line earnings expressed as a perMeasure of share price changes/fluctuations relative to the market as a whole, centage of net revenues. in the form of the OMX Stockholm index. Changes that precisely follow the Return on portfolio investments index produce a beta of 1.0. A beta value below 1.0 means that the changes in Return on portfolio investments is the service line earnings for the period, the share have been smaller than those in the index. excluding operations in factoring and payment guarantees, recalculated on Average number of employees a full-year basis, as a percentage of the average carrying amount of the balAverage number of employees over the year as full-time equivalents. ance-sheet item purchased debt. The ratio sets the service line’s earnings in relation to the amount of capital tied up and is included in the Group’s financial Operating cash flow per share targets. During the year, the definition of average book value for the full-year Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number of shares was adjusted to be based on the average of the quarters instead of opening over the year. and closing book value for the full year. Price/earnings ratio Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) Share price at year-end divided by earnings per share before any dilution. Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) is operating earnings excluding revaluaPrice/sales ratio tions of portfolio investments and other items affecting comparability. Share price at year-end divided by net sales per share. Adjusted Earning per share (EPS) Earnings per share Adjusted EPS is calculated by adding back items affecting comparability in Earnings for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders, divided by both our operating costs and ifnancial net taxed by a corporate tax rate of 22 the average number of shares over the year. per cent. Dividend payout Net debt Dividends as a share of earnings for the year attributable to Parent Company Net debt is interest-bearing liabilities and pension provisions less liquid assets shareholders. and interest-bearing receivables. Also see Note 38 on page 98. 112 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Information for shareholders Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting Shareholder contact The Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ) will be held on Wednesday, Viktor Lindeberg 6 May 2020 at 3:00 p.m. CET at the Company’s offices at Hesselmans torg Tel. +46 768970708 14, Nacka, Sweden. Notification is made through an advertisement placed in E-mail: ir@intrum.com Swedish national daily newspaper Svenska Dagbladet and in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar (official Swedish gazette). The notice and other information in prepaThis Annual Report can be ordered in printed format via ir@intrum.com ration for the Annual General Meeting are also available at www.intrum.com. or from Intrum AB, Communication Department, SE-105 24 Stockholm. The Annual and Sustainability report can also be downloaded as a pdf Dividend via www.intrum.com. For the 2019 financial year, the Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of SEK 11 (9.50) per share be paid. Contact for the contents of the report Anna Fall Financial information 2019 Tel. +46 709989621 Annual General Meeting 2019....................................... 6 May E-mail: anna.fall@intrum.com Interim report January–March..................................... 6 May Interim Report January–June........................................ 23 July Interim Report January–September............... 23 October Additional information from Intrum Financial reports are published in Swedish and English and can be ordered from Intrum AB, Communication Department, SE-105 24 Stockholm or via ir@intrum.com. The reports and other information from the Company are published on the Group’s website www.intrum.com. Communications with shareholders, analysts and the media are a priority area. Intrum’s earnings and operations are presented to analysts and investors in Stockholm after each interim report. In addition to these contacts, representatives of the Company meet existing and potential shareholders on other occasions, for example at one-on-one meetings and at share savings gatherings. Please visit our website, www.intrum.com, which, in addition to a broad presentation of the Group, offers an in-depth investor relations section with analysis tools and more. Intrum’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2019 was produced in cooperation with Springtime–Intellecta. Photo: Helén Karlsson. Portrait photo: Erik Thor. Printing: TMG, 2020. Intrum AB (publ) (Corp. ID No. 556607-7581). Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 113 Intrum AB (publ) Hesselmans Torg 14, Nacka 105 24 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 546 10 200 Fax +46 8 546 10 211 www.intrum.com info@intrum.com Intrum Annual and Sustainability Report 2019
