United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JANUARY 2020 Commitment and respect for human rights, ethics, transparency, governance, and our environment are more than policies and practices. At Chemonics, these are rooted in our unwavering resolve to work better, driven by a conviction that the world must be better. Susanna Mudge President and CEO I’m pleased to share with you an Over the years, we’ve collaborated overview of our progress and with organizations across the globe commitment to the Ten Principles of to share proven and emerging the United Nations Global Compact safeguarding practices as part of our (UNGC) in the areas of human longstanding commitment to this rights, labor, environment, and anticritical agenda. In 2019, we developed corruption. a free, open-access toolkit that provides organizations with a stepEvery day, our global workforce by-step guide on how to lead training shares a single mission: promoting and set up institution-wide systems meaningful change around the world to prevent and respond to sexual to help people live healthier, more harassment, exploitation, and abuse. productive, and more independent lives. The Sustainable Development From delivering training courses Goals (SDGs) guide our programming that mitigate unconscious bias to and provide a yardstick to measure creating employee resource groups our impact. From supporting that celebrate difference, we foster female farmers’ lands rights to an inclusive environment for our revolutionizing global health supply diverse staff. In December, I signed chains, Chemonics’ work contributes the CEO Action for Diversity and to the international development Inclusion Pledge, which represents community’s progress across the our commitment to cross-industry SDGs. collaboration to learn and grow together to ensure our industry is Underpinning our impact are strong both strong and inclusive. business operations and proven ethical practices. We are constantly Commitment and respect for improving how we work to deliver human rights, ethics, transparency, better results for the communities and governance, and our environment are clients we serve. In 2019, we made more than policies and practices. At tremendous strides, particularly in two Chemonics, these are rooted in our critical cross-cutting areas: promoting unwavering resolve to work better, a safe, abuse-free environment for all driven by a conviction that the world people and championing diversity and must be better. inclusion within the organization. Susanna Mudge President and CEO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 About Chemonics From our founding in 1975, we have worked in more than 150 countries to help our clients, partners, and beneficiaries take on the world’s toughest development challenges. Working across all continents and We embrace project management as sectors of international development a discipline, not an afterthought, so — from agriculture, to finance, to our clients get maximum impact for health — our approach is built upon minimum risk. a foundation of partnership, shared learning, and technical innovation. We think big, about applying lessons learned across all our projects, about In 70 countries around the globe bridging the gap between segregated today, our network of more than technical fields, and about forging 5,000 specialists pursue the highest partnerships that unite the world’s standards in development to deliver best minds to solve its toughest sustainable impact to our partners, problems. our clients, and most importantly, the communities we work with. Our mission is to promote meaningful change around the world to help We partner with smallholders in Latin people live healthier, more productive, America to identify environmentally and more independent lives. sustainable economic options and leading logistics firms to create Here at Chemonics, we know that transparent real-time global medical the way we work is key to achieving supply chain management systems. this mission. Chemonics is driven 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS by our values. As a business and as We apply our Standards of individuals, we measure our actions by Business Conduct to the way we these standards. serve our clients, partners, and stakeholders around the world. • Caring These 10 fundamental principles • Excellence apply to all employees worldwide, • Innovation the Board of Directors, consultants, • Integrity authorized representatives, and • Opportunity all others acting on behalf of the company. Additionally, we encourage stakeholders to hold us to these HOW THE UNGC PRINCIPLES expectations. The company expects INFORM OUR WORK everyone who represents its interests Chemonics incorporates UNGC’s Ten to strictly observe the laws of Principles into our business strategies, countries in which we work. policies and procedures, and our culture of integrity. We codify these This Communication on Progress commitments as the Chemonics details the specific actions and Standards of Business Conduct, activities taken from January 11, 2019, called Living Our Values, as well to January 8, 2020. as home-office and field-office policy manuals that guide our work internationally. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 Our Values CARING EXCELLENCE INNOVATION Simply put, we believe For us, excellence means To meet the challenges in serving others. We setting high standards for facing the world, we must embrace teamwork ourselves so we can deliver be creative, flexible, and and feedback, even quality results. We believe open-minded. We ask when it is difficult. in mastering skills, focusing our staff and partners to We challenge each on details, and learning be entrepreneurial, take other to be respectful, from our mistakes so we initiative and introduce new compassionate, and can bring that combined ideas, translate ideas to humble, and to listen experience to bring real actions quickly, learn, and to and empathize with value to our clients and accelerate change. others. partners worldwide. INTEGRITY OPPORTUNITY Integrity is the foundation We challenge ourselves of our work. We believe in every day to think big and an open-book approach to seek out opportunities to development and expect our be better, to take chances staff and partners to trust on ourselves and others. one another, be transparent, And we prize versatility honor commitments, accept and a lifelong commitment accountability, and empower to learning and growing. others to take action and make decisions. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Chemonics is guided by our 10 Standards of Business Conduct. The first two uphold the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: “Treat Others with Respect” and “Be a Good Business Partner.” PRINCIPLE 1 We strive to achieve an equitable and respectful Businesses should environment for the employees we hire, our support and respect the protection of partners, and the communities we serve. internationally proclaimed human We support the principles of the U.N. Universal rights. Declaration of Human Rights. Protecting human PRINCIPLE 2 rights and ensuring that we and our stakeholders Businesses should are not complicit in human rights abuses is make sure that they are not complicit in a key component of all the projects we have human rights abuses. implemented around the world. USAID’s Office of Inspector General recently described our ethical and compliance performance as “best in class” among implementing partners. To address structural human rights challenges, Chemonics updates its business strategies and policy manuals at the country level. At Chemonics, we do not view our policy manuals in isolation — we tailor them to local cultures to ensure that everyone is treated respectfully. Wherever we work, we follow local laws and customs. We are developing a global framework to UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 help standardize policies across and • Assuring victims and bystanders within countries. that complaints will be acknowledged, reviewed, referred, Chemonics’ commitment to upholding and addressed by trained human rights is not only embedded investigators in procedures and policies but also within its professional culture. • Providing comprehensive in-person orientation to all new staff on our Standards of Business Conduct ENSURING SAFETY AND SECURITY • Tailoring one-on-one training for We do not tolerate inaction on any new project leaders to ensure form of workplace misconduct. they are aware of country-specific We make sure all staff know their safeguarding risks and their duty complaints will be acted on, and to create a culture of respect we provide affected individuals and bystanders with the support they In 2019, Chemonics rolled out need. All employees and contractors multilingual e-training to all staff on are responsible for maintaining a countering sexual harassment. The violence-free workplace. course is mandatory for staff and subcontractor personnel and has been If geopolitical disturbances or natural taken by nearly 5,000 individuals. disasters affect Chemonics projects and staff, we provide company Risks constantly change. As such, we leadership and employees with must react accordingly by learning clear guidance on how to evacuate and working together to protect or relocate employees. Decisions all. Chemonics proactively engages are made by the Executive Office in in sector-wide efforts to share consultation with the Global Safety knowledge and promote collaboration and Security Department, the Crisis on safeguarding. In December 2019, Management Team, and the in-country we launched “Sexual Harassment, leaders of our projects. Exploitation, and Abuse: A Toolkit for Building a Prevention and Response Program.” Available to all PREVENTING SEXUAL organizations worldwide, the resource EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE provides companies and NGOs with All Chemonics employees have a duty a step-by-step guide on setting up to foster and maintain an environment robust safeguarding programs. By that prevents sexual exploitation and providing smaller organizations and abuse. Chemonics builds awareness partners with resources to adopt and of our prohibitions against all forms of adapt tried-and-tested safeguarding sexual harassment, exploitation, and processes, we help the sector move abuse by: forward together. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS In 2019, we engaged in industry events Last year, we joined British Expertise to examine ways to prevent sexual International’s Safeguarding Lead harassment. With the Washington, Network and sit on the network’s D.C., chapter of the Society for Steering Committee. We also signed International Development, we a commitment to the strategic shifts facilitated a high-level panel for DFID announced at the Safeguarding USAID’s Action Alliance to Prevent Summit 2018. Sexual Misconduct. In June 2019, Chemonics met with At the conference, USAID rolled out former DFID Secretary of State for its draft policy on preventing sexual International Development Rory exploitation and abuse. Chemonics Stewart and former Chair of the facilitated a consultation session to International Development Committee collect feedback on the agency’s new Stephen Twigg to discuss the private comprehensive strategy. sector’s commitment to safeguarding the employees and beneficiaries we engage and support. Through the USAID-funded EnfoqueDH project, we support the Mexican government to address critical challenges to human rights. EnfoqueDH helps create protections for victims of human rights violations and helps prevent such violations. The project seeks to codify policies that prevent human rights violations as regulatory frameworks and legislation. The project advances collaboration between vulnerable social groups and local stakeholders as well as between federal and state government actors and civil society organizations to make a lasting contribution to the protection of human rights, the prevention of human rights violations, and the promotion of inclusive human rights agendas in Mexico. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 Labor At Chemonics, we are more than employees — we are owners. The company is run for profit but owned by its employees in more than 25 countries around the world. This unique setup means that we can be commercial in our controls and management structure but driven by our mission to improve lives. Whichever part of the business they work in and wherever they are based, our employee-owners have a shared dedication to exceeding expectations, acting ethically, and serving others. PRINCIPLE 3 Our commitment to responsible labor practices is Businesses should uphold consistent everywhere we work. We are committed the freedom of association and the effective to hiring qualified employees; providing a safe and recognition of the right to secure work environment; and taking meaningful collective bargaining. steps to protect employees, visitors, clients, property, funds, and other assets. Chemonics PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold employment policies align with international the elimination of all forms principles on labor and ethical employment. of forced and compulsory labor. Chemonics respects the rights of employees and individuals to organize and associate. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold Chemonics is an equal opportunity employer, the effective abolition of child labor. meaning that we recruit, hire, train, and promote people in all job titles without regard to race, PRINCIPLE 6 ethnicity, religion, age, national origin, disability, Businesses should uphold the elimination of sexual orientation, or sex. To encourage a diverse discrimination in respect pool of applicants, Chemonics engages with of employment and minority groups and communities to promote job occupation. opportunities. 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Our Office of Business Conduct ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR promotes honest and responsible Chemonics abides by the Child business practices. Chemonics’ Safeguarding Standards listed in Employee Relations Department AIDAR 752.7037 and the mandatory oversees employee management, standard provision. We employ only investigations, reporting, policy, people over the age of 18, and we violations, and terminations. consider child safeguarding in project planning and implementation. We The work we do is inherently difficult actively mitigate the risk of child and poses challenges to ethical abuse, exploitation, and neglect in our decision-making. Our Standards of projects. All employees are required Business Conduct help us resolve to report potential incidents of child ethical quandaries. Each country abuse, neglect, and exploitation to where we operate has its own field the Office of Business Conduct for policy manual tailored to the nation’s investigation and appropriate action, specific labor laws. up to and including termination of employment. COUNTERING MODERNIn line with DFID’s Supply Partner DAY SLAVERY AND HUMAN Code of Conduct, we have prohibited TRAFFICKING all forms of child abuse, child labor, Chemonics has committed to and other forms of exploitative and protecting the safety, security, and unethical treatment of employees and well-being of staff, partners, and beneficiaries in all our work. beneficiaries as our top priority. Our safeguarding program is anchored by a strong organizational culture CREATING A DIVERSE AND of integrity, a comprehensive code INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE of conduct, and industry-leading Chemonics is guided by a conscious practices for ethics and compliance. commitment to diversity and inclusion. The company seeks to embed Chemonics recognizes that moderndiversity and inclusion in all company day slavery can take many forms, regulations and activities to establish a including the trafficking of people, diverse, fair, and flexible workplace. forced labor, servitude, and slavery. We take our labor responsibilities The Corporate Diversity and Inclusion seriously. In June, Chemonics published Team reports directly to Chemonics’ a statement on Modern Day Slavery president and CEO and is supported and Anti-Human Trafficking, which by a voluntary Diversity and Inclusion demonstrates how we prevent, identify, Council, composed of employees and stop slavery and human trafficking working across the company. within the organization and the supply chains within which we operate. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 People care and they feel seen when we show them that we care about their identity. Poulami Banerji Recruitment Manager and Member of ChemPRIDE In 2019, Chemonics held training events More than 70 countries criminalize on how to root out unconscious bias in consensual same-sex acts between talent management and development. adults, and LGBTQ+ individuals often We rewrote our recruitment training to face significant discrimination, stigma, include a module on unconscious bias. and violence. Recognizing that LGBTQ+ The training seeks to equip managers development professionals work in and recruiters with the ability to rise many of these countries and share above their own unintentional biases to concerns about safety and security, identify the right candidates. Chemonics established ChemPRIDE, an LGBTQ+ employee resource group. In December, Chemonics signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion In 2019, ChemPRIDE started a Pledge, which reflects Chemonics’ partnership with the company’s ongoing commitment to make the Security Department to ensure that workplace more inclusive and share LGBTQ+ staff have the information the company’s commitment and they need to understand the risks of efforts with the global development specific assignments. ChemPRIDE and community. Chemonics’ security team collaborated to update processes that improve Chemonics runs several employee the safety and security of employees resource groups. These groups build across the spectrum of gender, awareness of diversity within the sexuality, and sexual characteristics. organization, leverage networks and experiences, and provide a platform to Chemonics also launched the celebrate differences. ChemABLE and ChemVALOR 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS employee resource groups. Employees in the Global Context” at ChemABLE supports, represents, and the Out and Equal Workplace Equality advocates for people with disabilities. Summit. ChemVALOR, a global veteran inclusion group, seeks to create a workplace that Chemonics promotes pay equity. welcomes, hires, retains, and values We analyze staff members in terms military talent. These groups have of sex, race, and ethnicity for each written charters and work with senior occupation category of the U.S. vice presidents as sponsors to ensure Equal Employment Opportunity their voices are heard at the highest Commission. As of 2019, this includes levels of the company. incorporating Component 2 Pay Data when filing employment data, which Appreciating, respecting, and looks at salary information along with celebrating diversity is a critical race and gender. In the U.K., we have component of Chemonics’ inclusion ensured that our recruitment practices strategy. We published several think align with the General Data Protection pieces on race, gender, and disability, Regulation (GDPR), U.K. law, and our and we led a roundtable discussion own values and ethics. titled “Safety and Security for LGBTQI Chemonics is passionate about promoting inclusive growth for all citizens, including historically disadvantaged groups such as women, people with disabilities, and the LGBTQ+ community. Through the recent USAID Governance for Inclusive Growth program, we worked with the public and private sectors in Vietnam to enhance governance and facilitate trade. The program improved the country’s legal and regulatory environment, created systems of accountability, and promoted inclusive growth. The program implemented more than 40 activities to enhance policy development and worked with more than 50 civil society organizations to support reforms. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 Environment Chemonics is dedicated to preserving natural resources and valuable ecosystems. With support from Chemonics, more than 160 million acres are under improved environmental management to preserve aquatic or terrestrial resources — an area larger than that of France. PRINCIPLE 7 Chemonics helps communities build resilience to Businesses should support a changing climate. To reduce farmers’ reliance a precautionary approach to environmental on increasingly unpredictable weather patterns, challenges. Chemonics has provided 880,000 people with training in sustainable agricultural production. In PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should 2018, with support from Chemonics, 3.7 million undertake initiatives metric tons of carbon dioxide were sequestered to promote greater or reduced. environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 GREENING THE WORKPLACE Businesses should To harness in-house expertise and reflect our encourage the development commitment to protecting the environment and and diffusion of halting climate change, Chemonics established a environmentally friendly technologies. Green Committee in 2019. The Green Committee consists of environmentally conscious staff members based in Washington, D.C., Crystal City, Virginia, and London. The committee’s top priority is to “green” Chemonics’ operations and set the company on a path to decarbonization. The committee organized a company-wide Leave Your Car at Home Day to 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS promote eco-friendly commuting. DECARBONIZING OPERATIONS In 2020, the Green Committee will The Green Committee is preparing launch a campaign celebrating to measure the Washington, D.C. staff members who champion office’s carbon emissions. These environmentally friendly behavior. metrics will support a data-driven sustainability strategy. In addition, the company is capturing air-travel data to PROMOTING RECYCLING measure the carbon dioxide emissions To reduce, reuse, and recycle materials generated by staff travel. This data will used across the D.C. office, Chemonics help estimate the cost of offsetting started a staff-led composting and inform corporate sustainability and recycling scheme. Chemonics policy recommendations. moved disposable cups from plain sight to limit single-use materials. To In the United States, Chemonics offers encourage use of reusable cups and staff a Commuter Spending Account, plates, the facilities team provided an employer-sponsored plan that more reusable plates and cups in the allows employees to divert money for D.C. office. job-related commuting expenses from their paychecks into a special account The Green Team is made up of individuals working across the organization, the diversity of ideas and support for sustainability initiatives is as inspiring as it is important. Ashley Valle Manager and Member of the Green Committee UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 that is not taxed. This can be used for ongoing build-out. The Building carpooling and public transport. Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) has assessed the base of the building as BUILDING SUSTAINABLE “excellent,” and further construction OFFICES will ensure continued compliance with Early in 2020, Chemonics’ London this standard. The office aims to meet office will move to a permanent the SKA Gold Rating, a standard that location. Sustainability and assesses office fit-outs according to environmental considerations sustainability criteria. informed site selection and the “Before it was very difficult because we had to arrive at the school very early, because the liquid petroleum gas, compared to the biogas, was very slow,” explains Nomfundiselo Sandlana, who manages biogas technology at Khangezile Primary School in Kwathema, Gueteng, South Africa. “Now I can arrive, and 15 minutes later, the porridge is ready. It’s like fun now … we’re having fun!” Chemonics and partner Agama Biogas have begun to install biogas digester stoves around the country, including in schools, as part of USAID’s South Africa Low Emissions Development program. This new technology not only helps schools prepare meals faster for students who rely on them, but also provides farreaching benefits for the environment. Preparing meals for 600 children using liquid petroleum gas creates about six tons of waste per year. This waste usually ends up dumped in landfills or around school grounds. When waste builds up, the impact compounds: Poor waste management in rural and underserviced urban areas can cause more serious health risks related to vermin and dangerous air quality. Today, meals are more sustainable, and children start their school breakfast promptly. 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Anti-corruption Chemonics takes its role as a steward of public funds seriously. The firm maintains a robust governance structure and internal controls to ensure diligence, mitigate potential fraud risks, successfully deliver programs, and correctly manage and account for aid monies. We follow all U.S., U.K., and international laws and agreements on corruption and strive to maintain a proactive approach to managing risks and responding to business conduct inquiries. PRINCIPLE 10 Chemonics expects high standards of ethical Businesses should work business conduct and compliance from employees. against corruption in all its forms, including Employees must not engage in conduct that extortion and bribery. raises questions about the company’s honesty, impartiality, or reputation, or otherwise cause embarrassment to the company. Chemonics also expects consultants, agents, representatives, subcontractors, grantees, and vendors retained in relation to the provision of goods or services on any project to comply with company policies on business conduct. Our Office of Business Conduct trains employees on company policies and procedures on ethical business conduct through our business conduct program. The program ensures that the company’s activities adhere to applicable laws and regulations. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 MONITORING AWARENESS OF and blow the whistle on corruption. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Chemonics provides instructions on An annual survey of staff ensures that U.K. and U.S. government disclosure employees are aware of Chemonics’ and cooperation work instructions. non-retaliation policy and measures awareness and enforcement of the Chemonics’ Office of Business policy. We also provide field-focused Conduct discloses all allegations and training on anti-corruption and bribery credible evidence of misconduct to that emphasizes the importance of DFID’s Counter Fraud Section and the reporting misconduct. USAID Office of Inspector General in a timely manner. The Office of After a mandatory annual training Business Conduct regularly reports to exercise, more than 1,200 staff the company’s Board of Directors on responded to a survey of our ethics corporate ethics and compliance risks, and compliance program. Findings including incidents and allegations of included: fraud. • 94 percent of staff reported that Chemonics follows honest and DATA PRIVACY AND ETHICS responsible business practices Chemonics is committed to protecting its information and data in an • 99 percent of staff reported they appropriate manner. All forms of know how to recognize potential information and data are reviewed misconduct periodically and classified according to use, sensitivity, and importance. • 96 percent of staff reported they understand how to report conduct Chemonics values transparency concerns with documents and information. All employees regardless of location Chemonics employees are prohibited receive access to the information from engaging in false or fraudulent and document-management systems behavior. This includes actual or needed to work and share knowledge. attempted fraud either for personal The organization equally values benefit or the benefit of the protecting sensitive information, organization. Chemonics requires including personal and financial that all staff, project, and bid capture information, and has security teams conduct due diligence on measures in place where there suppliers’ and subcontractors’ fraud are legal, business, or contractual and anti-corruption policies and obligations to restrict access. procedures as a standard aspect of supply chain management. The company complies with GDPR for EU data subjects. Also, Chemonics is Chemonics provides staff with creating an EU Data Protection Policy guidance on how to report concerns 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Haitians tend to perceive justice as inaccessible to most citizens, especially in rural areas, and view the pursuit of justice as costly and lengthy. The USAID Haiti Justice Sector Strengthening Program is improving the country’s legal framework, protecting citizens’ legal rights, and increasing accountability and oversight within the justice system. The program’s primary local counterparts are the Ministry of Justice and the Conseil Supérieur du Pouvoir Judiciaire, which governs judges and law clerks. In addition to expanding access to justice and protection, the program provides technical assistance to reform the country’s judicial code. Investing in Haiti’s case management will allow 18 jurisdictions to accelerate judicial cases and increase transparency of the legal process. and updating its Website Data Privacy regulations, are protected by the U.S. Policy. Pilot Program for Enhancement of Employee Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. 4712). REPORTING CONCERNS Employees and contractors have All staff, partners, clients, and other multiple pathways to report concerns stakeholders are encouraged to report to Chemonics. All new hires receive ethical concerns to the Chemonics a briefing on our anti-trafficking Office of Business Conduct, and policy, as well as methods to report all allegations of fraud or other criminal business-conduct concerns. activity to USAID’s Office of Inspector General and DFID’s Counter Fraud Our policy strictly prohibits retaliation and Whistleblowing Unit. They can in any form for honest and appropriate also contact our HelpLine, which is reporting of suspected misconduct. accessible everywhere at all times, or Additionally, employees who report anonymously submit concerns through concerns involving fraud, waste, EthicsPoint, a confidential online abuse, or other violations of laws and reporting tool. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 Get in touch. Chemonics welcomes feedback on our progress as a signatory to the UNGC. Please contact us at info@chemonics.com. Published in January 2020 by Chemonics International © 2020, Chemonics International Please consider the environment before printing this report.
