INTEGRATED REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2019 – CSR EXTRACT Securing your world Our purpose – A more focused securing your world business The sale of the majority of our conventional cash businesses (see page 4) enables G4S to Who we are What we do Our Values be a more focused business, developing innovative industry-leading solutions that G4S is the world’s leading global, integrated G4S plays a valuable and important role in integrate consulting, technology, people and data analytics to deliver solutions that are security company. We offer a broad range of society. As a major global employer we relevant, valuable and effective for our customers. security services delivered on a single, make a difference by helping people to live multi-service or integrated basis across six and work in safe and secure environments. continents. We have been investing in G4S takes a fully integrated approach to technology, software and systems. The its strategy and Corporate Social Group’s technology-related security revenues Responsibility (CSR). See page 12 for were over £3 billion* in 2019 (2018: £2.8 billion). more information on our CSR approach and impact on society. Secure Solutions Cash Solutions ​ 92% 4% Conventional Our 558,000 people and our values * * underpin everything we do. Cash Secure Solutions – focused on security and 4% Technology Retail security technology * G4S is a global market leader in security, providing both established and new technology-enabled security The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call upon solutions across six continents. Following agreement for the sale of the majority of the Group's conventional cash Solutions Table of content ​ businesses, 92% of Group revenues will be from Secure businesses to advance sustainable development through ​ Solutions. the investments they make, the solutions they develop Cash Solutions focused on cash Business overview 3 and the practices they adopt. In this report, we have Security is a growing service industry and we believe that management and cash technology CEO statement 4 mapped case studies against the SDGs to highlight G4S has the expertise and global footprint to grow In February 2020, G4S announced it had reached CSR Committee 5 examples where G4S is helping to advance the Goals revenues at 4-6% per annum. As a result of our agreement to sell the majority of its conventional cash Governance framework 8 through our programmes and operations. For more investment in technology we are deriving an increasing businesses. Post the transaction, Cash Solutions will be Stakeholder engagement 10​ information about the social and economic areas where proportion of revenues from higher growth and higher around 8% of Group revenues, with our market-leading Material issues 12 G4S supports the realisation of the Goals and makes a margin technology-enabled solutions. and fast-growth retail technology solutions such as Retail Our Strategy 14 positive difference to society and communities around the Cash Solutions, Cash360, G4S Pay and SA-Deposita Non-financial information statement 28​ world, see page 13. This creates additional security and efficiency benefits for accounting for around half of that. Risk management and principal risks 30​ customers and increases our ability to differentiate G4S’s offering in the security market. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40​ Reporting framework 41 During 2019, the Group announced it would be managing for value or exiting a number of additional businesses. * Proforma 2019 underlying revenues post the sale of the majority of the Group's conventional cash businesses. 2 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 3 CEO INT R ODUCTI ON C O RPO RATE G O VERNANC E CEO introduction The CSR Committee People, Culture & Values As a major global employer, we believe our 558,000 employees make a difference by helping millions of Achievement of our strategic goals relies upon our people to live and work in safe and secure environments. With such a wide geographic footprint, scale and 558,000 colleagues delivering high-quality service to customers across a wide range of geographic markets and diverse workforce, our first priority is of course the safety of all our employees and those in our care. This is industry sectors across the world. particularly true in light of the devastating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on communities around the In order to achieve this in a safe, ethical and sustainable world. In 2019, sadly 20 of our colleagues lost their lives. We remain firmly committed to achieving our goal way, it is critical to the success of G4S that we embed the of zero harm through our continued drive to improve health and safety. We sometimes operate in difficult right culture across the company. Our values underpin and demanding places where the political, social and human rights environment is challenging and we need our culture and are fundamental tools in setting, communicating and implementing our standards across to ensure our values which illustrate our corporate culture are well understood and lived with across the the Group in order to shape the way that we work. For entire Group. Monitoring our progress and areas to improve on values through our global employee further information on how our values are embedded in engagement survey, which received c.450,000 responses, is a relentless focus to ensure the integrity of our the organisation, see page 19. organisation, the safety and well being of our people and those in our care. Our regular management and employee engagement surveys demonstrate that employees positively identify with these G4S values. With 90% of the c.450,000 employees who responded to the most recent survey confirming that the company’s values have been clearly communicated to them and 82% of employees saying that Committee membership during 2019 they feel able to speak up if they notice unethical I am proud of the important role that G4S behaviour (see page 26). Employee fatalities have reduced ​ Member since significantly over the past seven years and we continue to Elisabeth Fleuriot (Chair) June 2018 has in helping to advance the United invest in people, training and systems to enhance the Winnie Kin Wah Fok January 2012 Nations Sustainable Development Goals, in group’s health and safety performance and to focus on John Ramsay January 2018 particular, our support of Goal 8 (Decent our goal of zero harm. In addition to our people, culture Paul Spencea January 2013 and values and the health, safety and protection of Work and Economic Growth) and Goal 16 employees and people under G4S care, our other Paul Spence retired from the board and as a member of the CSR Committee on 31 March 2020. (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). corporate social responsibility priority areas are focused Other regular attendees include the Regional President for the Together with our continued commitment on human rights and anti-bribery and corruption. A Africa region, the Group Corporate Affairs Director, the Group summary of our performance and policies can be found to the core principles of the United Nations on pages 28 and 29. HR Director and the Director of Risk and Internal Audit. Global Compact, these goals are reflected COVID-19 There were four scheduled meetings during 2019. in many of our values, policies and business activities. G4S has taken a number of actions since the start of the pandemic including: ELISABETH FLEURIOT Main activities (%) Reshaping the Group for long-term ▪ Implementing enhanced health and safety procedures, CSR COMMITTEE CHAIR growth including the use of personal protective equipment, d. 2019 was a year of significant progress, both in terms of increased hygiene resources, social distancing and other 40% – Health and Safety Responsibilities a. revenue growth, up 4.7% compared with 2018, and the measures to support the safe delivery of our services. 25% – Human Rights The Group takes a holistic approach to corporate and subsequent announcement of the sale of the majority of ▪ Using an employee welfare fund to assist employees in 20% – People, Culture & social responsibility and is mindful of its societal impact. The our conventional cash businesses (the Transaction ). greatest need of support. Values (inc. whistleblowing) CSR Committee was established in 2011 to review and c. ▪ Offering additional services to support customers. monitor the Group’s CSR approach, which includes 15% – CSR Reporting This Transaction, which is now around 71% complete, is a ▪ The Executive Directors and certain senior executives developing policies on various CSR-related matters for major milestone in the execution of our corporate will not be paid bonuses for 2019, and are suspending consideration by the board and to review and monitor how strategy, greatly enhancing our strategic, commercial and their participation in the 2020 bonus programme and the Group performs against relevant policies. It oversees operational focus and strengthening our financial position. 2020 annual salary increases. reporting on CSR matters and progress made during the Our clear aim is to capitalise on this focus to strengthen b. our position as the industry-leading global security ▪ Reducing LTIP awards for 2020 by 25%. year. The committee’s responsibility is to ensure that the company. Group’s approach is promoted and embedded in its culture I would like to thank all of our 558,000 colleagues for and values throughout the organisation. During 2019, the Link to strategic priorities Our investment in technology solutions is delivering clear their continued hard work and customer service in 2019. I committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference to benefits to our customers and has driven growth in key am particularly proud and grateful for their outstanding align with the new Code and provide greater focus on People, culture Growth Profitability response to the Covid-19 pandemic. & values markets. We plan to deepen and extend these capabilities promoting a culture of integrity and openness, which values further in order to support our goal of accelerating diversity and responsiveness to stakeholders’ views. The profitable growth. In the short term, our priority is to take committee’s remit now also includes monitoring cultural Further details of the committee’s responsibilities can be found in appropriate action to protect employees, customers and Ashley Almanza and ethical trends identified through engagement channels, the committee’s terms of reference which are available at g4s. the company in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Group Chief Executive Officer in particular the whistleblowing arrangements. com/investors. 4 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 5 COR POR AT E GOV E R N AN C E Health and safety Human rights People, culture and values Specific issues HM Prison Birmingham Committee performance The safety of all our 558,000 employees and Everyone at G4S, whether a director or Our values are integral to everything we do. Brook House Following continuing challenges in returning The assessment of the committee’s those in our care is of paramount frontline supervisor, has a responsibility to The biennial employee survey conducted Over 2018 and 2019, the committee to normal operation following a major performance, conducted as part of the overall importance. The CSR Committee is fully respect and protect the human rights of the across the entire Group’s employees, which is oversaw the independent review carried out disturbance that took place in December board review process with assistance from committed to supporting the achievement of company’s employees and those in our care underpinned by the G4S values and therefore by Verita, a specialist consultancy, into 2016, in August 2018, G4S agreed with the Lintstock, concluded that the CSR the Group’s goal of zero harm. However and we invest to ensure that our provides an useful tool for the committee to allegations regarding the conduct and UK Ministry of Justice (MoJ) that Her Committee continued to be effective, with sadly, in 2019, 20 employees (24 in 2018) employment policies and practices are monitor the culture of the Group and in behaviour of a number of staff at Brook Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service the composition and leadership of the lost their lives in work-related incidents. As consistent with international conventions. The particular how well these values are House Immigration Removal Centre. The (HMPPS) would “step-in” and take over the committee as well as the collaboration with part of its normal cycle of work, the CSR Committee receives regular updates on understood and applied. committee also oversaw the implementation management of HM Prison Birmingham. By the executive team identified as strengths. committee received regular health and safety major human rights audit findings or incidents. of the operational improvement programme mutual agreement with the MoJ, G4S reports, including updates regarding on‑going In certain countries, the Group relies on In addition, the committee has been keen to at the facility. The committee noted the permanently transferred the management of In 2020, the committee will oversee the initiatives, details of future plans and migrant workers to deliver a range of services gain a better understanding of the Group’s positive conclusions of the comprehensive the prison to HMPPS, with effect from 1 review of the Group’s global whistleblowing summaries of incidents. During the year to its customers. We recognise that being far policy and objectives on diversity and inspection of Brook House, carried out over July 2019. arrangements and case management tools. under review, the committee monitored the from home, migrant workers are potentially inclusion, to attract, recruit and retain diverse three weeks in May and June 2019 by HM The committee will also review the progress talent, to harness the great diversity of In 2018, the CSR Committee led an internal being made to enhance the protection of global programmes raising awareness across vulnerable, therefore we need to ensure that Chief Inspector of Prisons. An important thinking to generate new ideas for a independent review to assess the factors migrant workers across the Group and, in the spectrum of health and safety risks as well group policies to safeguard their well-being aspect of the committee’s work has been to sustainable future and to be recognised as an which led to the situation at the prison and particular, the Middle East, as well as as those focused on specific initiatives. are adhered to by all involved. Following, the ensure that lessons learned from the review ethical employer that promotes the right identify any lessons that could be learned and initiatives focused on our supply chain risks. Norwegian Council on Ethics for the were shared across the estate of G4S-run Following the attack on a G4S base in behaviours through employees, supply chains shared across the broader G4S custodial Health and Safety deep-dives in high-risk Government Pension Fund Global making custody and rehabilitation facilities. The Afghanistan, in November 2018, which sadly and community activities. estate. During 2019, the committee oversaw markets will also provide the committee with public some concerns over the Group’s management team reported on initiatives resulted in a number of fatalities, including management’s programme of actions and a more granular level of understanding of the approach to migrant workers in the Middle being implemented, which included staff five G4S employees, the committee invited Through regular updates and presentations initiatives designed to ensure lessons learned specific challenges faced by some of the East, the programme to assess the Group’s workshops, at one of the the Managing Director of the relevant the committee is able to monitor and ensure were fully implemented, with the managing businesses and how they respond. migrant worker policy and practices, which committee meetings. business to discuss the challenges faced by that our culture and values are consistently director of G4S Custodial and Detention was underway, was accelerated. Management those who secure the safety of our reflected in behaviours and actions in all parts Services providing an update on learnings has provided updates to both the Audit customers in hostile environments. As part of of our business and to support management from Brook House and HMP Birmingham to Committee and the CSR Committee on the this session, the committee reviewed actions initiatives to enhance the application of our the committee during the year. These results of the assessment carried out and being taken to provide support to those culture and values. In 2019, the CSR learnings have been shared by management changes being implemented to the involved in the incident. Committee received a presentation on the across the entire business. recruitment process, management of the migrant workers programme with the results of our biennial global employee During 2019, as part of the health and safety appointment of a coordinator based in the engagement survey to which c.450,000 team’s continued efforts to reduce road Middle East and engagement directly with the employees responded with 84% favourable traffic incidents and related fatalities, the migrant worker population. In 2020 the CSR answers globally. committee received regular reports on Committee will continue to initiatives being implemented across the Whistleblowing arrangements monitor progress. Group. Such initiatives included driver training Another important tool for monitoring conducted in Colombia, Peru and Brazil, as Mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our corporate culture is provided by the Group’s part of a programme aiming to reduce high supply chain is also an area of focus for the whilstleblowing arrangements. The CSR potential incidents and the creation of a committee, which reviews the company’s Committee receives regular updates and motorcycle safety video for Thailand, which, modern slavery act statement every year. In reviews key indicators to ensure that cultural owing to its success, is being translated for and ethical trends can be identified and use across other regions. 2019 was the first 2019, the committee oversaw the launch of the supplier due diligence programme in the addressed. The committee was also recently Focus on motorcycle year with zero motorcycle fatalities across UK, run by EcoVadis, the sustainability ratings provided with an update from the chair of the Group Ethics Steering Committee, the safety the globe. agency, to ensure our supplier code of conduct promoting health and safety, respect executive committee tasked with overseeing Over the past 18 months, strong The committee also received a presentation of human rights and business ethics in line ethical matters across the Group, who focus was placed on improving from the Regional President of the Africa with our values, is embedded and applied. highlighted its work in relation to overseeing defensive driving and riding. region on challenges faced and initiatives Over the coming two to three years, the the company’s policies and procedures for Motorcycle safety training was being implemented in the region. During programme will be implemented globally the identification, assessment, management reinforced across the Group, 2020, the CSR Committee will be provided starting with Europe and the Middle East. and reporting of ethical risks and in leading through various initiatives including a with an update on progress in the Africa the review of the Group’s existing antivideo to help employees visualise region. The committee will also focus on bribery and corruption programme and key messages and best practice. deep-dive updates of high-risk countries existing mechanisms for employees to raise provided by the management of those ethical concerns in confidence. A review of The health and safety audit work businesses. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic the Group’s global whistleblowing also included this particular area of and its devastating effects on the arrangements and case management tools, focus and as a result, the health and communities the Group serves, the undertaken by Protect, a whistleblowing safety team conducted targeted committee has added the review of the charity, overseen by the committee will take assurance and audit work on Group’s initiatives and health and safety place during 2020. motorcycle safety controls in specific LINK TO response as a key area of focus. SDGS: countries during the year. FOR MORE INFORMATION, 2019 was the first year that none of SEE CSR KPIS ON PAGES 28 AND 29 our colleagues lost their life in a motorcycle accident. 6 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 7 COR POR AT E GOV E R N AN C E Our Governance Framework DELEGATED AUTHORITY Governance framework Shareholders SUPPORT AND INPUT The board oversees the Group’s governance framework, Matters reserved to the board reviews and approves the strategy, monitors management’s performance against agreed targets and ensures appropriate The board is responsible for a number of specific matters controls are in place and operating effectively. The board in the following areas: ensures leadership through effective oversight and review. Executive decisions, and development and implementation ▪ Strategy and management of strategy are delegated to management. ▪ Structure and capital Chief Executive Chairman of the ▪ Financial reporting and controls Board Officer Board The board fulfils a number of its responsibilities directly ▪ Risk appetite, risk management and internal controls (see the list of matters reserved to the board) and others ▪ Material contracts through its committees. ▪ Major acquisitions and disposals Board responsibilities ▪ Communication with shareholders Group Executive Senior Independent ▪ Review and approve the company’s strategy ▪ Board membership and other appointments Committee Director ▪ Monitor management’s performance against ▪ Delegation of authority agreed targets ▪ Corporate governance matters ▪ Review its own performance on a yearly basis ▪ Tax and treasury policies SEE PAGE 8 ▪ Other matters – such as settling material litigation Independent nonDisclosure Panel executive directors (NEDs) Board committees Remuneration Committee The work of the board’s committees is described further in this Approves remuneration of the chairman, executive directors, report and in the terms of reference of each of the committees other members of the group executive committee and the are available on the company’s website at g4s.com/investors. company secretary. Nomination Committee Monitors level and structure of remuneration of senior Reviews board composition, leads the process for new board management of the Group. and committee appointments and reviews board succession. Corporate Social Reviews policies on workforce remuneration and ensures they Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Committee align with the company’s culture. Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews and approves the company’s CSR strategy, Executive Committees monitors compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group. Group Executive Committee Risk Committee Led by the CEO, delivers the Group’s strategy and responsible Advises the Audit Committee and the board on the Group’s for day-to-day management of the Group’s operations. overall risk appetite and tolerance, oversees the company’s risk management framework and reviews its effectiveness and also Disclosure Panel reviews major projects. Deals with all matters concerning inside information relating to Group Ethics Group Risk and the company and the fulfilment of its obligations under the Steering Internal Audit Audit Committee Market Abuse Regulation and the FCA’s Listing Rules and Committee Function Oversees the financial reporting process and ensures the integrity Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. of the company’s financial statements, monitors internal audit, approves external audit scope and fee, reviews and monitors Group Ethics Steering Committee external auditor’s independence. Develops Group strategy and policy on ethical matters, the Group’s anti-bribery and corruption framework as well as whistleblowing arrangements and advises on steps to promote a culture of integrity and honesty across the Group. 8 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 9 ST AKEH OLDER ENG AG E M E N T Engaging to deliver value Engagement with stakeholders is essential for G4S, given our role in society, the global nature of our business and our substantial workforce. Understanding stakeholders’ interests helps us define our strategic priorities, and guide our initiatives and Society Customers Shareholders Employees Suppliers remuneration policies. We undertake Our employees touch the lives of others Through understanding our customers’ needs The company actively seeks to engage with With 558,000 colleagues, G4S is one of the We have a responsible purchasing policy a formal exercise every two years to every day, providing crucial services to help we offer value added, innovative, cost shareholders on a regular basis. world’s largest private sector employers. Our consistent with our business ethics. identify our material CSR priorities keep society safe and secure. effective security solutions and build success is underpinned by the way we lead (see page 12). enduring relationships. How we engage and engage with our people. How we engage How we engage ▪ One-on-one meetings between ▪ We purchase goods and services from The board’s consideration of all How we engage ▪ Operations which promote secure and How we engage management and shareholders more than 40,000 suppliers stakeholders during the decision to sell the majority of our conventional stable communities ▪ Consultative approach to selling and ▪ Group investor meetings hosted ▪ HR core standards set the framework for ▪ Contract and relationship management cash businesses can be found on ▪ CSR Materiality Review with key bidding for contracts by management employee engagement ▪ Supplier Code of Conduct page 96 of the 2019 Integrated stakeholders (see page 12) ▪ Proactive relationship management ▪ Results announcements and ▪ Onboarding, induction and refresher training ▪ Purchase to Pay process Report and Accounts. ▪ Community engagement programmes ▪ Bidding processes trading updates ▪ Biennial global all-employee and senior ▪ Substantial tax and economic contributions ▪ Customer service ▪ Participation in investor relations management engagement surveys Key areas of interest ▪ Government relationships and ▪ Net promoter score association and best practice events ▪ Trade unions, works councils and ▪ Supplier performance – service delivery parliamentary engagement ▪ Governance meetings with the Chairman employee representative forums and product quality ▪ NGO and UN agency engagement Key areas of interest ▪ Shareholder consultation with Chair of ▪ Newsletters, videos, employee self-service ▪ Payment terms ▪ Industry forums ▪ Quality and price of service delivery the Remuneration Committee on the portals, intranets, and local and ▪ SME engagement ▪ Expertise and innovation Remuneration Policy global meetings ▪ Business ethics Links to strategy Key areas of interest ▪ Health and safety ▪ CSR updates with the Chair of the ▪ Campaigns on health and safety, values and ▪ Human rights ▪ Ethical and sustainable business practice CSR Committee Speak Out whistleblowing arrangements ▪ Business ethics Strategic pillars ▪ Values recognition schemes including: ▪ Annual General Meeting Our response and KPIs ▪ People, culture and values Our response and KPIs ▪ Rationalised suppliers People, culture & values Key areas of interest Key areas of interest ▪ Health and safety ▪ 4.7% underlying revenue growth in ▪ Global approach to procurement 2019 (2018: 1.0%) ▪ Financial performance ▪ Company performance and plans ▪ Human rights ▪ Launched enhanced vetting and screening Growth​ ▪ Compensation and benefits ▪ Anti-bribery & corruption ▪ Around 50,700 customer surveys ▪ Strategic direction and coherence process with EcoVadis to help prevent completed using net promoter score in ▪ Governance and risk management ▪ Training and career development modern slavery in our supply chain Profitability​ Our response and KPIs 2019 with positive results in all markets ▪ Health and safety ▪ Commitment to the UK Prompt ▪ Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (2018: 49,000) Our response and KPIs ▪ Human rights Payment Code Financial discipline ▪ UN Global Compact: Communication on ▪ Feedback from unsuccessful contract bids ▪ CEO and CFO met with shareholders ▪ Diversity and inclusion ▪ Member of the UK Government Contract Progress representing over 63% of the share ▪ Values, CSR and recognition Finder portal to promote use of register and 171 institutions SME businesses ▪ UK socio-economic impact assessment Remuneration policy identifying an economic impact of £1.7bn ▪ 4.7% underlying revenue growth in 2019 Our response and KPIs ▪ Global employee engagement survey with ▪ £501m underlying Adjusted PBITA ▪ Implementing plans based on responses Annual bonus scheme – financial performance c.450,000 employees taking part in 2019 in 2019, unchanged from 2018 from c.450,000 employees through the measures and personal/ ▪ Values awareness and training programmes ▪ £633m underlying operating cash flow in 2019 global engagement survey non-financial measures 2019 +8.8% ▪ Maintained overall favourable survey ▪ Engagement with UK parliamentary committees and MPs, including site visits to ▪ The board did not recommend payment responses at 84% from 2017 to 2019 Long term incentive plan of the final 2019 dividend due to the ▪ Feedback from consultation committees – based on EPS, free cash flow custodial detention facilities uncertain impact of the Covid-19 virus on and works councils and total shareholder returns ▪ Industry forums including: International economic activity in our key markets ▪ Reduction in staff turnover from 24.7% in Security Ligue, International Code of Conduct Association, British Security 2018 to 23.7% in 2019 CSR policies Industry Association, Confederation of ▪ High potential incidents down 21% in 2019 British Industry PLEASE SEE PAGE 28 10 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 11 M AT ER IAL ISSUES Managing CSR priority areas our material issues We touch the lives of millions of people every day, providing employment to hundreds of thousands around the world, and delivering crucial services to help keep society safe and secure.​ Sustainable Development Goals To ensure that G4S’s approach to sustainability remains focused on the areas that are The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call upon businesses to advance sustainable development most relevant to the business and to its stakeholders, we regularly undertake a materiality through the investments they make, solutions they develop and the practices they adopt. We have identified a range assessment of ethical and sustainability issues. of social and economic impacts where G4S supports the realisation of the Goals and makes a positive difference to society and communities around the world. Within these, we have a specific focus on Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and Goal 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) which closely align with our strategy, CSR priority areas and our operational expertise. Our CSR priority areas The findings reinforce the importance that G4S’s ethics, Based upon the feedback from a broad range of parties, culture and values, and our employees’ personal standards including the executive and non-executive members of and behaviour have in preventing issues and nonG4S’s senior management, sustainability analysts, industry compliance across the core priorities and other Anti-Bribery Health and Safety Human Rights bodies, customers, suppliers and NGOs – our current CSR matters. and Corruption assessment, confirms four core CSR priority areas: In 2020 we will conduct a new assessment of the CSR ▪ Health, safety and protection of employees and people issues most relevant to G4S and its stakeholders. This under G4S’s care assessment has been postponed from 2019 to allow for organisational changes and potentially different issues and ▪ Human rights priorities following the disposal of the majority of our ▪ Anti-bribery and corruption PLEASE SEE PAGE 20 PLEASE SEE PAGE 25 PLEASE SEE PAGE 26 conventional cash businesses. ▪ People, culture and values Underpinned by People, culture and values PLEASE SEE PAGE 18 High Health and safety Zero harm Ethical Employment Affordable and clean Human rights Partnership (EEP) energy CONTRIBUTING TO THE People, culture REALISATION OF SDG 8.8. and values CONTRIBUTING TO THE CONTRIBUTING TO THE The safety of our employees and REALISATION OF SDG 8.5 AND 8.8. REALISATION OF SDG 7.2. Ethics Anti-bribery & corruption those in our care is our first Signed in 2008, G4S’s Ethical By securing facilities and other priority. Our goal is zero harm. Employment Partnership with UNI, infrastructure producing clean Labour relations Governance & compliance the global union federation, helps energy, G4S is helping companies While we recognise that we still to protect labour rights and such as EDF and Lake Turkana Importance to stakeholders Employee standards & have a long way to go in order to promotes safe and secure working Wind Power to increase the share Valuing & developing behaviours achieve our goal, since the launch employees environments for G4S’ of clean energy in the global of our safety programmes in 2013, 558,000 employees. energy mix. Secure & stable Diversity & the number of work-related communities inclusion SEE G4S.COM/EEP fatalities has reduced by 57%. Government Employee recruitment FOR MORE DETAILS relationships & screening Data protection & information security Securing Your World Landmines and Industry, innovation and Customer trust CONTRIBUTING TO THE unexploded ordnance infrastructure & delivery REALISATION OF SDG 16.1. CONTRIBUTING TO THE CONTRIBUTING TO THE G4S helps millions of people around REALISATION OF SDG 16.1. REALISATION OF SDG 9.1. Risk management the world to live and work in safe Over the past two decades, our G4S is helping its customers to and secure environments. Through specialist teams have located and implement resilient infrastructure Promoting industry standards the protection of people and destroyed more than 20 million and support economic Economic & tax contribution property, we support the reduction landmines and other items of development. For example, in of injuries and violenceunexploded ordnance from sites Belgium, G4S is transforming the Technology & innovation related deaths. around the world. concept of truck parking with a Responsible supply chain pioneering secure facility for Climate change Our work has returned almost overnight parking. Low Environmental management 1,500km2 of land to productive use, allowing communities to rebuild SEE G4S.COM/KALKEN their shops, farms, hospitals Low Impact on G4S High FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR SUPPORT OF and schools. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AT G4S.COM/SDG 12 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 13 ST R AT EGIC PR IOR I T I E S Strategic priorities and performance overview The combination of a growing integrated security business with an established global footprint and a unique and high-growth cash and payment technology business, strengthens the Group’s growth People, culture Growth Profitability​ Financial prospects and margin profile for & values Technology, innovation discipline each business. Customer excellence and data analytics This section summarises our We recruit, develop and deploy We build long-term customer We design, market and deliver We have a growing proportion of We manage risk effectively and strategic priorities and how we the best people in the industry relationships based upon trust innovative, industry-leading technology revenues from higher growth and higher ensure we provide profitable, cash focus our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the and understanding of customers’ and services that protect and add value margin services and safe, secure, reliable generative services best results for customers and businesses and objectives for our customers wherever and efficient operations sustainable growth and return they operate for investors. Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Our CSR approach covers a broad ▪ Embed the right culture; promote our ▪ Positive demand for security services ▪ We continue to invest in the resources, ▪ The conventional cash transaction ▪ Driving improved cash flow range of areas but we have four G4S values and sustain strong employee driving revenue growth skills and capabilities to develop and deliver facilitates the creation of a simplified group ▪ New commitment to maintain net debt/ material priorities: health and safety, identification with those values ▪ Investment in risk consulting expertise technology-enabled security and cash and provides the opportunity to reduce Adjusted EBITDA between 2.0x and 2.5x human rights, anti-bribery and ▪ Embed and reinforce correct health to lead initial customer engagement management solutions: overheads by an annualised £15-20m over the medium term corruption and people, culture and and safety behaviours and develop excellent service and ▪ Secure Solutions – expand and upgrade through 2020-2021 ▪ Improved risk management, including values which are covered in detail ▪ Focus on talent acquisition, development solution design technology-integration capability ▪ Operational excellence and efficiency: contract risk management on page 12. and succession planning ▪ Investment in technical and project ▪ Cash Solutions – further develop our implement lean, automated processes ▪ Established and embedded rigorous ▪ Engage to ensure best performance management capability market leading and fast growing ▪ Continue to improve health and safety capital investment appraisal processes ▪ Incentivise and recognise success ▪ Investment in sales, marketing, account payment and cash technology awareness and performance ▪ Manage for value or exit a number of ▪ Harness and extend the diversity management teams, SalesForce CRM, non-core businesses to increase further of our workforce and foster an embed G4S way of selling and contract our strategic, commercial and operational inclusive workplace retention programmes focus and efficiency Strategic priorities Underpinned by corporate culture Key risks Key risks Key risks Key risks Key risks based on group values and ▪ Our trained and skilled people are hired by ▪ Failure to understand customers’ ▪ Failure to market or deliver our services ▪ Failure to comply with our standards ▪ Inefficient capital management and commitment to CSR. competitors or other companies or do not changing needs or falling short of and technology effectively or failure to results in harm, loss of expertise or failure to comply with group risk behave in line with the Group’s values, customer expectations deliver adequate value for money investments failing to deliver benefit management standards Key risks resulting in adverse impact on customer See Emerging and Principal risks on service or those in our care pages 33 to 39. ▪ Negative impacts on our employees’ KPIs health and safety ▪ G4S managers not applying standards See pages 28 to 29 for more detail and the progress in the Group’s KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI non-financial KPIs and how they link to the Group’s strategic priorities. 84% £1.5bn 47% -21% +8.8% EMPLOYEES GAVE AN OVERALL ANNUAL CONTRACT VALUE OF NEW TECHNOLOGY-ENABLED SECURITY REDUCTION IN HIGH POTENTIAL INCREASE IN UNDERLYING FAVOURABLE RESPONSE IN 2019 BUSINESS WON IN 2019 REVENUES IN 2019 (2018: 45%) INCIDENTS IN 2019 COMPARED OPERATING CASH FLOW IN 2019 EMPLOYEE SURVEY WITH (2018: £1.4BN) WITH 2018 C.450,000 RESPONSES ​ Our culture, values and commitment to corporate social responsibility underpin our strategy 14 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 15 OUR ST R AT EGY I N AC T I O N People, culture & values USING BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGY, EACH DAY, EMPLOYEES WORKING FOR ONE OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST I.T. COMPANIES KNOW THAT THEY WILL GET A G4S DRIVER AND A G4S SECURITY ESCORT RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING THEIR SAFETY DURING THEIR ENTIRE TRIP FROM HOME TO OFFICE AND BACK. INDIA Using biometrics to transport Information Technology (I.T.) employees safely From contract award in 2018, it took just three weeks for G4S to successfully deploy to all the sites in India for one of the world’s largest I.T. companies. This is a considerable achievement given the scale of the solution and implementation of technology. This included carrying out verification on the 3,500 subcontracted drivers and G4S security escorts and training them under the scope of the new solution. The vehicles use cloud-based technology and biometric fingerprint scanners to ensure that the identity of every driver, and every security escort, is authenticated before each journey. In addition to drivers and security escorts, G4S also provides over 1,500 campus security officers at the customer’s sites across India. These security officers are trained to provide full support during medical emergencies, fire and evacuations, and patrol the premises and secure the entrances and exits to each site. The campuses are secured with G4S’s award winning AMAG access control systems, giving complete control over who is allowed to enter sites to ensure the safety of employees, visitors, assets and buildings. 1,500 IN ADDITION TO DRIVERS AND LINK TO SDGS: SECURITY ESCORTS, G4S PROVIDES 1,500 CAMPUS SECURITY OFFICERS AT A GLOBAL I.T. COMPANY’S SITES ACROSS INDIA 16 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 17 OUR ST R AT EGY People, culture & values O RG ANIS E Embedding our values and creating the right organisational culture Actions for 2020 With 558,000 G4S employees working around the world, the standards we set and the Our aim is to be the employer of choice for people in Organise our industry and the supplier of choice for our customers. ▪ Continue to measure progress on embedding the G4S values way in which colleagues conduct themselves are fundamental to the success of the Group Our values help us to achieve this. Always acting with ▪ Board to complete G4S values training and are underpinned by the way we attract, develop and engage with our people. integrity and respect, being passionate about safety, ▪ Launch values-based calendar for all employees which showcases our security and service excellence and achieving success values and the behaviours that underpin them through teamwork and innovation, help to set us apart ▪ Sponsor initiatives to support further embedding of Integrity values from many of our competitors in the marketplace. across G4S ▪ Evaluate methods of engaging with 35,000 supervisors globally Our approach to both human resources We work hard to ensure these values are not just words to embed the values, encourage best practice and further on a page and have invested in initiatives to bring them to (HR) and wider human rights matters is life, so that everyone understands them and knows why improve confidence in reporting behaviour which does not meet based upon accepted international Performance through people they are important. Regardless of where they work, what our standards standards, including the ILO Core Labour Human Resources Work Streams they do, and how long they have worked with G4S, we want our people to always behave in line with our values. Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. To achieve that we constantly reinforce our values with a ORGANISE range of bespoke online training and hard copy materials HINKL EY PO INT C We recognise the importance of our people Are we organised as efficiently and effectively used at all levels of the organisation and all stages of to the company’s long-term success, and as possible? the employee lifecycle. The elite training and education have a comprehensive HR strategy that is We have aligned our global survey and recognition keeping thousands of workers safe at structured around six HR work streams. schemes so that they check for understanding of our ACQUIRE values and reinforce the behaviours that demonstrate Hinkley Point C, UK them. In 2020, we will refresh and extend our training Do we have the right people in the Hinkley Point C is the first nuclear power station to be built in the UK programmes and materials, including the introduction of right places? in a generation. G4S has a multi-year contract to secure the a new values-based calendar showcasing the behaviours The execution of the HR strategy is facilitated construction site using an integrated security offering and Enhanced that underpin them. We also plan to assess how by establishing industry leading employment Security Officers (ESOs) – some of the most well-trained and successful our efforts to embed our values have been. practices such as: well-equipped in the world. PROTECT Our Ethical Employment Partnership Do we put the safety of our employees The ESOs are put through a course that spans three months, during with UNI, the global union federation, which and those in our care first? which time they are exposed to all the areas and elements of a site has been in place since 2008 to enable G4S the size of a small town. They are taught the language to use over and UNI to work together to raise radio, real-time reporting, conflict management, how to manage employment standards in G4S and throughout a situation with protesters, and more. DEVELOP the wider market. Do our employees have the capability The approach has improved staff morale and retention. The UK Our global employee survey had an 84% to deliver? security industry has an average annual staff turnover of roughly 30%, favourable score in 2019, with responses from but at Hinkley Point the team’s turnover rate is just 2% and those over c.450,000 employees. This valuable who become ESOs continue to learn. Every year, each of the four employee feedback is used to inform local teams of officers complete an off-site refresher course over two days ENGAGE that boosts their Incident Management, Physical Intervention, and engagement plans in addition to groupwide initiatives. Are our employees committed to doing a Trespass and Protest Scenarios skills. good job? Our health and safety policy has been supplemented by additional expert resources, provision of training, and establishment of additional policies and guidance to help mitigate REWARD Our Values LINK TO the risks particular to our industry. Do our incentives support SDGS: sustainable performance? Our people and Our values are reinforced through on-going values underpin communications and training, as well as embedding them in our management incentives everything we do. to help drive the right behaviours. For more information on our CSR progress, see the non-financial key performance indicators on pages 28 to 29. 18 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 19 OUR ST R AT EGY A C QUIR E Employee turnover Sadly, during 2019, 20 of our colleagues and one There were two non-natural deaths in G4S custody in Attracting, recruiting and retaining the For the third successive year we have achieved a subcontractor lost their lives in work related incidents. 2019 which were due to self-harm. All deaths in custody best people reduction in our labour turnover rate (2019: 23.7%) as a These losses are widely felt and our thoughts are with are investigated by the relevant authorities to determine result of our continued focus in this area, high levels of their families and friends at such difficult times. the cause of death. Ensuring we recruit the right people is a responsibility While it represents a reduction from 24 fatalities in 2018, shared by the hiring manager and the relevant HR team employee engagement and our continued commitment the loss of 20 colleagues means we have no cause to Since the start of 2020, our focus progressively shifted to member. Selection processes vary according to the level to employee development and competitive pay. celebrate and we will continue to focus our efforts on managing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. In and type of role, and in accordance with the specific Nevertheless, we are still recruiting around 200,000 achieving our goal of zero harm. addition to following the advice of the local health customer or contract requirements. As well as interviews, employees each year, which is a significant task. authorities, we have introduced mandatory controls in all a range of psychometric tests are available to assess Thankfully, all four health and safety indicators suggest businesses. Work practices are being adjusted in We use a number of mechanisms to reach the widest personality and abilities to ensure that new hires are that our sustained focus on safety in 2019 and improved consultation with our customers. talent pools and generate interest about our people, our equipped to consistently perform to the high standards controls relating to attacks on employees are resulting in products and services. In 2019, our social media campaign we expect, and include bespoke reports for participants improvements with a reduction in the number of high ExploreG4S commenced, offering weekly insights on over and managers on how the individuals’ responses align with potential incidents of 21%. This translated into a reduction 20 countries where we operate, with employees sharing the G4S values. in the number of attack-related fatalities to nine (2018: their stories about the amazing work that they do to help attract others to follow in their footsteps. The campaign 14). For the fourth year running, there was a reduction in Actions for 2020 We are constantly looking to streamline our recruitment the number of our colleagues injured at work. processes. We have updated our careers centres and will continue into 2020. Protect applicant tracking systems as well as our links with During 2019, the Group’s lost time injury incidence rate ▪ Coordinate the response to the Covid-19 external agencies to help us target our sourcing and was 5.7 per 1,000 employees (2018: 6.6). The change pandemic support people through the application process. Utilising reflects improvements in Latin America and the Cash ▪ Review controls for road safety in high-risk the latest technology, future plans include the use of Actions for 2020 Solutions division. However, the seven road-traffic related countries digital assistants and artificial intelligence to help Acquire fatalities (2018: seven) and four fatalities due to workplace ▪ Improve safety risk management in noncandidates through the recruitment and ▪ Complete review of our screening policy incidents (2018: three) remind us that, although additional traditional services onboarding journey. and practices and update accordingly training on road safety has been introduced, there is still ▪ Review firearms policy ▪ Undertake a review of the G4S onboarding more work to do on both this and in reinforcing safe We look beyond people’s disabilities and seek to make operating procedures. reasonable adjustments to our workplaces and working programme to ensure culture, values and patterns to accommodate applicants and existing ethics are appropriately emphasised employees who become disabled during their career with G4S. We are proud of the work we do and our commitment to removing the complex barriers people with disabilities can face in securing employment, training and promotion. PROTECT Putting safety first Screening (CSR PRIORITY AREA) Our employee selection process is underpinned by G4S’ The safety of our people and those in our care continues global screening policy which defines the standards to be our first priority. We pursue our goal of zero harm required to confirm the applicant’s identity, personal with relentless focus throughout the organisation, history, licence requirements and their suitability to work in a position of great trust and responsibility. The policy embedding safety in everything we do, from inducting Keeping the Dutch new employees, to tracking business performance. extends to subcontractors as well as direct employees. Our passion for safety has also inspired others who are railways safe We regularly take the opportunity to assess whether the following our lead as we drive safety improvements Every year, 10,000 employees of Dutch policy is appropriate, safeguarding against the risks while across the wider security industry. railway company Nederlandse Spoorwegen ensuring that we have a strong applicant pool of (NS) go through rigorous emergency first aid, qualified candidates. Our safety journey starts with our business leaders who fire and evacuation safety training courses all commit to annual safety improvement plans using our tailor-made and delivered by G4S, so they are Employees by region health and safety standards as the baseline. These ready to meet the safety needs of millions of standards reflect the key risks in our industry, and are e. train users every day. reviewed and updated as we learn lessons and share a. experiences. Detailed investigations and post incident d. For NS, it is essential that their employees safety briefings provide important insights and help us to know how to respond in a variety of prevent recurrence, providing protection to our emergency scenarios to keep passengers and colleagues and customers where it is most needed. themselves safe, so they teamed up with our Specific deepdives and general oversight by the CSR Dutch business – the Netherland’s leading Committee, frequent executive discussions and regular safety training provider – to design and b. audits all contribute to the robust governance we apply LINK TO SDGS: deliver tailor-made training courses, unique to safety matters. c. to each job role. In our 2019 employee engagement survey, 82% of respondents felt that G4S takes health and safety in the 21% – Africa (120,000) 6% – Cash (32,000) workplace seriously. 23% – Americas (126,000) 32% – Asia (178,000) 18% – Europe & Middle East (102,000) 20 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 21 OUR ST R AT EGY DEV ELOP 2020 has started with a focus on employees affected by which was reassuring given the priority placed on this by below) we know that women comprise 17% of our Building a capable workforce Covid-19, with the launch of additional learning in relevant all our businesses. Combining these results with those senior leadership population and a smaller percentage areas such as leading remote teams and supporting from other survey questions on fairness and being listened identify themselves as a person of colour. In 2020, we Our goal is to support our employees to grow in employee wellbeing. Throughout the year we will continue to, will help guide our plans on employee wellbeing which will be setting some long-term targets to address the confidence and develop their capabilities at every stage of to invest in a number of learning and development is another area of focus for the next year. imbalances in this population. their career. We want them to progress within G4S, to initiatives to support our business objectives and address share their journey and to inspire others to do the same. Utilising the global survey, and a smaller management In 2019, we launched a pilot sponsorship programme, any talent and skills gaps in our succession planning. As well While investing in building their technological skills and survey also conducted in 2019, we were able to identify which, if successful, will be extended to a wider as extending our apprenticeship programme, there are the systems understanding required for our security areas for development across the organisation, enabling population in 2020. To help broaden the reach of our plans for a new onboarding course to ensure our culture businesses in the future, we are also encouraging our us to address concerns raised by employees. The Group diversity and inclusion strategy, we have also set out our and values are appropriately emphasised. Additionally, the people to take responsibility for their own development Executive Committee and individual business leaders are plans for an Inclusion Council which will enable us to anti-bribery and corruption training will be refreshed with and career advancement. committed to responding to the results and have taken gather more data and use it to tackle some of the barriers updated scenarios and new unconscious bias training will be introduced for all delegates on leadership development responsibility for action to address the areas where the to inclusion that we know exist. In parallel with the work Our learning and development programmes are designed programmes. A values-based 360 feedback review process, feedback indicates there is room to improve. of the Council, we will continue other efforts to raise to do two things. Firstly, they give our front-line which complements the existing values based behavioural awareness of the strategy and the importance of creating employees, many of whom may be new to security or Diversity and inclusion framework, is also planned. an environment where all employees are inspired to do just embarking on their careers, the confidence, base Our diversity and inclusion strategy recognises the their best. Initiatives we started in 2019, such as our knowledge, skills and understanding to meet customer importance of diversity and inclusion to our longer-term global celebration of Inclusion Week and the introduction needs and satisfy the rigorous regulatory requirements. business success because the skills and talents needed to of unconscious bias training will continue. All of them will complete mandatory induction training on topics which include health and safety and our values. Actions for 2020 lead, develop and grow a global business are found in people from a diverse range of backgrounds. Whilst our Employee engagement and representation This is followed up with more bespoke training on Engage ▪ Communicate employee engagement results brand and the benefits offered may be attractive to Keeping all of our employees updated during times of customer and site requirements specific to each to all relevant stakeholder groups. Including people from a diverse background, the nature of our significant business change is always a priority. Throughout contract they are working on. Overall, the training employees, trade unions, customers work and the environments in which we operate are 2019 and in early 2020, news about the proposed builds confidence and ensures our people are equipped and investors sometimes less so. To counter this, we are working hard separation and subsequent sale of our traditional cash to do their jobs safely and well. to promote diversity in all that we do and ensure our businesses was regularly cascaded by the Group CEO, ▪ Develop and implement action plans for each Secondly, there are programmes offering a wealth of working environment is an inclusive one. leadership teams and employee representatives. All business which take account of employee self-managed learning on a vast array of topics. To available channels were used to ensure people were comments, demographics and trends In April 2019, we published our second UK gender pay encourage everyone to make the most of these tools and aware of the latest situation and had the opportunity to gap report in which we confirmed that our average ask questions and raise concerns about the potential the opportunities to develop, they are available in a gender pay gap for the nine legal entities in scope was impact of this decision. This continues to be the case as mixture of easily digestible and readily accessible formats. 1.3%, with an average bonus gap of 12.5%. Whilst the the sale of the cash businesses is fully implemented. Our online, cloud-based learning platform enables us to ENGAGE figures compare favourably with the national average of host, share and record training completed and enables Creating an inclusive and engaging 17.9% and many other companies, we are not With around 30% of our employees covered by collective people to manage their own learning wherever and workplace complacent and have set out our plans for increasing agreements, the trade unions we work with via our whenever suits them best. Employee engagement survey female representation at all levels of the organisation. For Ethical Employment Partnership, the European Works Some notable learning and development achievements in more information please see our UK gender pay gap Council and local recognition agreements provide Evidence from our global employee engagement survey, 2019 include the continued success of the regional report for 2018 at g4s.com/genderpaygap. important communication channels. Through them we which we believe is one of, if not the largest of its kind, leadership programme with 106 delegates graduating. The receive insights and feedback on the company’s indicates that our employees are highly engaged. This is We have achieved the boardroom target set out in the programme has been fully reviewed and refreshed ready performance and constructive challenge on potential good for our business, good for our customers and good Hampton Alexander Review with 40% female for re-launch as the G4S leadership programme early in decisions which may impact our employees, such as the for our brand. More importantly, it is good for employees. representation and have turned our attention to the 2020. Additionally, the materials utilised during a 16 week company’s approach to safeguarding our employees in Being motivated, feeling a sense of belonging and pride in leadership and management recruitment pipelines to development programme in 2018 were refreshed and are the context of Covid-19. Based on their feedback, we what you do at work is important for people’s happiness ensure that we build on this success, not just for gender now available in a structured online management have sought to establish a better rhythm and regularity and long-term wellbeing. Feedback from the survey and but for people from black, Asian and minority ethnic development course. Promotion of the “learning at work” for our communications via emails, newsletters and our improving retention rates suggest our colleagues want groups too who are also under-represented in these week in May provided great opportunities to showcase conference calls to bring certainty and clarity where we to stay working for G4S and continue to care passionately populations. Based on our current data (see charts the tools and materials that are available and to can at such a time of change. about the work that they do. encourage people to make the most of them. In 2019, over 84% (c.450,000) of our employees Our UK based apprenticeship programme is flourishing. responded to our voluntary global survey, based on the 65 employees completed their apprenticeship average number of employees during the survey period. Employee gender diversity programmes in 2019 and 12 have completed so far this With 84% of them doing so favourably. The increase in year. There are currently 420 apprenticeships scheduled response rate from 2017 (73%) was positive given the BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT TOTAL EMPLOYEES to finish in 2020. With our employees undertaking more logistical challenges of reaching employees working than 20 different apprenticeships there is plenty of choice remotely with no access to a mobile phone and limited 4 6 35 168 85,902 472,098 for people looking to embark on a career with the internet connectivity. Managers across the business 2019 2019 2019 company. Although we are well supported by a number worked hard to ensure that all colleagues had the chance of different apprenticeship providers, our longer-term to participate and have their voice heard and our 3 7 34 171 80,812 465,188 2018 2018 2018 plan is to co-facilitate apprenticeships using existing G4S employees responded by taking the time and making the learning and development specialists who already have effort to share their views. Over 200,000 colleagues added 3 7 35 182 83,711 486,289 2017 2017 2017 the technical expertise and knowledge. Not only will this suggestions, ideas and feedback as additional commentary provide new development opportunities for the on what they think and feel about working for G4S. specialists, it will enable us to increase the volume female male of apprenticeships offered using the additional Not only did the results indicate high levels of employee resources available. engagement, they also indicated an overall increase in the favourable responses to questions on health and safety, 22 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 23 OUR ST R AT EGY Respecting human rights Enhancing the protection of migrant workers (CSR PRIORITY AREA) We have utilised a range of information sources to help Ordnance clearance Our ethos is based upon fairness and respect for human us identify potential modern slavery risk areas, and as a rights. We are proud of the role G4S and its employees result have focused our efforts on mitigating these risks in For almost a quarter of a century, specialists from G4S ordnance management have successfully delivered clearance and play in society and the positive contribution that they our supply chain and the employment of migrant workers. security operations, training and mentoring local people in over 35 countries. So far, this has resulted in the clearance of make each day to the protection of human rights around In May 2019, we published our third slavery and human almost 1,500 square kilometres of land and over 20 million items of unexploded ordnance. the world. trafficking statement, setting out the actions we have taken to help reduce these risks. G4S has held contracts in South Sudan since 2006, with teams delivering humanitarian mine action services in up to We are also clear that we have a responsibility to ensure 20 locations across the country. As well as ensuring safety through clearing unexploded ordnance, their work is about that we are not at risk of violating human rights through Since then, as well as implementing our supply chain restoring confidence within the community and empowering men, women and children to play an active part in the services we provide, the customers with whom we due-diligence programme, we have taken additional steps driving change. work, the suppliers we use, or through the treatment of to enhance our protection of migrant workers in the our colleagues and others in our care. Middle East and Asia. By clearing explosives and other forms of ordnance left behind from two decades of civil conflict, and by providing mine risk education, G4S helps keep communities and NGO workers safe so that local residents can continue rebuilding their Everyone at G4S has a responsibility to respect and ▪ Continuing to improve our migrant worker policy and lives. protect human rights and any abuse is completely code of conduct for migrant worker recruitment unacceptable under any circumstances. agencies: In this way, G4S supports the achievement of the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals, such as ▪ Among the standards set by this policy and code is economic growth, no poverty, zero hunger, access to quality education, reduced inequalities and, especially, peaceful and G4S’s human rights policy and its related framework are the prohibition of withholding an employee’s inclusive societies. based upon the UN Guiding Principles for Business and passport or placing other restrictions on their Human Rights. In parallel with our values, the framework freedom of movement that may prevent them from reinforces the continued development of a business moving to another employer or returning home which supports the realisation of the UN Sustainable FURTHER INFORMATION CAN BE FOUND AT ▪ The policy and code also set out G4S’s requirements Development Goals through the creation of decent WWW.G4S.COM/ORDNANCECLEARANCE that all employees be provided with clear terms and employment, the global improvement of industry conditions, in a language they understand, prior to standards and by helping to create secure and stable employment communities around the world (see page 13). LINK TO SDGS: ▪ We have concluded detailed analysis of migrant In 2018, we reviewed our human rights heat-map, worker recruitment fees and associated costs. identifying countries in which human rights may be at Following this, G4S has committed to applying the higher risk. Informed by this review, we have carried out standards adopted by the Leadership Group for 23 human rights control self-assessments during 2019. Responsible Recruitment, including the ‘Employer The feedback from these assessments highlights areas Pays’ principle, in all group companies where more guidance or support may be required and is ▪ Created a new team of migrant worker coordinators incorporated into our internal audit programme. to conduct a range of checks in both candidates’ home and destination countries. By March 2020, they had Respecting human rights in the supply chain completed more than 1,600 direct surveys with staff in During 2019, we partnered with EcoVadis, a sustainability the UAE and Saudi Arabia, to confirm their experience ratings agency, to design an international programme during the recruitment process was consistent with our which will help us to ensure that our suppliers in high-risk standards categories, such as uniform manufacture, are meeting the ▪ Appointed new health and safety officers and welfare ethical standards of our Supplier Code of Conduct. officers ▪ Launched modern slavery training for senior REWAR D For all employees we provide fair and competitive pay The programme requires in-scope suppliers to complete management and key functional roles, such as HR and Incentivising and recognising success and benefits, and are always looking at ways to enhance an EcoVadis assessment tailored to their industry, size and Procurement departments packages in areas which can make a meaningful difference. location. EcoVadis analyses the assessment, providing Our aim is to recognise and reward employees’ We regularly benchmark our pay rates to ensure they both the supplier and G4S with a detailed report setting contributions to the success of G4S. Every day thousands remain market competitive and offer flexibility in working out the supplier’s CSR performance. Where their of our colleagues do a fantastic job, keeping our patterns where we can to enable employees to meet the performance does not meet the required levels, a Actions for 2020 customers, their assets and the people in their care safe conflicting demands they face. corrective action plan must be submitted to address and secure, sometimes putting their own lives on the line Respecting human rights the shortcoming. to achieve it. Historically, businesses have used their own For those who participate in an annual bonus plan, the ▪ Commence the implementation of the Employer Pays Principle mechanisms for recognising exceptional contributions in objectives set are tied to the achievement of financial The programme has been implemented across our throughout G4S businesses and migrant worker recruitment line with local practices. performance underpinned by behaviours in line with our UK businesses, with 73 EcoVadis assessments being supply chain values. Regular updates about any factors affecting this completed by December 2019. We aim to utilise this ▪ Establish a Modern Slavery Steering Group to advise members of At the end of 2019, we launched an additional scheme via business performance are vital in achieving common experience to apply the process internationally between the Group Executive Committee on best practices to combat all an employee values recognition app, Awardforce. The awareness and on-going motivation. Information on 2020 and 2023, focussing on our top 15 highest forms of modern slavery scheme gives employees, at all levels in the organisation, company performance is cascaded via the leadership spending businesses to cover 85% of G4S’s total ▪ Embed an improved approach to risk assessment and due-diligence the ability to nominate colleagues whose actions population and also through our network of procurement spend. of suppliers across our global top 15 businesses, in partnership with exemplify our values – those who really stand out from employee representatives. EcoVadis the crowd and deserve to be recognised for their actions. Exceptional nominees are being recognised by the Group During the first quarter of 2020, the Chair of the ▪ Continue to build awareness of human rights responsibilities CEO. In 2020, with the help of a community of values Remuneration Committee consulted with the Group’s ▪ Conduct human rights control self-assessments in all businesses coordinators, the values recognition scheme will be largest shareholders on proposed changes to the operating in high-risk countries and continue with our programme brought to life with stories of how our people have Remuneration Policy. of internal audits demonstrated our values. 24 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 25 OUR ST R AT EGY ▪ Continued our engagement with the Council on Ethics procedures are investigated by local management to Total number of whistleblowing cases for the Norwegian Government Pension Fund and ensure that relevant standards are being followed, Internal other interested stakeholders, such as UNI, the global Actions for 2020 audit and other assurance functions may also assess 555 union federation, under our EEP to improve collective operational compliance. 519 Anti-bribery and corruption representation in the Middle East ▪ Undertake a review of our Business Ethics 402 ▪ And, in the past two years, we have reviewed Matters which are classified as being of a serious nature Policy and guidelines and relaunch a 300 accommodation for migrant workers and made a are investigated at a senior and independent level, with refreshed policy and framework number of changes to enhance the facilities 69% of investigations being completed during 2019. ▪ Refresh anti-bribery and corruption Work continues to complete the remainder in 2020. 158 training with new scenarios To ensure we are proactive and support commitments to prevent modern slavery, we are establishing a Modern Whistleblowing The Group Ethics Steering Committee continues to Slavery Steering Group. Comprised of a cross-functional ▪ Review, update and re-launch oversee implementation of our whistleblowing policy and whistleblowing policy conducts regular reviews of serious cases, investigation 15* 16 17 18 19 team of subject matter experts from G4S, the Steering Group will be charged with advising the Group Executive ▪ Evaluate and re-design whistleblowing case progress and resulting actions. This year, G4S will carry * Speak Out launched on best practices to combat all forms of modern slavery. management, investigation and close out a review of its whistleblowing policy and practices and out process has commissioned the charity, Protect, to conduct an Anti-bribery and corruption ▪ Conduct end-to-end independent review independent review of the company’s whistleblowing (CSR PRIORITY AREA) of whistleblowing service by third-party process and its effectiveness. Business ethics experts, the charity Protect, and implement suggested improvements Living our values starts at the top of the organisation and across the Group extends to everything we do, whether it is securing a high profile sporting event being watched by millions of people ▪ Refresh all whistleblowing promotional around the world or keeping an individual who is materials across the Group to raise the vulnerable and existing on the margins of our society safe profile and confidence of the Speak and well cared for. Out service 2019 Progress Engage ​ Status ▪ Conduct a review of the Group’s external against Conduct a sixth global employee engagement ​ Complete (see page 22 and CSR KPI on page 28) We have a responsibility to all our customers, to the whistleblowing system provider sustainability survey using the previous response rates and communities we serve and to the people we employ to actions favourable scores as a benchmark follow our values and the standards we set for ourselves. Implement actions arising from the employee ​ On-going (see page 23) Our Business Ethics Policy is central to this. The policy research conducted on diversity and inclusion makes explicit reference to our commitments to the ILO Declaration and human rights as well as to our zero Develop ​ Status tolerance for any form of bribery and corruption. It is IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT Review and refresh the regional leadership ​ On-going (see page 22) underpinned by anti-bribery and corruption training and issued with links to more detailed guidance on related WRONGDOING… programme and extend the offering of …do the right thing and speak out! development materials to a wider internal audience matters such as commercial sponsorship, gifts and entertainment. Protect (CSR PRIORITY AREA) ​ Status Improve health, safety and security risk ​ Complete (see page 20) We publish the policy externally for transparency and assessments process distribute it widely internally, requiring all managers to commit to the ethical standards expressed within it and Conduct a thematic review of High Potential ​ Complete (see page 21) to ensure the wider application in their G4S businesses or Incidents in high priority businesses departments. Both the policy and our anti-bribery training Improve controls related to attacks on employees ​ On-going (see page 21 and CSR KPI on page 28) are due for review and refresh in 2020, ensuring that they Improve additional training on road safety ​ Complete (see page 21 and CSR KPI on page 28) remain consistent with the emerging risks and reinforce the culture and behaviours we expect. Anti-bribery & corruption ​ (CSR PRIORITY AREA) Status Whistleblowing A critical part of our Integrity value is ensuring that the 0808-234-8852 Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and increase the confidence of employees to raise ​ On-going (see page 26 and CSR KPI on page 29) company has an effective whistleblowing process in place and that colleagues know how to raise concerns and feel www.g4s-speakout.com concerns through available channels confident in doing so. Where there is any suggestion that IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT! SPEAK OUTis for reporting serious Human rights (CSR PRIORITY AREA) ​ Status our standards are not being met, we encourage You are encouraged to report any serious issues without fear of retaliation. All concerns wrongdoing. Any other concerns (such as pay queries, uniform issues or general Continue to build awareness of human rights ​ On-going (see page 25 and CSR KPI on page 29) employees to use Speak Out, our global whistleblowing raised in good faith will be taken seriously and treated with respect. employment grievances) should be directed to your line manager, or HR for a quick responsibilities across the Group channel, to report their concern. resolution. Conduct human rights control self-assessments in ​ Complete (see page 25 and CSR KPI on page 29) Speak Out can be used by any employee, in confidence, Securing Your World all businesses operating in high-risk countries and in multiple languages, at any time of the day or night. We continue with programme of internal audits continue to promote Speak Out to employees across the Complete implementation of enhanced supplier ​ Complete (see page 24) Group, and in 2019, 555 cases were raised by colleagues code of conduct risk assessment and due-diligence (2018: 519). approach in the UK The majority of matters raised via Speak Out are HR grievances, which are managed by the local HR team. Where appropriate, concerns regarding operational 26 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 27 N ON-F INANCIAL I N FO R M AT I ON S T AT E M E N T Human rights KPI Goal 2019 2018 2017 2016 pages 25-26 Human rights control Assess all businesses operating in 22 48 65 54 self-assessment high-risk countries Non-financial Human rights audits in high-risk countries – –​ 15 37 N/A information statement Supply chain due-diligence Implement an improved approach to risk 73 N/A​ N/A N/A​ assessments assessment and due-diligence of (UK)​ suppliers across top 15 of our highest spending businesses​ Our progress on sustainability. Policies Our impact Page ▪ Business Ethics Policy ▪ People, culture and values 18 ▪ Human Rights Policy ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 ▪ Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement ▪ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 35 ▪ Supplier Code of Conduct – ▪ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 34 g4s.com/suppliercode ▪ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 36 ▪ CSR Committee 5 Employees KPI Goal 2019 2018 2017 2016 pages 18-27 Number of employees – 558,000 546,000 570,000 585,000 Percentage of female Increase the number of female 23.0% 22.5% 22.8% 25.5% managers​ managers in the Group Speak Out: KPI Goal 2019 2018 2017 2016 Percentage of front-line –​ 14.9% 14.3% 14.2% 13.6% Whistleblowing Employees “feel able to Increase confidence of employees to 83% N/A 84% N/A female employees pages 26-27 speak up on unethical raise concerns through available channels Coverage by collective – 30%​ 33% 31% 32% behaviour” agreements Number of cases raised ​ 555​ 519​ 300 402 Voluntary turnover​ Reduce global levels of employee 23.7% 24.7% 25.3% 27.6% via Speak Out turnover Employee engagement Increase response rate to the global 84% N/A 73% N/A Policies Our impact Page employee survey​​* ▪ Business Ethics Policy ▪ People, culture and values 18 ​ Increase overall favourable score in 84% N/A 84% N/A ▪ Whistleblowing Policy – ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 global employee survey g4s.com/whistleblowing ▪ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 35 Migrant workers Achieve assurance survey responses >10% N/A N/A N/A ▪ Human Rights Policy ▪ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 34 from at least 10% of migrant workers (UAE) * Based on an average number of employees during the survey period. Relevant policies Our impact and related principal risks​ Page ▪ Business Ethics Policy – g4s.com/ethics ▪ Stakeholder Engagement 10 ▪ Ethical Employment Partnership ▪ People, culture and values 18 – g4s.com/EEP ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 Environmental KPI Goal 2019 2018 2017 2016 ▪ Gender Pay Gap Report (UK) ▪ Covid-19 (Emerging Risk) 33 page 40 GHG emissions per £m 3.5% reduction in carbon intensity (t/ 50.4​ 54.7​ 56.6​ 56.4 – g4s.com/genderpaygap ▪ Health and Safety (Principal Risk) 35 revenue (t/CO2e) CO2e per £m) ▪ HR Core Standards – g4s.com/HRstandards, ▪ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 34 Total GHG emissions Decrease in total carbon emissions 422,461​ 444,556​ 470,727​ 479,191​ including: ▪ People (Principal Risk) 37 (t/CO2e) ▪ Migrant Worker Policy ▪ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 36 Scope 1 t/CO2e ​ 246,910​ 263,703​ 260,688​ 253,350​ ▪ Diversity and Inclusion Policy ▪ CSR Committee 5 Scope 2 t/CO2e ​ 95,502​ 98,948​ 112,003​ 115,927​ Scope 3 t/CO2e ​ 15,338​ 14,354​ 15,446​ 15,045​ Relevant policies Our impact and related principal risks Page ▪ Environmental Policy – g4s.com/ ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 Safety KPI Goal 2019 2018 2017 2016 environment ▪ Greenhouse Gas Emissions 38 pages 20-21 LTI rate per 1k employees Reduction in the LTI rate 5.7 6.6 6.7 7.7 ▪ Business Ethics Policy Work related fatalities Zero harm 20​ 24 25 47 ▪ Supplier Code of Conduct Attack 9​ 14 8 20 Non-attack 4​ 3​ 6 12 Road traffic incident 7​ 7 11 17 Non-natural deaths in 2​ 9​ 3 9​ custody (UK & Australia) Social matters KPIs /Relevant policies Our impact and related principal risks Page ▪ Business Ethics Policy ▪ Stakeholder Engagement 10 Relevant policies Our impact and related principal risks Page ▪ Supplier Code of Conduct ▪ People, culture and values 18 ▪ Business Ethics Policy ▪ People, culture and values 18 ▪ Tax Strategy – g4s.com/tax ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 ▪ HR Core Standards, including: ▪ CSR Materiality Assessment 12 ▪ Whistleblowing Policy ▪ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 35 ▪ Health and Safety Policies ▪ Health and Safety (Principal Risk) 35 ▪ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 36 ▪ CSR Committee 5 ▪ Group Ethics Committee 8 28 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 29 RI SK MANAGEME N T AN D OU R PR I N C I PAL R I S K S Risk management and our Risk management and appetite review. The resulting principal risks, with explanations and We have undertaken a bottom-up review of major risks mitigating actions, are outlined in the following pages 33-39. The Group’s risk appetite continues to be principal risks and mitigation actions with each business completing their own assessment. These reviews require management monitored, discussed and adjusted as appropriate by the teams to identify the key controls needed to mitigate high Risk Committee and the board during the year. inherent risks to acceptable residual risk levels, in line with G4S operates in high-risk areas of business, in which our the Group’s risk appetite, further encouraging effective core competence and value-add to customers is managing Our aim is to identify material risks that could impact us, and to focus management compliance with the Group’s core standards and controls. those risks effectively. We have a higher risk appetite for These risk assessments are reviewed, challenged and attention on effective mitigation of the significant risks to achievement of our strategic amended as necessary by regional teams, who are growing and transforming our businesses where we objectives and safeguard our reputation. also responsible for monitoring delivery of have the expertise to deliver and to achieve a good commercial return for the risk we are accepting. required improvements. We have a low to very low risk appetite for nonWe also conduct a top-down review led by group compliance with laws and regulations, appropriate culture functional leaders, to ensure that the risks captured are A global risk environment and values, health and safety and people risks, as these are complete, have consistency and clarity in their description, G4S operates in around 90 countries across the world. What we did in 2019 priority areas for our stakeholders and failure in these key and are appropriately assessed. The risks are then The risk landscape is dynamic, changing with the global risk areas could have a material impact on our business. Progress continued to be made on increasing risk awareness and summarised and presented to the Risk Committee for trends facing businesses today. Shifts in economic power, accountability for risk management on the part of business management consideration before being presented to the board for technology advancement, climate change, demographic teams. The Group’s mandated control standards have been further profiles and rapid urbanisation have an impact on how we enhanced to ensure they address our key risks, with appropriate training do business. Political uncertainty, terrorism, weakening and challenge to facilitate their effective implementation. Control economies and cyber warfare are just a few of the factors self-assessments in a number of financial and operational areas were influencing the risk environment. completed by all businesses. These were reviewed, challenged and best E-BIKES ARE INCREASINGLY practice shared by region and group functional experts, with compliance POPULAR BUT These factors have created risks and opportunities for the tested through internal audits. Our quarterly Regional Audit Committees VULNERABLE TO THEFT security industry. G4S continues to face the operational continued to focus on financial judgments, adherence to internal control – G4S IS HELPING and health and safety risks often particular to the security MITIGATE THAT RISK IN standards and addressing internal and external audit findings, which has industry, along with financial and commercial risks PLACES SUCH AS THE enabled further improvement in internal control awareness and effective common to all multinational companies. Regulations NETHERLANDS USING performance of risk mitigating controls. continue to be tightened with high penalties for A NEW TRACK AND non-compliance. TRACE SYSTEM. LEARN MORE ABOUT THIS We continue to monitor global emerging risks through SERVICE AT WWW.G4S.COM/EBIKES our risk and governance framework. The UK’s decision to leave the EU creates risk around the What we will do in 2020 uncertainty over the terms of the UK’s exit and the shape The focus on internal control effectiveness will be enhanced through a of any future trading relationship. It is also possible that number of measures, namely: improved understanding of our standards, the continuing uncertainty will have an adverse impact on policies and internal controls; rigorous challenge of our control selfeconomic growth in the UK and Europe, further assessment process; and refining controls to meet the needs of the affecting both our customers and our competitors. changing control environment. We will review the effectiveness of our Our global business does provide a natural hedge to this three lines of defence model, and enhance the model to suit the effective particular risk. operation of the system of internal control. Our IT estate continues to be upgraded to enable more effective preventative and detective controls. The coronavirus pandemic is a global emerging risk that is still evolving, and demands intense management attention. Regional Audit Committees will continue to review, challenge and direct G4S has a large workforce internationally and it is their improvements in the performance of control standards, financial health and safety that is our priority focus during this judgments and reporting. Through continued engagement and review by pandemic. We discuss the risk and our plans for country, region and group management, we will enhance the quality and mitigation on page 33. timeliness of the identification of our principal and emerging risks and the delivery of mitigating actions. Our detailed actions as a result of the coronavirus pandemic is an example of this. After a review of separation options of our Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions businesses to establish two independent businesses, a trade sale of the majority of our conventional cash businesses is taking place. The sale introduces new challenges and opportunities to G4S in the short term. These include: risks associated with a carve-out of parts of the business; distracting management attention from delivering results in the Links to strategy remaining business; disruption to existing transformation projects; and reduced focus on continual improvement in control and risk mitigation. People, culture & values Profitability We will continue to focus direct management attention on mitigating the risks arising as a result of the completion of the sale process. Growth Financial discipline 30 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 31 RI SK MANAGEME N T AN D OU R PR I N C I PAL R I S K S Enterprise risk management governance model Emerging risk The most material immediate reductions in demand for our services as a result of Contingency plans have been implemented in consultation with our customers on whose pandemic-related restrictions have arisen in sites we operate and we are implementing a Covid-19 the ports & airports, transport & logistics and range of measures to mitigate operational leisure & tourism sectors, which, together, and commercial risks as they emerge. Board Link to strategy represent around 6% of our annual revenues and in respect of our retained traditional cash We are working closely with customers to The board has responsibility for ensuring risk-management processes are effective by reviewing the most critical risks and controls. businesses which represent around 4% of our understand their actions in response to the annual revenues. There may be further pandemic, in some cases requiring extra demand reductions in other sectors driven by security services, in some reducing or Risk Committee Audit Committee the economic effect of governmental suspending services. We are working restrictions, although this is likely to vary diligently on redeploying and supporting our The Risk Committee meets four times per year and reviews the The Audit Committee meets four times per year and ensures the Risk employees being affected by the change in substantially from market-to-market and, in Group’s risk appetite, assesses the Group’s principal risks and Group’s control framework is operating effectively. The global coronavirus pandemic involving demand from customers and ensuring we some cases, we are seeing increased demand assesses the overall enterprise risk management process. the spread of Covid-19 presents a number of understand, and engage, the help and support in other sectors (for example in healthcaredifferent risks to the business. The spread is related services in the Americas and Europe available from various governments. Group Executive Committee Regional Audit Committees rapid and the global economic outlook & Middle East regions). Increased operating uncertain. We have a large workforce and costs are also likely to result from additional From a funding perspective, we are adopting The Group Executive Committee oversees the management of The committees, also attended by the external auditor, meet four operate in a wide range of business sectors in investment in personal protective equipment, a prudent stance in relation to our liquid the Group’s principal risks. times a year and review: over 90 countries. It follows that the risks of increased workforce sickness levels and the resources. We have a favourable debt 1. The progress of closing internal and external audit findings; and adverse health and safety, operational and need to furlough staff, although, in a number maturity profile and a strong liquidity position, 2. Reports on status of financial controls and significant financial impacts arising from the pandemic of geographies the impact of this is being which has been further enhanced by the sale accounting judgments. and the associated governmental responses mitigated by government financial of the conventional cash businesses. The in the markets where we operate could support arrangements. Board has not recommended payment of the be significant. 2019 final dividend and we have Group and Regional Ethics Committees implemented strict cost and cash flow Risk mitigation The safety of our employees and those in our management measures to ensure we protect The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and related investigations across the regions. G4S has taken action across a wide range of care is our first priority and is at the forefront the Group’s financial position. fronts in mitigation of the risks presented by of our response to the pandemic. the pandemic. We have instituted protective Mitigation priorities for 2020 Operating Companies and Shared-Service Functions The counter measures adopted by measures for staff in the “frontline”, which in Our operating companies and shared-service functions identify and assess the risks to some cases included wearing protective We are responding dynamically to the governments around the world as they seek rapidly changing situation that the achievement of their business objectives and plan appropriate mitigating actions. These are to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, the equipment and guidelines to follow in certain recorded in our group-wide risk management tools. A thorough review is conducted as part security situations. Coronavirus pandemic has created. We resultant disruption and economic effect in will continue with our current focused of the annual planning process with updates made in senior management team meetings and the countries where we operate and the trading reviews. Self-assessments of compliance with group control standards are completed All our regions have rolled out agreed management approach to protect the actions taken by our customers in response company and its key stakeholders until the annually (bi-annually for financial control standards). Business Continuity Plans to ensure we are will impact on our operations and financial impact of Covid-19 abates. actively managing the disruption presented by results leading to potential decreases in this pandemic. We provide essential services 1st Line: Business Operations and Support revenue, increases in costs and adverse Our priorities remain the health and safety of for our customers and the continuation of effects on profits and cash flows. our staff, customer service, financial discipline Operating Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers of our Result: Ensures standards these services is a key priority. businesses, whether line management or support. The senior expected by the Group, our and business continuity. companies We employ three management team within each business is responsible for customers and other lines of defence to implementing and maintaining appropriate controls across their stakeholders are met. control and business. manage risks across the Group. 2nd Line: Control and Oversight Functions The second line consists of oversight functions at both regional Result: Provides support to and group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, business managers. operations, information technology, commercial and CSR. 3rd Line: Internal Independent Assurance The third line comprises the internal audit function. As part of its Result: Provides independent annual programme of work, internal audit conducts regular assurance over the design and reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and operation of controls. recommendations on how to improve the control environment. Links to strategy People, culture & values Profitability External Audit Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit. Growth Financial discipline 32 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 33 RI SK MANAGEME N T AN D OU R PR I N C I PAL R I S K S Risk mitigation In everything we do, no matter how our custody and one work-related death During 2019 we continued to refine our Principal risk Our values, detailed on page 19, are challenging the circumstances, we require our Principal risk of a subcontractor. controls such as the process of assessing site continually reinforced to all employees people to behave in line with our values and risks as well as training on road safety. We have Culture and values through a variety of key processes including to be prepared to use our whistleblowing Health and safety Risk mitigation utilised lessons learned from serious incidents to facility, Speak Out, if they become aware that Our goal is Zero Harm and we prioritise drive actions to prevent reoccurance, Link to strategy recruitment, induction training, and recognition schemes as well as others are not living up to our values. (H&S) safety management to protect the health and conducted mandatory induction training, firearm communications materials. Our values-based well-being of our colleagues and those safety awareness training and conducted In 2019, we received 555 reports through Link to strategy targeted reviews of high priority businesses. training materials have been developed to around us. Our controls reflect the risk Speak Out (2018: 519). All matters are profile of our industry and lessons from reflect common experiences or particular reviewed and follow a standard process of investigating incidents, including standards for Mitigation priorities for 2020 challenges which come to light from consideration and potential investigation. road safety and firearm management. Since the start of 2020, our focus has whistleblowing cases, internal grievances or Those of a serious nature are investigated at progressively shifted to managing the impact of Risk feedback from the global employeea senior and independent level. We have We have minimum requirements for H&S the Covid-19 pandemic (see page 33). In engagement survey (most recently conducted Risk G4S operates in around 90 countries, and finalised our investigations in respect of 69% and firearms training, including bespoke addition to following the advice of local in 2019). There are HR controls in place to provides security for people, premises and of those cases opened in the year, and will The provision of security services to protect modules for front-line staff. Performance is authorities, we have introduced mandatory ensure that the way we organise, acquire, valuable assets. Inevitably, our employees, work to complete the remainder in 2020. people and valuable assets, presents a unique measured retrospectively through injury rates controls in all businesses. Work practices are protect, develop, engage and reward our customers and services are impacted by mix of health and safety risks. The main and more proactively through high potential being adjusted in consultation with our employees is in line with our values, our Mitigation priorities for 2020 many different cultures that this scenario categories are armed attacks, road safety, incidents and compliance scores. All sites are customers. expectations and applicable laws and brings. Furthermore, we operate security During 2020, we will embark on a review and accidents on customer sites and firearms inspected prior to deploying security regulations. Values ambassadors in businesses services and solutions in environments refresh of our policies around employee management. In addition to the potential to officers to ensure the risks do not exceed Where possible we will continue to focus on our are helping to cascade values-related involving detainees, victims of crime, people screening and vetting, our G4S onboarding harm individuals, a breach of H&S regulations our risk appetite. workplace inspections. We will strengthen our communications. For managers, the enhanced needing assistance, and other members of the programme, our bribery and corruption or not meeting customers’ standards could risk assessment processes for service lines which competency framework has helped guide the public. Having an appropriate set of values awareness training programme and our disrupt the Group’s business, have a negative All businesses are expected to have represent a different risk profile to our core development of mandatory on-line training, strongly embedded as our corporate culture whistleblowing programme, including our impact on our reputation and lead to financial workplace audits and inspections in place, and manned guarding and cash services. which uses realistic scenarios to guide is very important to ensure employees meet investigation and close-out procedures. We and regulatory costs. In 2019, 20 (2018: 24) business leaders complete statements of participants to make values-based decisions our high expectations including compliance aim to pursue a best-practice approach to employees lost their lives in work-related compliance to G4S standards for H&S and We will investigate every serious H&S incident from a range of options in order to achieve with our ethical business conduct standards. business ethics, and to driving the appropriate incidents, of which 9 (2018: 14) were as a firearms where applicable. Targeted reviews and strive to continuously refine our standards, the right outcomes in real situations. We Failure to do so risks not delivering on our behaviours in a global workforce. Specific result of armed attacks and 7 (2018: 7) and support are provided by the corporate policies, controls and training materials where we continue to build awareness of the commitment to our colleagues, customers actions relating to these programmes are were road-traffic incidents. There were 2 H&S function. Key controls are included in see an opportunity to reduce H&S risks further, importance of living our values in our day to and other stakeholders and may fail to covered throughout this report. We will (2018: 9) non-natural deaths of people in the scope of Internal Audit. using lessons learned from serious incidents to day activities and reward and recognition comply with legislation and international devise methodologies and processes to drive actions to prevent reoccurance. schemes continue to be aligned to our values. standards. In some cases, this could impact measure our success in embedding the the Group’s performance, have an adverse G4S values. effect on the Group’s reputation and lead to penalties or criminal action. The investigation opened by the Serious regulations. Group and regional leadership, Principal risk Fraud Office (SFO) in 2013 in the UK, in together with our Ethics Committees at respect of the Group’s Electronic Monitoring group and regional level provide oversight Laws and regulations contract remains on-going and we are unable and support our businesses to mitigate the to predict the outcome with certainty. The risks. We continue to conduct compliance Group continues to engage and co-operate reviews to enhance our understanding and Link to strategy fully with the SFO investigation, however compliance with legislation, including Human based on currently available information and Rights legislation, ethical practices and codes the broad range of possible adverse of conduct. outcomes (including any one or a combination of the SFO prosecuting Group legal and regional leadership closely individuals and/or the G4S Group companies monitor changes in foreign ownership laws Risk involved and ultimately if convicted, the and make appropriate plans to respond. G4S G4S operates under many complex and imposition of significant financial penalties, continues to liaise with relevant governments diverse regulatory frameworks, some of possible debarment from future UK and authorities to influence positively the which have extraterritorial reach and many Government contracts, or the entering into a regulatory environments in which we work. where regulations change frequently. Risks deferred prosecution agreement between include: new or changed restrictions on the SFO and relevant G4S entities, with the Mitigation priorities for 2020 foreign ownership; difficulties obtaining all potential, in certain circumstances, should a Given the complexity and impact of relevant licences to operate; complying with G4S entity or one or more of the non-compliance in respect of this risk, the employment legislation covering a wide range Group’s current or former employees face board and Executive team will focus on the of requirements; complying with often criminal charges, to allow the Ministry of enhancement of compliance with laws and complex and broad ranging local tax Justice to reopen the £108.9m settlement regulations across all jurisdictions we operate regulations; increasing litigation and class agreed and paid in 2014), the Group is in. We have enhanced our compliance Links to strategy actions; bribery and corruption and complying unable to make a reasonable determination structures to improve our three lines of with human rights legislation. Failure to meet and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the defence in managing and monitoring the the required standards can lead to higher on-going process. associated risk. This will include direct enquiry People, culture & values Profitability costs from claims and litigation; inability to and oversight by group and region of local operate in certain jurisdictions, through either Risk mitigation management to ensure these risks are fully Growth Financial discipline direct ownership or joint ventures; loss of understood and ensure that concerns are Our policies and procedures clearly set out management control; damage to our the requirement for local management teams addressed appropriately with mitigation plans reputation; and loss of customer confidence. to comply with all relevant laws and implemented promptly. 34 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 35 RI SK MANAGEME N T AN D OU R PR I N C I PAL R I S K S workers and employees working for our our partners and are increasing engagement Risk mitigation Staff turnover is a key indicator to us of Principal risk suppliers. These risks impact us in many ways: with suppliers to ensure they are also Principal risk The Group’s mandatory human resource employee satisfaction, and reducing it the health and safety of our staff and complying with international human rights standards cover core requirements for improves service excellence and reduces Geopolitical customers; the continued operation of our standards. This is governed by a mandatory People delivering the HR strategy, such as ensuring recruitment costs. During the year staff businesses; and the ability to secure our supplier code of conduct which includes there are effective organisational structures in turnover reduced from 24.7% in 2018 to assets and protect our financial performance. anti-bribery and modern slavery place, that employees are screened, inducted 23.7% in 2019. Link to strategy Link to strategy requirements. A set of HR core standards and trained to perform their jobs, and that Risk mitigation which businesses have to confirm compliance Mitigation priorities for 2020 there are appropriate mechanisms in place In markets where potential policy or trade with each year, include explicit reference to for managing on-going performance and Compliance with our Core HR Standards will agreements have a significant impact on our HR policies on screening, migrant workers recognising great performance. Compliance is again be self-assessed during 2020 and ability to trade we engage with national and (including their recruitment and self-assessed annually and reviewed by local, reviewed by local, regional and group teams Risk international governments to promote the accommodation) and practices which Risk regional and group teams. Additionally, key as well as tested by internal audit. Particular benefits that G4S brings to a market and an underpin the fair treatment of employees As one of the world’s largest employers, we HR controls are tested by internal audit focus will be placed on the revised Screening We operate in many countries across the such as redundancy, grievances, economy, to ensure that we minimise the recognise that there are challenges in during visits to the businesses. The HR and Vetting Policy, as well as reviews of world, with wide-ranging government and and discrimination. impact of any trade restrictions or trade attracting and retaining employees in such a Screening Policy has been revised and in-country labour supply, laws and regulations. political structures, different cultures with policy. diverse range of regions and countries. We implemented and forms part of the Direct support will be provided as necessary varying degrees of compliance with laws and Mitigation priorities for 2020 face risks associated with recruiting, training, assessment process for 2020. The to enhance compliance with our standards. human rights, particularly within conflict and We collaborate with our local partners; In markets where potential government engaging, rewarding and managing people, as performance and potential of managers More detailed training is being prepared to post-conflict zones. We operate in varying conduct early risk assessments before and policy or trade agreements may have a well as ensuring we retain critical talent to across the Group is reviewed to identify ensure HR teams have a really good and often volatile political environments, during security assignments; develop robust significant impact on our ability to trade we deliver increasingly sophisticated services development needs and build succession understanding of the core standards, why doing difficult and dangerous work for high operating procedures; and work closely with will continue to engage with national and through our employees. Screening and plans. We also deliver leadership they are important and what actions they profile customers. At the strategic level we our local and global customers in managing international governments to promote the vetting is a particular challenge in some programmes to nurture talented individuals need to take to ensure compliance if there acknowledge these risks as a part of the the risks of operating in such environments. benefits that G4S brings to a market and an territories, which lack supporting early in their careers, and help them develop are any gaps. business we are in, and ensure we carefully Our G4S Risk Management business has economy, to ensure that we minimise the infrastructure from the relevant authorities. into more senior roles as they move through assess the risks before entering a new particular expertise in providing secure impact of any trade restrictions or trade Any incident where our people fail to meet the organisation. Feedback from our global country and keep the situation in high risk solutions in very high risk, low infrastructure policy. We will continue to monitor the expectations of customers and other employee survey is used to develop initiatives countries under review. At an operational environments. results of human rights control selfstakeholders could lead to financial and which support employee engagement and level we deploy our expertise, take great care assessments providing support with training reputational damage. Whilst our controls are development at all levels of the organisation. to monitor the situation and respond to We have a clear commitment to respect and guidance where needed to further robust we still face the risk of an employee threats appropriately, and employ effective human rights, which all businesses must embed awareness and understanding of not behaving in line with our values. operational controls to protect our business comply with. All business units are required expectations. We will also continue to and our employees. The risk factors include: to annually self assess their compliance with increase engagement with suppliers to ensure political volatility, including the outcome of human rights standards which are reviewed their compliance with human rights standards. elections and referendums affecting trade by group management and included in rules and regulations and changes in policies internal audits for the higher risk countries. towards business, revolution, terrorism, We have also built awareness of human especially those in government and financial infrastructure management tools and cyber military intervention, mistreatment of migrant rights responsibilities across the business and sectors. Additionally, we face the risk of vulnerability assessments. We maintain and Principal risk disruption to service delivery from system monitor our use of information security Information security failures, incomplete backup routines, standards and guidance to ensure compliance inadequate business continuity and disaster with General Data Protection Regulation recovery plans. (GDPR) across the UK and Europe. Link to strategy Risk mitigation Mitigation priorities for 2020 The IT function is centrally managed to We are more than halfway through the final control the way our systems are supported phase of our Cyber Investment strategy, and run. We have “defence-in-depth” which is due to complete in Q2 2020. We Risk technologies (i.e. multiple layers of defence) are confident of achieving our objectives on a in key systems to protect information timely basis, enabling a more effective and Information Security remains a focal point for entrusted to us. This helps to ensure policies agile cyber defence programme. many organisations. Regulations and sanctions and standards are applied consistently across relating to the potential failure to secure We have developed a G4S Cyber Risk all operating businesses. We are in Phase 3 of sensitive and confidential data, which we are Assessment methodology enabled by a set of our cyber defence investment programme, entrusted with by customers, staff, suppliers powerful tools that assess the enterprise risks which involves moving to a managed cloud and other stakeholders, drive risk in this area. caused by PC’s and user behaviour in real platform, upgrading our operating systems Like all organisations, we face cyber attacks time. We will further develop and embed this and endpoint computing structures, further from a variety of sources which, if successful, methodology in 2020. enhancing the security of our IT systems and could result in censure and fines by national infrastructure. We continue to manage cyber governments; loss of confidence in the G4S security threats through the use of managed Links to strategy brand and specific loss of trust by customers, cyber security products, centralised People, culture & values Profitability Growth Financial discipline 36 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 37 ENV IR ONMENT AL REPO RTING F RAMEWO RK Greenhouse gas emissions Reporting framework Alongside the risks faced by people and infrastructure including each of the Group’s main service types, allows UN global compact from climate change are the challenges presented by reliable calculation of the total GHG emissions for 100% G4S became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2011. The world's largest CSR initiative, the Global Compact sets global economic conditions. of the Group. out 10 universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption to which businesses must align their strategies and operations, and calls upon companies to take actions that advance the UN's Sustainable Development Managing fuel costs and the impact of “carbon taxes” The G4S total carbon footprint during 2019, extrapolated Goals. through programmes to improve the Group’s energy to 100% of the business equates to some 422,461 t/CO2e. efficiency and reduce its environmental impacts are These emissions, generated by services which our G4S is proud to reaffirm its commitment to these principles, which continue to be reflected in our core values. G4S is a important to the continued effectiveness and sustainability customers have outsourced to G4S, have decreased by signatory of the Business for Peace initiative and remains active within the UK Network of the UN Global Compact of the Group’s business. 5.0% since 2018. Alongside our energy and fuel efficiency continuing to participate as a member of the governing Advisory Group. measures, during this period, a number of higher intensity We follow WBCSD* and WRI** Greenhouse Gas operations were divested or drew to a close, contributing Within our collected sustainability reporting framework, we have described the actions we have undertaken to build Protocol to measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions – to the decrease in emissions during the year. upon and further integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our culture and values, business strategy and daily vehicle fleet, fuel, refrigerants and electricity usage for G4S operations during 2019. businesses over which the Group has financial and In 2020, we will continue to implement efficiency strategies operational control. In addition the Group has measured with the aim of reducing carbon intensity by at least 3.5% Ecovadis Scope 3 emissions from employee business air travel. per annum. G4S is regularly assessed by EcoVadis, an independent organisation that provides evidence-based social responsibility The businesses that reported data in the 2019 GHG For further details, please visit g4s.com/environment. ratings, covering labour and human rights, business ethics, supply chain, and environmental matters. measurement represent 90% of the Group’s operations, * World Business Council for Sustainable Development In 2019, G4S was awarded a silver rating which recognised the Group's ethical and sustainability performance. across a 12 month period. This level of measurement, ** World Resources Institute FTSE4GOOD G4S has been independently assessed and included as a constituent of the FTSE4Good index series for the third year running. This inclusion recognises G4S' strong commitment to social responsibility and to sustainable business practices across the group. GHG emissions (t/CO2e) The FTSE4Good index series is a leading socially responsible (SRI) indicator developed by FTSE Russell, part of London (Based on 90% measurement) 2019 2018 Stock Exchange Group. It is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, Vehicles (inc. refrigerants) 224,912 235,162​ social and governance (ESG) practices. Total buildings (inc. refrigerants) 117,501 127,489 Including electricity emissions of 95,502​ 98,948​ Carbon Disclosure Project Air travel 15,338​ 14,354 Since 2009, G4S has reported on the progress of its environmental management through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In the latest CDP report, G4S achieved a CDP performance score of (B) against an industry average of (C). ​ Carbon intensity ​ 2019 2018 Reporting to the CDP helps to demonstrate a company's awareness of their greenhouse gas emissions, allowing for Tonnes CO2e per £m turnover 50.4​ 54.7​ reduction targets to be put in place, as well as addressing the risks and opportunities that are associated with climate change. Consumption (Includes building and vehicle consumption) (Based on 90% measurement) Period Consumption (Kwh) 2018 1,106,362,441​ UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Index 2019 1,058,602,081 Integrated CSR Report Extract Online Statement of Continued Support – 4 www.g4s.com/csr by the CEO Human Rights: Principles 1 & 2 22-23, 26, 33-34, 50-51, 83-84, 6-7, 12-13, 18, 25, 26-29, 35-36 www.g4s.com/humanrights 110-111, 122 Labour: Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 18, 20-23, 50-51, 81-87, 110 6, 10-13, 28-29, 33-39 www.g4s.com/people www.g4s.com/humanrights Environment: Principles 7, 8 & 9 22, 50-51, 150 12, 28-29, 40 www.g4s.com/environment Anti-Corruption: Principle 10 20-22, 34, 50-51, 83 10-12, 26, 28-29, 35 www.g4s.com/ethics 38 G4S plc CSR extract 2019 CSR extract 2019 G4S plc 39 G4S plc 5th Floor Southside 105 Victoria Street London SW1E 6QT United Kingdom Telephone: +44 (0)207 963 3100 Email: investor@g4s.com Registered in England No. 4992207
