CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FROM THE CEO Stockmann supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Accordingly, in its business operations, Stockmann promotes human rights, labour rights, environmental work and anti3 Stockmann Group in brief corruption measures. This CSR Review is also the Stockmann Group’s 4 CSR Highlights 2019 Communication on Progress (COP) 5 Our approach for Global Compact. 9 Reporting principles and materiality 10 Stakeholder engagement Jari Latvanen CEO 11 Inspiration for responsible choices 21 Sustainable shopping environment The CEO’s review is available in the 27 Responsible work community ‘Our Year 2019’ Business Review. 35 Sustainable business approach 40 GRI Content Index ABOUT THE REVIEW Stockmann’s annual reporting consists of four reviews: ‘Our year 2019’ Business Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance, and CSR. The CSR Review presents Stockmann’s sustainability highlights, priorities, goals and progress in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 3 STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 TO THE READER In 2019, we made determined progress in our sustainability STOCKMANN targets. We extended the department store selection with new responsible brands and products and further increased the use of sustainable materials such as organic cotton and lyocell GROUP IN BRIEF in our own brand products. In the future, products made of LENZING™ ECOVERO™ viscose fibre as well as Better Stockmann, established in 1862, is a Finnish listed company engaged Cotton will also be seen in Stockmann’s own brand selections. in the retail trade. It has over 43 000 shareholders and about 6900 employees. Stockmann Group’s operating structure is divided into two We began to measure sustainability topics as part of customer divisions – Stockmann and Lindex. experience, and launched charity benefits as part of our renewed loyalty program. Energy efficiency was increased by The company has 8 department stores, 464 fashion stores and over 10% in our operations in Finland from 2016, and we made 3 properties in a total of 19 countries. The Group’s head office is located the decision to use renewable wind power in the distribution center from the beginning of 2020. We continued our efforts in Helsinki, Finland. The company has six purchasing offices in main to reduce plastic, for example through changes in online store production countries for its own brand garments; Bangladesh, China, packaging. At the same time, the year was demanding for our Hong Kong, India, Myanmar and Turkey. Stockmann offers premium personnel, as the company switched to a new operating selections of brands, excellent customer service, and inspiring and structure, which also led to ending a significant amount of sustainable shopping experience in its department stores, fashion stores positions. and online. Our vision is to be the marketplace for a good life. In the spring, Lindex released its new sustainability promise to make a difference for future generations. Empowering STORES IN women, respecting the planet, and ensuring human rights are 18 COUNTRIES at the heart of the promise. With this promise, Lindex also launched a new Code of Conduct that integrates gender LINDEX equality as a basic requirement for textile production and all its business partnerships. STOCKMANN In this CSR Review we present our goals, efforts and reached O  WN STORES: SWEDEN, targets towards more responsible business and inspiring NORWAY, FINLAND, customers with sustainable choices. Enjoy your read, and ESTONIA, LATVIA, LITHUANIA, CZECH REP., please send us feedback at csr@stockmann.com. SLOVAKIA, POLAND, UK F RANCHISING STORES: SAUDI ARABIA, BOSNIA Johanna Stenbäck HERZE-GOVINA, SERBIA, CSR Manager ICELAND, KOSOVO, ALBANIA, QATAR, TUNISIA, DENMARK 4 CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2019 STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 CSR Stockmann launched its HIGHrenewed loyal customer program, MyStockmann, Stockmann committed to use where charity LIGHTS renewable electricity in its distribution centre from the beginning of 2020 and almost donations are introduced as part 2019 60% of the electricity used by Lindex was renewable. of the inspiring rewards. Stockmann joined the Better Cotton Initiative like Lindex LINDEX L AUNCHED ITS NEW CODE OF CONDUC T WITH FOCUS ON GENDER EQUALIT Y LINDEX L AUNCHED ITS IN STOCKMANN’S SUSTAINABILIT Y ONLINE STORE PL ASTIC PROMISE – SE AL BAGS WERE FOR FUTURE REPL ACED WITH SE AL 46% GENER ATIONS STICKERS TO IMPROVE of Stockmann’s own MATERIAL EFFICIENC Y brand garments and AND REDUCE USE OF READ MORE PL ASTIC . 65% of Lindex garments were made of more sustainable materials 98% of cotton used by Lindex and In Riga, beehives were placed on the roof of the department 73% of Stockmann’s own brand jersey garments were made of more store to produce our own honey, which was then sold at Stockmann’s food department. sustainable cotton 5 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 OUR APPROACH The Stockmann Group is committed to responsible operations and our CSR work covers the entire value chain of our business operations. Stockmann’s CSR strategy is guided by the Group’s vision, strategy, values and CSR promise. Sustainability is incorporated in our daily management approach. Our CSR promise is to inspire and support our customers in making responsible choices, and we work for a more sustainable future. 6 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 R STOCKMANN’S VALUES esponsibility work starts in Stockmann’s supply chains, from ensuring safe working conditions to minimising environmental impact. We offer our customers more responsible shopping experiences. We work diligently to increase the share of more responsible products in our selection and to offer services that support a sustainable lifestyle. In all our operations, we place the customer at the core and guarantee the safety FOCUS ON CUSTOMER ACT WITH COURAGE WE WORK TOGETHER and quality of our products. We devote I understand, inspire and solve. I dare, renew and decide. I care, participate and achieve. attention to employee well-being and environmental aspects, and we follow the principles of good corporate governance. Our responsibility work is guided by Stockmann’s strategy and values, the CSR KEY COMMITMENTS STOCKMANN’S strategy, Stockmann’s Code of Conduct, national laws and regulations, and international Stockmann has committed to several international CODE OF CONDUCT treaties, declarations and recommendations. declarations and conventions: The Group’s Code of Conduct defines the ways of Our everyday work is also guided by numerous • UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights working for all employees and management staff. The and Convention on the Rights of the Child voluntary commitments and initiatives, such as principles of the Stockmann Code of Conduct also apply human rights principles, anti-corruption policy, • ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles to its suppliers and partners and covers the following and Rights at Work main themes: HR policy, and product guidelines. Stockmann operates in an ethical manner, complying with • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • Compliance with legislation and ethical operations the international and national laws and • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human • Free competition and consumer rights Rights since 2018 regulations valid at any given time in the • Employees and working conditions countries in which it operates. In its business • United Nations Sustainable Development • Environment Goals since 2016 operations, Stockmann aims to exceed the • UN’s Global Compact initiative since 2011 • Corruption and conflicts of interest minimum requirements stipulated by laws, regulations or conventions. • amfori BSCI Code of Conduct on Group level Further guidance is given in the complementing policies: since 2005 Stockmann’s Anti Corruption Policy • Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Stockmann’s Human Rights PolicyUN Bangladesh since 2013 7 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Our contribution includes the incorporation of sustainability into our overall business operations, including supply chains, selection, marketing and communication. In addition, we strive to increase the use of more sustainable materials and processes in our own brand selections. We are committed to supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our operations. From the DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 17 goals, we have identified six SDGs to Our contribution includes responsibility towards our employees and people in which our business can best contribute to our supply chain to provide a fair working environment, and towards our and to which we focus our efforts on. shareholders in the pursuit of a profitable business. CLIMATE ACTION Our contribution includes reducing emissions, increasing energy efficiency and carrying out waste sorting and recycling in our own operations. GENDER EQUALITY Our contribution includes the active promotion of gender equality in all employment categories. Lindex strives to empower women everywhere and in 2019 Lindex’s code of conduct with a focus on gender equality was launched. During the reporting year, Lindex and WaterAid launched a project for women and water in Myanmar and the division supports female cotton farmers in collaboration with CottonConnect. PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Our contribution includes active collaboration and engagement with our key stakeholder groups. We believe that together we can drive change towards a more sustainable future. CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Lindex has also identified that SDG 6, clean water and sanitation, is a goal to which the business can make a significant contribution. One of the core aims of the division’s sustainability promise is to be a water responsible company. 8 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 CSR PROMISE AND STRATEGY VISION // THE MARKETPLACE LINDEX In 2019, Lindex launched its new FOR A GOOD LIFE sustainability promise – to make a STOCKMANN’S CSR STRATEGY INSPIR ATION difference for future generations. Lindex’s FOR RESPONSIBLE 2019–2021 CHOICES new sustainability promise has been In our CSR strategy, the strategic targets CSR PROMISE // developed with the fashion brand’s are grouped under four priority areas that • We are a source WE INSPIRE AND SUPPORT vision – to empower and inspire women create the future of our responsibility of inspiration for responsible OUR CUSTOMERS IN MAKING everywhere – as a guiding star. With three consumption and lifestyle RESPONSIBLE CHOICES. work. Key performance indicators focus areas, the division aimed to raise that enable the monitoring and • We offer responsible WE WORK FOR A MORE the bar in their sustainability work and and long-lasting quality fashion SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. measurement of our CSR work commitment to women empowerment. have been set for each area. • We foster sustainable supply chains SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH • We are committed to good corporate governance and act in compliance 1 EMPOWER WOMEN • • Taking the lead in creating fair and equal workplaces for women Advocating inclusiveness and body positivity with the Stockmann Code of Conduct SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE • Supporting a sustainable SHOPPING • We create added value to WORK lifestyle. 2 ENVIRONMENT all our stakeholders COMMUNITY • Our communication RESPECT THE PLANET • We are committed to is transparent and • We ensure a healthy reducing our packaging materials reliable and we and safe working • Having a circular business and their environmental footprint actively engage environment and promote approach • We take actions to in society the wellbeing of our personnel • Taking climate action mitigate our climate impact • We value equality and diversity • Being a water responsible company. 3 • We apply a circular economy • We support personnel’s professional growth approach in our operations ENSURE HUMAN RIGHTS • Advocating respect for human rights FOUNDATION // STOCKMANN’S VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT 9 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 REPORTING PRINCIPLES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND MATERIALITY STOCKMANN’S STR ATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR MATERIAL TOPIC T 2019–2021 TOPICS BOUNDARY he review covers all of the MATERIALITY Stockmann Group’s own ASSESSMENT INSPIRATION Customer Satisfaction Own operations operations. During the reporting FOR Marketing and Labelling year, the Stockmann Group Our work focuses on those CSR topics and RESPONSIBLE Customer Privacy introduced a simplified activities that are most material to our business. CHOICES Customer health and safety Own brands’ supply organisational structure. The Stockmann Retail Materiality assessment is an ongoing process chain, product safety Materials and Real Estate divisions as well the Group’s at Stockmann. As part of the CSR strategy and procurement shared functions were combined into a new 2019-2021 process, Stockmann conducted Procurement practices practices in own operations division, Stockmann, as of 1 July 2019. The a stakeholder survey and on the basis of this Supplier Environmental and social assessment Group’s reporting segments are Lindex and survey as well other ongoing stakeholder Own operations SUSTAINABLE Energy Stockmann. The environmental figures cover dialogue and market analysis, we have defined SHOPPING Emissions Own operations also the operations of our tenants in department the 22 topics and indicators relevant to our and indirect CO2 ENVIRONMENT store properties. The supply chain is covered to reporting. emissions for selected parts the extent defined in the materiality analysis. The Effluents and waste Own operations GRI indicators have been selected according to LINDEX materiality. Our goal is to report the relevant To address the aspects specific to its business, RESPONSIBLE Employment Own operations indicators from our main operating countries, Lindex engages in a continuous materiality WORK Labour and Management relations which are Finland and Sweden, based on the assessment of its own, to gain insight from its COMMUNITY Freedom of association and revenue and employee count. Due to reporting stakeholders and to complement the Group’s collective bargaining differences within the Group’s units, some of the materiality assessment. In 2017, an assessment Occupational health and safety indicators describing personnel and the was carried out at Lindex, in which Training and education environment are reported only for Finland. These representatives from key stakeholder groups exceptions and the measurement and participated. Along with brand tracking results, Diversity and equal opportunity accounting policies are described in connection materiality analysis guides Lindex’s Non-discrimination with the relevant indicator. sustainability reporting and communication. Own operations SUSTAINABLE Economic Performance Stockmann’s subsidiary Lindex publishes BUSINESS Human Rights Assessment Own operations a sustainability report of its own, with more and own brands’ APPROACH detailed information about its sustainability supply chain work, at lindex.com. Anti-corruption Own operations Anti-competitive Behaviour Own operations 10 OUR APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 STAKEHOLDER Stockmann engages in active and ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders to strengthen relations and better respond to the expectations and wishes placed on it. We have identified five key stakeholder groups that most affect and are affected by our business. ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUP INTER ACTION KEY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS RESPONDING TO FOR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2019 STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS Dialogue in department stores and stores, Customer service and satisfaction, customer privacy, materials and Promoting sustainable products and services Customers are an especially customer service (emails, calls, social chemicals in products, labour practices and chemicals management in and communicating about sustainability work, important stakeholder group. media), customer panels, surveys, marketing supply chains, animal welfare, stockmann.com online store orders and decreasing the use of plastic in e.g. online One of our values is to focus communication, events, loyal customer their packaging and distribution in multiple shipments, sustainable store shipments. Lindex continued its work on customer. system products in selection, the renewal of Stockmann’s loyal customer program with local communicties and took steps in and its benefits, such as reusable bags given based on accrued women empowerment. purchases, carrier bags and plastic, women in Lindex operations and local communities. PERSONNEL Performance and development discussions, Employee wellbeing, coping with workload and stress level, Engaging staff in purpose and value work, We value our personnel and their personnel surveys, Employees’ and Group knowledge and career development, caring for staff, equality, as introducing #Stockmannstaff events and commitment to the company. Councils, codetermination, staff events, well as environmental issues in department stores such as single-use barometer, introducing Stidea for suggestions We work continuously to improve workshops, intranet tableware on staff premises, sustainable products, clothes and Teams as new communications tool, the working atmosphere and recycling, materials, production processes, circular products, water renouncing single-use tableware on the staff dialogue with employees. management in supply chain, animal welfare. premises. SHAREHOLDERS Stock exchange announcements, financial Financial performance and ability to change the course of Responding and reporting on Carbon AND INVESTORS reports, annual reporting, Group website, the company, strategy execution, share price performance, sustainability Disclosure Project (CDP) and several Stockmann aims to be an attractive audio webcasts, regular investor relations performance, ESG ratings, customer and sustainability and ESG ratings. and sought-after investment target meetings, Annual General Meeting of employee satisfaction. on the capital market. shareholders, inquiries SUPPLIERS AND Meetings, negotiations, workshops, projects, Strategy execution, selection, sustainability targets and Communicating suppliers’ sustainability SERVICE PROVIDERS co-operation and co-campaigns, visits, initiatives, how to raise sustainability topics and stories, materials, efforts. Long relationships are key to our sustaininspections, website, surveys, Stockmann’s production processes, labour practices in own operations, transparency, Lindex launched a new Code of Conduct that ability work and continuous improvement annual Supplier Day event water management in supply chain. integrates gender equality as a basic in production. All suppliers are expected to requirement for textile production and all its follow the Stockmann Code of Conduct. business partnerships. AUTHORITIES AND Activities in organisations, collaboration, Labour and human rights risks in supply chains, supply chain Dialogue with for example NGOs through for ORGANISATIONS projects, responding to surveys, meetings, management and transparency, human rights due diligence law example #ykkösketjuun and Rank a brand We collaborate and engage in dialogue charity work, website, annual reporting proposal, design and procurement practices, production processes, campaigns, responding to surveys, interviews with authorities and organisations to work practices in supply chain and own operations, climate change and lectures with students. continuously develop our business and GHG emissions in value chain, materials, animal welfare, fur operations. products in department store selection, use of plastics, circular economy. 11 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES Our goal is to be a source of inspiration for responsible consumption and lifestyle. We offer responsible and longlasting quality fashion and we respect and listen to our customers and make every customer encounter special. We promote sustainable brands and provide services to support a more responsible lifestyle. We foster sustainable supply chains and focus on the responsibility, transparency and traceability of our supply chains. 12 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 W e focus on providing a INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES top-class service that exceeds customers TARGETS KEY PERFORMANCE PROGRESS & ACTIVITIES STATUS INDIC ATORS (KPIS) expectations. We provide regular training for our We are a source of Net Promoter Score(NPS)in the We actively promoted sustainable products and responsible In process personnel and conduct customer satisfaction inspiration for department stores in Finland: target 70 services in our communications and in the department stores. surveys. Feedback from customers and other responsible by the end of 2021 (scale -100-+100) Our NPS at department stores in Finland was 51 (51). stakeholders provide us with valuable consumption and information that guides the development of lifestyle Sustainability questions in department We started measuring sustainability topics as part of customer our operations. Customer feedback is used to stores after-sales surveys: target 4, experience. The department stores in Finland achieved a score by the end of 2021 (scale 1-5) of 3.3 for responsibility, and Latvia 4.2. improve customer service and sales, in the daily management of personnel, to develop skills, remuneration and commitment and in We offer responsible Share of more sustainable materials We increased the share of more sustainable products in our selection In process and long-lasting in own brand garments: target 50% and introduced new brands. 46% of Stockmann’s own brand garments the design of training programmes. quality fashion of all products and 80% of jersey by were made of more sustainable materials, while 73% of own brand the end of 2021 jersey garments were made of more sustainable cotton. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION We foster sustainable supply Target: 100% of own brands’ supplying factories in high-risk countries have a 100% of fashion and own brand suppliers have signed the Stockmann supplier code of conduct, the amfori code of conduct or similar. In process chains valid audit by the end of 2021 Stockmann and Lindex use separate customer feedback channels and continuously monitor the development of customer satisfaction and brand image. In 2019, the NPS in the department stores in Finland was 51 (51). • Stockmann also measures sustainability • All feedback gathered through encounters at topics as part of customer experience, the department stores and other feedback measured on a scale of 1-5. In 2019, channels are analysed. department stores in Finland achieved a • Stockmann’s customer service centre is score of 3.3 and Latvia 4.2. responsible for handling feedback given via • Most customer feedback concerned the the phone, e-mail and social media. In 2019, Crazy Days campaign, online store orders, the centre handled approximately 195 000 the renewed Loyal customer programme cases and customer satisfaction was 65%. and customer service in general. • Customer experience is measured by regular email inquiries sent to loyal customers. One of the survey metrics is the Net Promoter • Customer feedback is collected through Score (NPS), which measures the likelihood regular customer inquiries both in-stores that a customer will recommend a service. and online in nine operating countries. 13 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 • Feedback is also collected through social energy-saving bulbs and nail polish to be reused or recycled and is instead MARKETING media, e-mails and phone calls to customer Stockmann department stores. Electronic incinerated. AND LABELLING service, through brand tracking, and through devices and batteries can also be returned to in-depth interviews with selected customer the department stores in Tallinn and Riga. Stockmann respects the rights of groups. • Stockmann regularly organises recycling the consumer and engages in • Most feedback concerned selection, campaigns in collaboration with suppliers in Our goal is to be a responsible marketing. This policy marketing and campaigns, sustainability its department stores in Finland and the source of inspiration is included in the Group’s Code of topics, especially chemicals, and the More Baltics. The department stores in the Baltics for responsible Conduct. Our marketing communications are at Lindex customer loyalty programme. have collaborated in a circularity project with performed according to the Consolidated ICC the Estonian designer Reet Aus. Customers consumption and Code of Advertising and Marketing have been encouraged to bring used denim lifestyle. Communication Practice, the Consumer SERVICES TO SUPPORT A goods to the department stores with the aim Protection Act and our strategy. RESPONSIBLE LIFESTYLE of reusing the material for new clothing. The designer’s upcycled clothing collection has MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Our goal is to be a source of also been available in the stores. Our marketing communications avoid all inspiration for responsible misleading practices, such as false or deceptive consumption and lifestyle, and we messages and omission of important provide our customers with • Lindex’s website and store materials provide information. Our marketing should never be various services that support this goal. information on making mindful choices. The inappropriate or offensive. These practices are information includes tips on how to take known and followed by all of the company’s care of clothes with the aim of prolonging marketing planners and are overseen by the • We offer information on how to use and the lifetime of the garments and reducing unit’s Marketing Directors. wash products and on recycling alternatives environmental impact. Lindex has its own brand strategy and to enable extending the lifecycle of the • Lindex’s customers can hand in used textiles marketing guidelines regarding images, products and to minimise environmental and clothes for recycling and reuse at all tonality, choice of models, retouch impacts. stores in Sweden, Norway and Finland. management etc. as well as social media • We offer fashion consulting, sewing and During the reporting year collection was also guidelines. Lindex is a member of the selfinterior services to enable tailored solutions. piloted in the Baltics. In 2019, Lindex regulatory Swedish Advertising Ombudsman • The department stores in Finland and Tallinn collected a total of 155 (166) tonnes of (RO) organisation, founded by the industry to collaborate with the Emmy online shop that textiles for reuse and recycling. The textile review and maintain standards. RO receives sells second-hand brand clothing. The collection is organised in collaboration with complaints about advertising and assesses service enables Stockmann’s customers to partners, who sort the collected textiles and whether the advertising follows the recycle their clothes and receive the sales circulate as much as possible that can be Consolidated ICC Code. RO also provides profit as credit on Stockmann gift card. used, through second-hand stores for information, guidance and training in the field • In Finland, customers can return used example. Lower quality textiles are being of ethical marketing. In 2019, there were no electrical appliances and electronic recycled into isolation or industrial fabrics. incidents of non-compliance concerning equipment, batteries, fluorescent lamps and Only about 2% of the collected textile cannot 14 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 marketing communications legislation or CUSTOMER PRIVACY members. We keep in touch with our loyal voluntary principles at Stockmann nor Lindex. Stockmann and its employees respect the customers on a regular basis and offer them privacy and inviolability of the rights of its exclusive deals and benefits. The loyal PRODUCT INFORMATION customers. We do not reveal or use customer customer systems’ data file descriptions can be We comply with statutory labelling, in addition information other than in strict accordance with found on the units’ respective websites. Each of to which voluntary labels that reflect product the EU General Data Protection Regulation the loyal customer programmes has its own sustainability may be attached to products. If (GDPR) and Stockmann’s customer privacy customer register, compiled in order to manage fashion products are made from materials with materials that we consider to be more policy. Training on GDPR and customer privacy customer relationships and for customer reduced environmental impact, such as organic environmentally friendly, such as better and is mandatory for all employees and it is service and marketing purposes. The personal cotton or recycled fibres, this is clearly marked organic cotton, lyocell or recycled polyester. included in the new employee induction data of Stockmann’s customers and of using a hangtag, a print or on the product • The Design From Finland label indicates that programme. shareholders attending its General Meetings packaging, as well as in the product the product has been designed in Finland, The Group has two loyal customer are handled confidentially in accordance with information in the online store. The country of at Stockmann’s own design studio. programmes; the renewed Stockmann loyal the applicable legislation. origin is marked on all of Stockmann’s own • An increasing number of international and customer programme MyStockmann with During the year, Stockmann received brand garments and home textiles as well as domestic brands in the department stores’ approximately 1.2 million active loyal several queries from customers regarding the on all Lindex’s garments. product selection provides additional customers, and More at Lindex with 4.1 million use of personal data. These queries were dealt information on the products’ sustainability with on a case-by-case basis, and appropriate aspects. measures were taken depending on the nature • Stockmann uses the label Sustainable of the inquiry. DESIGN to communicate and provide In 2019, at Stockmann, there was one information on products made from • Lindex communicates which garments are limited incident concerning customers’ more sustainable through Sustainable personal data in Estonia. Stockmann filed a Choice hangtags. The tags also explain in notification to the Estonian data protection what way a garment is considered to be a authority regarding the incident, which decided more sustainable choice and if there are any that no official procedure was required. At certificates linked to the item. The same Lindex, there where three limited incidents information is visible in Lindex’s online store. concerning customers’ personal data. For one • The Premium Quality label stands for great of the incidents Lindex filed a notification to quality of wool, silk or leather used in the regulatory authority, which decided that products. no official procedure was required. • The label Better Denim highlights the Stockmann’s annual target is zero production methods taken into use incidents of breaches of customer for denim garments to save water, privacy. energy and chemical use. • All neck labels in Lindex’s garments have been converted into a recycled satin tape. 15 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMER HEALTH PRODUCT SELECTION AND SAFETY & PRODUCT The Group’s department and fashion stores COMPLIANCE offer an extensive selection of products that The Stockmann Group is must fulfil the quality, environmental and responsible for the safety of the product safety requirements set for them at products it sells, ensuring that they any given time. do not pose a risk to customers’ The product selection in Stockmann’s health or property. The company’s Supply Chain department stores and Lindex fashion stores organisation makes sure that products comply offers costumers opportunities to make safe with the valid requirements set in legislation. and responsible purchase choices. In the areas Products are tested by their manufacturers and of fashion, cosmetics and home products, the importers, and Stockmann tests its own brand choice includes products made from organic products and own imports, on the basis of and recycled materials and products with an regular sampling and risk analysis. Testing eco-label. The sales personnel is encouraged ensures that the products fulfil all quality and to find out about the more sustainable safety requirements set by legislation or the products in their areas of responsibility. stricter requirements set by Stockmann. Information for personnel concerning sustainability aspects and origin of products is available on the Stockmann intranet. Stockmann follows product notifications banned for use in consumer products. Actions issued by the EU in order to inform customers were immediately taken and the product was as quickly as possible about products that pose withdrawn from sales in all markets. Corrective a risk. In Finland, Finnish Customs and the measures have been taken to improve the We ensure the Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency (Tukes) supplier’s routines to avoid such incidents in the quality and also promote and supervise product safety. future. In addition, an incident of non-compliProduct recalls are handled in accordance ance with voluntary codes led to Lindex withsafety of all our with Stockmann’s internal product recall instrucdrawing and recalling a snap-on bracelet. The products. tions, which specify responsibilities and the bracelet had been tested and approved accordaction required. In 2019, there were no public ing to the European toy safety standard EN71, recalls involving Stockmann’s own brand but nevertheless, it was discovered that the products. At Lindex, an incident of non-complimetal component in the bracelet was not ance with regulations resulting in a warning properly protected. The recall was done in occurred. A nail polish remover was found cooperation with consumer authorities. Correcnon-compliant with the chemical legislation in tive actions have been taken to increase safety Norway. The product contained a substance awareness in production and to increase final that is classified as narcotics in Norway and is controls in production to ensure product quality. 16 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 • In 2019, Stockmann increased the portfolio USE OF CHEMICALS of more sustainable raw materials to include When producing garments, chemicals are used We promote Better cotton (BCI) and LENZING™ in processes such as colouring, printing and transparency ECOVERO™ viscose fibre. washing. The Stockmann Group fulfils the and more • In the Casa Stockmann collection, we have a requirements of REACH and actively works to bed linen collection entirely made of GOTS limit the use of harmful chemicals in all of its sustainable certified cotton. products. As part of the Group’s efforts to chemistry reduce the use of hazardous chemicals, the use of PFCs has been banned since 2014. The ban • 65% (55) of Lindex garments were made of affects all Stockmann’s and Lindex’s own brand sustainable choice materials and outerwear, and these items are now treated approximately 98% (96) of cotton was more with Bionic-finish®ECO instead. In addition, sustainably sourced. In total, 38 (33) million Lindex has adopted a voluntary ban on to garments from sustainable materials were phase out the use of cyclic siloxanes and PFAS supply chain and promote transparency and produced. One of Lindex’s ambitious in cosmetic products. more sustainable chemistry. In 2019, Lindex sustainability goals is that 100% of the Lindex has adopted a Chemical Strategy published a list of chemicals (MRSL) that are materials used are recycled or sustainably and according to this, the goal is that by 2025, not permitted in any stage in the making of the sourced by 2025. the company has removed the release of all company’s products. With the MRSL, Lindex MATERIALS • 100% of the baby assortment is GOTS hazardous and toxic substances from Lindex can eliminate harmful substances from the Responsibility is integral to the certified and 100% of Lindex’s denim products beginning, so they do not enter the production processes involved in clothing are ‘Better Denim’. cycle at all. During the reporting year, the design and procurement of mate• During the reporting year, Lindex has company also started mapping the suppliers’ rials and products, and these continued to work on and invest in chemical storages. processes are part of the operations of the introducing a more comprehensive selection Stockmann Group. We are set to systematically of sustainable fibres, such as eco viscose increase the amount more sustainable raw materials in the Group’s own brand products, and recycled polyamide and polyester. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY such as sustainable cotton and lyocell. We CHAIN MANAGEMENT define sustainable cotton as the use of organic, Responsible, transparent and traceable supply Better cotton (BCI) or recycled cotton. At Lindex chains are one of the focus areas in Stockmann’s • 46% (30) of Stockmann’s own brand’s garments were made of more sustainable 98% of cotton was sustainable supply chain management. Our reporting on the supply chain is based on risk assessment, and the ability to exert an influence. We focus especially on the responsibility and materials, while already 73% (65) of own development of Stockmann Group’s own brand jersey garments were made of more more sustainably brands’ supply chain, which we have the best sustainable cotton. sourced possibility to exert an influence on. 17 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 PROCUREMENT potential for long-term relationships. All PRACTICES factories need to fulfil the Stockmann Group’s STOCKMANN’S starting requirements and commit to the Our stakeholders are showing divisions’ codes and continuous improvement. OWN BRANDS increasing interest in our work in We aim for a long partnership with suppliers. the supply chain. The questions raised include our buying CLOSE COOPERATION WITH practices, the countries of SUPPLIERS THROUGH LOCAL manufacture, our Supplier Code PURCHASE OFFICES FOR WOMEN of Conduct, human rights, The Group has five local purchasing offices in cut & pret, cut & pret PLUS, including living wages, freedom China (Shanghai and Hong Kong), of association and traceability. Bangladesh, India and Turkey. The offices play A+more, Global Essentials, All suppliers are expected to a key role in developing working conditions and NOOM, NOOM Loungewear, follow the Stockmann Code of Conduct or identifying risks. In total 117 persons are Stockmann Silk demonstrate a similar commitment. The employed by the offices and they are tasked responsibility issues are discussed during the with supervising purchasing and production. purchasing negotiations and supplier They review the procedures of each factory that agreements. In the Stockmann department they use before any orders are placed, and after FOR MEN stores, the major part of the merchandise is which systematic responsibility work continues. Construe, Construe made up of international and domestic brand Around 92% of Lindex products are bought via Accessories, Bodyguard, products, but we also carry a wide selection of the purchasing offices. Around half of Cap Horn, Stockmann 1862 own brand products designed by our own Stockmann’s own brand producers were direct designers, and which cannot be purchased and half through our purchasing offices. Our anywhere else. In Lindex, this applies to the local CSR specialists provide training and majority of the products. support to suppliers and factory owners, to help them make improvements in line with FOR KIDS BUYING PRACTICES FOR OWN our codes and environmental requirements, Bogi, Cube Co. BRAND PRODUCTS and they also perform announced and Stockmann does not own any factories or unannounced audits. Our local production production facilities. Instead, our own brand and quality controllers also visit the production products are made by contractors. When units to ensure that conditions meet our FOR THE HOME choosing a supplier, we pay attention to a requirements, and they report on any Casa Stockmann, number of factors. The most important criteria suspected violations of the codes. In addition Villa Stockmann are the fit with the Stockmann Group’s needs, to audits and training, every aspect of suppliers’ supplier know-how and ability to deliver, quality operations is rated according to a ‘supplier and price, CSR with the focus on working scorecard’, which forms the basis for conditions and environmental issues, and the development. Suppliers are evaluated with the 18 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 scorecard twice a year, with the Code of conditions in factories worldwide. The amfori company. With self-assessment, Lindex aims to IMPROVING FIRE AND BUILDING Conduct vs. performance being included as a BSCI Code of Conduct sets out 11 core labour move the responsibility and ownership to the SAFET Y IN BANGL ADESH parameter. Based on the evaluation, we grade rights which the participating companies and supplier and develop their skills to improve Stockmann is committed to improving factory our suppliers, and those with the best results their business partners undertake to conditions without constant external pressure. safety in Bangladesh, which is one of our most get the most orders. incorporate in their supply chain in a step-byimportant production countries. In 2013, we step development approach. Stockmann AUDITS AND FINDINGS joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in OUR INSTRUCTIONS FOR actively communicates about the amfori BSCI After each audit, an audit report with a Bangladesh, due to the risk posed by SUPPLIERS Code of Conduct to its suppliers and producers corrective action plan is put together. Each task substandard factory buildings in the country. The Supplier Code of Conduct and Lindex’s and cooperates with them to ensure a better on the corrective action plan is given a deadline According to the agreement Stockmann is Code of Conduct are the backbone of our chance of improving working conditions in the and progress is monitored. The amfori BSCI committed to having all of the factories buying practices. All suppliers are expected to supply chains. Factories, where Stockmann’s audits are conducted by internationally producing garments for the Group audited on follow the Stockmann Supplier Code of own brand products are produced that are in accredited independent auditors. The main the basis of three different inspections, Conduct, Lindex Code of Conduct or the amfori countries classified as high-risk by the amfori findings in the audits were non-compliance concerning fire safety, electricity and structural BSCI Code of Conduct complemented with BSCI, are regularly audited by our own audits, with the requirements on working hours or issues. The first contract period ended in 2018, Stockmann’s additional requirements, which conducted by our own local personnel, and by allowing one day off every seven days, and but Stockmann has committed to continue the are made based on detected human rights risks amfori BSCI, SEDEX and SA8000 audits issues with health and safety, the management remediation work through the transition Accord. and other risks. These are, for example, the ban conducted by a third party. system and fair remuneration. The aim of the transition Accord is to transfer on sandblasting of jeans, fundamental the responsibility to the local government as requirements for animal rights, the ban on NUMBER OF AUDITS soon as possible, after having finished the Uzbekistan cotton, and chemical requirements. In 2019, Lindex launched a new Code of 2019 2018 2017 remediation of the needed improvements, Unauthorised subcontracting poses a risk Conduct, a step in the fashion company’s amfori BSCI 115 257 88 already detected during the original Accord. to compliance with our code. Our producers ambition to take the lead in creating fair and By the end of 2019, 91% of the issues had been internal 62 66 119 are always required to inform us about the equal workplaces for women. Lindex developed remediated, and 96% of those found in SA8000 certificate 8 3 13 possible use of sub-contractors in advance. As the new Code based on the ETI Base Code by factories producing for the Stockmann Group. Accord inspections 88 145 221 a result of our risk analysis, we have banned the Ethical Trading Initiative, but has an enhanced use of sub-contractors in Bangladesh focus on gender equality and especially the ACCORD REMEDIATION altogether, this being a zero-tolerance issue situation for women in factories. All Lindex’s AMFORI BSCI-AUDITS PROGRESS RATE which leads to no further orders being placed. business partners are required to follow the Score 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Code of Conduct and the new one will be A = outstanding 8 8% 5% Stockmann Group 96% 93% 89% SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y AUDITS implemented in Lindex’s whole value chain by B = good 15 9% 11% Accord average 91% 89% 82% 2021. With the launch of the Lindex Code of C = acceptable 67 70% 60% Conduct, the fashion company left amfori BSCI D = insufficient 10 13% 24% Stockmann has been a member of amfori BSCI at the end of 2019. Factories used by Lindex are PRODUCTION COUNTRIES E = unacceptable 0 0 0 (formerly known as Business Social regularly audited, with both internal and thirdAND FACTORY LISTS Compliance Initiative, BSCI) since 2005. Amfori party audits. Parallel with audits, Lindex is Number of audits 115 252 88 Our goal is to provide transparent BSCI is a business-driven initiative for developing self-assessment where they train the communications on issues that interest our companies committed to improving working suppliers to assess themselves and report to the stakeholders, and therefore we disclose our 19 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 fashion and home suppliers and the factories producing own brands fashion and home Supplier and factory products on the divisions’ websites. lists are published on Stockmann’s and MAIN PRODUCTION COUNTRIES Lindex’s websites. STOCKMANN’S OWN BRAND GARMENTS READ MORE China54% www.stockmanngroup.com www.lindex.com Bangladesh13% India11% EU countries (low risk countries) 10% Turkey4% TOP5 share of total: 92% • Stockmann’s own brand garments were bought from around 90 (99) suppliers and made in around 131 (142) factories. 58% of STOCKMANN’S OWN BRAND HOME PRODUCTS the producers were direct and 42 % through our purchasing offices. EU countries (low risk countries) 40% • Stockmann’s home area own brand China23% products were bought from 61 (57) suppliers Empowering women empower women in production countries. India16% Pakistan12% and made in 69 (54) factories. The majority, is one of the focus In 2019, Lindex continued to empower women 94 % of the producers were direct. and educate suppliers’ factory management on Turkey4% areas of Lindex’s gender equality through Lindex’s WE Women TOP5 share of total: 99.5% sustainability promise. project in Bangladesh, Myanmar and India. • Lindex had 119 (127) suppliers who worked Lindex also finances Women in Cotton project with 174 (202) production units. in collaboration with Cotton connect. The LINDEX’S PRODUCTS • Lindex has 30 suppliers that stand for 80% of EMPOWERING WOMEN IN project aims to empower 350 women cotton Bangladesh48% the production, considered Lindex’s key THE SUPPLY CHAIN farmers in organic farming and life skills. More China19% suppliers. Lindex has systematically Empowering women is one of the focus areas information on initiatives and partnerships Myanmar11% consolidated its supply chain to be able to of Lindex’s sustainability promise. The company available on Lindex’s website. India6% focus on fewer suppliers and improving works together with its business partners to Turkey6% cooperation, working conditions and achieve gender equality and empower female environmental work in the most important textile workers. In 2019, Lindex launched the TOP5 share of total: 88% factories. new Code of Conduct with a focus on gender • Lindex discloses on its website supplier lists equality. Calculated based on purchase euros. that include manufacturing, processing and As part of Lindex’s sustainability work, READ MORE lindex.com/sustainability tier 2 factories the group is involved in various initiatives to 20 INSPIRATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CHOICES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT TEXTILE INDUSTRY CHALLENGES SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT provide access to water and sanitation in FOR LABOUR PRACTICES AND RISKS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL factories and nearby communities. On a Challenges that concern the whole textile product level, water impact is reduced, by AND HUMAN RIGHTS industry include, for example, the traceability PRACTICES choosing more sustainable materials, such as A significant percentage of the and transparency of the supply chain, the The textile industry is waterBetter Cotton and organic cotton that is own brand fashion products, realisation of human and labour rights intensive. Water impacts our produced with more sustainable cultivation approximately 90%, are throughout the chain, and the environmental supply chain mostly through the methods where using less water is one part. manufactured in areas classified impacts of production and raw materials. Our irrigation of cotton fields and But above all, by replacing some of the cottons as risk countries by the amfori BSCI. We are risk analysis shows five particular areas of risk through the wet processes of with recycled cotton, thousands of litres of aware that there is a risk of violation of the for our Code of Conduct and these are; textile production, such as dyeing water can be saved. The water impact is also codes and we are actively working to ensure Managements systems, Documentation, Trade and washing. Water consumption reduced by using more sustainable processes compliance. We are looking into the possibility union affiliation, Wages and compensation, and water treatment should, for washing, printing, dyeing and finishing in of better incorporating human rights and and Working hours. More information on the therefore, be as efficient as possible. the production. Besides working on a product children’s rights into our assessments. The identified risks and management methods can Our suppliers are expected to follow the level Lindex also work with water management Stockmann Group has a Human rights policy be retrieved from Stockmann Group’s website. applicable environmental legislation. In at the factory level. We score our suppliers on which has been approved by the Board of addition, an environmental code, in use in our their water consumption and wastewater Directors. In the case of a human rights READ MORE purchasing offices, sets requirements for water production. violation, we work together with the supplier to www.stockmanngroup.com treatment, chemicals handling, waste To raise awareness and educate our remediate the victim. No new orders are placed treatment, emissions and continuous suppliers on responsible water management until the violation has been corrected and the improvement. and cleaner production, we have worked with victim has been compensated. Being a water responsible company is collaborative projects such as PaCT one of the core aims in Lindex’s sustainability (Partnership for Cleaner Textile) and STWI promise. Lindex wants to be water efficient (Sweden Textile Water Initiative). These projects throughout the whole value chain, reduce the resulted in more sustainable water risk of water scarcity in areas connected to its management systems in the factories and operations and together with business partners major improvements such as savings of millions of litres of water. Lindex is also a longterm partner to WaterAid and supports their work in improving access to safe water, improved hygiene and sanitation in the world’s poorest communities. More information can be We work for found on the Lindex website. more responsible use of water. READ MORE www.lindex.com 21 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT We reduce the environmental impact of our business operations and act in accordance with sustainable development. In our daily operations, we take actions to mitigate our climate impact and we apply a circular economy approach in our operations. We aim to minimise the environmental footprint of our packaging materials and introduce more material-efficient options. 22 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 S tockmann complies with valid SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT environmental legislation and requires the same from its TARGETS KEY PERFORMANCE PROGRESS & ACTIVITIES STATUS INDIC ATORS (KPIS) partners. Environmental work at Stockmann is based on the CSR We are committed Indicator to be set We replaced some of the single-use plastic products in our selection In process strategy. The management of environmental to reducing our with more durable products. responsibility is part of the daily operations and packaging materials In our online store, we replaced plastic seal bags with seal stickers is coordinated by the Communications and and their to improve material efficiency. CSR function. We set specific environmental environmental We are working on creating a material efficiency indicator in our targets, define indicators for monitoring the footprint online store that enables to compare material efficiency on a monthly and yearly basis. achievement of these targets and establish appropriate management practices. On target We take actions to Improve energy efficiency in Finland We continued to implement energy efficiency measures in our operations. mitigate our climate by 4% (2016-2020) and in Finland and We reached the energy efficiency target and improved the energy impact the Baltics by 7,5% (2018-2025) efficiency in Finland with over 10% from 2016 to 2019. In 2019, the Group’s comparable GHG emissions decreased by 12% and were ENVIRONMENTAL 39 700 tCO2e (45 130). MANAGEMENT Stockmann committed to using renewable electricity in its distribution centre from the beginning of 2020 and almost 60% of the electricity used Since 2003, an ISO 14001 by Lindex was renewable. certified environmental management system has been in We apply a circular Recycling rate target: 75% in We reached the recycling rate target in Finland and the recycling rate In process use in Stockmann’s department economy approach Finland and 50% in Baltic was 76% (72). In Baltics, the recycling rate was below target: 31% (40). in our operations operations The total amount of waste in Finland decreased by approximately 2.8% stores and support functions in Finland. The compared to the previous year but increased in the Baltics by 4.6%. operating methods and guidelines of the management system have been adopted in the department stores in the Baltic countries. Stockmann takes environmental aspects into Lindex does not have a certified account when planning and managing environmental management system in use, operations and when procuring products and but the company has internal environmental services. Stockmann requires its service guidelines, e.g. an energy efficiency concept, providers to commit to Stockmann’s Code of in use. Conduct and operating principles, and The Group’s purchasing offices operate environmental issues and targets are regularly near production sites and the offices have discussed during cooperation. We work in close made efforts to assess and minimise the co-operation with our service providers, who harmful environmental impacts that can be have an important role in achieving our caused in the suppliers’ factories. environmental targets. 23 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 During the reporting year, Stockmann Stockmann’s continued implementing the energy efficiency business operations programme, by optimising running hours of in Finland are ISO building systems, ventilation and lighting control in all its premises. 14001 certified Stockmann’s distribution centre, located in Finland, serves the online store and the Stockmann department stores in all countries our environmental work, we strive to implement of operation. Transfer to one centre has energy-efficient measures to mitigate our enabled Stockmann to optimise its warehouse climate impact and improve efficiency. operations, reduce the amount of internal Stockmann’s Real Estate function is transportation of goods and improved the responsible for the energy management in the energy efficiency of the logistic operations. The department stores, distribution centre and Stockmann distribution centre is awarded the support functions. Energy consumption is LEED Gold environmental certificate. LEDmonitored daily and measures are taken to lighting is in use and the geothermal system improve efficiency and respond to deviations. produces most of the heating and cooling In 2019, Stockmann conducted energy energy needed in the building. In 2019, a reviews in its premises and the outcomes are decision was made to procure certified wind used in the work to mitigate climate impact. power to the distribution centre, starting from the beginning of 2020. RAISING INTERNAL ENERGY ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION 2019-2018 AWARENESS ON The Group’s energy consumption 2019 2018 mainly consists of electricity ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES and district heating and cooling. DIRECT CONSUMPTION Heating fuel (MWh) 463 474 Every employee’s input is required for us to Energy is consumed by the Natural gas (MWh) 319 302 achieve our environmental targets. Personnel’s lighting, ventilation, heating and cooling environmental awareness is maintained and systems in the stores, distribution centres INDIRECT CONSUMPTION enhanced through training and regular internal and offices, as well as by other equipment Electricity (MWh) 81 409 87 148 communication. Environmental topics are part and machinery in these facilities, such as District heating and cooling (MWh) 71 462 76 072 of the induction training that all new employees lifts and escalators. Water (m ) 3 95 875 10 775 participate in and we provide separate Energy efficiency is an important part of The reporting excludes discontinued operations (Russia, Poland and Pakistan) and franchising operations. Heating Fuel data is based on sustainability e-learnings to all employees. Stockmann’s environmental work, as the estimations. Purchased electricity consumption covers all Group’s functions. Purchased heating and cooling energy consumption covers energy consumption in Stockmann’s own all the Group’s functions, excluding purchising offices. Heating and cooling data for Stockmann is based on invoicing and data from operations has been identified to be the most service providers. Due to the significant amount of estimations and extrapolation in heat consumption for Lindex, the data quality is considered fair. Reporting on water covers all the Stockmann functions (excluding the department store in Itis in Helsinki) and Lindex’s significant source of CO2 emissions. As part of distribution centre. 24 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 During the reporting year, Stockmann Stockmann’s carbon footprint in 2019 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2019-2018 upgraded the entire first floor of the Tallinn covers the Stockmann and Lindex functions in tCO2e tCO2e Change department store to LED-based lighting and all countries of operation, excluding Lindex’s 2019 2018 2019-2018 in % Comments replaced the refurbished Tallinn Delicatessen’s franchise operations. At Stockmann, the figures DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 800 1 580 -48% Stationary combustion 180 180 0% refrigeration equipment with more energyalso cover the emissions generated by tenants Refrigerants 620 1 400 -55% Decrease due to normal efficient options. Additionally, we continued the in the department stores. At the end of 2019, fluctuation in refrigerants in the renewal process of lighting in the department Stockmann was using 73% of the gross leasable Baltic food departments and renewal of refrigerator store in Helsinki, by replacing conventional area and the rest was used by tenants. equipment lighting with LED-lighting. Stockmann has monitored and reported INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM 29 000 33 100 -12% Market based (location PURCHASED ENERGY (24 800) (26 750) based in brackets) Lindex’s stores have also focused on its GHG emissions at Group level for ten years. (SCOPE 2) minimising energy consumption, and all stores The Group’s emissions are presented in the Purchased electricity 19 700 23 100 -15% Decrease through energy follow an efficient energy consumption table ‘GHG emissions’. GHG figures for 2018 (market-based) efficiency measures and increase in share of renewable checklist as a routine practice. An in-depth are also presented in the table, to enable energy study about electricity consumption has been short-time comparison. Further comments and Purchased electricity 15 500 16 750 -8% Decrease through energy (location-based) efficiency made in a representative sample of stores. possible changes in the scope are explained in Heating and cooling 9 300 10 000 -7% Decrease due to less Lindex’s According to this, the areas of lighting, cooling the table. The calculation of emissions was floorspace in continuing countries and energy efficiency and ventilation and escalators account for carried out in accordance with the international in Stockmann’s operations approximately 90% of the energy consumption, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol reporting OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS 9 900 10 450 -5% and hence energy reduction measures will principles. (SCOPE 3) focus on these. Lindex respects the planet and Internal logistics 2 100 1 700 23% Increase in Lindex's internal logistics therefore prioritises energy from renewable REDUCING TRANSPORT External logistics 5 100 5 900 -14% Decrease in kilometers sources. In 2019, nearly 60% of the electricity EMISSIONS E-commerce customer deliveries 200 200 0% Figures for Stockmann’s used by Lindex was renewable. Lindex’s The Group serves customers in different e-commerce operations only. Decrease in amount of parcels environmental goals include being climate countries and the distribution of goods to these Business travel 900 850 6% Increase in travel neutral in own operations by 2023 and to various locations involves emissions. Waste 1 600 1 800 -11% Decrease in amount of waste reduce 30% of CO2 emissions in the total value Considerable attention is paid to the efficient and improvements in sorting chain by 2030, baseline being 2017. and less environmentally harmful transportaTOTAL 39 700 45 130 -12% tion of goods and we cooperate closely with AVOIDED EMISSIONS 265 244 our transport partners. In our logistic The reporting excludes discontinued operations (Russia, Poland and Pakistan) and franchising operations. EMISSIONS management, we value long-term relationships and we strive for close cooperation with Almost 90% of Lindex’s goods from shared aim of reducing the environmental Reporting on GHG emissions partners to improve efficiency. Internal production to distribution centres are impacts of global goods transportation and serves as a management tool in transports are continuously optimised through transported by sea freight. Even though sea promoting responsible shipping. With its the Stockmann Group, providing route planning, and by use of return transports. freight is a better option than air freight, in members, Clean Cargo represents around 85% a basis for defining the areas We carry out a systematic follow-up and terms of climate impact, it still has a significant of the global container cargo capacity, making where emissions should be reduced and for engage in an active dialogue with our partners. impact. Lindex is, therefore, a member of Clean it the leading buyer-supplier forum for setting reduction targets. Cargo, a network of global actors with the sustainability in the cargo shipping industry. In 25 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 need of fast deliveries Lindex primarily uses CIRCULAR ECONOMY Development. Accordingly, plastic bags are • Stockmann’s plastic carrier bags are 80% train transport, while air freight is only used in At Stockmann, we strive to apply a no longer available for our customers on a recycled plastic. The paper bags are made exceptional cases. circular economy approach. We self-service basis and we provide information of FSC-certified paper. are monitoring and investigating about sustainable choices in carrier bags. • We recommend a re-usable bag as the best REDUCING BUSINESS TRAVEL new solutions to extend the life of • In 2019, about 28% of our customers chose option and we offer a selection of re-usable EMISSIONS products and materials. The department stores to buy a bag with the purchase, and out of bags. To minimise travel, videoconferencing and in the Baltics collaborated in a circularity project those, 63% were plastic bags, 35% paper • The packaging materials, such as the teleconferencing equipment is utilised in with the Estonian designer Reet Aus, bags and 2% reusable bags. cardboard boxes, bubble wrap and packing meetings. Attention is paid to emissions from encouraging customers to hand in their used paper, used for packaging the items business travel, and low emission options are denim garments for upcycling, as well as selling purchased in the stockmann.com online preferred for such trips. The company travel designer’s upcycled clothing collection. We apply a circular store are partially made of recycled materials. guideline recommends travel via train or bus Lindex also wants to prolong the lifetime • During the reporting year, based on over the use of a private car, and leasing cars of its products and use resources in the economy approach customer feedback we replaced the plastic have a limit set on maximum emissions. In smartest way possible. The company will set in our operations. seal bags for cosmetic products in our addition, Stockmann has guidance on remote goals on reducing material streams and online store with seal stickers. work. The remote work practice creates an sending zero waste to landfill as well as setting We promote reuse opportunity for the personnel to reduce goals on design for longevity. In 2019, Lindex and recycling. commuting emissions, as well as it supports started renting out clothes and through their work-life balance. business Something Borrowed, they give their customers the opportunity to rent premium CDP DISCLOSURE garments from the fashion company’s The Stockmann Group reports on its GHG Extended collection. emissions in the international Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2019, Stockmann’s PACKAGING MATERIALS AND score continued to be on a good level, with the CARRIER BAGS score Management B, as in the previous three Stockmann aims to bring high-quality years. The score is higher than the general and packaging to the market and to minimise the European regional average. The score reveals environmental burden of packaging materials, that Stockmann has taken coordinated action promote circularity and offer customers on climate issues. Read more. material-efficient solutions. The Stockmann Group reports on packaging materials used, in accordance with the EU Packaging Directive. Our CDP score was • Stockmann has made a commitment to on a good level: B reduce the consumption of plastic bags with the Society’s Commitment to Sustainable 26 SUSTAINABLE SHOPPING ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 The surplus from the bags is donated to • Lindex carrier bags are made with 80% causes that drive sustainable development. Lindex regularly donates unsold products to Recycling rate post-consumer recycled plastic, 20% postdifferent charity organisations in accordance in Finland 76% industry recycled plastic. REUSE AND LOSS PREVENTION with its clothing recycling and donation policy. • Lindex online store packages are made of THROUGH PRODUCT DONATIONS At the Head Office, product samples are sold at 100 % recycled materials. In addition, Lindex a garment sale every month, and leftover has reduced the use of plastic in its supply garments are donated to charity. The purchase chain, e.g. by reducing the plastic used on Stockmann promotes reuse and recycling by offices also donate garments to different charity garments shipped from production donating unsold products and product organisations. its waste management service provider to countries. In line with One Bag Habit, Lindex samples, as well as leftover materials and improve recycling and efficiency. charge for shopping bags in all its stores. products from the design studio to local In recent years, our stakeholders have Only about 28% of customers have chosen partners and charitable organisations and EFFLUENTS AND WASTE shown interest regarding our approach to to buy a bag during the reporting year. The various recycling workshops. For example, unsold clothing. At Stockmann, all products One Bag Habit is a joint initiative, launched we regularly donate garments and product The waste generated by the are sold, using discount prices or by selling by Lindex and two other Swedish fashion samples to Hope ry, a non-profit organisation divisions’ operations is mainly them to the personnel in the personnel brands with the aim to reduce the that distributes donations to Finnish families packaging waste, such as shops, so that no products are left. Mildew or consumption of bags and raise awareness with limited means. cardboard and plastic. other spoilage of the products during the of bags negative environmental impact. Biodegradable waste is also generated in transportation is rare. However, in such cases Stockmann’s Delicatessen operations in Baltics the products end up as waste and the process and due to the tenants’ operations that include is monitored by Customs. grocery stores, restaurants and cafés. Water consumption in Stockmann’s WASTE 2019–2018, TONS We pay close attention to waste sorting own operations is minimal, and the Stockmann Stockmann Lindex and recycling by providing training for operations take place in areas where there is Finland Baltics Sweden Total personnel and tenants, developing the currently no scarcity of water. Measuring and 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 guidance and making sorting practices more minimising water consumption is NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE 2 787 2 864 873 822 1 217 1 325 4 877 5 011 convenient. The waste sorting is managed in nevertheless an important part of Reuse / Recycling 2 128 2 067 274 327 1 180 1 281 3 582 3675 accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental Stockmann’s environmental responsibility. Recovery / Incineration 659 797 600 496 37 44 1 296 1337 management system, and the results for the Stockmann’s water consumption is presented End of life treatment 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 various business locations are monitored in the table ‘Energy and water consumption’. HAZARDOUS WASTE 2 4 8 20 0 2 10 26 regularly. Most of the Group’s water consumption takes Reuse / Recycling 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 Our target in is to reduce the amount of place in the department stores’ restaurant, Recovery / Incineration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 waste and to recycle as much as possible of kitchen and sanitary facilities. Water End of life treatment 1 2 8 20 0 2 9 24 the remaining waste as material. The Group’s consumption is minimised by instructing TOTAL, tn 2 789 2 868 881 842 1 217 1 327 4 887 5037 total amount of waste decreased in 2019 by personnel and tenants, preventing and approximately 3%. The recycling rate in repairing even the smallest leaks and RECYCLING RATE, % 76 72 31 40 97 97 73 73 department stores in Finland increased to procuring more efficient water fittings to Figures for Stockmann cover all functions in Finland (discluding the department store in Tapiola) and Baltics. Figures are not entirely comparable between the countries. 76% (73). Stockmann closely cooperates with replace older ones. 27 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY Motivated and engaged retail experts are the foundation of our business. We value equality and diversity and treat our employees fairly according to the principle of equal opportunities. Employees are paid a fair level of remuneration for their work, and their personal and professional growth is supported. We take care of our employees and provide them with healthy and safe working conditions and promote their wellbeing. 28 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 T he Stockmann Group’s Human RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY Resources (HR) policies are based on the company’s values, strategy TARGETS KEY PERFORMANCE PROGRESS & ACTIVITIES STATUS INDIC ATORS (KPIS) and the Code of Conduct, on top of which the divisions have their own We ensure a healthy Accident rate target: maximum of Stockmann’s accident rate was 31 (24) accidents per million working Target not more detailed HR policies that support the and safe working 20 per million working hours. hours. met growth and wellbeing of the personnel. environment and Further target to be set. We introduced the #Stockmannstaff barometer, which enables The implementation of good HR policies is promote the improved employee consultation and the development of a monitored through personnel surveys wellbeing of our more responsible work community. performance appraisal discussions and other personnel feedback channels. Cooperation also takes We value equality KPI to be set Equality is actively promoted in all employee categories according to Target not place in local personnel committees and the and diversity the equality plan that has been prepared together with employee met Group´s Employee Council. The HR Director, representatives. In 2019 Stockmann was for example an official partner of Helsinki Pride to demonstrate and support equality, who reports to the CEO of the Group, is inclusion and diversity to its personnel and all stakeholders. responsible for the management of HR in the company. We support #Stockmannstaff personnel feedback: The first #Stockmannstaff barometer score was 42, meaning that Target not personnel’s target score 50 by the end of 2020 42% of respondents gave the most positive or second positive answer met professional to five indicators: willingness to recommend, willingness to leave, growth PDD execution rate, target 100% in 2021 job satisfaction, overall mood and enthusiasm for one’s job. EMPLOYMENT The recent years have been demanding for Stockmann and its employees. Organisational changes have been required in order to become a healthy business and turn based on the new structure was negotiated with the result into profit. During the coming years, the personnel as part of the codetermination the Group will focus even more on creating and negotiations. As a result of the negotiations, promoting a people and customer-centric approximately 150 positions were ended, most culture where a unique employee experience, of them through lay-offs. seamless cross-functional teamwork and improved digital capabilities lie at the core. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS In 2019, Stockmann reworked its strategy In retail, the need for fixed-term employees is and simplified its organisational structure. In high, as the summer and Christmas seasons the new structure, the Stockmann Retail and and campaigns increase the need for seasonal Real Estate divisions as well the Group’s shared employees. Use of supervised workers or functions were combined into a new self-employed workers is minimal at the Stockmann division. The new operating model Stockmann Group. 29 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 • At Lindex stores, the extra workforce is • The number of fixed-term employees at needed around the summer and Christmas Stockmann has decreased, while seasonal holidays. This need is solved mainly by workers at the department stores for Crazy offering more hours to part-time employees Days and Christmas are now recruited and extra employees connected to the store. through a recruitment agency. Each year, Lindex employs about 20 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES • The Stockmann department stores offer seasonal employees to work at the Head BY DIVISION BY COUNTRY many young people an opportunity to Office during the summer and Christmas become familiar with the retail sector, for holidays. 39% 3 000 33% example, in the form of the practical training 2 531 2 500 27% 2 168 periods of various educational institutions. In EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 2 000 1 623 2019, Stockmann employed approximately The Stockmann Group offers its personnel the 1 500 190 (200) summer employees and 340 benefits required by local legislation in each of 1 000 (300) interns. Stockmann participated in the its operating countries. These benefits may 271 144 177 500 STOCKMANN, 2 126  31% Confederation of Finnish Industries’ “Get include occupational health services, insurance 0 LINDEX, 4 671 68% FINLAND SWEDEN OTHER Acquainted with Working Life and Earn” against occupational injuries and diseases, PURCHASING OFFICES, 117 2% MEN WOMEN (Tutustu työelämään ja tienaa) programme parental leave and retirement benefits. and offered 82 (60) youngsters an Personnel benefits do not vary between partinternship position. Stockmann also time and full-time employees. collaborated with Plan International Finland In most countries, employees are offered project and offered short internships for benefits that clearly go beyond the youngsters. requirements set by legislation, such as health FIXED-TERM / FULL-TIME / • A number of people working in sales insurance and meal benefits. These benefits PERMANENT PART-TIME positions at Stockmann department stores are evaluated and updated regularly. All 80% 6 000 6 000 are employees of Stockmann’s tenants in, employees can purchase products using an 5 007 66% 5 000 5 000 for example, restaurants and in the grocery employee discount in stores belonging to the 4 418 4 000 4 000 stores in Finland. Group. In 2019, the employee discount model 34% 3 000 3 000 was evaluated and updated in the Riga 20% 2 000 1 909 2 000 department store. In addition, quarterly 1 315 543 1 000 1 000 441 • Lindex offers internships both at the Head Stockmann offers its employees in Finland the 49 146 0 0 Office and in stores and it cooperates opportunity to purchase a set of work clothes FIXED-TERM PERMANENT FULL-TIME PART-TIME regularly with different universities regarding with an additional discount. Furthermore, MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN internship positions. At the Head Office, separate personnel sales are organised, there are about 15 interns per year and most enabling employees to purchase products at of them are placed in the Design and a budget price. Purchasing Department 30 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Stockmann has an incentive programme • Stockmann has a system for initiatives that in use that covers every employee. The aim of allows personnel to communicate and to the programme is to reward, encourage and jointly develop business ideas across motivate employees to aim for top results. organisational boundaries. Annually long-serving employees are rewarded with a medal. In all units, employees are rewarded on their 50th birthday. • Lindex has defined performance Stockmann supports recreational and leisure development and goal setting processes for activities for permanent employees, for the whole company. According to this, all instance by supporting sports possibilities and Lindex employees have an annual through various staff clubs. Stockmann development discussion with their employees are rewarded for 30 years of service supervisor. The processes and tools vary by with an additional holiday. Lindex has its own country. According to Lindex’s latest reward scheme according to which employees employee survey, 81% of personnel had had are rewarded for 25 years of service. In addition, a performance dialogue. Lindex supports recreational and leisure • As part of the open communication culture, activities for employees, for instance by quarterly results and strategy meetings are supporting sports. held for all employees by the Lindex CEO. Along with the Group and Lindex strategy, future development areas are presented in LABOUR AND these meetings and questions are answered. Group Council and the other by the association Group Council, whose meetings are held • Introduction days are organised for new MANAGEMENT RELATIONS representing Stockmann’s senior salaried twice annually. employees where one representative from The Stockmann Group monitors employees. • Based on the Stockmann’s Group Council Lindex Management Group is also present. the implementation of good HR decision, Stockmann has continued to • Each year, an inspirational event with varied practices through personnel support personnel clubs in 2019 by providing topics, related to the Lindex vision, strategy surveys, performance appraisal • The objective is that a performance and the clubs with the opportunity to apply for and values, is held for all Lindex employees. discussions and other feedback channels. A development discussion (PDD) is conducted financial support. • In 2019, Lindex launched a new employee culture of openness is promoted and we strive to at least once a year with each Stockmann • In 2019, Stockmann renewed its personnel’s promise, together with new employer communicate about issues concerning our employee. Furthermore, to increase information sessions on the quarterly results branding. They were worked together by personnel by going through Stockmann’s inclusion, additional group development and strategy process. In the new management and employees in global financial performance and outlook as well as by discussions are held in the sales operation. #Stockmannstaff sessions, inclusiveness and workshops. setting goals for our performance in these areas. • In Finland, Stockmann department stores open dialogue are promoted, and results and • Lindex organises regular meetings with the Two employee representatives participate have their own Employees’ Councils that outlook are discussed openly. In addition, the trade union representatives in its operating in meetings of Stockmann’s Board of Directors. convene four times a year. A similar model is focus is also on strengthening collaboration countries, to discuss labour law issues and One of the representatives is elected by the followed in the Baltic countries. HR matters and communication between the functions. other issues raised by the trade unions. employee representatives of Stockmann’s concerning Finland are handled at the 31 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 FREEDOM OF measured through employee surveys both at is recommended for use when something the possibility of varied nutrition during the ASSOCIATION AND Stockmann and Lindex. has changed in an employee’s ability to workday are also considered part of the work. Follow-up of sickness absences support for employees’ ability to work. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING requires cooperation between the manager Information on preventative action is also The Stockmann Group respects the basic rights • In 2019, Stockmann revised its personnel and occupational health services and given out during the occupational safety day of its employees, such as freedom of survey model and introduced the sometimes involves a personnel representaevent. association and collective bargaining. In #Stockmannstaff barometer. It is an ongoing tive and the HR department. Different Finland, approximately 81 (81) % of the survey model that has been developed in modes of support for the return to work, Stockmann Group’s personnel are covered by collaboration with researchers from the such as work in trial periods or part-time sick • Lindex regularly conducts a global employee collective agreements. All Lindex employees in Hanken School of Economics. The survey leave, are actively used at Stockmann. The survey to get an overview of how the Sweden, Norway and Finland, excluding senior enables effective utilization of the results of company also has a drug abuse programme company’s employees experience their salaried employees, are covered by a collective the personnel experience measurement and to intervene in cases involving substance workplace and the company culture. The bargaining agreement. process development, as well as deeper and abuse. The principles of this programme are result of the most recent survey, conducted The company does not monitor the more active employee consultation. The updated regularly. before the turn of the year 2019, showed that extent of union membership, but it does issues and concerns expressed by • Stockmann’s occupational health services the share of positive employees was 81% compile statistics on those employees in Stockmann’s personnel in the survey were, take the working ability perspective into and the level of committed employees was Finland whose trade union membership fee is for example, workload and knowledge consideration with every appointment and also significantly high, 82%. 2 729 people deducted from their salary. In 2019, these development. Based on the feedback, advise employees on severe work-related participated in the survey. Identified employees accounted for 30% (31) of the concrete development measures have been diseases and any other risks associated with development areas included, for example, Group’s personnel working in Finland. In other taken. work, and give recommendations where competence development, more regular countries of operation, statistics on union • Stockmann offers the opportunity for necessary. Supportive management follow-ups on individual goals and skills members have not been collected. remote work. The objective is to support practices, a safe working environment and development. work-life balance and equal opportunities. • Small events to boost wellbeing at work OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, included yoga sessions and a culture-related We introduced the lottery by Otium, a foundation that supports SAFETY AND WELLBEING employee well-being at Stockmann. #Stockmannstaff Occupational health care is • Annually Stockmann offers its personnel in barometer. arranged in accordance with local Finland the opportunity to take a seasonal laws and regulations in all influenza vaccine, a service highly countries of operation. Employee appreciated by the personnel. wellbeing and occupational safety are • Stockmann has an early intervention model discussed regularly in the Employees’ Councils, in place to follow up and support employees which operate in accordance with the to promote their working ability and health. requirements of local legislation and represent A working ability discussion is a tool for all personnel groups. Employee well-being is managers for a confidential discussion and 32 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 • Performance management is used at Lindex services for the year 2018 was approximately courses and events. In addition, external DIVERSITY AND EQUAL to follow-up and support employees at an EUR 0.9 (2017: 1.4) million and the net cost was management training is offered. During OPPORTUNITY & early stage in order to promote their working approximately EUR 269 (2017: 325) per 2019, almost all of the employees at the ability and health. Different modes of employee. Head Office participated in workshops to NON-DISCRIMINATION support for the return to work after sickness develop their self-leadership. Stockmann treats all of its absence are actively used at Lindex. The • At the purchasing offices, continuous employees fairly and equally and company also has an action plan to intervene in cases involving substance TRAINING AND training is offered to maintain the personnel’s knowledge in line with the rapid values the diversity of its employees. Discrimination is abuse, available on the intranet. EDUCATION development. strictly forbidden. Stockmann has an equality • Lindex conducts close cooperation with the Systematic, continuous training is plan, which is regularly updated and approved occupational health services, in work-related a core part of our HR practices SKILLS MANAGEMENT in the company’s Employees’ Council. With the diseases and any other risks associated with and is carried out mostly through AND JOB ROTATION aid of statistics, the purpose of the plan is to work, and for giving recommendations comprehensive e-learning Continuous development at work and an active point out structural issues in work duties and to where necessary. programmes and through various internal internal labour market are Stockmann’s set improvement targets for achieving a more training events and sessions involving strengths. Providing employees with the equal working environment. SICKNESS ABSENCES AND representatives throughout the organisation. opportunity to switch duties between functions WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS The Group’s goal is to enable and develop the and countries promote professional growth Sickness absences and workplace accidents personnel’s personal skills and offer and the retention of competent personnel in • The realisation of equality is actively are reported in the table ‘Personnel figures’. In professional learning opportunities. the company’s service. promoted in all employment categories. Finland and Sweden, the majority of accidents At Lindex, employees are encouraged to Mutual respect and abiding by mutually set were due to slipping or falling as well as of try new roles within Lindex, at stores and offices rules are part of this. In recruitment, we are dropping and lifting things. • Stockmann organises coaching sessions in to gain new experiences and perspective. This open-minded towards the various back­ In 2019, medical occupational health care Finland, regarding product competence, is considered a success factor in developing grounds of the candidates. Job descriptions covered all employees in Finland whose sales and service, induction for new Lindex further, and a way to retain competent are designed to suit all regardless of gender employment had continued for more than 4 employees, and coaching activities related to personnel. Opportunities for a transfer within and we ensure that the tasks, qualifications months, i.e. 1 784 (1 968) persons at year-end. raising employee and customer experience the company are provided through Lindex’s and titles are gender-neutral. Age, sex or The occupational health care services of the • Stockmann supports the combining of work internal labour market. religious beliefs are only considered if there Group’s units in Finland are arranged via the and studies, for example by providing is a justified reason based on the position. company’s own occupational health clinics and opportunities for apprenticeship training. We do not accept age discrimination and outsourced services. The personnel at the different age groups are well represented in Group’s own clinics mainly serve employees in We treat our personnel the company. Based on feedback, we have the Helsinki region. In other locations and at the • The average amount of training hours per fairly and equally also lowered the minimum age to our Lindex stores in Finland, occupational health year per employee for store personnel was and value the diversity trainee and campaign positions. services are provided through outsourcing. The approximately 9.0 hours (8.0 hours). In total • Personnel planning has been developed to costs of occupational health services for the year there were 35 560 hours of training. of employees ensure equal treatment, e.g. regarding the 2019 were not available at the time of reporting. • Continuous professional development is offering of additional working hours, and the In Finland, the cost of occupational health promoted through various in-house training 33 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 division of days off and Sunday work, and by • During the reporting year, Lindex invited an EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 2019 offering the guidance for remote work. expert to talk about bullying, harassment MEN/WOMEN under 30 years old 30-50 years old older than 50 years old • HR Business Partners work actively in and discrimination for the leaders in the Entire personnel, % 38 (6/94) 40 (11/89) 22 (9/91) cooperation with supervisors to deal with Head Office. Afterwards, an article series, Group Management Team, persons 1 4 and anticipate potential cases of including three articles on the topic was harassment, discrimination, equal published on the intranet. opportunity, atmosphere and workload. • Stockmann has renewed its guidelines for DIVERSIT Y OF GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEES BY GENDER working clothes, to encourage personnel to BODIES AND EMPLOYEES MEN/WOMEN 2019 2018 2017 dress according to their own style and When choosing the members of the Board of Entire personnel, % 9/91 9/91 9/91 identity, and in this way strengthen the Directors, diversity is taken into account, so that With Director title, % 36/64 44/56 50/50 culture of diversity and inclusivity within the the persons represent different fields and Group Management Team, persons (%) 3/2 4/6 (40/60) 6/6 (50/50) organisation. professions, international backgrounds, and Board of Directors, persons (%) 5/3 5/3 (63/37) 6/2 (75/25) varying age and gender. Information on the average age of the employees is presented in • Lindex has its own non-discrimination policy the table ‘Personnel Figures’. and the company does not accept any form THE RATIO OF BASIC REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN of discrimination. EQUAL REMUNERATION BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, STOCKMANN FINLAND • According to the company’s plans on equal Equal remuneration is one of the areas in the INDEX 2019 2018 2017 opportunities and diversity, Lindex strives to equality and diversity plan. Sales personnel (hourly salary) 98 98 99 ensure that all employees are treated with Warehouse personnel (hourly salary) 94 94 95 respect, have equal opportunities and a Office personnel (monthly salary) 109 94 96 positive working environment. Diversity is • Remuneration of women and men working seen as a competitive advantage that fosters at Stockmann in Finland is monitored with Senior salaried employees and management (monthly salary) 82 84 85* increased creativity, innovation and delivers the aid of an index. * Figure is restated from the 2017 report The index is only indicative, as it does not take better results. It is every Lindex leader’s • The causes of pay differentials in the index into account the diversity of job roles and descriptions in each category. responsibility to make sure that they have a include, for example, the difference between diverse team and that diversity becomes a job roles, level of requirements and natural part of the long-term competence individual competences within the same plan. level of difficulty, which the index does not • In order to ensure that there is no take into account. Men work relatively more discrimination and the organisation takes in supervisor and ICT positions, which advantage of diversity, the company explains some difference. continuously conducts analyses and follow• During the reporting year, Stockmann has ups in working conditions, salaries and gone through the company’s job terms of employment, recruitment and descriptions, the process has also entailed promotion, education and training, and ensuring equal remuneration. parenthood and work. 34 RESPONSIBLE WORK COMMUNITY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 PERSONNEL FIGURES • According to Swedish Discrimination Act, 2019 2018 Lindex annually conducts a salary mapping Number of personnel 31 December 6 914 7 129 with the aim to detect, remedy and prevent in Finland (men/women) 271/1 623 332/1 813 unjustified salary differences between in Sweden (men/women) 144/2 168 147/2 194 women and men who carry out equal or Personnel on average 7 002 7 241 equivalent work. In 2019, no unreasonable differences due to gender were discovered. Personnel as full time equivalents, on average 4 891 5 299 • The foundation of Lindex’s personnel policy Personnel by employment contract is that salaries are market related and fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) 20 (4/96) / 80 (10/90) 18 (6/94) / 82 (10/90) competitive, and connected to the fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) in Finland 6 (8/92) / 94 (15/85) 8 (7/93) / 92 (16/84) responsibility of the role and achieved fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) in Sweden 23 (4/96) / 77 (7/93) 25 (7/93) / 75 (6/94) results. Differences in salary because of Share of full-time/part-time employees of personnel, % 34/66 36/64 gender, functional limitation, ethnicity, in Finland (men/women) 41 (23/77) / 59 (8/92) 43 (24/76) / 57 (9/91) sex-transcendent identity, sexual orientation, abroad (men/women) 31 (17/83) / 69 (2/98) 33 (16/84) / 67 (2/98) religion and other beliefs, age or parental Turnover of permanent employees, on average, % 18 22 leave are not acceptable. The collective in Finland 17 17 agreement sets the guidelines for the salary in Sweden 8 9 audit. New permanent employee hires, % 16 20 INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION in Finland 10 12 During the reporting year, no case of sexual in Sweden 6 6 harassment or religious or political Personnel costs, EUR million 211.1 222.0 discrimination were raised at Stockmann Personnel costs, share of revenue % 22.0 21.8 Group. In 2019, Stockmann’s HR department Average age of personnel 37 37 dealt with two issues related to inappropriate in Finland 41 40 behaviour in Finland. One of the filed abroad 38 37 complaints was completed during the reporting Sickness absences, % 4.4 4.2 year, while the other complaint on in Finland 4.2 4.7 inappropriate behaviour is in post-treatment in Sweden 4.9 4.7 monitoring. Reported workplace accidents at workplace + on the way to work in Finland, number 72+41 60 + 50 Reported workplace accidents at workplace in Sweden, number 53 137 Personnel training expenses in Finland (excluding direct wage costs), EUR million not available 0.2 Figures only for one referral year, do to changes in reporting practices. 35 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH We are committed to good corporate governance and act in compliance with Stockmann Group’s Code of Conduct. Our goal is to create added value to all our stakeholders and we actively engage in society. We aim for long-term profitable operations and are taking several structural measures to turn our business back to profit. 36 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH PERFORMANCE TARGETS KEY PERFORMANCE PROGRESS & ACTIVITIES STATUS INDIC ATORS (KPIS) The Stockmann Group’s adjusted operating result in 2019 was EUR We are committed to 90% of personnel have completed the We continued the roll-out of our CoC e-learning In process 29.0 million (28.4, or 10.4 good corporate governance Stockmann Code of Conduct training by programme in the department store in Riga. excluding Nevsky Centre).The and act in compliance the end of 2020 adjusted operating result improved in Lindex but with the Stockmann Code 100% of personnel have completed the 70% (59) of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland and 71% Stockmann’s adjusted operating result was lower of Conduct Stockmann Code of Conduct training by of personnel in Latvia had completed the training by the end than in the previous year. The reported operating the end of 2021 of 2019. result was EUR 13.3 million. The objective of 2020 is to improve the Group’s operating result We create added value to Positive EBITDA* at the end of 2021 The Group’s EBITDA was EUR 153.0 (76.0) and adjusted On target clearly. The rejuvenation programme in all our stakeholders EBITDA EUR 168.6 (84.3). Stockmann will continue throughout 2020. Our communication is Responsible corporate citizenship We published integrated reviews of the business operations, On target transparent and reliable financials, governance and CSR. We actively communicated READ MORE and we actively engage about our CSR work. from Financial Statements at in society year2019.stockmanngroup.com We participated in charity projects and initiated an ongoing charity collaboration as part of the renewed loyalty program MyStockmann. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED * Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization The Stockmann Group’s operations bring economic added value to the company’s financial year 2018. The Board of Directors will stakeholders, operating areas and market propose to the Annual General Meeting, that areas. The majority of the economic added no distribution of funds is to be made for the value goes into personnel salaries and other 2019 financial year. remuneration, as well as to goods and materials suppliers and service providers Stockmann plc shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. At the end of 2019, Stockmann had 43 394 registered shareholders, compared with 44 393 a year earlier. Our communication The dividend policy set by Stockmann’s Board is transparent and of Directors is to distribute more than half of the earnings from ordinary operations. In reliable accordance with a resolution of the Annual General Meeting, no dividend was paid for the 37 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 VALUE TO STAKEHOLDERS Impacts Resources CUSTOMERS Sales excluding VAT, other operating income, financial income PROFESSIONAL STAFF � ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES Salaries, wages, pension BRAND STOCKMANN contributions and other benefits PRODUCTS GROUP SOCIETY Social security payments & taxes OMNICHANNEL SERVICES SUPPLIERS & OTHER PARTNERS FINANCIAL RESOURCES Cost of goods, materials & services & PROPERTIES INVESTORS & SHAREHOLDERS NATURAL RESOURCES Financial expenses DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS EUR million 2019 2018* 2017* 2016* 2015* Producing added value Customers Sales excluding VAT, other operating income, financial income 961.5 1 026.2 1 060.3 1 177.5 1 435.8 Good suppliers and service providers Cost of goods, materials and services purchased, includes capital goods and paid rents -630.2 -756.9 -790.5 -864.9 -1 147.6 ADDED VALUE PRODUCED BY STOCKMANN 331.3 269.3 269.8 312.6 288.3 Distribution of added value Personnel Salaries, wages and pension contributions -178.9 -188.6 -201.6 -233.0 -281.9 Shareholders Dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investors Financial expenses -53.7 -35.3 -31.8 -23.9 -22.1 Public sector Other social security payments, taxes -47.1 -37.6 -53.2 -50.1 -54.7 DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS IN TOTAL -279.8 -261.4 -286.7 -307.0 -358.7 Retained in the company to develop operations 51.6 7.9 -16.9 5.6 -70.4 * Continuing operations Stockmann Delicatessen operations has been reported as discontinued operations in 2018 and 2017, the comparison year 2016 has been restated. The department store business in Russia has been reported as discontinued operations in 2016 and 2015. 38 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 CHARIT Y COOPERATION of Finnish children. In addition, Stockmann bags are donated to causes that drive handled confidentially. All incidents are reported As part of its CSR work, Stockmann may make took part in a campaign organised by Senior sustainable development. In 2019, over EUR to the Head of Internal Audit and to the Director donations to non-profit public benefit Care for Seniors Living at Home (Kotona 300 000 was donated to finance the joint of Legal Affairs. In 2019, no severe incidents were organisations that fund education, culture, Asuen Seniorihoiva), encouraging project with WaterAid in Bangladesh and to reported through the channel. research and other social projects in the customers to buy Christmas flowers for support CottonConnect’s project ‘Women in countries where Stockmann operates. Charity lonely elderly people. With the help of the Cotton’. CSR ORGANISATION work is guided by the company’s donation campaign, the organisation delivered nearly • In Lindex’s round-up campaigns, customers Stockmann’s CSR Steering Group, whose policy. The Group’s business units may also 1,700 flower donations purchased from were invited to round-up their purchases Chairman is Jukka Naulapää, Director of Legal support non-profit projects of public benefit Stockmann department stores to surprise with an amount of their choice. With the Affairs, is responsible for steering, developing organisations as part of their commercial seniors. 2019 campaigns, over EUR 100 000 was and monitoring CSR within the Stockmann campaigns and activities. Read more. • During the Christmas season, a small paper donated to WaterAid and School of Hope in Group. Christmas tree was given to customers in the Bangladesh. Riga department store for every purchase • In fall 2019, Stockmann launched the that exceeded EUR 100. In the spring, the The CSR Steering Group approves guidelines, renewed loyal customer program, department store, together with a local sets CSR ambition and defines CSR projects MyStockmann, in Finland. The renewed organization “Latvijas valsts meži” (Latvian CORPORATE which are implemented with the help of normal program includes ongoing charity forests), will plant as many trees as paper management systems. The CSR strategy is collaboration. As part of the program, Christmas trees were given. GOVERNANCE developed and followed up in the Steering Stockmann annually donates a sum based The principles guiding Stockmann’s operations Group and approved by the Stockmann on loyal customer progress to the charity are described at the beginning of this review, in Management Team. Separate working groups organisations Plan International Finland, • Lindex is one of the main partners of the the section ‘CSR approach’. are set up as necessary to prepare or WWF Finland, and Hope ry. The donated Pink Ribbon Project. In the 2019 campaign, implement the issues or decisions that have sum for 2019 was nearly EUR 15 000. Lindex, together with its customers, donated GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS been dealt with by the CSR Steering Group. • The department store in Riga continued its approximately EUR 1 million to support Stockmann Group uses a group-wide Stockmann’s Communications and CSR charity campaign to reduce the use of plastic cancer research. Since 2003, Lindex’s whistleblowing reporting channel, which is function is responsible for development, shopping bags together with WWF Latvia, campaigns have collected a total of nearly provided by an external partner. The channel is a coordination and reporting of the Group’s CSR donating funds to the Baltic Sea protection EUR 14.8 million for the campaign. tool for Stockmann’s own employees, as well as activities. work. • Lindex highlighted WaterAid’s important for business partners and other stakeholders, to • Stockmann.com and stockmanngroup.com work to empower women all over the world anonymously report any suspected or detected frontpages were given for the use of Red on International Women’s Day. Lindex violations of the Code of Conduct or other Lindex Management Group is responsible for Cross during the Hunger Day fundraising. donated EUR 136 486 of the sales from corporate policies using the channel. the overall sustainability direction, goals and • Stockmann, together with Save the Children, March 8, 2019, to WaterAid and their work in Stockmann’s employees also have the possibility strategies with support from the Corporate organised a charity campaign at Stockmann increasing access to clean water, sanitation to report any suspicions to their supervisor, their Sustainability Team. The Corporate department stores in Finland during the and improved hygiene in the world’s poorest unit’s security manager, the company Sustainability Team has overall responsibility Christmas season. In collaboration with our communities. management, the legal department, or the for developing sustainability at Lindex and the customers, we donated approximately EUR • Lindex charge for shopping bags on all own Group’s Internal Audit. All whistleblowing reports team works closely together with the 25 800 to support the studies and hobbies markets and the surplus from the sales of and discussions are treated seriously and Production Sustainability Teams. Each 39 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS APPROACH STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 department and country organisation develops ANTI-CORRUPTION CORRUPTION RISK ASSESSMENT Stockmann’s employees or various its sustainability work in alignment with the AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE The Group’s international operations pose stakeholders could cause reputational damage direction, goals and strategies decided by the challenges for resolute anti-corruption action. for Stockmann as well as a possible financial Management Group. Lindex Corporate BEHAVIOUR Anti-corruption policies are included in the impact. In 2019, there were no confirmed cases Communications Team is responsible for Stockmann strives to carry out Stockmann Supplier Code of Conduct, Lindex of corruption and Stockmann was not sustainability communication and reporting. transparent and responsible Code of Conduct and amfori BSCI Code of informed of any corruption-related lawsuits operations. Stockmann’s policies Conduct, which are implemented in our own against the Group. relating to anti-corruption and brands’ supply chain. HUMAN RIGHTS anti-competitive behaviour are included in the The Board of Directors has approved the COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING Stockmann Code of Conduct and further company’s risk management policies, which ON CODE OF CONDUCT ASSESSMENT specified in the Stockmann anti-corruption concern all of the Stockmann Group’s divisions Employees are trained in matters related to the The Stockmann Group respects policy. Both are available on the Group website. and areas of business. The functionality of Code of Conduct and encouraged to contact and promotes all human rights, as Stockmann’s employees and internal control is monitored by the Internal their supervisor if the best course of action is defined in the Code of Conduct management must act in the best interests of Audit, which operates as an independent unit unclear. The Group’s Code of Conduct is and the supplementary Human the company and in a manner that avoids under the CEO and reports its observations to published on the Group website and Rights principles. Most of the Stockmann conflicts of interest. For years already, the Board Audit Committee. Stockmann’s communicated internally via the intranet. Group’s own employees work in countries Stockmann personnel has been instructed on Board of Directors and the Group Management Stockmann continued the roll-out of the CoC classified by the amfori BSCI as low-risk Stockmann policies regarding the acceptance of Team regularly evaluate the risk factors to which e-learning programme. At the end of 2019, 70% countries for human rights violations. samples, gifts, travel expenses or other monetary business operations are exposed and the (59) of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland and In 2019, we continued the due diligence benefits, especially from suppliers, through the sufficiency of risk management actions, as a 71% of personnel in Latvia had completed the project where we study the fulfilment of human Employee Discount Rules. part of the strategy process. Risk management training. Of the members in the Stockmann rights in Lindex sales and franchise countries Likewise, the Lindex Ethical Policy has is supported by internal control systems and support functions and department store and human rights assessment with our key provided a foundation for counteracting all guidelines. Risk management guidelines have management teams, 75% (94) had completed stakeholders. The project is planned to be forms of corruption at Lindex. It has been applied been drawn up separately for the following the training. The long-term target is for 100% of finished in 2020. Human rights assessment in in all countries of operation and all suppliers are areas, among others: ICT and information the Group’s personnel to have completed the the supply chain is discussed in section informed of this before entering into security, finance operations, environmental training. ‘Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices and cooperation. For example, our suppliers are not issues, misconduct, security and insurance. The Human Rights’ and on the Stockmann Group permitted to give any gifts, other than ordinary divisions’ respective management is READ MORE website. courtesy corporate gifts, or any other benefits to responsible for making financial and strategic The company’s risk management, risk factors and internal control systems are individual employees. plans in their own units and for analysing explained in more detail in the 2019 Stockmann is a founding member of business risks and evaluating actions, as a part Corporate Governance review at READ MORE year2019.stockmanngroup.com www.stockmanngroup.com Transparency Suomi ry, the Finnish chapter of of strategic planning. Business risks are also Transparency International, an organisation analysed outside the strategic process and operating in 90 countries that works to combat reported to the Board of Directors as needed. international bribery and corruption. Unethical business practices among 40 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure number GRI content Location (page in CSR review) Additional information or omissions GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organisation GRI content index Stockmann Oyj Abp 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Stockmann Group in brief (3), Stakeholder The origin, production conditions and health impact of products are a topic of public discussion. Topics raised Engagement (10), Inspiration for responsible choices by our stakeholders are presented in section 'Stakeholder Engagement' and the relevant section of this review. (11-20) For example materials of animal origin are dealt with in the Group's product guidelines http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/product-guidelines. 102-3 Location of headquarters Stockmann Group in brief (3) Helsinki, Finland 102-4 Location of operations Stockmann Group in brief (3), Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20), GRI content index: disclosure number 102-6 102-5 Ownership and legal form Our year 2019 Business Review, Financial Review 2019 102-6 Markets served Stockmann Group in brief (3), GRI content index Stockmann: in total 8 department stores and 3 properties in Finland, Estonia and Latvia. Stockmann has made a licensing agreement concerning the use of the Stockmann brand in Russia until 2023. Reviva Holding Limited’s subsidiary AO Stockmann Reviva has been responsible for the Stockmann department stores’ operations in Russia since 1 February 2016. The sale of Stockmann’s Nevsky Centre shopping centre in Russia was completed in January 2019. Stockmann’s online shop available in Finland and additionally in Estonia during Crazy Days campaign. Lindex: In 2019, Lindex had 464 fashion stores. 424 own stores were located in 10 countries in Europe: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, UK. 41 franchise stores were located in 9 countries: Saudi Arabia, Bosnia Herze-Govina, Serbia, Iceland, Kosovo, Albania, Qatar, Tunisia, Denmark. Lindex online shop available in 31 countries: Austria, Belgium, Bosnia Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, United Kingdom. In addittion, Lindex’s products are sold in the online stores of Asos, Bootz, Nelly and Zalando. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Our year 2019 Business Review 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Responsible work community (27-34) 102-9 Supply chain Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply Financial Review / Report by the Board of Directors, The sale of Stockmann’s Nevsky Centre shopping centre in Russia was completed in January 2019. The chain Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20), Stockmann Retail and Real Estate divisions as well the Group’s shared functions was combined into a new GRI content index division, Stockmann, as of 1 July 2019. The Group’s reporting segments are Lindex and Stockmann. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the Bord of Directors, Corporate Governance Review 102-12 External initiatives Our approach 5-10), Sustainable business approach (35-39) 102-13 Membership of associations stockmanngroup.com http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/activities-in-organisations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our year 2019 Business Review 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Our approach (5-10), Sustainable business approach (35-39) 41 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Disclosure number GRI content Location (page in CSR review) Additional information or omissions 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Sustainable business approach (35-39) Stockmann Group uses a group-wide whistleblowing reporting channel, which is provided by an external partner. The channel is a tool for Stockmann’s own employees, as well as for business partners and other stakeholders, to anonymously report any suspected or detected violations of the Code of Conduct or other corporate policies using the channel. Whistleblowing service and its instructions are available at http://www. stockmanngroup.com/en/code-of-conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance review, Sustainable business approach (35-39) 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Reporting principles and materiality (9), and social topics Stakeholder engagement (10) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate Governance review committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance review 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance review Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement (10) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Responsible work community (31) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Reporting principles and materiality (9), Stakeholder engagement (10) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Reporting principles and materiality (9), Stakeholder engagement (10) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Reporting principles and materiality (9), Stakeholder engagement (10) Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial review, Notes to the Consolidated Financial All the annual reviews are available at year2019.stockmanngroup.com. statements Statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Reporting principles and materiality (9) 102-47 List of material topics Reporting principles and materiality (9) 102-48 Restatements of information GRI content index Changes are reported in connection with relevant performance indicators. 102-49 Changes in reporting Reporting principles and materiality (9) Changes are reported in connection with relevant performance indicators. 102-50 Reporting period GRI content index The reporting period for the review is the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI content index The previous report, covering the year 2018, was published on 27th of February, 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI content index Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI content index csr@stockmann.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI About the review (2), GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 102-56 External assurance GRI content index The report has not been reviewed in full by a third party. Financial indicators, which are presented in the financial statements, are assured by authorised public accountants. MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reporting principles and materiality (9) 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI content index The management approach is presented in connection with each material topic 42 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Disclosure number GRI content Location (page in CSR review) Additional information or omissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI content index Evaluation of the management approach is continuous activity. Based on the evaluation, changes are made to practices in day-to-day management, as part of annual planning, as well as strategic planning. Based on the evaluation, changes have been made to management methods, for example, in connection with organizational changes. TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. Economic impacts 201 Economic performance Sustainable business approach (35-39) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable business approach'. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Sustainable business approach (35-39), Responsible work community (31) 204 Procurement practices Inspiration fo responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration fo responsible choices'. 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Not reported The aspect is defined material but the indicator is not suitable. Information on Procurement practices is provided in section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. List of Stockmann's own brands suppliers and procuders is available at http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-and-factory-list and factories used by Lindex for manufacturing, processing and tier 2 can be found at https://about.lindex.com/sustainability/how-we-work/suppliers-and-factories/ 205 Anti-corruption Sustainable business approach (35-39) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable business approach'. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Sustainable business approach (35-39) policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Sustainable business approach (35-39) 206 Anti-competitive behaviour Sustainable business approach (35-39) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable business approach'. 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, Sustainable business approach (35-39) There were no legal actions or fines for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices or their and monopoly practices outcomes in 2019. Environmental impacts Environment 301 Materials Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration fo responsible choices'. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials GRI content index The aspect is defined material but the suggested indicator is not suitable. Information on the fullfilmment of producer responsibility and regarding opportunities to recycle for customers is provided in section' Inspiration for responsible choices', chapter 'services to support a responsible lifestyle (page 13). 302 Energy Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable shopping enviroment'. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) Figures include energy consumption in owned and leased properties/premises. 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) A limited amount of data is collected on energy consumption outside the organisation for disclosure 305-3. 303 Water and effluents Our approach (5-10), Inspiration for responsible choices The aspect is not defined material. The management approach is described in the sections ‘Our approach’, (11-20), Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26), ‘Sustainable shopping enviroment’ and ‘Inspiration for responsible choices’. GRI content index Water Consumption in Own Activity Waste water is covered in the section ‘Sustainable shopping environment’ in the chapter ‘Effluents and waste’. The wastewater from operations goes into the municipal sewer systems. The company has no emissions into the water system. Water is not recycled or reused in the operations. Indirect Water Consumption Use of water in our supply chain is explained in the section ‘Inspiration for responsible choices’ in the chapter ‘Supplier Assessment for environmental practices’ (page 20). Our indirect impacts also include water use in the usage phase, such as washing clothes at home. This topic is discussed in the section ‘Inspiration for responsible choices’ in the chapter ‘Services to support a responsible lifestyle’ (page 13). 303-3 Water withdrawal Sustainable shopping enviroment (23) 304 Biodiversity Not reported The aspect is not defined material. The company’s department stores and stores are located in areas zoned as commercial properties. As commercial functions are not located in conservation areas or other areas rich in terms of biodiversity, the Group’s impacts on biodiversity are low. 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Disclosure number GRI content Location (page in CSR review) Additional information or omissions 305 Emissions Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable shopping enviroment'. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) Indirect scope 3 emissions are presented where relevant: the biggest such can be attributed to logistics and waste. 306 Effluents and waste Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable shopping enviroment'. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainable shopping enviroment (21-26) Social impacts 401 Employment Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Responsible work community (27-34) Not reported by gender or age group, information not available. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Responsible work community (27-34) Benefits exceeding the statutory level have not been reported in detail. provided to temporary or part-time employees Practices vary between operating countries. 402 Labour/Management relations Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI content index Stockmann operates according to the notice periods specified in local labour legislation in all its operating countries. In Finland, the notice period is between two weeks and six months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship. In Sweden, the minimum is between one week to several months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship and nature of changes. Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes have not been defined in retail sector collective bargaining agreements. 403 Occupational health and safety Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 403-3 Occupational health services Responsible work community (27-34) 403-9 Work-related injuries Responsible work community (27-34) In 2019 there were no fatalities as a result of work-related injury and no high-consequence work-related injuries. 404 Training and education Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Responsible work community (27-34) Reported partially. Information about traning hours at Stockmann could not be collected for 2019. At Lindex, training hours per employee for store personnel was 9 hours (8 hours). Training hours for personnel in the Head Offices and Production offices has not been collected in equal detail. Information about training by gender is not available. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Responsible work community (27-34) Reported partially. Information about performance reviews at Stockmann could not be collected for 2019. and career development reviews 405 Diversity and equal opportunity Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Responsible work community (27-34) Comparison figures are in part inadequate. Information on minority group membership is not collected, as this is not permitted under Finnish legislation. Employees according to employee category not reported. The aim is to report the information in the future. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Responsible work community (27-34) men 406 Non-discrimination Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Responsible work community (27-34) 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Responsible work community (27-34) The management approach is described in the section 'Responsible work community'. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Responsible work community (27-34) Most of the Stockmann Group’s own employees work in countries classified by the amfori BSCI as low-risk of association and collective bargaining may be at risk countries for human rights violations. The fullfillment of freedom of association in the supply chain is monitored through own audits and those made by a third party. 412 Human rights assessment Sustainable business approach (35-39) The management approach is described in the section 'Sustainable business approach'. 44 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Disclosure number GRI content Location (page in CSR review) Additional information or omissions 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Sustainable business approach (35-39) reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Sustainable business approach (35-39) procedures 414 Supplier social assessment Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) taken 415 Public policy Not reported The aspect is not defined material. 415-1 Political contributions GRI content index Stockmann does not make political contributions or donations to any politicians, political parties or related organizations, either directly or indirectly. 416 Customer health and safety Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) safety impacts of products and services 417 Marketing and labelling Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) communications 418 Customer privacy Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) customer privacy and losses of customer data 303: Water and effluents and 403: Occupational health and safety, version 2018. All other standards, version 2016. Customer Satisfaction (own topic) Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) The management approach is described in the section 'Inspiration for responsible choices'. Net promoter score (NPS), likelihood to recommend Inspiration for responsible choices (11-20) service Aleksanterinkatu 52 B P.O. BOX 220 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 9 1211 stockmann.com stockmanngroup.com
