COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Bridge International Academies Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: September 2019 To: July 2020 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 10th July 2019 To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Bridge International Academies (Bridge) supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we re-confirm our intent to continue to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborations which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We launched Bridge because we believe every child has the right to a highquality education. Over the last decade, we have become a leading implementing organization of SDG 4 in Sub Saharan Africa, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. At present, Bridge is educating more than 750,000 students in more than 2,000 run or supported nursery and primary schools across Kenya, Uganda, Nigeria, Liberia and India. We do this by effectively partnering with governments, communities, teachers and parents to deliver evidence based quality education for junior secondary, primary and preprimary school children. Our 1 Bridge International Academies commitment to providing technical support to governments in order to transform their public education systems is delivering transformational learning at scale and showing what is possible. This commitment has continued during the widespread closure of schools as a result of COVID-19. In order to support the continuation of meaningful learning, Bridge developed the @home programme​, a 360 learning remote programme designed for low income and low infrastructure communities. The multichannel, integrated approach is designed to reach as many students as possible, while achieving as a collection of components the core interactions needed to make home learning engaging. Both our school based academic programming and our @home academic programming are based upon clear instructional design principles that have been proven to deliver improved learning outcomes. Multiple national exam results achieved and a Randomised Control Trial (RCT) published over the course of this year; indicates that Bridge continues to produce improved outcomes. We are committed to supporting governments to deliver system transformation while providing communities and parents the education they are looking for. Jay Kimmleman CEO, Bridge International Academies Bridge International Academies 2. Description of Actions Human Rights Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: 1. Bridge is an equal opportunity employer. We make all employment decisions without regard to age, race, colour, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, tribe, marital status, or any other basis prohibited by applicable laws. This policy applies to all of the terms and conditions of employment. We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. We do not tolerate any kind of harassment at the workplace. 2. We ensure that all our employees & contractors are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have in place an occupational health & safety policy that we execute across all our schools and support offices. 3. We have a policy on whistleblowing that allows our employees to escalate serious matters anonymously that impact the group or public interest. 4. We do not condone any form of child abuse in form of violence, and inhuman treatment and punishment administered to any of its pupils. This may take the form of physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse or neglect. Our child protection policy sets out the critical guidelines that all our employees and visitors should adhere to, to protect children and other young people who are the subject of Bridge’s services and care. It also sets out best practices that we should follow to achieve our objective to safeguard the welfare of all children and young people. 5. We don’t manufacture any of the goods that we provide in relation to education. Uniforms, books, teacher computers etc. are procured for school use. Our primary supply chain is for printed materials such as textbooks, teacher tablets, smartphones, school uniforms and limited construction materials used for repair. We do not believe that there is high risk of child labour for any of these items. Bridge International Academies Labour Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: 1. Bridge does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. In each country, we comply with the minimum age for employment for our staff whether its school staff such as teachers or support office staff. 2. We comply with minimum wage standards across all countries where we operate for all our employees. We also comply with applicable laws governing contract labourers. 3. Conflict management: we have run our own Customer Care centre, that serves to track issues raised by school staff, support staff, or the general public, and ensure that every issue is resolved. By running such an intensive and comprehensive Customer Care function, Bridge prevents miscommunication, small issues or needs for regular maintenance from becoming more serious issues. With extensive organizational attention on solving issues through the Customer Care centre, Bridge achieves both parent satisfaction and employee satisfaction. In 2019, Bridge was named one of the Top Ten Employers in Africa for those wanting to make a difference in society, and consistently scored above 84% for parent satisfaction. In addition, 91% of Bridge parents have expressed satisfaction with the Bridge@Home learning implemented to Bridge International Academies ensure children continue learning while out of school due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 4. In addition to our Customer Care Centre, we run proactive audits to shine specific focus on areas of potential risk, investing in a field-based Quality Assurance team, in place since 2011, that visits 10% of schools daily. The results of these audits are tracked by the Operations and Schools teams, and any failure against standard is logged with the Customer Care team for routing and action. In this way, potential issues not yet reported by school staff or other support office staff are caught early by the Quality Assurance audit team. 5. We have instituted a grievance mechanism for those conflicts or concerns which do not get resolved using our internal processes. This complements our Sexual Harassment & Whistleblowing policies. 6. We respect and enforce the right of workers to exercise their freedom of association to join any organisation, in accordance with applicable laws. 7. We launched MyBridge, an interactive intranet platform to improve staff cohesion. Launched during pandemic, the platform includes up to date health and safety information on the COVID crisis and where feedback is also received. 8. We run a range of reward and recognition programs including the launch of a Teacher Awards Program to reward and incentivise school staff to succeed. Bridge International Academies Environment Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: 1. We have an environmental & social policy which has been continually updated and we recently updated it to include a Bridge Water Remediation Plan and a Bridge Environmental & Social Management System. 2. Bridge follows environmental guidelines by National Environmental Management Authorities. We have created an Internal Environmental Impact Assessment procedure which has been added to our policy. 3. Our Environmental & Social Management System includes the following procedures: a. procedures for compliance in regulatory requirements b. procedures for contractors collecting sewage c. procedures for ongoing monitoring of food and water quality. d. procedures that ensure an approach to ensure compliance to the World Health Organization document “Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Standards for Schools in Low-cost Settings” (2009) in programmes where Bridge is responsible for WASH. 4. Our Occupational Health & Safety Policy also includes a Life, Fire and Safety Master Plan to deal with contingencies by detailing emergency response plans and procedures. 5. Bridge does not condone any form of child abuse in form of violence, and inhuman treatment and punishment administered to any of its pupils. This may take the form of physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse or neglect. Our child protection policy sets out the critical guidelines that all our employees and visitors should adhere to, to protect children and other young people who are the subject of Bridge’s services and care. It also sets out best practices that we should follow to achieve our objective to safeguard the welfare of all children and young people. 6. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we instituted a COVID committee and put in place Safety protocols with frequent communication to staff on health and safety guidelines to ensure safety of staff and prevention of the spread of the coronavirus in the workplace. 7. Subsequently, we instituted a comprehensive Work From Home Policy to ensure staff were able to shelter in place and support governments in their attempts to tackle COVID-19. Bridge International Academies Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: 1. We prohibit our employees from engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. 2. We have also set out a detailed policy on conflict of interest that all staff employees & contractors are required to adhere. 3. We welcome anonymous feedback on any potential wrongdoing within the organisation through our whistleblowing policy. We offer our employees multiple channels of communication to share confidential data relating to any such wrongdoing. 4. If an employee, upon investigation, is established to have committed any fraudulent activity including engaging in acts of bribery or corruption, they will be subject to summary dismissal. Our disciplinary procedure lays out the process that we would follow prior to reaching such an outcome. 5. Bridge adheres to the law as established by the UK Bribery Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and all other relevant laws governing bribery and corruption. Bridge International Academies 6. When any gifts are being purchased for officials and external stakeholders (in accordance with applicable laws and our internal Business Entertainment policy), the expenditure must be legal and not violate the UK Bribery Act or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other act of law or any employee policy. 3. Measurement of Outcomes In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to ​measure outcomes​. 1. The breakdown of female versus male employees as of June 2020 are as follows: Level Male Female Employees Employees Board of Directors 5 3 CEO 1 0 Bridge International Academies Senior Leadership 29 30 (In-country Directors/ Global Directors/ Vice Presidents etc.) Middle 359 266 Management Skilled workers 1571 2951 Unskilled workers 319 148 2. Bridge is focussed on measuring the improvement of learning outcomes in the classrooms that it runs and supports. As a result of innovative teacher and school leaders training and support programmes, we are delivering proven learning gains consistently and at scale, in government​ ​schools. In Liberia, a randomised-control trial of Bridge run government schools revealed​ t​ hat students in Bridge-supported government schools had the equivalent of 2.5 years of additional learning compared to their peers. In co-authored study by UNESCO’s Vice Chair of the Education Commission and Head of Education Delivery at the Ministry of Education in Liberia, Eighty-one per cent of students who joined a Bridge supported LEAP school in the first grade and spent 2½ years in a Bridge supported classroom are proficient or basic readers; compared to only 33% of students in traditional public schools. Over five consecutive years pupils in Kenya have significantly outperformed the nationwide average in the national primary school exit exam. In 2019, those at Bridge schools exceeded their peers nationwide by​ an average of 16 points higher than pupils nationally, a difference of 0.25 standard deviations—equivalent to just over one year of additional schooling; This is even more impressive considering the national average includes elite private schools. In Uganda, pupils have outperformed the nationwide average in the national primary school leavers’ exam (PLE) three years in a row. In 2019, ​80% of pupils who have been at Bridge for five or more years achieved marks in the highest two divisions ( 1 and 2); compared to only 57% nationally; giving them access to some of the country’s best secondary schools​. Bridge International Academies
