Communication On Progress Report AUGUST 2019 AUGUST 2020 www.nendo.co.ke Message of support To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Nendo Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. At Nendo, our mission is to provide digital insights about Africans by Africans in Africa. Insights matter on a continent where necessity is the mother of invention. In our inaugural Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles as well as the SDGs into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and commit to using the SDGs to guide us as we navigate through the COVID-19 pandemic. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Mark Kaigwa, Founder and CEO, Nendo Limited. Communication On Progress Report 02 Human Rights Principles Principles 01 Principles 02 Businesses should support and Make sure that they are respect the protection of not complicit in human internationally proclaimed rights abuses human rights. How we support the principles above? In 2019, Nendo Limited developed a human resource policy. The policy was shared with all employees and consultants and continues to be shared to new employees at the time of hiring. It details the employees’ rights within the company and is designed to protect employees and consultants in the conduct of business. Communication On Progress Report 03 SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being Nendo believes that it’s employees are its most valued resource and works to develop and find opportunities to support the employees’ wellness. To achieve the above, Nendo has undertaken the following: Providing employees with Health Insurance and coverage Regularly sharing mental health resources with all the staff and especially now, during the COVID-19 Pandemic. A mental health session was conducted recently by Nendo’s staff named Vanessa and the document shared to the public for free. The document can be found here Nendo paid for a wellness session at Acacia studios -Viking House for all interested members of staff. Providing a healthy snack provided at our weekly meetings for the entire team Putting in place measures to help protect employees and their families from contracting COVID-19 through allowing all the staff to work from home and facilitating internet connectivity as well as conducting regular check-ins with employees in order to determine how management can help navigate any challenges they may have as they work from home In the last week of August 2020, there is a scheduled game day where Nendo staff will have an opportunity to engage in virtual games. This is similar to a remote “team building” exercise which is aimed at helping the staff blow off some steam and essentially have some fun together In September 2020, there is a scheduled session by Dr. Ciru Kaigwa where she will share Mental Health coping mechanisms with the Nendo staff. The session is aimed at providing staff with mental health insights from a health professional’s perspective Communication On Progress Report 04 SDG 4: Quality Education One of Nendo’s main values is “Each One Teach One”. Nendo strives to provide employees with continuous opportunities to improve their skills for their current and future employment through: A bi-weekly session known as Thirsty Thursday which involves having a designated speaker (who is either a Nendo employee, or an invited guest) speaking to the Nendo team on a subject of choice in order to improve their learning in diverse subjects. These sessions are shared to the public through Nendo’s social media channels to promote education amongst members of the public as well Offering staff members training in order for each person to develop themselves professionally Paid subscriptions for online classes for the whole team through a platform called SkillShare Communication On Progress Report 05 Labour Principles 03 Principles 04 Principles 05 Principles 06 Businesses should uphold the The elimination of all forms of The effective abolition of The elimination of freedom of association and the forced and compulsory labour child labour discrimination in respect of effective recognition of the right to employment and occupation collective bargaining How we support the principles above? Nendo supports the principles above by: Offering employment contracts that are written in accordance with Kenyan Labour laws Being an equal opportunity employer, and not discriminating on the basis of race, gender, age or colour Conducting regular one on one meetings with the Managing Director to ensure that each employee has a chance to speak about any matters that they may want addressed and also to support professional development Ensuring that the pay structure for employees is way above the minimum wage recommended by the Kenyan laws in order to promote financial wellness among employees Regularly conducting anonymous feedback surveys after which the recommendations put forward by employees are implemented Communication On Progress Report 06 Enviroment Principles 07 Principles 08 Principles 09 Businesses should support a Undertake initiatives to promote Encourage the development precautionary approach to greater environmental and diffusion of environmental challenges responsibility environmentally friendly technologies How we support the principles above? In the past 12 months, (August 2019 July 2020), we have increased our efforts to support environmental sustainability in the following ways: Subscribing and paying for G-Suite License to ensure that all our documents are stored digitally in order to reduce printing and paper use Supporting Earth Day by posting about it on our socials so as as to raise awareness and downloading the Earth Day Network and taking part in the challenges Hiring an office that has glass writing boards white board walls installed in order to minimise paper use Largely using reusable coffee cups in place of single-use coffee cups Communication On Progress Report 07 Anti-corruption Measurement of outcomes: The actions We carried out a Human Resource Policy, Nendo paid for fifteen (15) workshops for Principles 10 (HR Policy) training for all employees and the staff ranging from leadership and Businesses should work against subsequent ones for new employees personal development workshops to corruption in all its forms, including work-specific workshops extortion and bribery How we support the principles above? We took the following deliberate steps in support of Anti-Corruption: Nendo paid for 12 Monthly payment for There have been zero incidences of Conducting an audit of company accounts and expenditure Skillshare online classes for the whole corruption in the past year Monitoring the company accounts for any irregularity team so as to facilitate self-paced learning Conducting a background check of possible clients to avoid engaging in corrupt ventures As part of this report, Nendo has determined that it’s best to come up with a written anti-corruption policy document to guide its operations in the coming months. Communication On Progress Report 08 The SDGs at Nendo: Making a Global Impact The following are the ways in which Nendo is further supporting the global goals in addition to SDG 3 & 4 mentioned above. Nendo is supporting SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Technological progress is key to finding lasting solutions to both economic and environmental challenges. SDG 9.c targets significantly increasing access to ICT and striving to provide universal and affordable access to the internet in LDCs by 2020 which Nendo does through research in the ICT sector. In the past year, we have conducted in depth research and provided the reports highlighted below to the public for which we have waived all copyrights under the Creative Commons Licenses. The reports provided shed more light on access to information in ICT in Kenya thus helping Remote working toolkit in increasing access to ICT. The Reports are: CO V I D 1 9 IC VID-19 MPO O COVIDON A C C O T V N O S F I U C D M E1919 RS & IMP CA OCRTPO OR ATE S IN F COVID IMPACT ON CONKENYAOF COVID-19 -19 S U M E RS & & n Publicatio OF ON CONSUMERS A Nendo T A T E CORPOR TH E S 19 ATE S IN D A T A 2 0 CORPORATES KENYA IN MOBILE ontrol KENYA H OW N E E D S , E XPECTATIO NS AND RE SE NT AN D onsu mption, C S ADA PT IN THE P Context, C BE HAVIOUR AVANNAH R SILICON S FUTURE FO H OW N E E D S, E X P BE HAVIO ECTATIO URS ADA NS AND P T IN EXPECTATIONS THE PREAND HOWFUTNEEDS, URE FOR SE NT AN SILIC ON PRESENT D BEHAVIOURS ADAPT IN THE SAVbyANNAAND H FUTURE FOR SILICON SAVANNAH 2020 Digital Trend Report The State of Mobile Data Report COVID-19: Impact of COVID-19 on Consumers & Corporates in Kenya by by pact Communication On Progress Report drive in co m e an d im 09 Insights Insights that that driv e in co m e an d im p a ct Insights that drive income and impact Communication On Progress Report AUGUST 2019 AUGUST 2020
