Sustainability report 2019 Rubrik 1 Content About AR Packaging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03 Sustainable governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 CEO statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04 Sustainable work-life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Comments by the sustainability director . . . . 05 Sustainable innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Our market presence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06 Sustainable operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Our global reach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07 Information and contacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Vision, values and strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 An eventful 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09 Trends within the industry . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Sustainability at AR Packaging . . . . . . . . . . 11 Sustainability targets for 2025 . . . . . . . . . . 12 Rubrik 2 About AR Packaging Sales (MEUR) Plants Countries AR Packaging is one of Europe’s leading companies in the packaging sector, serving many blue-chip companies in the food, 920 28 13 healthcare, beauty, confectionery and Divisions Employees tobacco segments. The Group creates added value for customers through a broad product offering and deep knowledge of packaging. 5 5500 The Group was formed in 2011 when A&R Carton, one of Europe’s leading cartonboard packaging companies, and Flextrus, a market leader in northern Europe in flexible packaging, merged. The head office is situated in Lund, Sweden. AR Packaging presents stable growth and has in recent years made The power of combined skills a number of major acquisitions. In 2019, the Group acquired Nampak AR Packaging has a fully integrated organisation consisting of Carton Nigeria and K+D as well as the agreement to acquire rlc specialised plants, each of which brings vast experience and unique packaging group (including shareholding in the stock listed BSC competencies in their respective field of packaging. Working together Drukarnia Opakowan). This strategic move put AR Packaging in a as one Group means we can offer customers synergies with a broad leading position also on the European beauty & healthcare market offering of cutting-edge packaging solutions. and enables deliveries to its customers from three continents. The products and solutions offered by AR Packaging are mainly Creating the next big thing for nearly a century printed folding cartons and flexible packaging. The offering The origins of today’s AR Packaging date to 1929, when Erik Akerlund also includes everything from proprietary machinery systems to and Ruben Rausing founded a business on the revolutionary idea of packaging design and development. reshaping European retailing with pre-packed goods. Their drive for change has shaped the company ever since, leading to such wellknown developments as the very first “Tetra Pak” for milk. It’s the same innovative spirit that continues to drive every element of what we do today. ABOUT AR PACKAGING 3 We develop solutions “By challenging ourselves and for a better tomorrow driving continuous improvements, we reduce both our own and our customers’ carbon footprint.” 2019 was an eventful year for AR Packaging. Being a pioneer in the consolidation of our industry, we maintained the initiative and made several acquisitions that strengthen our position in the market. Following the acquisitions, we have 28 factories in Europe, continuous improvements, we reduce both our own and Asia and Africa which provide increased opportunities to our customers’ carbon footprint. Some changes are minor, serve our customers. This is in line with our strategy to be such as adjustments in a machine or process that saves close to the customers, building on local presence and resources, while others are larger such as new smart global reach. We have a broad customer base of large packaging. In this report you can see examples of both – international companies as well as medium-sized regional changes that have reduced our environmental impact. and local customers in more than 50 countries globally. Our concept of success is not just about what is good for AR Packaging is one of the leading companies in the the Group, but also what we can do for customers, employees, packaging sector offering a wide portfolio of carton-based our industry and the world. This is the foundation of our work and flexible packaging solutions. Our vision is to create on sustainability. We develop solutions for a better tomorrow. success through packaging. Today, as the Corona pandemic Our business is conducted in a responsible manner. Being a challenges humanity, we are repeatedly reminded that signatory of the United Nations’ Global Compact means we packaging has a mission that is critical to society and submit an annual COP (Communication on Progress) to show needed to protect drugs and medical equipment – thus our efforts to embed the Ten Principles of the UN Global helping to save lives – and to ensure shelf life of sensitive Compact into our business. foods during prolonged transit and storage. After several years of expansion of our Group, with many The demand for high quality packaging solutions is growing acquisitions and subsequent integration of the businesses, and with cartonboard being a fibre-based, renewable and there is a need to take the next step in our sustainability recyclable material with great environmental benefits, work. With this report, we now introduce our updated we see opportunities to grow. Given the EU directive on sustainability targets that encompass our social, environmental the transition to a circular economy and the values of and financial ambitions until 2025. These targets will not increasingly conscious consumers, AR Packaging is well only be key to driving our continued work but will also lay positioned to develop new innovative packaging solutions at the centre when updating our sustainability strategy as a in partnership with our customers. foundation for the future. The report you see in front of you represents one step on the road. Innovation has been part of our DNA since AR Packaging was started in 1929. By challenging ourselves and driving Harald Schulz CEO CEO STATEMENT 4 Embracing change through sustainability We at AR Packaging now find ourselves at the end of a five-year period concerning our sustainability targets. In 2015, we set our focus on raising awareness within the company for sustainability and how we organise our operations relating to carbon emissions, use of energy, food safety, and social standards. While we recognise that there is still work to be done in The focus on products, their recyclability and the avoidance several areas, I am proud to say that there have been of plastics are still of high public interest, which has been important achievements to date. I would like to express fuelled even further by the implementation of the Single-Use my gratitude and appreciation for all the hard and diligent Plastics Directive. As a consequence, we are now seeing a work performed everyday by our many talented colleagues demand shift where our customers are increasingly looking We constantly need to develop and adapt our operations throughout our organisation. for new, innovative packaging solutions. and the way we conduct sustainable, ethical and economically sound business. Much has been done to this end already, Strengthened by these successes, we now look to the but as always, there is room for improvement. Headquartered coming five years and have chosen targets that we believe in Europe, we have the advantage of clear regulations on answer to the challenges ahead. The targets can be found “We constantly need to develop and social and environmental issues that help guide and improve throughout the main sections of this report. adapt our operations and the way how we function. As a global organisation, we have the opportunity and responsibility to assist in transferring these we conduct sustainable, ethical and Commercially, we as a company need to recognise what standards to other countries and help the communities in is happening in the wider public arena. We need to stay economically sound business.” which we operate to grow sustainably. abreast of the changes that may ultimately affect our customers, communities and the wider environment. By introducing our new sustainability targets, the results Changes which will have a significant effect on the direction To meet this shift, we see great business potential for our presented in this report will provide a base line for the of our product development, our work within innovation and sustainably sourced carton-based products, which provide a coming years. In this year’s sustainability report, we therefore how we organise ourselves as a company. valuable contribution to our customers’ sustainability journey. focus on our most crucial sustainability topics and provide We also see a continued relevance for the many benefits insights and examples on how they are managed by our Throughout the past year, the climate debate gained from our flexible packaging range, where especially topics organisation. significant momentum and it became clear that companies of such as product safety and minimised food waste remain high all sizes and industries still need to accelerate their transition on the agenda. Our flexible packaging products provide in I hope you will find our report interesting! to a more circular model. At AR Packaging, we welcome this this context a valuable solution coupled with our continuous development as it reaffirms our commitment to sustainability work to innovate more products with sustainably sourced, Robert Mayr through constant product innovation. renewable raw materials that are designed for recycling. Product Safety and Sustainability Director COMMENTS BY THE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER 5 Our market presence 8% Branded Products Healthcare & Beauty Branded products 13% Our business is structured into five divisions and Healthcare & Beauty Food packaging 39% eight business segments where AR Packaging has FoodFlexibles packaging particularly strong competitive advantages. They are 15% Flexibles all characterised by high demands on all criteria for Systems good packaging: to protect the content, to promote Systems 25% it and to assist the consumer in using the product. Branded Food Healthcare & products packaging Systems Flexibles beauty packaging The Branded Products division The Food Packaging division The Systems division provides The Flexibles division provides The Healthcare & Beauty division offers packaging solutions for develops sustainable solutions to high-performance, tailored barrier packaging solutions that offer offers innovative premium branded consumer goods, with a meet the highest safety demands composite cans which offer ideal barrier protection, brand packaging solutions to the beauty, focus on creating solutions that while also keeping food fresh solutions for products that need expression and consumer pharma, food and confectionery leave an impact on the endand protected from changes in both effective protection and convenience to specific customer industry. The division consists customer. Many of the products temperature and humidity. The value-adding presentation for needs. The range consists of of the two business segments: packed in our carton-based division consists of two business consumers. Proprietary, gas-tight lidding films, thermoformable base Beauty, which provides exclusive solutions are found in the duty-free segments: Food Service, which solutions based on cartonboard webs and materials for sachets, packaging conveying the attributes stores. The division consists of two serves the on-the-go market, and include Boardio®, Sealio® and pouches and more. The advanced of well-being and attractiveness, business segments corresponding Food & Consumer Goods, which Cekacan® systems. The offering multilayer materials are used for and Pharmaceuticals, which to its primary end-markets: supplies packaging for a variety of covers all material components, different consumer food products supplies high-quality packaging Tobacco and Confectionery. store-bought items. complete machinery systems and are also ideal for meeting the where safety is a key aspect of the designed in-house as well as a full strict demands in the healthcare highly regulated industry. service and after-sales portfolio. industry. MARKET PRESENCE 6 ARP white Our global reach Two A year on year sustained profitability of AR Packaging is the additional result of organic growth as well as strategic acquisitions that Additional plants in plant in Poznan have expanded our global footprint. Many of the Group’s major Aachen customers operate on an international market and local service is provided by AR Packaging through its plants across Europe including Russia as well as the plants in Indonesia and Nigeria. Emphasis on this global approach will remain a key part of AR Packaging’s long-term strategy in the coming years. Additional plant in St Gallen Two additional plants in Berlin Additional plant in Hannover New plant in Bawen Additional plant in Nigeria OUR GLOBAL REACH Rubrik 7 Vision, values and business strategy Since the foundation of the AR Packaging the Group has been on an eventful and successful journey of transformation. We have made extensive operational changes and optimised our product offering, allowing us to focus on the development of sustainable and innovative new solutions that are once again reshaping the packaging business. At the same time, we have expanded our global presence through strategic acquisitions in Europe, Africa and Asia and strengthened our position in selected segments. This dual strategy is enabling us to better support our customers in all new ways. The ever ongoing harmonisation of our Group continues A clear business strategy for sustainable and in 2019 the company wide vision and core values were growth updated, based on our current position and to mirror the A long-term, forward-looking approach is at the core of how ambitions we have set for the coming years. AR Packaging works. Since 2012, we have followed a business strategy based on three key objectives: Our vision • Strong growth in applications where we have a We create success through packaging competitive advantage, with focus on selected business We have the goal of always generating the best possible segments result for our customers, for our company and for our • A global approach in core segments with continued employees. By working closely with our customers and expansion beyond Europe understanding their needs we ensure their continued • Improved operational performance and cost efficiency, success – no matter the challenge. And creating success with increasing plant specialisation as well as optimisation for our customers makes our business better. of our product offering and production Our values We are one harmonised group with core values that define our common culture and guide us in everything we do: • We bring knowledge and improvement • We are open and innovative • We act with a sense of urgency • We strive towards a more sustainable tomorrow VISION, VALUES AND BUSINESS STRATEGY 8 An eventful 2019 AR Packaging had an eventful 2019 with many 2019 product launches meeting the fundamental market shifts and major acquisitions of very high strategic importance for the Group’s future development. 2019-11-13 Consolidation the European healthcare and beauty packaging market through the acquisition of K+D, Switzerland, and the agreement to acquire rlc packaging (including shares in BSC Drukarnia Opakowan). The acquisitions elevated AR 2019-06-04 Packaging to a leading market position also in the healthcare, Expansion of the 2019-03-13 2019-09-23 pharma and beauty segment. Group’s cold foil 2019-02-08 Market introduction capabilities for Two Pro Carton ECMA gold premium packaging Four prizes won at The German Design of the small size awards won for user-friendly through investment at Awards for packaging for Domino’s high fibre content and sustainable cartonthe Frankfurt plant. Chicken Box, Schnitzel Joker Curry composite can based packaging solutions Wurst Pommes Kombibox, Tenz – system Boardio®. for Steadysense – 2-in-1 PEEKBOX and Nalle Oat Flakes. Flexi shipping and Mawu. 2019-08-08 Santa Maria tortillas were launched in a new paper2019-04-03 based barrier packaging which reduced plastics used and Expansion of the Group’s lowered the CO2 footprint. 2019-02-27 footprint to be on three 2019-10-24 continents through the Launch of market’s first pressed Market introduction of fibre-based acquisition of Nampak board tray concept for MAP cutlery in cooperation with Bionatic Cartons Nigeria. (modified atmosphere packaging) to meet the changed market needs as a replacement for plastic trays. due to the Single-Use-Plastic directive. 2019 IN SHORT 9 The role of packaging is becoming increasingly important In order to gain competitive edge, AR Packaging stays current on portability and portioned food which naturally raises clear the predominant trends in the packaging industry. These trends are sustainability challenges as it may induce the need for more packaging. This reaffirms the need for packaging bringing new challenges and emerging opportunities that contribute to development that considers waste minimisation and the use of environmentally sound materials. AR Packaging’s strategy going forward. The global packaging market is set to expand by almost 3% annually, reaching over $1.2 trillion by Reducing global food waste Food waste is one of the greatest sustainability issues of 2028.1 At the same time, there is a strong demand for sustainable our time. Roughly one third of all produced food is not packaging driven by consumers and legalisation. With AR packaging’s eaten and the packaging industry could have a key role to play in reducing this amount. Innovative packaging that leading technological and innovative position, this offers great may extend shelf life, better protect food contents and opportunities and potential for innovation. optimise access can contribute to minimising food waste. This, together with technological advances, present new business opportunities especially for flexible packaging that Growing consumer awareness aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2050, provides easy opening, dispensing and easy reclosure. Expectations regarding sustainability are rising and purand requires all plastic packaging to be recyclable by 2030.4 The global food waste challenge is also helped with chasing decisions have to an increasing degree become In addition to this, the European Single-Use Plastics Directive adjusted pack sizes to ensure all content can be consumed more value driven. Consumers are now more engaged and (SUP) forbids single-use plastic items by mid-2021. and not wasted. want to know about a company’s goals for sustainability, These developments pose clear challenges to the packaging where product packaging is one important factor. According industry, but at the same time have the potential to create Other current trends to a report by Nielsen, 66% of consumers are willing to pay new markets, stimulate technological advances and provide In addition to the aforementioned trends, the increasing more for a product from a sustainable brand.2 A study important business opportunities. consumer focus on health and well-being as well as conducted by Pro Carton also shows that 90% of consumers individualisation of products, and consequently packaging, want brands to have on-pack labelling to demonstrate More food is consumed on the go are important aspects to consider for the packaging industry. environmentally-friendly packaging.3 Brand sustainability Due to busy lifestyles and more people on the move, The Coronavirus outbreak has demonstrated the crucial role and recycled packaging is shifting from “nice to have” to consumers are trending toward convenient on-the-go of the packaging industry to deliver reliable, safe and secure a natural expectation for consumers and, as a response, food options. The overall food service packaging market packaging during uncertain times. The pandemic has had companies are increasingly prioritising packaging materials is expected to grow to USD 84.33 billion by 2022 and the significant consequences for the packaging industry with and designs that show their commitment to the environment. market for flexible packaging is expected to grow at the raised demands for packaging for groceries and healthcare highest rate.5 Here packaging plays a crucial role as demand products. The pandemic has also accelerated the already Legislation paving the way for flexible and rigid packs that are able to maintain product strong online shopping trend. The volume of products The EU has set its target on making Europe a world leader safety with regards to hygiene, quality, and freshness has shipped globally is rising and packages are now travelling in circular economy and the EU Green Deal is an important risen. Moreover, on-the-go consumption creates demand farther through longer, more complex cross-border logistical step in that direction. The deal is an ambitious project, as it for added pack functionality, such as easy-open, ease of networks. 1 4 Smithers, ‘The Future of Packaging: Long Term Strategic Forecast to 2028 European Commission. 2 5 3 Nielsen, ‘Nielsen Global Corporate Sustainability Report Market and markets, ‘Food service packaging market Global forecast to 2022’ TRENDS WITHIN THE INDUSTRY 10 Pro Carton, ‘European Consumer Packaging Study’ Sustainability at AR Packaging Our business, as well as our approach to sustainability, is guided by our vision – To create success through packaging. In the context of sustainability, success means fulfilling the needs of today without jeopardising the welfare of future generations, which requires both an innovative and curious mindset. At AR Packaging, our values are the foundation of everything we do, and these values drive us to constantly explore new ideas, to find new solutions and to collaborate in new ways. Success for our customers, our industry, We use our innovative spirit to lead and take ownership and the world of the development within our industry. In doing so, we Our vision of success is central to how we as a company aim to drive and shape the industry for another century. address sustainability and has a direct bearing on how we With our business model to develop solutions for a better relate to our customers, our industry and to the surrounding tomorrow, we have a holistic view and consider all aspects of world. We want to be the preferred partner for sustainable sustainability, whether it is the final packaging product or our packaging solutions, recognised for our expertise and impact as a company. We have set a standard for ourselves leadership in innovation. to always have the wellbeing of people, the environment and tomorrow’s world in mind. been a central starting point when updating our sustainability Creating success for our customers is about making their strategy for the coming years. business better. With our unique pool of experiences and A focus on our most significant topics competences, we strive to consistently optimise existing Materiality is the principle that determines which topics In this year’s report, we introduce our new targets for 2025. solutions and processes. This is aided by the active are most important and therefore essential to report. We The targets address our most significant sustainability topics partnerships we maintain with our customers and relevant at AR Packaging apply this approach and have assessed a and our ambitions for the future, where 2019 will be used as NGOs, through which we learn and share information that wide range of sustainability topics with importance to the base line for the coming work. The topics and our targets are ultimately enables us to proactively support our customers organisation as well as to our stakeholders. The topics that presented below and are discussed in more detail together in their challenge to meet current and future needs in a are considered most important have gained central attention with other central aspects – such as social, environmental sustainable way. in our sustainability agenda and reporting. They have also and product-related compliance – over the following pages. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 11 Our sustainability targets for 2025 Sustainable governance (p. 13) Most significant topics • Environmental, social and legal compliance • Supplier relations Sustainable innovation (p. 20) Sustainable operations (p. 25) Product related targets 2025 • All AR Packaging carton-based products will be fully recyclable in established recycling streams. • AR Packaging Systems will work to increase recycling Most significant topics Most significant topics rates by collaborating with our customers and • Product development • Use of raw materials pushing for improved recycling infrastructure and • Customer health & safety • Energy consumption regulatory reform. • Emissions management Targets for 2025 • AR Packaging aims to provide 100% recyclable Targets for 2025 Sustainable work-life (p. 16) packaging and significantly increase the ratio of • Energy consumption will be reduced by 10% renewable packaging where it does not have a (compared to base year 2019). detrimental effect on consumer safety, product quality, • Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions will be reduced by 10% or food waste. (compared to base year 2019). Most significant topics • AR Packaging aims to play a leading role in advising • Start and extent to disclosure of Scope 3 GHG • Employment and supporting our customers in their move to more emission figures. • Training & education sustainable packaging solutions. • Occupational health & safety Product related targets 2025 Product related targets 2025 • AR Packaging Systems products will increasingly use Targets for 2025 • AR Packaging Carton will actively have developed new, renewable raw materials (in addition to cartonboard) • Lost time frequency rate (LTIFR) due to work related fully recyclable fibre-based barrier products to replace so that 25% of plastics will be biobased. injuries at 1.2 (base year 2019: LTIFR=7). plastic laminates in Foodand Food Service packaging. • AR Packaging Flexibles will increase the ratio of • Safety audits (PSR Audits) at all plants with score • All AR Packaging Systems’ products will be designed renewable raw materials to 60%. above 80 points (base year 2019 with 50% above for recycling in established recycling streams. • AR Packaging Flexibles will have the capability to 70 points). • AR Packaging Flexibles will offer recyclable alternatives supply packaging to food customers with 100% • The ratio of women in the extended executive team for each commercial segment we serve. recycled PET (rPET) content. will be increased by 40% (base year 2019). SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 12 Sustainable governance Success through ethically responsible business AR Packaging is one of Europe’s leading companies in the packaging sector, with a vision to create success for our customers by optimising the benefits of packaging in their value chain. The foundation of our business rests on the ability to build and maintain mutually beneficial long-term relationships with our customers. AR Packaging targets within We aim to guard this foundation by a commitment to conducting our business in a legally, ethically, socially and sustainable governance environmentally responsible manner. Our Code of Conduct sits at the centre for the sustainable governance of our Most significant topics organisation and guides our actions and ensures that we Environmental, social and legal compliance follow our core values in our everyday work. Supplier relations Targets for 2025 All AR Packaging carton-based products will be fully recyclable in established recycling streams. AR Packaging Systems will work to increase recycling rates by collaborating with our customers and pushing for improved recycling infrastructure and regulatory reform. SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE Rubrik 13 Scope and content of the Code of Conduct AR Packaging is committed to combating all forms of The AR Packaging Code of Conduct addresses ethical corruption, including extortion and bribery. No such illegal behaviour in our work environment, business practices activity will be tolerated. Suitable means are used to promote and relationships with our stakeholders. It explains to our transparency, trading with integrity, responsible leadership, and employees, customers, suppliers, investors, key business company accountability are set forth in our Code of Conduct. partners and the communities in which we operate what they can and should expect from AR Packaging. The No incidents of corruption were reported or registered in Code contains the most important corporate principles 2019, either at the individual plants, at Group level or via our and behavioural rules with statements on human rights, whistleblowing system. No corruption cases in connection discrimination and social standards. with suppliers were registered or reported. There were no changes in the Group risk assessment Conducting ethical business with integrity and strategy related to corruption at the existing plants in Following sound and ethical business practices is fundamenMain areas of the Code of Conduct tal to the trust we enjoy among our many stakeholders. AR Europe during 2019. Plants located in Indonesia and African countries are, however, in comparison still assessed as being Packaging complies with the applicable laws, standards and • CEO statement susceptible to a higher risk of corruption due mainly to the legal provisions of the communities in which we operate, and • Business ethics & integrity general situation in those countries. Risks pertaining to AR we pay attention to the continuous development of interna• Social responsibilities Packaging’s Indonesian and African plants are, nevertheless, tional regulations. • Environmental responsibilities considered low and we continuously monitor our operations • Monitoring & reporting closely. Whistleblowing The AR Packaging whistleblowing procedure is an important Anti-competitive behaviour tool fostering high business ethics and awareness against Legislation introduced in many countries seeks to prevent The Code is reviewed regularly and approved by the Board misconduct. All employees, including temporary workers, monopolistic activities and AR Packaging was not involved in of Directors. The latest update took place during autumn who suspect a breach of the Group’s Code of Conduct shall any court proceedings due to anti-competitive behaviour or 2019, when adjustments were made based on the new report the matter to relevant supervisors, plant managers, or violations of antitrust laws in 2019. The Group strictly applies company vision and values. an HR representative. In addition to this, the whistleblowing the international and local legal requirements as well as service serves as a useful alternative where anonymity might business obligations for the latest merger activities and for To secure full understanding of our company values and be necessary. future activities. their proper application at the local level, the Code has During 2019, the low whistleblowing rate continued. This been translated into local languages and is included into the demonstrates that long-term well-established communication AR Packaging regards product authenticity as a very serious training of employees at all our plants. We also expect our channels such as trustworthy persons or workers’ councils matter. This especially involves the tobacco packaging business partners, suppliers, consultants and independent are effective for standard case reporting at the plants. business, which is a focus business segment for the contractors to establish and maintain appropriate Group and where counterfeiting risks are more likely to be management systems that align with our principles. Corruption confronted. Therefore, close cooperation with customers and Corruption and anti-competitive behaviours have severe suppliers was intensified during 2019 to provide solutions As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we adhere to detrimental effects not only on customer trust but ultimately fulfilling the new EU directive, which requests improved its Ten Principles defining fundamental responsibilities for also the conditions for economic efficiency and long-term traceability and forgery-proof security features to avoid businesses and have accordingly incorporated them into our sustainable growth. counterfeiting and illicit trade. Code of Conduct. SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE 14 Fair and ethical social standards concerning the topics covered by our Code of Conduct, nor AR Packaging is committed to ensuring a fair, equal and safe were any supplier incidents noted. working environment to our employees as well as to those working at our suppliers. Our Code of Conduct therefore Compliance with external social audits continues to be stipulates clearly that we comply with applicable legal an important requirement from customers and is a key requirements relating to human rights and that we identify, factor in the long-term relationships we enjoy with them. prevent and address actual or potential infringements Our organisation and plants are checked regularly by throughout our operations. external business consultants and authorities for any signs of violations against the Group’s values, legislation or To be perceived as a responsible employer and to attract international standards. talented people, it is crucial that employees are treated fairly and equally. All employees have the right to know the basic 12 plants are members of the SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data terms and conditions of their employment and are provided Exchange) platform, where social and ethical information fair compensation and working conditions with working and self-assessments are disclosed and readily available to hours set according to domestic laws or industrial standards. customers. Sedex also offers regular social audits, where seven of the mentioned 12 plants have been audited Moreover, AR Packaging and all plants respect the rights successfully in 2017/2018. Three plants are performing other of employees to exercise the right of association, where external audit approaches (SWA). Since 2019, a new initiative all employees are free to form and join trade unions and was taken by one of our tobacco customers to apply a participate in collective bargaining. Clear policies are comparable approach to SEDEX. According to this approach, implemented throughout our organisation to avoid any form three of our plants will be under regular social requirement of discrimination and harassment. The Group condemns observations from 2020. coming up with own national regulations, e.g. draft mineral oil differences in salary or remuneration and all forms of regulation in Germany. unequal treatment based on grounds such as race, colour, Food safety regulations – Protecting sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction and social consumers and customers An initiative at the Council of Europe is now being discussed, origin. To learn more, please read our Code of Conduct. A key concern among our customers is ultimately to protect gathering 47 European countries, with the target to publish a their precious brands from negative influences, which Technical Guideline for Food Contact Materials in the next 2 Sustainable supply chain management may be raised by NGO’s as well as by critical consumers years. While the guidelines are not legally binding, they may We recognise that as a key supplier to many global themselves. This includes, among many other factors, the sometimes be taken on by brand owners in their food safety companies, who have themselves assumed leadership roles material used for packaging. requirements. in the implementation of social responsibility in their markets, we are expected to address the sustainability of our supply The basis for confronting this is naturally to comply The current situation has also led stakeholders in the chain. We have initiated a due diligence process for our main with relevant regulations and industry guidelines, supply chain to set their own standards. An often-discussed suppliers. Currently, over 50 of recommendations and other sector regulations which have example from 2019 was the “Food contact guidelines for our main suppliers – including the become standard in our industry. the compliance of paper & board materials and articles” Group’s top 30 suppliers in value published by the paper and board associations CEPI and – have been checked according to In Europe, the industry is still waiting on clear legal CITPA. The publication indicates what customers could this process. During 2019, none of regulations for important material categories such as paper expect from paper and board suppliers and provides our main suppliers were identified and board, ink and varnishes or glue. In the meantime, general guidance regarding the food safety measures to be with a significant risk for incidents other regulations are being used and several countries are respected by converters. SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE 15 Sustainable work-life A safe and supportive workplace culture Success through packaging can only be achieved if we have the best people working for us. As an employer, it is our responsibility to ensure a workplace culture where our employees feel safe, are motivated and have adequate support to apply their skills and knowledge every day for the benefit of AR Packaging. Creating a self-sustaining workplace culture consists, however, of many different AR Packaging targets within factors, which cannot be achieved overnight and the process is therefore an ongoing journey. sustainable work-life Contributing to both employee satisfaction and personal Most significant topics fulfilment, continuous learning and development are critical Employment to our culture and the long-term viability of AR Packaging. Training & education But in addition to securing a competent and skilled work Occupational health & safety force, training is also a central part of our ability to ensure a safe work environment, as safety is ultimately the result of Targets for 2025 the diligence and awareness of individuals. Lost time frequency rate (LTIFR) due to work related injuries at 1.2 (base year 2019: LTIFR=7). Safety audits (PSR Audits) at all plants with score above 80 points (base year 2019 with 50% above 70 points). The ratio of women in the extended executive team will be increased by 40% (base year 2019). SUSTAINABLE WORK-LIFE 16 An expanding international group A spirit of continuous learning The implementation of a new ERP system continues AR Packaging’s growth strategy, with the continual integration The Group and plants invest actively in the training of our on a factory-by-factory basis and is accompanied by a of new acquisitions, is naturally reflected in the growth of employees at all levels with the aim to continuously improve comprehensive training programme for all employees. employee numbers. Still, the attention on operational efficiency their skills and knowledge. During 2019, around 40,600 and group synergies has tended to offset this over time. hours were spent on various types of training, including both Several initiatives for improved efficiency have also been As the Group grows, diversity increasingly becomes an internal and external programmes. taken at the local level. Two examples are our Frankfurt plant, integral aspect of our organisation. By the end of 2019, Germany, where the 5S initiative has been accompanied by over 3,300 employees worked at our 18 plants across English is used as the primary business language to unite the implementation of a Kaizen programme, and our Krakow 12 countries. our broad and diverse organisation, and language training plant, Poland, where a Lean programme for the customer courses are offered to all employees below management service department has been initiated. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES level at several plants. 3 386 3 306 3 108 While most training is performed locally at our various plants, a Group-wide focus is placed on our younger, junior employees. For instance, a new documented training 2 278 2 048 approach was implemented at our Cholet plant, France, concerning new recruitments, covering the first 12 18 months of employment. At the same time, we emphasise the development of our experienced personnel, providing them with the technical know-how to meet new requirements and the 75% 75% 72% 72% 74% opportunities for career advancement. Several different leadership training programmes take place at the local level, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 often including tools for efficient communication. Total Male During 2019, our successful Talent Management Program that was implemented in 2018 continued. The programme EMPLOYEES PER COUNTRY 2019 includes all whiteand blue-collar employees with personnel Indonesia responsibilities as well as other employees assessed as Russia talents. During the programme, participants are provided Sweden with individualised training agreed with its manager. Austria Competence developmental across Germany Poland the Group The sharing of experiences and knowledge in the Group is a France key element of our growth strategy and a source of strength Croatia for our entire organisation. As many of our customers with UK global operations expect the same technical, procedural Estland and socials standards at all our locations, these standards Finland naturally become core facets of Group-wide training and Others support. 0 200 400 600 800 SUSTAINABLE WORK-LIFE 17 A strong safety culture throughout approach implemented throughout the Group, whereby the Group health & safety came under the focus of the HR Group An awareness exists throughout the Group for the importance Director. This step was intended to increase the attention on of encouraging and supporting a solid and effective safety work safety and to raise awareness among all employees. culture at all plants. This is in turn based on skilled and Work safety incident reporting procedures have been competent employees, and the Group therefore prioritises updated and aligned, including return talks, where causes training on the possible dangers in the workplace and the and measures are discussed with an employee returning importance of individual responsibility. from an accident. In addition to this, targets regarding LTI frequency for the coming 5 years are now implemented at At all plants, regular standard training sessions are performed Group level. in health & safety, food safety, and hygiene. Training on our Code of Conduct is also carried out at regular intervals in The new approach also introduced annual Plant Safety order to maintain the high standards we have established Reviews (PSR) performed by the HR Group Director. This over many years. involves the assessment, scoring and benchmarking of every plant, resulting in an action plan. The key elements The total number of work-related accidents – including way of the PSR are machinery safety, storage of chemicals, to work – decreased substantially during 2019, continuing work equipment, noise reduction activities, ergonomics, the trend seen over previous years. Several improvements emergency routes, safety training systems and more. in terms of LTI frequency were noted at many of our plants, including Augsburg, Frankfurt, Graz, Halmstad, and Lund. Health & safety at the local level Some of our smaller plants, however, face a challenge All AR Packaging plants have over the recent years made regarding this specific KPI, as their comparatively lower great efforts to develop strong health & safety organisations, number of employees results in that an accident will have a which are led by local Health & Safety Managers and are high impact on the data. The generally positive results during supported by plant management. 2019 are considered a direct consequence of the new A new approach to health & safety training was introduced at WORK / WAY TO WORK LTI:S our plant in Highbridge, UK, during 2019. Over 100 eLearning courses in health & safety and HR compliance with a focus on 71 68 creativity, quality and simplicity were provided by an external 62 62 partner. Parallel to this, a practical fire marshal training was 56 52 53 also introduced with the aim to provide employees with a 43 greater understanding for the threat posed by fire. 42 39 On the same theme, our plant in Frankfurt, Germany, recently invested 30 kEUR in the construction of a fire brigade path surrounding the facility, improving access in the case of 6 9 10 emergency. 3 4 Total LTI:s at work LTI:s on way to work 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SUSTAINABLE WORK-LIFE Rubrik 18 Case study QHSE Cholet, France AR Packaging’s plant in Cholet, France, is one example of a plant that has made some exceptional work and improvements in their health and safety organisation over the past year. Despite intense efforts regarding work safety, the plant The action plan included among other things the following: remained over the previous years one of the top five plants • Updated way of analysing LTA: Recorded as nonwith the highest Lost Time Accident (LTA) rates in our Group. conformance in ERP system by the manager. Based on this frustrating performance, management at Cholet • Updated analysis process of LTA: Organised by the QHSE decided to make major changes in 2019. With external support, department and carried out where the accident occurred an agenda was set up targeting the plant’s safety, resulting with the victim, victim’s manager, unions, and the safety in an ongoing restructuring of the whole safety organisation adviser of the department present. coupled with efforts to instil an improved safety mindset • Review and update of existing work safety risk analysis among employees. by visiting each department, a re-assessment of risks and development of an action plan for further improvements. In November 2019, a three day introduction training course • Training of managers to interview each employee after with approximately ten participants was performed, where an LTA or work-related disease. background and targets of the planned adaptions and changes • Ongoing integration of box plan barriers in some were discussed. The question of how to achieve a mindset departments and warehouse. Some examples of the safety actions, which were transferred change was also considered, which resulted in a decision to to Cholet include: implement a culture of safety by increased team engagement. The results of the new action plan are expected to be visible • Changing the colour of the pedestrian walkway in the already during 2020. production facilities to blue in order to improve visibility. A safety adviser for every department was established, • Exchanging low safety shoes to high safety shoes, using who would be responsible for introducing injury analysis, To further aid the safety process at Cholet, 20 people from the same supplier as Smurfit Kappa. risk assessments and risk analysis. Over four meetings per AR Packaging visited a Smurfit Kappa plant, one of the department with about 30 people, including managers, Group’s suppliers. The plant has a very low number on LTA’s The Cholet plant has also initiated cooperation with another safety advisers and operators, employees were informed and the visit included a highly interesting presentation about supplier, CEE Shissler, with the intention to benchmark and to about the process, their safety awareness was strengthened Smurfit Kappa’s safety culture as well as a tour with the focus cooperate and exchange experiences regarding the work on and an action plan was developed. on safety. various safety topics. SUSTAINABLE WORK-LIFE 19 Sustainable innovation Sustainability is at the forefront of AR Packaging targets within innovation at AR Packaging sustainable innovation Innovation at AR Packaging is not only about solving today’s problems but also very much about shaping the future, identifying issues the customers have yet to discover and Most significant topics turning them into new opportunities. AR Packaging’s aim is Product development to proactively solve tomorrow’s challenges, with value-adding Customer health & safety solutions that meet consumers’ demands for sustainability, luxury, healthy living and convenience. Targets for 2025 AR Packaging aims to provide 100% recyclable packaging and significantly This means thinking beyond the packaging itself and driving increase the ratio of renewable packaging where it does not have a detrimental innovations that are well-ground in a sense of responsibility effect on consumer safety, product quality, or food waste. for the environment. Drawing on the wide range of capabilities and market-leading know-how, we collaborate closely AR Packaging aims to play a leading role in advising and supporting with our customers to develop new solutions to meet their our customers in their move to more sustainable packaging solutions. requirements with an optimised ecological and social footprint. AR Packaging Carton will actively have developed new, fully recyclable fibre-based The trends within packaging are changing, but the aim barrier products to replace plastic laminates in Foodand Food Service packaging. of innovative packaging remains the same – to help our customers address their challenges. The increased demand All AR Packaging Systems’ products will be designed for recycling on recyclability and circular economy was again the main in established recycling streams. trend during 2019, resulting in market demands that are pushing the industry to develop entirely new concepts. AR Packaging Flexibles will offer recyclable alternatives for each commercial segment we serve. These developments have important ramifications when meeting the requirements within food packaging and reaffirms the importance of sustainable product innovation that addresses recyclability, good manufacturing practice, sound operational controls, hygiene, and food safety regulations. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION Rubrik 20 The challenges of recyclability We also take an active role in advising our customers when Recyclability is an obvious and crucial part of a circular selecting packaging solutions. As a member of various economy. The main share of the packaging solutions we industry organisations and NGOs, we seek to actively offer are made of cartonboard, which in itself is both readily contribute to the development of harmonised industrially recyclable in most cases and a highly valued material source. viable solutions and regulations that promote a circular society. Packaging solutions consisting of a mix of materials can, however, be more challenging from a recyclability perspective. Our environmental responsibility Due to the very limited harmonisation of recycling regulations At AR Packaging we recognise that environmental responboth between and even within countries, the definition of sibility is a precondition for the survival and prosperity of all what is considered recyclable varies to a large degree. living beings. Consequently, this means that our innovation Additionally, the infrastructure and industrial capabilities for efforts result in products designed and produced with recycling as well as the actual market for recycled materials environmental consideration and that our operations are may also vary significantly. For example, packaging composed carried out with as little negative impact as possible. by paper with a thin plastic barrier – crucial for the protection of highly sensitive products – may in some countries be Our organisation promotes sustainability across all aspects recycled in the paper stream, while in others there is no of the business, fulfils the requirements and standards for infrastructure for recycling it at all. environmental protection and acts in an environmentally conscious way in all locations in which we operate. We are This lack of harmonisation results in brand owners setting part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), working with different priorities on sustainable packaging solutions stakeholders to disclose and reduce greenhouse gas depending on which market they operate in. Consequently, emissions and minimise the environmental impact from our this causes the development of new packaging materials activities, products and services. to become exceedingly complex and, importantly, creates confusion among consumers on how to recycle packages. We also work actively together with customers to minimise After all, the more complicated to understand, the less likely material usage. Our work within innovation becomes a key it is that a package will be recycled. factor in this context, where we at all times explore ways of smartly designed alternative constructions and strive to This presents both significant challenges but also important increase the amount of renewable materials in the packaging. opportunities for innovation. For us at AR Packaging, one The main material used in our production is fibre-based key goal within Flexibles has been to develop packaging cartonboard and paper made from natural renewable wood. solutions consisting of only one type of plastic, which Wood used in the company’s products is primarily from susultimately optimises the possibilities for recycling. Moreover, tainably managed European forests and no wood originates we are currently working towards investing in machinery from rainforests or other endangered eco-systems. that will allow for a larger proportion of recycled plastics to be used in products. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 21 Sustainable innovations Fibre-based cutlery at AR Packaging AR Packaging launched fibre-based cutlery in cooperation with Bionatic with the aim to meet the changed market needs due to the Single-Use-Plastic directive and enable replacement of plastic-based cutlery. An important part of creating success through packaging is the ability to provide safe and sustainable products. Our work within innovation is therefore grounded in finding more environmentally optimises solutions that adhere to good manufacturing practice, sound operational controls, and hygiene. In following with this approach, we have consistently been at the forefront of an evolving market, where our work has contributed to an effective use of resources. Below are some examples of innovative solutions resulting from this process. Paper packaging for soft tortillas Market introduction of small size carton can Two Pro Carton ECMA gold awards Santa Maria tortillas were launched in a new paper-based The need for sustainable smaller containers are met with new The 100% carton-based packaging solutions for Steadysense barrier packaging. The change to paper and optimised sizes of the composite can Boardio® which has an optimised provides outstanding consumer convenience with easy sustainable raw materials lowered the carbon footprint by fibre content of 90%. The consumer convenient can replace opening and product access as well as reclosure while 35%* compared to the former packaging and reduced the full plastic containers for nutritional supplements, snacks, being easily erected in a fast and uncomplicated packaging plastic consumption by 150 tons per year. chewing gums, powders etc. without compromising product process. safety and protection. The need to keep certain standard sizes and the urge to still Expansion of the Group’s cold foil capabilities be different, was the driving force behind the Mawu packaging. The investment in state-of-the-art cold foil capabilities at the It is a folding carton box with eye-catching design and Frankfurt plant answers to the demand of brilliant, repulpable excellent convenience, unfolding to a tray when opened. premium packaging. Great finishing effects are made reality in And then easily reclosed again. All by using minimal resources an efficient manner with minimised use of resources. and packed in an efficient process. *Comparison done by IVL Svenska Miljöinstitutet (Swedish Environmental Institute) SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 22 Certified management systems Product safety at our plants starts with hygiene in terms During 2019, a number of packaging standards were benchof order and cleanliness of the whole plant area, which marked against the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) Example from our plants: is achieved by clear requirements for our staff, 5S and Guidance Document. This included the Good Manufacturing maintenance programs. Requirements on wearing hygiene Practices associated with packaging materials intended for The GFSI program standards include, among clothes and hair nets as well as handwashing before food use. The GFSI programs are designed to build a due others, British Retail Consortium (BRC) and entering production areas have been standard practices diligence defence throughout the supply chain that is not FSSC22000, which are both common at the since years at our plants. limited to just the food safety of the food manufacturing AR Packaging plants producing food packaging. process. • 13 plants are regularly certified on one of As a step to benchmark our food safety and hygiene both standards, where some plants are management systems, we started during 2019 to regularly already following the unannounced audit Example from our plants: perform internal audits by experts from our other plants. approach showing that they are “audit ready” The first to pilot this approach was the plant in Cholet, France. every day. Lund Flexibles, Sweden • 3 further plants are certified in following Hygiene locks are installed as a standard at all ISO 22000, which is at least a pre-level to our certified plants. Several plants choose to the GFSI standards. an increasing degree to develop this technique • 2 plants are planning to implement one of the further when entering production areas. mentioned GFSI standards during 2020/2021 and to increase their level on Food safety and In June 2019, a new routine was implemented Hygiene Management. at our flexible packaging plant in Lund, Sweden. Every week, the hands of a randomly picked employee are tested to measures microbiological activity. The aim is to raise awareness for hygiene rules and to visualise the difference Upholding the highest hygiene standards thorough handwashing can achieve. It has AR Packaging upholds the highest standards on food safety proven successful as a positive trend in terms and hygiene management in order to fulfil and exceed of personnel hygiene values is seen compared existing legal requirements and the demands and expecto before starting the routine. tations of our customers and consumers. As our plants focus on certain segments and customers, the standards on food safety and hygiene differ from plant to plant. The highest With a focus on hygiene, the plant was audited according demands are currently placed on the plants specialised to the British Retail Consortium (BRC) standard by experts in direct food contact packaging for baby food products from our plant in Graz, Austria. The approach has so far (Cholet in France and Lund in Sweden), followed closely by proven to be highly successful, providing benefits to both all plants which produce general food packaging for direct parties and is planned to be extended to further plants or secondary food contact. Specific additional requirements during the coming years. exist for pharmaceutical packaging produced at some of the plants. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 23 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Producers are required to take proactive steps to ensure product safety by following a quality and process approach to manufacturing, whereby any contaminations and errors are minimised or eliminated. Good manufacturing practice (GMP) is a key principle on the road to safe food packaging and is partly regulated by both national, e.g. EU 2023/2006, and several industry standards. In short, GMP regulations concern record keeping, personnel qualifications, sanitation, cleanliness, equipment verification, process validation, and Example from our plants: complaint handling. Graz, Austria All AR Packaging plants follow the GMP approach. Nine of In 2019, our plant in Graz, Austria, started to produce packaging for our plants are honoured with the GMP Seal of ECMA (Eurocoffee capsules in rotogravure printing technology. The product was pean Carton Maker Association), which is renewed annually previously produced with offset technology and was assessed as direct by the ECMA organisation. contact packaging by the customer due to the later filtration process on the consumer side. Most GMP requirements allow producers to decide individually how to best implement the necessary controls based Upon starting production, the plant initiated an extensive risk assessment on the particular business. This provides a level of flexibility, process with the intention to implement Good Manufacturing Procedures but requires producers to ongoingly question and audit their in the rotogravure process for this direct contact product in order to avoid own processes as methods may change or new processes the risk of cross contamination from products outside food packaging. are implemented. These procedures, which have been implemented at several other AR Packaging plants, include the following: • Collecting application data and specifications of all packaging components • Reviewing and checking supplier confirmations • Performing a risk assessment including a worst-case calculation • Performing external migration testing and internal analysis (sensory and GC) • GMP implementation of needed processes The results were presented, discussed and approved by the customer, who perceived the measures taken as very positive. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 24 Sustainable operations Sustainability across all aspects of our business As a supplier to customers who themselves are championing AR Packaging targets within sustainability in their respective industries, we are fully aware sustainable operations of the role and impact we have in their value chains. In addition to aiding our customers in reaching their goals, we at AR Packaging have a responsibility as well as the ambition Most significant topics to contribute to a more sustainable world. Together with our Materials customers and partners, we work diligently to overcome the Energy many challenges that can affect long-term durable progress. Emissions AR Packaging promotes sustainability across all aspects Targets for 2025 of our business, with a particular focus on responsible Energy consumption will be reduced by 10% procurement and environmentally sound production (compared to base year 2019). practices. This certainly involves the way we approach energy consumption and the carbon footprint from our Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions will be reduced by 10% own operations, where we have set clear targets for the (compared to base year 2019). coming five years. But it most particularly concerns the way we actively work with our customers to decrease material Start and extent to disclosure of Scope 3 GHG emission figures. usage and waste throughout the whole value chain by designing innovative solutions and by increasing the AR Packaging Systems products will increasingly use renewable raw materials amount of renewable materials in our products. (in addition to cartonboard) so that 25% of plastics will be biobased. AR Packaging Flexibles will increase the ratio of renewable raw materials to 60%. AR Packaging Flexibles will have the capability to supply packaging to food customers with 100% recycled PET (rPET) content. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Rubrik 25 Responsible procurement CARTONBOARD CONSUMPTION AT CARTON PLANTS (TONS) MAIN MATERIAL CONSUMPTION AT FLEXIBLES PLANTS (TONS) The main material used by AR Packaging – cartonboard – comes mainly from certified sustainable sources and 250 000 20 000 is subsequently considered a renewable and recyclable material. The development on other main materials, however, 200 000 15 000 such as inks, varnishes, glue and flexible materials remain at an early phase of industrial scale when it comes to 150 000 10 000 renewability. 100 000 5 000 50 000 0 Cartonboard & Plastic resin Plastic film Aluminium foil paper 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 As such, our progress and efforts concerning responsible procurement is to a certain degree dependent on other In terms of other main materials – such as solvent, varnish, technological advances throughout the entire value chain ink and glue – usage generally increased due mainly to that may improve the renewability and recyclability of critical more detailed reporting at our plants. This detailed information materials. will prove valuable as we have set 2019 as our base line for the targets over the coming five years. The usage of cartonboard increased by 12.5% during 2019. Most material came from certified sustainably managed OTHER MAIN MATERIAL CONSUMPTION (TONS) forests, which continues to be a customer requirement. At the same time, the use of recycled cartonboard 4 000 increased slightly from 21.6% in 2018 to 22.1% in 2019 of total cartonboard used, while further increases in this area are dependent on customer decisions. Recycled 3 000 cartonboard is generally not used without a functional barrier for food packaging. 2 000 In regards to our flexibles business, the main materials used – in addition to cartonboard and paper – are plastic resin, 1 000 films and aluminium foil. During 2019, we saw a general decrease in the usage of these materials. This can largely 0 Source: Pro Carton 2018 be explained by a changed product mix and increased Solvent Varnish Ink Glue AR Packaging puts much effort into developing packaging solutions efforts to provide reduced material grammage and thickness, which meet the needs for a circular economy. In addition to the high focus on innovation we also play a leading role in advising and supporting i.e. lightweight packages, resulting in less material being 2016 2017 2018 2019 our customers in their move to more sustainable packaging solutions. used during production. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 26 Energy consumption and initiatives at plant level, such as closer monitoring, 3.0% higher than in 2018, which is explained by variations A process is underway at AR Packaging, whereby we are investments in new processes and changed behaviours. in the thickness of materials as ordered by our customers. continually improving the way data on energy consumption These are, nonetheless, offset by changes in volume mix This, together with changing sizes of order batches are and emissions are collected across the Group. The aim is and customer demands on more advanced print designs contributing factors. Comparative energy consumption generally to refine the analytical basis on which decisions and finishing. shows a slow increase by 0.3% compared to 2014, which are made in order to ensure that correct actions may The comparative energy consumption for the carton plants undershoots the 2020 target of a decrease by 10%. This be taken. in the Group has risen by 9.8% compared to the base year should, again, be viewed in light of the significant Group of 2014. This is far from the previous 2020 target of a changes over recent years. A positive result from this process was that solvent burning decrease by 10%, however, with the recent acquisitions the in our rotogravure and flexibles operations, which was Group structure has changed significantly since that time found to have a significant impact on both our energy and reporting has developed. and emissions figures, is now included in future reporting. In order to improve the comparability of our data reporting, Total energy consumption1 for the 15 carton plants in the this has also led to that data from previous years have now Group increased between 2018 and 2019 by 0.6%, which been re-calculated, ‘thus enabling us to more accurately was driven mainly by the acquisition of the plant in Croatia. track the development over the last three years. Data from Nevertheless, energy consumption per ton of used or 2017 therefore represent the first time that solvent burning purchased cartonboard decreased by about 7.8%, while is included. both district heating and cooling and on-site stationary burning decreased by 9.8% and 4.3% respectively. In general, AR Packaging will not reach the set target of a 10% reduction in energy consumption by 2020, based For our flexibles business, total energy consumption in on 2014 figures. Clear reductions in energy consumption 2019 is comparable to 2018 levels. Energy consumption were reached as a result of many successful projects per delivered square meter was, on the other hand, ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014–2019 (CARTON PLANTS) ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014–2019 (FLEXIBLES PLANTS) (MWh) (MWh) 120 000 600 60 000 300 50 000 250 (MWh/million sqm) 80 000 400 40 000 200 (kWh/tonne) 30 000 150 40 000 200 20 000 100 10 000 50 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total energy Energy consumption per used cartonboard Total energy consumption Energy consumption per delivered unit 1 Total energy consumption is the sum of electricity consumption, district heating and district cooling and stationary burning (on-site combustion of natural gas, biogas, solvents, diesel, LPG, etc.) SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 27 Emissions Scope 1 includes all Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Germany where the portion of coal energy has been Reducing emissions is closely linked to the reduction of generated directly by the organisation1. significantly reduced. energy consumption. Consequently, increased energy efficiency has several important benefits for both the The direct emissions from AR Packaging’s operations Scope 3 includes other indirect GHG emissions that occur as environment and the economy. As shown above, several originate mainly from plants with flexible packaging a consequence of our activities but from sources not owned initiatives have and are being taken within the Group production as well as rotogravure and flexographic or controlled by the organisation. Currently, we do not report along with a drive to use more green energy sources printing due to incineration of exhausts. During 2019, on Scope 3 emissions, but this is part of our new 2025 targets. in general. Because of this, we are already seeing the there was an increase of total Scope 1 emissions by results in terms of lowered carbon emissions. 4.1% compared to 2018. This was partly caused by the availability of more accurate data thanks to the integration COMPARATIVE TOTAL SCOPE 1 of a new sustainability reporting system. Still, the total DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Scope 1 emissions per comparative figure decreased 0,05 by 2.8% during the year. Scope 2 accounts for GHG emissions from the generation CO2e(t) per tonne cartonboard 0,04 of purchased electricity, including heating, cooling and steam consumed by the organisation. During 2019, 0,03 we saw a considerable decrease in absolute Scope 2 emissions by 20.6%. This was mainly linked to the new 0,02 more specific sustainability reporting system introduced during the year and the fact that the electricity mix has 0,01 generally become more renewable, for instance in 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 COMPARATIVE TOTAL SCOPE 2 In Europe, where green energy is widely available, INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS we either use 100% renewable or a mix of energy sources. At our Asiatic, African and Russian locations, renewable 0,12 sources are, on the other hand, still less available, but we CO2e(t) per tonne cartonboard 0,10 aim nevertheless to increase the portion of renewable energy sources throughout the Group. 0,08 When considering our carbon footprint, our wide use of 0,06 fibre-based packaging has an important impact. All paper and board products have two unique and positive attributes: 0,04 (1) they are based on a renewable raw material, and (2) 0,02 given that they come from forests that bind CO2, they store carbon, which means that the recycling of paper and board 0 products delays CO2 from returning to the atmosphere. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Pro Carton 2018 1 GHG emissions included the generation of electricity, heating, cooling and steam, transportation of employees and business trips and fugitive emissions (HFC emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning equipment).] SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 28 Energy saving activities during 2019 New machines or technologies Energy efficient lighting An important way to improve energy efficiency is to The move to LED lighting has been an ongoing project replace older, inefficient equipment with new machines at all plants. Several plants have even extended their or technologies. analysis and have applied a wider view: • Istra, Croatia, installed a new software to regulate • Istra, Croatia, extended the introduction of LED heating with hot steam which resulted in remarkably lighting to also involve the outdoor environment less consumption. surrounding the building, including parking spaces • Frankfurt, Germany, replaced an older refrigerating and access roads to the factory. dryer enabling an energy reduction of 2.7 kWh per year • Cholet, France, installed automatic lighting in all with a decrease of 1,2 tons CO2. social rooms and locker rooms as a further measure • Cholet, France, replaced an old compressor, which to save electricity. reduced the electrical consumption by 35%. The new compressor is equipped with an exchanger, where water Ongoing energy projects in Sweden is preheated before going into boiler that then heats The flexibles plant in Lund, Sweden, has always been the plant. This replaces the need for about 180 MW of very active in improving their energy efficiency. The plant natural gas, which represents a saving of 17% of the launched three different main projects in 2019, where the annual consumption (6.5K€ saving). results will become fully visible during 2020. Optimised work processes • A new cleaning unit of process air running on biogas Another way to improve energy efficiency and gain energy was installed in spring 2019 and activated in July 2019. savings is to optimise and adapt work processes. A reduction of 3,000,000 kWh per year is expected, which will correspond to an annual saving of • Frankfurt, Germany, optimised their energy usage approximately 250 tons CO2. This investment was through improving how their employees operate the carried out in collaboration with the Swedish Energy recently installed new printing machine. In addition to this, Authority (Energimyndigheten). they now exploit used UV energy and have optimised • A heat pump “water to water” was installed in drying units per print/varnish unit. The entire project has December 2019 and has been in operation since resulted in a reduction of 57.6 kWh per year with a January 2020. decrease of 25,0 tons CO2 and a total annual saving • Liquid Petroleum Gas was replaced by biogas of more than 9K€. and renewable electricity in four production lines. • Frankfurt, Germany, invested in the adaption and A reduction of 500,000 kWh per year is expected process optimisation of board waste suction and used with a decrease of 20 tons CO2. fans involved in die cutting, enabling a reduction of 22.8 kWh per year with a decrease of 9.9 tons CO2. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 29 Case study Bawen, Indonesia As an important step to implement AR Sustainability initiatives in Bawen Quality, food safety and hygiene Packaging’s expansion strategy outside Already during the planning phase of the new greenfield management of Europe, the company acquired the plant, environmental aspects such as energy and emissions As quality, food safety and hygiene management are key were considered. As an example, the whole facility has been priorities for AR Packaging, the management at Bawen Indonesian plant PT Maju Jaya Sarana designed so that over 40% of the plant is open spaced. strives to meet European Group standards in their plants Grafika (MJSG) in January 2016. This allows a sufficient air in Indonesia. Apart from having implemented ISO 90001 flow throughout the buildings, and achieved certification for using materials from sustainably The former Maju Jaya is one of the leading Indonesian enabling the air condition to be managed sources, Bawen has packaging companies with a majority of the customer base in centrally installed with several set a target for 2020/2021 the tobacco, healthcare and food segments. The company’s advantages. Another advantage regarding standards such two production sites have been located in Bekasi, close to of the highly modern plant is the as FSSC 22000 (hygiene Jakarta, and Semarang, Central Java, where the latter had maximised use of natural lighting management) and ISO 14001 to be relocated due to change in infrastructure. and the installation of LED lamps. (environmental management). All lamps in the production area In 2017, AR Packaging therefore started construction on a are turned off during daytime and Hands are sanitized before new plant in Bawen, Central Java, a region which is still work-shift breaks, which results in entering the production area. a green area for industry and therefore attractive to many important energy savings. companies seeking to relocate from West Java. Health and safety procedures To maintain the environment surrounding the plant in Bawen, Health and work safety naturally play a central role at the The Bawen plant has been fully operational since December AR Packaging collaborated with Djarum Foundation to plant Bawen plant. The goal was to establish a culture of safety 2019 and has set the standard for specialty offset and rototrees in several areas on the factory premises. The foundation and to build employee engagement from the ground up gravure packaging throughout the region. This has been an is a non-profit organisation of one of the company’s largest when starting operations. Therefore, several training programs important factor for AR Packaging becoming the partner of local customers and aims to preserve the sustainability of in health and work safety were carried out during 2019. choice for many of the leading players in the industry. The aim Indonesia’s natural resources. Many activities are also in preparation concerning ISO 45001 is to expand the Indonesian business to also serve food (formerly OHSAS 18001) which will be audited during 2020. service, healthcare and beauty customers. Upon completion, Bawen will be the second plant in AR Packaging, besides Krakow, Poland, following this certification. Labour practises All employees at the Bawen plant are Indonesian and mainly from the dominant Javanese ethnic groups. Indonesia has established a Human Rights Council as well as a Child & Women Council for the protection of human rights as well as worker rights. Since 2018/2019, the Bawen plant has a workers’ council and a collective labor agreement implemented. The AR Packaging Code of Conduct is implemented throughout the organisation and its provisions and included in regular training. Following Group standards also includes external social audits which are planned for 2020. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 30 Information and contacts This sustainability report summarises the key environmental and social developments at AR Packaging for the calendar year 2019. It is published digitally as a pdf document on the Group’s website and is also the basis for the annual progress report as obliged by the Group’s membership in the UN Global Compact. A condensed version of the sustainability reporting for 2019 is included in the financial report as regulated in the 2014 EU Directive on the disclosure of non-financial and diversity information (2014/95/EU). Communication channels The substantial track record of AR Packaging sustainability reports is available to download from the website www.ar-packaging.com, where you are most welcome to read more about corporate social responsibility at AR Packaging. Sustainability achievements are also shared through LinkedIn. Sustainability management Robert Mayr Product Safety and Sustainability Director Email: robert.mayr@ar-packaging.com Corporate communication Ingrid Lidbäck Group Marketing & Communication Director Email: ingrid.lidback@ar-packaging.com www.ar-packaging.com INFORMATION AND CONTACTS 31
