One molecule can change everything ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We are here to lead change towards chemistry that advances everyday life for the better. With every molecule of our being. Perstorp believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, more convenient and more environmentally sound for billions of people all over the world. As a world leading specialty chemicals company, our innovations provide essential properties for products used everywhere, every day. Our products are in everything – from your car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines and the local dairy farm. Put simply, we work to make good products even better, with a clear sustainability agenda. Persto 1881 1920s 1930s 1940s 1960s Perstorp founder Wilhelm The emerging industries Despite a period of Perstorp opens Scandi­ The company under­ Wendt registers his in Sweden become large financial crises, Perstorp navia’s first modern goes a rapid expansion company, then named consumers of plastic regularly introduces plastics factory, with more in terms of size, em­ Stensmölla Kemiska Tekni­ such as Perstorp’s inno­ new plastic products. than 10,000 different ployees and research, ska Industri. The company vation Isolit (similar to One of these, beech products – including and begins supplying starts to produce acetic acid, bakelite). Production of parquet floors, is a great everything from billiard the paint industry with tar, charcoal and wood laminates begins. success, and leads to the balls to aerial masts. polyalcohols made from alcohol. creation of Sweden’s formalin, which become largest parquet factory. increasingly important for the company. rp everyw Founded by Wilhelm Wendt in Perstorp, in southern Sweden, almost 140 years ago, we are still leading the way in specialty chemicals. Our founder might never have imagined the success of the modern enterprise we know as Perstorp today, a global special chemicals’ company with products touching millions of people globally every day. 1990s 2005 2006 2011 2013 Refocus of its core The focus on specialty Perstorp establishes a Perstorp introduces A new production facility business to become a chemicals is completed sales office in Shanghai new products to pre­ for Neopentyl Glycol world-leading specialty and extensive capacity for increased focus on serve animal feed and (Neo) was inaugurated chemicals company. investments are made in the rapidly expanding to promote the healthy in Zibo, China, operating order to meet growing Asian market. growth of farm animals. alongside the existing market demand. At the Trimethylolpropane end of the year, the (TMP) plant that was private equity company established in 2008. PAI Partners acquires the Perstorp Group from Industri Kapital (IK Invest­ ment Partners). The symbol inside the P is based on the alchemist symbol for acetic acid, Perstorp’s first chemical product. It was the foundation for the initial growth of the company, and you 3 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 can even find a big, iconic bottle of acetic acidPERSTORP ANNUAL & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 at the train station in Perstorp village. Contents PERSTORP EVERYWHERE 2 STRATEGY AND TARGETS 22 PERSTORP IN BRIEF 6 PEOPLE 24 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 7 SUSTAINABILITY 26 PRESIDENT´S COMMENT 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 34 EVERYDAY CHEMISTRY 10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 36 TRENDS 12 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM 38 MARKET SEGMENTS 14 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 CULTURE AND SOUL 20 here 2014 2015 2017 2018 2019 Perstorp’s head office A new production plant Perstorp adopted the bold The owners, PAI Partners Perstorp divested its Capa moves to Malmö, for Perstorp’s Oxo product sustainability ambition to announced the transfer of their business to Ingevity, and the Sweden. was inaugurated in become Finite Material interest in Perstorp from the proceeds were used to de­ Stenungsund, Sweden, Neutral. The world’s first investment fund PAI Europe IV leverage and strengthen its the largest investment portfolio of Pro-Environ­ment to a new fund managed by PAI balance sheet, as well as to in company history. Polyols was intro­duced to the Partners and backed by Landmark invest in growth areas. A new market, including products Partners and other co-investors. capital structure through a that can contribute to a The divestment of the BioProduct debt refinancing agreement carbon footprint reduction business was finalized, and came into force and Perstorp of up to 80%. Perstorp started to explore new is now very well positioned to business opportunities in Animal achieve its long-term strategic Nutrition to improve the objectives. well-being of farm animals. 4 Perstorp in brief World leader in several sectors of the specialty chemicals market 1,350 Employees worldwide • Pioneer in formalin chemistry, plastics and surface materials 26 • S ince December 2005, Perstorp has been owned and controlled by PAI partners, a leading European private equity company • Present in 26 countries and production plants in Europe, Asia and North America Countries worldwide with • Sales representation in all major markets sales presence and represented in many more Perstorp everywhere Perstorp is the operator of 7 production units in Asia, Europe and North America with sales representation in all major markets and more than 50 agents, ensures 11.6 Billion SEK Turnover a global presence. 1.55 Billion SEK EBITDA excl. non-recurring items Production units Sales representation 50% ORGANIZATION JAN SECHER No. 1 position of PRESIDENT AND CEO 50% of portfolio MIKAEL GEDIN MAGNUS HEIMBURG PEOPLE & CULTURE FINANCE, LEGAL & IT AND CEO OFFICE CECILIA SVENSSON HELENE DÉRAND COMMUNICATIONS INNOVATION & SUSTAINABILITY 80% ULRIKA ANDERSSON GORM JENSEN ROGER MANN MAGNUS LANNÉR GORM JENSEN No. 1 – 3 position BA SPECIALTY POLYOLS BA ADVANCED BA ANIMAL SUPPLY CHAIN GLOBAL of 80% of portfolio & SOLUTIONS CHEMICALS NUTRITION & OPERATIONS PROCUREMENT 6 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Highlights in 2019 Divestment of the Debt re-financing agreement Level Up Capa™ business in place A transformational program, Level Up, was The sale of the Capa business to Perstorp announced the refinancing of intro­duced in early 2019. After having developed Ingevity was completed in early 2019, its credit facilities. Previous bonds and each of our Group functions, we were ready to which enabled Perstorp to deleverage loans were refinanced through new take the next step and launch a new operational and strengthen its balance sheet. credit facilities, which have provided a model and a new organization. The purpose was more flexible capital structure. Perstorp to strengthen the cross-functional capabilities, is now very well positioned to achieve its to better address customer demands – and to long-term strategic objectives. improve the reliability of supply. In addition to the Level Up program, a company-wide cost mitiga­ tion program was executed with good results. Perstorp boosts its Growing our portfolio of Potential to produce safety performance Pro-Environment Solutions recycled methanol Perstorp’s health and safety incident rate The Pro-Environment concept was expanded Perstorp began exploring the potential to has been more than halved since 2017. As to include new product families and a new produce recycled methanol at its facility part of our Care 365 initiative, a new safety service offer to help customers to switch to in Stenungsund, Sweden. This ambitious protocol for our manufacturing sites was products based on renewable raw materials. feasibility study is part-funded by the developed with support from DuPont Sus­ Three new polyol product families were Swedish Energy Agency. Methanol is one tainable Solutions. The aim was to estab­ added in 2019: Charmor™ Pro for intumes­ of Perstorp’s major raw materials and is lish a baseline for Perstorp’s safety status cent coatings, Curalite™ Ox Pro for cationic currently mainly produced from fossil fuels and to develop efficient improvement UV curing and Holtac™ Pro for lead-free PVC. such as natural gas or coal. If successful, strategies. The project also assessed the Significantly, sales of our Pro-Environment the project will significantly enhance maturity of safety in various Perstorp func­ Solutions nearly quadrupled during the year. Perstorp’s contribution to sustainability. tions, which led to detailed action plans. Care as our fourth core value Collaboration for animal health Establishing production in India As part of our dedication to health and Perstorp teamed up with the company In November, Perstorp broke ground for safety, we decided to introduce Care as Evonik to research and develop new our new Penta plant in Gujarat, India. The a fourth core value alongside Responsi­ animal nutrition products. The collab­ plant will secure the company’s long-term bility, Reliability and Focused Innovation. oration combines Evonik’s unique gut presence in Asia. The state-of-the-art Caring is not just about statistics, it is a health simulation system and probiotics Gujarat site will produce Penta as well as fundamental belief and the basis of ev­ products, and Perstorp’s ester technol­ renewable Penta (Voxtar™), that can reduce erything we do. We strongly believe that ogy platform for efficient and safe acid carbon emissions by up to 60 percent. a caring company is a more successful application. The collaboration is set up Commercial production is planned to start and profitable company. to deliver breakthrough innovation sup­ in 2022. porting the requirements for tomorrow’s animal farming. Recent product launches Two new grades have been added to Perstorp’s launched a new sustainable de-icer, Pergrip Run Pro, Ymer™ range. The new products present op­ uniquely made using ISCC certified renewable raw portunities for new applications and are better materials. for human health and the environment. Ymer Perstorp introduced an innovative renewable polyol can for instance be used to improve the surface ester (non-phthalate) plasticizer, Pevalen™ Pro. The feeling of leather, making it ideal for use in renewable plasticizer for close to consumer applications, the synthetic leather industry where there is a will make flexible PVC an even more attractive choice of strong trend away from the use of solvents. plastic, based on a signifi­cantly lower carbon footprint In time for the winter season, Perstorp versus competing materials and technologies. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 PRESIDENT´S COMMENT This was the year when we, despite economic headwinds, laid the foundation for the company’s next development MACROECONOMIC AND GEOPOLITICAL UNCERTAINTY DISAPPOINTING FINANCIAL RESULTS 2019 has been a challenging year in many ways. The year was char­ Financial results were overall disappointing, and the decline was due acterized by a continued and accelerated slowdown in the world to a general weakening of demand as well as internal factors such as economy led to a considerably weakened demand for several of production outages, partly off-set by a positive exchange rate effect our products in all three main geographies – EMEA, Americas and as a result of the weak Swedish krona. The year ended with an EBIT­ APAC. Several external factors combined to increase uncertainty, DA totaling SEK 1,554 m* compared to 1,814 m for the full year 2018 such as Brexit, critical elections of world leaders, extreme weather with an EBITDA margin of 13.4% (14.6%). Organic volume-based and the ongoing trade war between the US and China, which led sales growth for the full year was down 3% compared to the same to additional excess volumes from competitors in China being period last year. A cost mitigation program was implemented in moved to Southeast Asia and Europe. Raw material prices were in Q2, which made a positive contribution to the year’s end result. The general down compared to the end of 2018, and the drop in raw program continues in 2020. material prices combined with increased competition has in gener­ al pushed prices down. STRATEGIC DIRECTION Our product portfolio has been revisited after the recent divestment BASIS FOR THE FUTURE OF PERSTORP of the BioProducts and Capa™ businesses, and we will continue to It has also been an exciting year, where a number of events have optimize both our resilient cash contributors as well as our attractive formed the basis for the future of Perstorp. We have re-positioned growth businesses within Polyols, Oxo and Animal Nutrition. We will our innovation portfolio as well as the company after having closed continue to build on our strong market positions, intimate relation­ the divestment of the Capa™ business. The proceeds from the divest­ ships with our customers and integrated supply networks. ment allowed us to significantly strengthen our balance sheet and leverage our position, which has enabled us to focus on driving future ”We will continue to build on our strong growth from our three platforms – Polyols, Oxo and Animal Nutrition. market positions, intimate relation­s­hips with At the start of 2019, we introduced a new transformational program, Level Up. After the last years’ development of functional our customers and integrated supply networks.” excellence, a new operational model and a new organization were launched with the main objective to better address customer de­ mands for supply reliability and cross-functional collaboration. In short, we will build our long-term growth through: Together we have created a more lean and efficient company, with • I nvestments in specialty businesses where Perstorp has leading the aim of being even better at serving our customers’ needs. competitive positions Shortly after the transformational program was launched, Perstorp • Focused innovation to address customer needs in our core markets entered a new refinancing agreement for our credit facilities, • B olt-on acquisitions to gain capabilities and access to adjacent resulting in significantly lowering our financial costs. markets 8 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 * excl. non-recurring items ”Together we have created a more lean and efficient company, with the aim of being even better at serving our customers’ needs.” • I ncrease our sustainability focus to reduce our footprint and CARE IN OUR DNA eventually become finite material neutral Care 365 has been our company-wide initiative of putting health and safety first in everything we do – every day, 365 days a year – and Furthermore, we later in the year broke ground for our new to translate this ambition into concrete actions. We do this because we greenfield Penta plant in India pressure on prices. care, not because we want to improve our statistics, even if our statistics have also improved. Care has become a foundational belief and such SUSTAINABLE TRANSFORMATION an integral part of how we work, that we have now decided to make it We have set the ambitious objective to become Finite Material Neutral, a core value alongside Responsibility, Reliability and Focused Innovation. which is an ambition that will stretch us as a company and increasingly Profitable Growth continues to be our focus moving forward. We have an impact on the way we do business, run our production plants have set ambitious and challenging goals for ourselves including and make choices within our value chains. Sustainability though, is a outperforming the market over the coming strategic cycle. On this lot more than this ambition – it is about how we as a responsible basis we maintain our very strict cost control, drive a strong focus on company deal with matters such as anti-corruption, gender equality, sales and pricing as well as on the availability of products. Combined governance and sustainable sourcing. 2019 was the year when with a continued focus on improvement programs in many areas of Sustainability received its own seat in the Perstorp Executive Leader­ the company, we will be well positioned when the market improves. ship Team to secure that it is truly integrated in our business, across As a consequence of the Covid-19 situation, the management has all functions. temporarily installed a Crisis Management Organization (CMO) to safe­ A substantial part of Perstorp’s innovation efforts are used to find guard the health and safety of our employees, secure business contin­ sustainable solutions and to increase the sustainability benefits of gency and strive to minimize the recovery and restoration phase. As of our products. During the year, our work included expanding our this date, the supply of raw material, production and delivery to the Pro-Environment portfolio and also intensified the development of customer have worked well. Due to the high uncertainty, it is still too innovative new products for animal gut health. early to estimate the financial impacts on Perstorp from Covid-19. In In 2019, we recruited a CDO (Chief Digital Officer) to lead the com­ order to be prepared for a slowdown in demand during the remainder pany into a digital future. Digital transformation will enable us to of 2020, a number of mitigating actions have recently been initiated, work and produce more efficiently, and create new interfaces with where the focus has been to secure a strong liquidity position. our customers and even develop new business models. In the We are closely following and monitoring the development of Covid-19, spring, the Executive Leadership Team went on an explorative tour in order to act on the health and safety of our employees and the to Silicon Valley, and new relationships were built that have now business contingency. resulted in exciting pilot projects. During the year, we also started the implementation of a new CRM system (salesforce.com), which enables Malmö, April 2020 us to work in new ways, both internally as well as with our customers. Jan Secher PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 EVERYDAY CHEMISTRY This is chemistry Although the modern science of chemistry did not emerge until the 16th century, humans have engaged in chemistry for much longer than recorded history. After all – human beings along with all other beings are chemistry. In modern times, chemistry has enabled us to live longer, healthier PART OF THE SOLUTION and richer lives than in previous centuries. We may not think about When chemicals are discussed today, it is very often in the context it all the time but our breakfast bread, the screen we work in front of their negative impact on the environment or health issues. The of and the fabrics in the sheets we sleep on at night would all be microplastics in the oceans or harmful substances used in agricul­ impossible to produce were it not for chemistry. Both in our daily ture or as food additives are indeed concerns. But while there are lives and in the complex processes of modern industrial plants and certain chemicals that in the wrong place become harmful, there are high-tech companies, chemistry is ever present. And so is Perstorp. as many where they are beneficial, and even critical for our societies. A world were humans do not engage in chemistry is inconceiv­ Thanks to chemistry, the air and water in many European cities is able. Since chemistry is so intimately linked to progress, science and cleaner today than 100 years ago. The ozone layer is healing and civilization, we must however make sure that we handle the power as we begin to tackle the great challenge of climate change, it gives us in a responsible and sustainable way. chemistry will play a key role. This highlights a very im­ portant fact about chemistry – the solution to a chemical problem is quite often other – “better” and more sustainable – chemicals. In this report, we aim to show you what Perstorp and our products are doing in order to overcome modern day challenges and how we aim to leverage the possibilities unlocked by the rapid and very exciting Thanks to chemistry, the air and water in many European cities progress of chemistry in the future. is cleaner today than 100 years ago 10 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Thoughtful chemistry is Perstorp’s pathway to creating sustainable value. Using our expertise in chemistry and engineering, we transform basic materials into high-value products that give our customers a competitive edge. REACHING FURTHER TOMORROW Perstorp’s products and solutions advance everyday life almost everywhere – in the pockets, homes, offices and communities of practically every human being on the planet. Among many things we: ...improve energy efficiency in refrigerators ... enable coatings without solvents ... supporting animal health and welfare 15 KG ... make paint dry faster ... make cables softer and more durable ...and we are finding ways to do all these things in more sustainable ways. We focus our innovation on real societal needs. Many of our products are needed for a more sustainable society, with demographic changes, urbanization and the need to combat climate change. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 TRENDS Global macro trends In a rapidly changing world, merely observing and reacting to macro trends is not enough. At Perstorp we strive to shape our business around these trends and capitalize on them to drive growth. Demographic changes, urbanization and climate change are three macro trends that we pay particular attention to as they will have a profound impact on our longterm potential for growth. Growing and ageing population It took humanity around 200,000 years to reach a population of one IMPLICATIONS AND RESPONSE billion. 200 years later the global population is approaching eight A larger and more wealthy population naturally increases the demand billion people, with more people living healthier, richer and longer for food and other resources. In order to sustainably feed and provide lives than ever before. Due to advances in health care, among other resources to eight billion people, food production must be much things, the average life expectancy in many industrialized countries more efficient than in the past. This requires better preservation of has increased, with more countries expected to follow a similar trend. both feed and food as enormous amounts are currently wasted, and Not only is the population getting larger, it is also getting older. more efficient solutions for other resources. This is where modern Due to advances in health care, among other things, the average life chemistry comes in. expectancy in Sweden has increased by over 40 years for both men and At Perstorp we produce additives that can improve gut health women in the past 200 years. This trend holds true for all industrialized and animal performance for farm animals, preservatives for feed and countries and as more and more countries become wealthier; it is all food, and organic salt fertilizers. These products support to healthier but certain that we will see the same trend globally. animals, higher food yields and a reduction of the resource consumption in food production. Many of our solutions also promote resource efficiency in a wide range of industries. 12 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Rapid urbanization Today more than half the world’s population lives in urban areas. IMPLICATIONS AND RESPONSE The urbanization trend has continued at a steady pace over the The challenge of delivering clean water and electricity to an urban past century and looks set to continue in the future. population of millions, or even tens of millions, is significant and As with most trends, urbanization involves both challenges and improved chemical products and ingredients are essential to enable opportunities. Cities facilitate interaction between people, the ex­ urbanization. More densely populated areas are more sensitive to change of goods and ideas, and less need for long distance travel. disturbances. For example, a power fault in a major city may affect On the other hand, greater demands are placed on infrastructure thousands of homes and require closing a major road, which high­ such as power grids and sanitation, and less space for development lights the importance of reliability. requires more careful planning and resource utilization. Perstorp produces a number of products and ingredients that help make urban life easier and safer, in a number of areas – from environ­ mentally friendly refrigeration and air conditioining, and biodegradable de-icers to durable solvent free coatings and phthalate-free plasticizers to be used in cables, flooring and other construction materials. CO2 Climate change and resource scarcity The future for all life on Earth heavily depends on how climate IMPLICATIONS AND RESPONSE change is managed in the coming decades. The chemical industry, If a coal plant is closed and replaced by wind turbines, there has been will play a major role in contributing to overcoming what is arguably a direct reduction of CO2. But the wind turbines cannot operate without the most pressing issue of our time. several factors being in place, such as high-performance lubricants From a carbon footprint perspective, it is essential that we reduce for engines and turbines or bio-degradable transformer fluids, which both direct and indirect emissions to address the climate issue. For both contain Perstorp products. In addition, Perstorp delivers build­ example, when an engine becomes more energy efficient due to a ing blocks for paint that prolong paint intervals due to abrasion. better lubricant, the owner of the engine reduces their emissions, but Perstorp produces and develops a broad range of products based the supplier of the lubricant also played a significant role. Modern on renewable raw materials – our Pro-Environment Solutions – that climate accounting differentiates between these types of emission reduce our own carbon footprint and to help others reduce theirs. reductions. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 MARKET SEGMENTS Giving customers a competitive edge Perstorp is a leading specialty chemicals company, and we have learnt that it’s the little things that often make the biggest difference. Using nature’s tiniest building blocks, our products and solutions can help advance everyday life – making it safer, more convenient and more environmentally sound for billions of people all around the world. We love to cooperate with our customers to identify where our products, solutions, knowledge and services can create the most value. Together with our customers, we help translate their current and future needs into valuable business opportunities by combining our innovation expertise with theirs. Together we will significantly enhance the outcome – leading to more competitive portfolios for both of us. NET SALES BY GEOGRAPHY, 2019 APAC 22% Americas 23% EMEA 55% NET SALES BY MARKET SEGMENTS, 2019 Americas EMEA APAC The United States is the The chemical industry is one APAC is a growing market Coatings 32% largest national chemical of the most important in­ for chemicals, where Fuels 4% producer globally and hence dustry sectors in Europe and Perstorp started up its first Feed 7% a very important market more than half of Perstorp’s sales office in Shanghai for Perstorp. Perstorp has sales in 2019 went to EMEA, in 2006. In 2008, a new Synthetic sales representation in both where Perstorp also has five TMP production plant was lubricants 10% North America, as well as in production sites, Perstorp ready in Zibo and in 2013, Middle and South America. and Stenungsund in Sweden, the first tonnes of Neo Bruchhausen in Germany, were produced. Plastic Waspik in the Netherlands materials 16% and Castellanza in Italy. Complementary* 31% *Subsegments: Bleaching, runway de-icer, oil drilling & completion fluids, pharmaceuticals & API, surfactants & detergents, tanning and other. 14 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Resins & Coatings – let us solve your toughest resins & coatings challenge Key drivers shaping our markets Perstorp’s Resins & Coatings technology should be seen as a resource to help • Improving living standards our customers achieve their business goals. We are a ‘resins & coatings native’ • Resource efficiency with an industry presence stretching back over almost seven decades. Along • Growing need for safe infrastructure the way, we have acquired the skills, knowledge, people and technology that • Environmental benefits can add real value to our customers’ businesses. Our market leadership, global presence and solid portfolio of building blocks allow our customers to focus Strengths of Perstorp’s offering on what they do best – creating winning resin and coating formulas. • Relationships with innovators throughout We deliver products within various market segments, including water­ the value chain borne and solvent-borne alkyds, powder polyesters, unsaturated polyesters, • Broad solution portfolio liquid polyesters and UV curables. Through our Pro-Environment portfolio, • Leading market positions we provide renewable alternatives for several products to ensure a signifi­ cant carbon footprint reduction. Whether you require essential building blocks, high performance specialty products or expertise, our people and portfolio are ready to solve your toughest challenges. Resins and coatings value chain FEEDSTOCK BUILDING COATINGS APPLICATOR END USER BLOCKS FORMULATOR Petrochemicals TMP Powder Productivity Appearance Di-Penta coatings Ymer UV cured Ease of Penta coatings application Oxetanes Bio-based Heat and fire feedstock resistance Neo Waterborne Solvent free Boltorn™ technology Bis-MPA Charmor™ Use of Di-TMP Durability renewables PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 MARKET SEGMENTS Plastic Materials – partner in developing next generation plastics solutions Key drivers shaping our markets Perstorp provides focused and innovative chemistry for plastic materials with a special focus • Consumer health and safety concerns on the next generation of plasticizers. We provide leading solutions in the plastic material • Environmental concern driving the need for areas that we focus on, and have a proven record of innovation related to helping com­ fossil free alternatives and recyclable solutions pounders and converters to produce safer, more sustainable high performance plastics. • Urbanization and improved living standards Perstorp is a fully integrated leader in general plasticizers, and a brand leader in intumescent systems for fire resistant plastics. With our R&D, technical resources and production set-up Strengths of Perstorp’s offering we are the perfect partner to help develop the next generation of plastics. Our sustainable, safe and innovative solutions include Charmor™ for intumescent • Highly innovative solutions fire-resistant plastics as well as one of our latest innovations, Pevalen™ – a versatile, • Connected with innovative brand owners non-phthalate plasticizer that is now also available as a renewable version. We recently further down the value chain launched Akestra™, a new heat resistant plastic that is ideal for catering and safe food • Integrated with Perstorp’s efficient packaging with its crystal-clear look & brand appeal. Perstorp is also a major supplier of supply platform 2-EHA and n-Bal for PVB film used in safety glass. • Durable and sustainable product solutions Plastic materials value chain END USER FEEDSTOCK PLASTIC PART INSTALLER/OEM MODIFIERS MANUFACTURER Quality Petrochemicals Pevalen™ Lower Safety total cost Akestra™ Lead Ease of handling Recyclability 2-PH replacement & installation Emoltene™ Bio-based feedstock Holtac™ Performance advantages Penta Phtalate-free 2-EH Use of renewables Durability 16 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Synthetic Lubricants & Engineered Fluids – let’s build better business together Key drivers shaping our markets Synthetic esters are increasingly becoming the go-to choice in several industries when • Growth in high-tech applications it comes to composing engineered fluids. They offer higher and more predictable per­ • Engine fuel efficiency formance properties, and can better be engineered to fit specific and complex applications. • Substitution of mineral oils Results include longer service intervals, reduced energy consumption and a significant • Environmental and fire safety concerns contribution in the transformation to refrigerants with lower environmental impact. The switch toward synthetic esters is driven by the requirements of increasingly sophisticated Strengths of Perstorp’s offering and complex end products as well as by legislation and environmental concern. Perstorp is a one-stop shop for high quality materials for polyol ester base stock. • Highly innovative solutions However, beyond products, we are forging performance-driven partnerships with an • Environmental benefits increasing number of customers, focusing on how to manage the total cost of their • Integrated with Perstorp’s efficient Oxo operation. Logistics, innovation and sustainability are all areas where we can help our and Polyols supply platforms customers get ahead. The end result is minimal downtime, cost-effective production and a competitive product portfolio for our customers. Synthetic lubricants & engineered fluids value chain FEEDSTOCK BUILDING FORMULATOR OEM END USER BLOCKS Petrochemicals Penta Broad solution Heat and fire Lubrication for portfolio resistance fuel efficiency 2-EHA Polyol PX Innovation Lubrication performance Exceteq™ Bio-based Durability feedstock Valeric Acid Di-Penta Neo Use of TMP Bio-degradability renewables PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 MARKET SEGMENTS Animal Nutrition – devoted to sustainably feeding a growing population Key drivers shaping our markets Feed plays a vital role in all animal production systems. It can be as high as 70% of all costs related • Growing population and wealth to farm management. That is why we are so passionate about helping our customers to optimize • Increasing focus on food safety their feed and feed raw materials. Perstorp has almost 60 years of experience from developing • S ustainable animal protein production innovative solutions for the agricultural industries. Solutions that: • Digitalization and automation • improve gut health and performance of the industry • acidify feed and help animals to cope with heat stress • help to keep feed nutritious and safe from enteros, mycotoxins, molds and yeasts Strengths of Perstorp’s offering • Chemical and biological expertise R&D is in the Perstorp DNA, and we were the first to introduce esters of organic acids for improved • Integration in key building blocks gut health and performance, and for mold inhibition in grains, feed and feed raw materials. Our • E xperienced organization with latest innovation is ProPhorce™ Valerins. This solution consists of esters of valeric acid, molecules global reach so new that we are the first to test them for any agricultural purposes. Animal nutrition value chain FEEDSTOCK BUILDING FORMULATOR FEED FARMING/FOOD END USER BLOCKS PRODUCTION PROCESSING Butyric Esters Gut Health Mold inhibition Sustainability and resource use Food safety Formulations Formic Acid Acidifiers Waste reduction Productivity Propionic Acid Drinking Water Animal health Solutions Petrochemicals Quality Formate Salts Nutritional Salts and taste Valerins 18 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Complementary – hard working chemicals for demanding applications Specialty chemicals are used in most industrial Bleaching – Sodium Formate used in production of segments and sub segments. Some of the key Sodium Hydrosulphite an important bleaching agent sub segments that are supplied by Perstorp’s Oil drilling and completions fluids – Products unique specialty and building block chemical used in the production of sustainable drilling fluids suitable portfolio include: for high temperature and high-pressure drilling Runway de-icers – Formates are used to produce a sustainable choice of de-icers for runways and roads Surfactants and detergents – Raw material to produce detergent stabilizers and surfactants Tanning – Products used in various stages of the tanning process to clean, soften and create superior finishes PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 CULTURE AND SOUL Our culture drives performance We know that there is a clear correlation between corporate culture and financial performance. Perstorp works to nurture a culture that drives customer value and company success, always with an element of care. PURPOSE AND PROMISE CARE IN EVERYTHING WE DO It is important that everyone understands the company’s reason for We are committed to becoming a healthy and safe workplace, and existing, and feel inspired when they go to work. For us at Perstorp, recently increased our focus on these areas. Health and safety are we exist through our purpose to lead the change toward chemistry blind to work/life boundaries and are ultimately about life 365 days that advances everyday life for the better. We fulfil this purpose a year. Everyone in the company, regardless of position, task or through our promise to... location, was included in our Care 365 initiative a couple of years ago. We have since realized that Care is such an integral part of our ... give our customers a competitive edge culture that we decided to adopt it as one of our core values. to advance everyday life. We have created a new way of defining Care with a strong focus on If we lived in a static world, delivering on our purpose and promise leadership and how we support our employees in the ever changing would be easy. We have been in business for 139 years and and challenging work environment – the throughout all these years, we have always strived at being in sync Perstorp Careway. The Careway defines the maturity level of our orga­ with the world around us and re-invented ourselves to foresee and nization in terms of behavior, and we are on our way to move the meet customer needs. entire company to increased maturity. VISION Our world is far from static as it changes at an ever-increasing pace. The Perstorp This means that what is ‘best’ today might be acceptable tomorrow Careway but inadequate next year. This is why it is important to have a vision Empowered/Interdependent It always matters because all to strive toward and to constantly develop as a company. lives are important We envisage Perstorp becoming... RE CA ... the first choice for companies seeking Motivated/Independent It always matters because a competitive edge from chemistry that my life is important advances everyday life. Aware/dependent This involves focused innovation in our product portfolio and processes, It only matters if someone´s watching as well as in how we approach and respond to our customers. Isolated/Reactive It only matters if something goes wrong 20 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 VALUES Our values are part of our DNA. They guide the way we work internally, as well as with our business partners, surrounding communities and stakeholders. We have built our company culture on our core values, to create a working environment where ideas can blossom and people can thrive. Care Care is a foundational belief and emotional driver. Caring is not about statistics, it is at the core of everything we do. It is about safety, health and life, 365 days a year. For everyone to come to work and go home again healthy and safe – for Lead with heart Perstorp, for all, for the loved ones at home as well as for customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Responsibility Doing right goes beyond following rules. It can be about challenging the status quo and creating new rules because it is the right thing to do. We think beyond im­ mediate gains, always with a holistic approach to creating value. We do not let Do right our products go once they are delivered. We continue to take responsibility to advance everyday life. Reliability Reliability means being there when our customers, partners and colleagues need us. It is also about being honest with ourselves and others about expecta­ tions and how we best meet those. It is about anticipating all the variables so Keep the promise we know we can deliver. And it is about treating everyone with consideration and respect, from delivering high-quality products to returning an email or phone call, we will keep the promise. Focused It is in our DNA to constantly look for improvements and better solutions, small and big. Focused Innovation is much more than invention, it is finding what truly Innovation matters for people and the planet and making it better. Focused means that we channel our strengths where they make the biggest impact for our customers, and by extension, for everyone touched by their products. Making smart products Make it better even smarter, we relentlessly pursue that edge to make things better tomorrow than they are today. CULTURE RELATES TO PERFORMANCE Our core values unify the Perstorp culture and drive our organization, actions and results. This core strength combined with an outside-in market approach truly sets us apart from our competitors. We are convinced that this fuels our vision: To be the first choice for companies seeking a competitive edge to advance everyday life. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 STRATEGY AND TARGETS Strategy Advancing everyday life for the better Perstorp advances everyday life – our products and solutions are found in the pockets, homes, offices and communities of practically every person on the planet. Additionally, many of our products are essential for a more sustainable society, with growing populations and smarter cities. 80% CREATING VALUE THROUGH THOUGHTFUL CHEMISTRY Thoughtful chemistry is Perstorp’s pathway to creating sustainable value. Using our expertise in chemistry and engineering, we trans­ form basic materials into high-value products that give our customers a competitive edge. For us, innovation is not only about creating something entirely new. Perstorp has a top three market position for Instead we focus on which customer needs Perstorp can meet using 80 percent of its product portfolio. current production capabilities. We make the most of our assets to create the greatest possible customer value. Resilient. Perstorp seeks to maintain a broad customer offering to More specifically, we develop our existing technology and produc­ ensure market needs are met and resilience through economic cycles. tion platforms toward new needs and opportunities. We work Forward-thinking. We follow and assume leadership within methodically with operational excellence to increase efficiency, emerging trends, stay close to our customers, and identify needs debottleneck and secure supply. that can be met with existing and new Perstorp products. Thoughtful chemistry generally means thinking ahead and doing the right things, in the right ways, for the right reasons. STRATEGIC DIRECTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL Perstorp’s value creation stems from a solid base: we generate resilient Perstorp’s strength lies in the unique properties and functions of cash flows through an integrated business platform and strong our solutions, as well as in how we develop and produce them. We competitive positions. remain successful by being: Our competitive strategy entails selecting market niches that match our deep knowledge in polyol, oxo and ester chemistries, Focused. Perstorp is built around core platforms for polyols , oxo and where we can gain a leading position. Perstorp is the leading and animal nutrition. By continually sparking off new ideas that can supplier in 50 percent of our product portfolio and top three in 80 feedback into our core platforms, we strengthen the competitiveness percent of the portfolio. of our customers and that of Perstorp. Working this way ensures We direct our efforts toward high-growth specialty chemical markets we have a strong financial position. with a need for innovative, sustainable solutions. We focus on: Big player in defined niches. We focus on niches with above average • Resins and coatings GDP growth that match our core competencies and where we can • Plastic materials achieve a leading position. • Animal nutrition • Engineered fluids 22 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GROWTH DRIVERS we begin with end uses in mind and maintain close ties with cus­ We focus on markets driven by macro trends with above GDP growth tomers and other partners closer to end-users. We have business an we approach growth in three ways. Firstly, we grow organically processes to fit different customer requirements, and we focus by focusing our innovation on addressing customer needs. Secondly, development on selected market segments, ready to transform we invest in specialty business capabilities where Perstorp has leading new customer needs into new business opportunities. competitive positions. Thirdly, we selectively make bolt-on acquisi­ tions to gain capabilities and access to adjacent markets. Product and market leadership. We build and defend our leading global market positions and look for new development opportunities Four distinct factors help drive Perstorp’s profitable growth: along the value chain. Innovation based on products and processes is primarily made at the intersection between customer needs and Care. At Perstorp, employees can perform at their full potential in technology, and we continuously explore and develop more sus­ healthy and safe environments. We never compromise on health and tainable products and solutions with a circular approach. safety to increase business performance. The capability to advance health and safety is an entrance ticket to becoming a manager, and Leverage integrated business platforms. A great deal of our com­ Perstorp strives to serve as a role model for other companies. petitive power comes from optimizing our technology platforms. Our operational excellence projects will further expand capacity by Customer centricity. Perstorp is often situated early on in our value de-bottlenecking production, increasing safety, efficiency and reli­ chains and our products make a substantial difference to a wide ability, as well as ensuring product availability. range of application areas and markets. It is therefore essential that OPERATIONAL STRENGTH THROUGH AN INTEGRATED PRODUCTION NETWORK MAIN FEEDSTOCK MAIN INTERMEDIATES MAIN SALES PRODUCTS MAJOR MARKETS Plastic materials Engineered fluids Building blocks Safety glass Advanced Surfactants Chemicals Detergents Pharmaceuticals Plasticizers Fuel additives Petrochemical Feedstock UV coatings Building blocks Powder coatings Intermediate Specialty High-performance coatings chemicals Polyols & Polyester resins Solutions Engineered fluids De-icing Renewable Animal Oil drilling Feedstock Nutrition Fertilizer formulations Detergents Building blocks Animal Nutrition Nutritional additives Gut health additives Preservatives Silage additives PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 PEOPLE A place to learn, develop and make a difference With our Swedish roots, we are a global team of scientists, engineers and business professionals with a track record of almost 140 years in pursuing sustainable innovation and progress in chemistry. We believe that every individual and action can make significant difference. WELCOME TO PERSTORP GROWING WITH PERSTORP Although we have operations in many countries, we are still con­ To realize the full potential of our employees, we offer a wide variety sidered a relatively small company – with 1,350 individuals contrib­ of training courses, leadership programs, talent management, skills uting toward annual net sales of around SEK 11.6 bn. This means development and individualized development plans. Every employee that nobody stays anonymous and at Perstorp, every person’s per­ reviews their performance with their immediate manager – to set formance really counts. and follow up targets, and discuss career ambitions. This is done on With sites located from Toledo in the West (US), to Zibo in the a regular basis through our Group-wide Performance Management East (China) and with our roots in Perstorp, Sweden, we have a & Development process (PMD). diverse workforce. Perstorp takes a pro-active approach to diversity, Perstorp aims to recruit a majority of critical roles (leadership, including gender equality. specialists and project managers) internally. To be able to fulfill this Perstorp has a diversity policy, as well as targets for diversity and ambition, we employ a thorough annual talent management process equal opportunity: women among new managers and senior man­ where we identify and develop employees. Employees with the agers as well as non-Swedes among new senior managers. willingness and ability to advance are added to a talent pool from which we recruit for critical roles. WORKING AT PERSTORP Perstorp is a global company with a strong history and culture. We aim to empower employees to be able to decide and act on what is best for our customers and our company. We offer plenty of room to challenge, learn and grow. Thanks to our global presence, employees have the chance to work with cross-functional teams and connect with people around the globe. 24 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ACCOUNTABILITY AND EMPOWERMENT Perstorp is a customer-centric company, which means that we constantly put customers first to generate substantial long-term customer value. At the same time, our work begins internally with our people, culture and leadership. Accountability and empowerment are essential in the way we work. Accountabili­ ty is about taking ownership for our shared future with action today. We also want employees to be empowered to have the courage and confidence to make the decisions needed for the best of the company. We nurture an organization where we see every mistake as a learning opportunity. COMPETENCE AND CULTURE To achieve real and lasting success, Perstorp needs to excel both in terms of competence and culture. For an organization dominated by engineers, the need for competence is obvious but the importance of our culture may be more difficult to grasp. We need both. Without a culture that drives motivated and empowered employees to make the right decisions at the right time, Perstorp will not realize its full potential. LEADERSHIP AT PERSTORP Over the last few years, we have successfully transformed how we do business and operate our company. Our employees must be prepared and equipped accordingly in order to take accountability and to adapt to and lead change. Perstorp invests in leaders that can develop our employees and company. We offer leadership programs, which provide opportunities for personal development and empower our leaders to get the best from their employees – to promote the development of our entire company. Perstorp strives at building a culture of high performance and is very clear about expected employee and manager behaviors. Perstorp’s leadership behaviors are based on our values Care, Responsi­bility, Reliability and Focused Innovation. We encourage the following leadership behavior: CARE RESPONSIBILITY RELIABILITY FOCUSED INNOVATION • Act with integrity • Proactively lead change • Provide a seamless • P romote a learning • Create psychological • Act strategically customer experience culture safety • Drive cross-functional • Deliver results • Lead and develop collaboration • Make clear decisions others PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 SUSTAINABILITY Doing right for a more sustainable society The essence of Perstorp’s sustainability strategy entails doing the right things in the right way. Sustainability for us involves working with all the aspects that will make our company successful for another 140 years. This includes our ambition to become Finite Material Neutral, innovate sustainably and to run a truly responsible business. OUR IMPACT STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY is the basis for long-term business success, and something that that We have embarked on an exciting journey in recent years to take a needs everyday attention to keep up and make progress. It often more proactive approach on how Perstorp can contribute to meaning­ involves working on multiple fronts – including responsible sourcing, ful positive impact. This is what we mean by our impact strategy for anti-corruption and sustainability governance. sustainability. The strategy includes contributing toward combating climate change and our long-term ambition to become Finite Material CONTRIBUTING TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Neutral, which is a very bold ambition that we do not yet know how AND THE EUROPEAN GREEN DEAL to achieve in all areas. Our approach places sustainability at the very By providing solutions and enabling innovation in virtually all industries, heart of our business and will require a thorough transformation of the chemicals sector can contribute to many of the UN Sustainable our company. Development Goals (SDGs). Perstorp is committed to the SDGs and Another important element of our impact strategy involves working Agenda 2030. We aim to provide solutions that support: with sustainable innovation. At Perstorp, we focus our innovation on how our products and solutions can provide and/or enable more • sustainable nutrition for growing populations sustainable alternatives compared to the standard market offering. • life in smarter and more livable societies Innovation also involves exploring increased resource efficiency • a climate neutral world. and circularity. Since 2017, we have offered a growing portfolio of products and solutions with renewable content based on an ISCC We have found that we very clearly contribute to SDGs 2, 11, 12, certified mass balance system – our Pro-Environment Solutions. 13, and 15. These are goals where our business has significant We pride ourselves on being a responsible business as a reliable potential to make a meaningful positive impact. Additionally, we employer, buyer, business partner and corporate citizen, as well as work to align with the EU commission’s Green Deal through our operating the company in a responsible manner. Responsible business membership and representation in the trade organization CEFIC. 26 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 How Perstorp contributes SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE • P rovides products for safe and efficient silage and preservation Perstorp’s corporate change program for • F ertilizing solutions to reduce salt stress in arid regions and improve sustainability is headed by the EVP Group crop yields Communications and Sustainability, who is • S afe packaging solutions to protect food and prevent food waste also a member of the Executive Leadership • W e have partnered with the Hunger Project in Ghana, which aims to Team. end hunger, achieve food safety, improve nutrition and promote sus­ Our cross-functional sustainability team tainable agriculture. Our flagship project in Ghana became self-reliant drives our ambitions and builds internal at the end of 2019. processes and capabilities. The team includes representatives from Procurement, Business Development, Operations, Marketing, Re­ sponsible Care, HR, Global Technology, How Perstorp contributes Transport, Innovation and Communications • W e have a circular approach to the products we produce as well as those responsible for each focus • R enewable raw materials for coatings, resins and synthetic lubricants area in our Finite Material Neutral ambition. • E fficient and sustainable alternatives for intumescent coatings and Perstorp’s main sustainability-related flame retardants policies are: our Code of Conduct, Respon­ • R enewable phthalate free plasticizers for PVC applications sible Care Policy, Security Policy, Anti-Bribery • P roducts for more durable coating applications Policy, Vendor Policy, Global Travel Policy and General Data Protection Policy. The Perstorp Group is in the process of developing a policy covering social engagement and sponsorships, as well as for Sustainability. How Perstorp contributes The Perstorp Group has management We develop solutions that systems for quality and the environment, • u se less resources and enable recyclability or biodegradability to help third party certified to ISO 9001:2015 and our customers to become more sustainable ISO 14001:2015. • protect, preserve or prevent food and feed from being contaminated, Each of our production sites currently spoiled or destroyed during production sets their own sustainability targets. During Our operations strive to 2020, we will establish new indicators, targets • r educe, recirculate and optimize the water used in our processes and roadmaps to strengthen Perstorp’s • n ot compete with water usage for essential needs performance in relevant sustainability areas. • increase recycling rates for our production waste, and utilize waste We will also align Group-level ambitions streams as raw materials with the ongoing work of our sites. • e liminate waste from our production processes We are a member of Responsible Care, the global chemical industry’s dedicated initiative to improve health, environmental performance, enhance security and to communicate with stakeholders about How Perstorp contributes products and processes. We are working to become Finite Material Neutral. This involves: Since 2004, Perstorp has been a signatory • transitioning from fossil-based to renewable and recycled raw materials to the UN Global Compact, which requires • s witching to renewable electricity and non-fossil energy sources at us to commit and adhere to ten principles our plants globally relating to human rights, labor, • c ontinuously improving and optimizing our production processes the environment and anti-corruption. • u pgrading our technologies to even more sustainable alternatives How Perstorp contributes • T ransition from fossil-based to renewable raw materials • D evelop products and solutions to support sustainable agricultural development and enable efficient land use • O ffer feed additives to help animals grow and stay healthy PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 SUSTAINABILITY Finite Material Neutral In 2017, we set a bold ambition for us to become Finite Material Finite Material Neutral will involve: Neutral. Finite materials are non-renewable resources that cannot 1. Using renewable, recycled or reclaimed raw materials be created or produced once the original stores are depleted, or 2. Using energy from renewable sources that are used up at a faster rate than nature can replenish them. 3. Producing zero waste from our own processes and Becoming Finite Material Neutral means switching to alternative products resources that are abundant and/or renewable, or to close loops 4. Continuously lowering our water footprint, and recycle or reuse those that are finite. We have not yet set a and practice a responsible out-take of water definite deadline for this challenging ambition. To date, we have 5. U  sing catalysts with metals and minerals that primarily focused on making progress on raw materials and energy. are recycled/reclaimed/responsibly sourced Perstorp will focus on the following areas to become Finite Material Neutral: The journey to become Finite Material Neutral will signifi• Raw material cantly lower Perstorp’s environmental impact as well as • Energy give our customers a competitive edge in meeting the • Water global demand for more sustainable solutions. • Waste • Metals & Minerals Raw materials Energy Water Our Finite Material Neutral target for raw mate­ Our Finite Material Neutral target for energy Our Finite Material Neutral target for water rials involves switching to renewable, recycled or involves switching to renewable energy. involves continuously reducing our total water reclaimed raw materials. Perstorp works with mass Perstorp uses significant amounts of energy footprint and ensuring that we do not affect balance to gradually shift from fossil to renew­ at its manufacturing plants, which is a reason the environment or human health negatively able/recycled resources while keeping the exact why we continue to focus on efficiency and through our water effluents. We should never same quality and performance of the products. on switching to renewable energy. The site in compete with water usage for essential human At present, Perstorp’s raw materials are pre­ Perstorp is supplied with energy from a biomass needs, e g drinking water. dominantly derived from fossil sources such as boiler, which also partly supplies the municipality Perstorp is taking steps to conserve and reuse petroleum and natural gas. We have worked with energy. Our sites in Perstorp and Stenung­ water in our manufacturing plants. We also to source and develop use of renewable raw sund use electricity from renewable sources. consider water use when designing new prod­ materials both internally and in collaboration We are further building on our experience from ucts. To meet our ambition, we also need to with partners for many years, and we source an using alternative energy sources to support our innovate and invest in new technologies. increasing amount of renewable raw materials transition. During the year, we began mapping our water for our Pro-Environment products. use terms of withdrawal and discharge. Each During the year, we contributed to the EU site will be expected to contribute targets to project BiZeolCat. The project aims to reduce Perstorp’s water roadmap. carbon emissions from the refining industry. It will develop new processes to convert alkanes into olefins. 28 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RAW MATERIAL WASTE WATER METALS & MINERALS ENERGY Waste Metals & Minerals Our Finite Material Neutral target involves We currently reclaim metal catalysts, and aim achieving zero waste from Perstorp’s processes. to only use reclaimed or recycled catalysts. We We believe that waste has inherent values do not use catalysts that include rare elements. that we need to see as an opportunity that must We work to develop new processes that either be unlocked. Perstorp works to prevent, reduce, use more potent catalysts or no catalysts at all. recycle and eliminate waste in all phases of our During the year, we contributed to PERFORM, value chain. This includes solids, liquids and an EU project to develop highly efficient and vapors from supplier manufacturing, losses in integrated electrochemical systems. The project transportation and storage, and waste generated targets two important drivers within the Euro­ by Perstorp’s operations. pean chemical industry: electrification and the During the year, we initiated a site-level shift toward bio-based feedstocks. analysis of all our waste streams, mapping both production-related waste and other types of waste, such as from construction. The purpose is to enable us to better address waste from Perstorp’s production and establish a clear baseline for our roadmap. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable innovation For Perstorp, a focused approach to innovation is about constantly These projects explore and contribute to several important areas, coming up with relevant ideas to develop our company, our offering including chemical recycling, bio-based chemicals and electrification. and the value we create for customers and society. We combine insights in relevant trends with customer needs, and channel our strengths PIONEERING PRO-ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS where they make the biggest impact for our customers – and the Perstorp has the solutions needed for sustainable societies. Our people everywhere whose lives are touched by our products. Pro-Environment range of products enables our customers to bring Our approach to innovation includes new product development, renewable products to their respective end markets. The Pro-Envi­ but also enhanced functionality and adaption of existing products ronment product portfolio also contributes to Perstorp achieving to new market opportunities as well as continuously improve com­ Finite Material Neutral by driving the shift toward renewable raw petitiveness of our production processes. materials and energy. Perstorp’s innovation team has developed a tool to keep focus on The criteria for Pro-Environment Solutions are: different aspects of sustainability and sustainable products in the project portfolio. Roughly 80 percent of our research and development • Partly or fully renewable or recycled origin initiatives focuses on finding new sustainable solutions to reduce • Carbon footprint reduction environmental impacts and meet the market demand for more • ISCC PLUS certified environmentally responsible products. We seek input early on, to check • Based on an ISCC certified mass balance concept whether our developments are relevant and valuable, and believe that keeping close ties and working together is the way forward. Furthermore, our Pro-Environment Solutions are drop-in, meaning Collaboration is important to us. Perstorp participates in several that their quality is identical to the fossil-based products they can research consortia working with customers as well as leading scien­ substitute. This avoids the need for customers to alter their equip­ tists on new technologies to develop new opportunities, business ment or processes. models and markets. Not the least addressing the challenges of At present, Perstorp’s Pro-Environment Solutions consist of two sustainability and circular economy requires collaboration along the sub-portfolios – Polyols and Specialty Products – with a new renew­ value chain. During the year, we were active in 12 external research able polyol ester, the non-phthalate plasticizer, Pevalen™ Pro, programs involving 124 partners at Universities, Institutes and Industry. launched late in 2019. Perstorp Raw mass balance Renewable A material Fossil A A To keep track of renewable Evyron™ raw materials added to the Mass balance Neeture™ storage tank and allocating Voxtar™ them to specific products. Mass balance TMP Mass Neo Raw balance POLYOL PRODUCTION Penta Renewable B material Fossil B B 30 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Pro-Environment solutions in 2019 Almost four-fold growth. Our Pro-Environment Solutions really took off during the year with sales nearly quadrupling. Sales were primarily driven by Pro-Environment Polyols (Evyron™, Neeture™ and Voxtar™) that were launched in 2017. Launch of new products. The Pro-Environment concept was expanded to include new product families and a new service offering to support customers to adopt Pro-Environmental Solutions. Three new polyol product families were added: Charmor™ Pro for intumescent coatings, Curalite™ Ox Pro for cationic UV curing and Holtac™ Pro for lead-free PVC. In addition, the runway de-icer Pergrip™ was added as well as our phthalate free plasticizer Pevalen™. Launch of production in Germany. Our site in Bruchhausen, Germany became ISCC certified and began to produce and sell Voxtar™. This means that Perstorp now has three sites that produce Pro-Environment products. The other two are Stenungsund and Perstorp in Sweden. Recycled methanol explored. We began exploring the potential to produce recycled methanol at our facility in Stenungsund, Sweden. This ambitious feasibility study is part-funded by the Swedish Energy Agency, and represents an important step forward, since methanol is one of Perstorp’s major raw materials and is mainly produced from fossil resources. If successful, the project will significantly support Perstorp’s contribution to sustainability. Awarded for Sustainable Innovation. Perstorp’s Pevalen™ Pro won silver in the Sustainable Innovation category at the INOVYN Awards 2019. The INOVYN Awards take place in connection with the K-Fair Conference, a leading fair for the plastics industry. The award is a recognition that our Finite Material Neutral ambition keeps us ahead of the industry but in pace with the market. Pevalen™ Pro will become available from 2020. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 SUSTAINABILITY Responsible business Managing our business responsibly is an important part of our sustainability agenda covering areas such as employee health and safety, responsible sourcing and anti-corruption. CARE 365: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY We seek to constantly improve health and safety to become a role Measurement is important, but we believe it takes more than indi­ model for other companies. One of our main implementation tools cators and targets to instill the right motivation to improve health is the Perstorp Careway, which enables us to monitor our health and and safety in a company. At Perstorp, we are very clear about what safety maturity level based on industry best practice – both at site we want to achieve, how we intend to get there, and what is ex­ and Group level. We aim to use the Careway to take Perstorp Group’s pected from each employee and manager. Since we initiated our health and safety performance to the top quartile of companies in Care 365 program in 2017, our health and safety performance has our business category. improved significantly. During the year, all our production sites were assessed in relation Care 365 is a Group wide initiative and addresses culture, leadership to their Careway maturity and action plans were created to fill any and employee engagement in health and safety, including contrac­ gaps. In 2020, we will follow up progress at our production units tors who work for us short or long term. It places emphasis on visible and all non-production units will be assessed with the same com­ leadership, a sense of urgency when it comes to the prevention of prehensive methodology. incidents and accidents, implementing clear standards as well as compliance management. 32 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contracted workers often also have our sites as their workplace, even overall guidance is complemented by more specific policies and though temporarily. For us it is important that they are included in procedures, such as a specific anti-bribery policy. all relevant aspects of our safety work and our environmental The legal department has developed a series of e-learning modules management. Based on insights from our safety reporting, we have to enable more in depth focus on different aspects of business ethics, identified a need to focus even more on this category of workers. especially for those in positions of increased risk exposure. Further In 2019 we have therefore set a long-term target to reduce any e-learnings are in the pipe-line. differences in incident levels between employees and contracted Employees are encouraged to correct or report non-compliance workers, and we have initiated activities to ensure that they are with the Code. Alleged non-compliance shall be reported to an not subjected to higher risks of getting injured or higher risks of immediate manager, or to the Head of HR or Head of Legal. Finally, causing incidents. there is an internal whistleblowing channel that enables anonymous reporting of any suspicions of misconduct. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Perstorp conducts a legal risk review on a quarterly basis. All Our value chain links us very closely to many of our suppliers and business areas and functions must report any litigation, dispute or customers and we all need to co-operate and co-innovate for a sus­ claim related to legal or regulatory violations that is material to the tainable industry. An important part of that work is to address the risks Group. Investigations by an authority (e.g. police, anti-trust authority) of any unlawful practices and negative impacts in our supply chains. must also be reported. Since 2018, Perstorp has intensified the integration of sustain­ ability in our supply chain processes. These efforts have, among SAFEGUARDING SENSITIVE INFORMATION other things, involved updating our supplier assessment methods. In a digitalized world it is not enough to focus only on health security We divide our purchases into two main areas: production related and safety of our production sites and offices. We also need to protect material and services, and non-production related material and our business data and handle information responsibly. Protecting the services. Each area represents different risks, impacts and challenges, integrity of people and protecting sensitive business information is which has been the starting point when making risk assessments and a very important area of our responsibility. We need to minimize the building supplier assessments. Our suppliers are required to acknow­ risk that sensitive information ends up in the wrong hands through ledge our Vendor policy, which is based on our Code of Conduct and accidental information sharing, theft, coercion, bribery etc. Perstorp covers human rights, labor standards, anti-corruption and environ­ has a dedicated Head of Data Privacy and Information Security at Group mental responsibility. All large spend and/or high-risk suppliers are level to address the protection of information related to our business systematically assessed using a self-assessment tool. This procedure and personnel. We need to handle protection of data systematically also requires suppliers to acknowledge and sign the vendor policy. and continuously, with a risk based approach, and therefore we are 70 percent of Perstorp’s spend is covered by this approach. establishing an Information Security Management System within the Perstorp Group. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Perstorp’s Code of Conduct includes our business principles related to anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior and public policy. This PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report The Per­storp Group’s core val­ues of fo­cused in­no­va­tion, re­li­a­bil­i­ty and re­spon­si­bil­i­ty are also cen­tral to cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. Cor­po­rate gov­er­nance in­cludes the con­tin­u­al process of con­trol­ling and im­prov­ing decision-​making and busi­ness strate­gies, defin­ing clear areas of re­spon­si­bil­i­ty and iden­ti­fy­ing and eval­u­at­ing op­por­tu­ni­ties and risks for the Group. The over­all aim is to main­tain and de­vel­op order so that the busi­ness is con­trolled re­li­ably and we are well equipped to face the de­vel­op­ment chal­lenges and changes of the fu­ture. Cor­po­rate gov­er­nance with­in the Per­storp Group is per­formed through the An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing, the Board of di­rec­tors and the Pres­id ­ ent in ac­cor­dance with the Swedish Com­pa­nies Act. The Group does not have a for­mal re­quire­ment to fol­low the Swedish code of cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. GENERAL MEETING The fol­low­ing points were ad­dressed at each Board meet­ing: The Gen­er­al Meet­ing is the forum where share­hold­ers make cer­tain • Responsible Care report, status report from the President de­ci­sions about Per­storp Hold­ing AB and its sub­group sub­sidiaries. • Financial position and outlook The An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing was held on May 10th 2019, at which • Investment decision for projects worth more than SEK 15 m the an­nu­al re­port for the 2018 fi­nan­cial year was adopt­ed to­geth­er with the pro­pos­al for dis­tri­b­u­tion of prof­its. The Board of Di­rec­tors OTHER IMPORTANT MATTERS was re-​elected at the meet­ing. In ad­di­tion to these fixed agen­da items, sev­er­al main sub­jects such as the bud­get, fore­casts, re­fi­nanc­ing, di­vest­ments and fi­nan­cial BOARD OF DIRECTORS struc­ture were ad­dressed dur­ing the year. As of the end of 2019, the Board of Di­rec­tors con­sists of seven The Per­storp Group’s core val­ues of fo­cused in­no­va­tion, re­li­a­bil­i­ty mem­bers, all nom­i­nat­ed and elect­ed by the com­pa­ny own­ers. The and re­spon­si­bil­i­ty are also cen­tral to cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. Cor­po­rate in­di­vid­u­als re-​elected to the Board at the 2019 An­nu­al Gen­er­al gov­er­nance in­cludes the con­tin­u­al process of con­trol­ling and im­ Meet­ing are Tore Bertils­son, Fab­rice Fouleti­er, Jan Sech­er, Karin prov­ing decision-​making and busi­ness strate­gies, defin­ing clear areas Markides, Bren­dan Cum­mins, Rag­nar Hel­le­nius and Claes Gard. In of re­spon­si­bil­i­ty and iden­ti­fy­ing and eval­u­at­ing op­por­tu­ni­ties and ad­di­tion to the afore­men­tioned in­di­vid­u­als, the Board also in­cludes risks for the Group. The over­all aim is to main­tain and de­vel­op order three em­ploy­ee rep­re­sen­ta­tives. so that the busi­ness is con­trolled re­li­ably and we are well equipped The Board’s re­spon­si­bil­i­ties are reg­u­lat­ed by the Swedish Com­ to face the de­vel­op­ment chal­lenges and changes of the fu­ture. pa­nies Act and the for­mal work­ing pro­ce­dures, which are ap­proved Cor­po­rate gov­er­nance with­in the Per­storp Group is per­formed by the Board once per year. These pro­ce­dures out­line the Board’s through the An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing, the Board of di­rec­tors and as­sign­ments and which de­ci­sions must be taken at Board level. The the Pres­i­dent in ac­cor­dance with the Swedish Com­pa­nies Act. The work­ing pro­ce­dures also reg­u­late the di­vi­sion of re­spon­si­bil­i­ty be­ Group does not have a for­mal re­quire­ment to fol­low the Swedish tween the Board, its com­mit­tees and the Pres­id ­ ent. The Chair­man code of cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. leads the Board’s work. The di­vi­sion of re­spon­si­bil­i­ties among The Per­storp Group’s core val­ues of fo­cused in­no­va­tion, re­li­a­bil­i­ty Board mem­bers does not ex­tend be­yond cer­tain spe­cial as­sign­ and re­spon­si­bil­i­ty are also cen­tral to cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. Cor­po­rate ments for the Chair­man. gov­er­nance in­cludes the con­tin­u­al process of con­trol­ling and im­ Dur­ing 2019, eight sched­uled Board meet­ings were held, as well prov­ing decision-​making and busi­ness strate­gies, defin­ing clear areas as one statu­to­ry con­ven­ing meet­ing and four extra board meet­ of re­spon­si­bil­i­ty and iden­ti­fy­ing and eval­u­at­ing op­por­tu­ni­ties and ings. Min­utes were kept at all meet­ings. On av­er­age, at­ten­dance at risks for the Group. The over­all aim is to main­tain and de­vel­op order Board meet­ings for or­di­nary Board mem­bers was 95%. Other em­ so that the busi­ness is con­trolled re­li­ably and we are well equipped ploy­ees also at­tend­ed meet­ings, ei­ther to make pre­sen­ta­tions or to face the de­vel­op­ment chal­lenges and changes of the fu­ture. give spe­cial­ist in­for­ma­tion prior to key de­ci­sions. Every month the Cor­po­rate gov­er­nance with­in the Per­storp Group is per­formed Board re­ceived a writ­ten re­port pre­sent­ing and an­a­lyz­ing the de­ through the An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing, the Board of di­rec­tors and vel­op­ment of the Group and the earn­ings and fi­nan­cial po­si­tion. the Pres­i­dent in ac­cor­dance with the Swedish Com­pa­nies Act. The Prepara­to­ry ma­te­ri­als were sent to Board mem­bers be­fore each Group does not have a for­mal re­quire­ment to fol­low the Swedish Board meet­ing. The Pres­i­dent was also in con­tin­u­ous con­tact with code of cor­po­rate gov­er­nance. the Chair­man of the Board. 34 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Board is served by an Audit Com­mit­tee, which fo­cus­es on Per­storp’s au­di­tor is elect­ed for a term of of­fi ce of one year. Au­dit­ing se­cur­ing the qual­i­ty of the Group’s fi­nan­cial re­port­ing and risk firm Price­wa­ter­house­C­oop­ers AB (PwC) is the ap­point­ed au­di­tor of man­age­ment, and the com­mit­tee is there­fore also close to the the com­pa­ny with Michael Bengts­son being the lead au­di­tor. The de­vel­op­ment of con­trol in­stru­ments for in­ter­nal con­trol. An im­por­ Board’s and Group Man­age­ment’s aim is to have a close re­la­tion­ship tant ac­tiv­i­ty is to fol­low up and as­sess the ex­ter­nal audit. The com­ with the au­di­tors, to the ex­tent that they shall be kept well in­ mit­tee does not have decision-​making rights. De­ci­sions shall be made formed about rel­e­vant is­sues con­cern­ing the ac­counts, re­port­ing by the Board. At the end of 2019, the Audit Com­mit­tee con­sist­ed pro­ce­dures and man­age­ment of the com­pa­ny’s/Group’s as­sets. of the fol­low­ing mem­bers: Fab­rice Fouleti­er, Claes Gard, Rag­nar There is, there­fore, a con­tin­uo ­ us di­a­logue with the au­di­tors and Hel­le­nius and Tore Bertils­son. Dur­ing the year, the com­mit­tee held they par­tic­i­pate in at least one Board meet­ing per year. The au­di­ six or­di­nary meet­ings and one extra meet­ing. tors re­ceive the min­utes of Board meet­ings, doc­u­ments re­lat­ing to Board de­ci­sions, and the month­ly fi­nan­cial re­ports for the Group. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dur­ing 2019, PwC per­formed as­sign­ments re­lat­ing to the audit in The Board is also served by a Re­mu­ner­a­tion Com­mit­tee. This com­ ad­di­tion to reg­u­lar au­dit­ing work. On all those oc­ca­sions, the mit­tee’s task is to pro­pose prin­ci­ples for re­mu­ner­a­tion and other Group em­pha­sized that the ad­di­tion­al ser­vices should not com­pro­ em­ploy­ment terms for the Pres­i­dent and se­nior ex­ec­u­tives. The mise the in­de­pen­dence of the audit, which was also been care­ful­ly com­mit­tee also pre­pares the terms for glob­al in­cen­tive schemes ex­am­ined by Price­wa­ter­house­C­oop­ers. and makes an as­sess­ment of the schemes. The com­mit­tee has cer­ tain decision-​making pow­ers. At the end of 2019, the Re­mu­ner­a­ INTERNAL CONTROL tion Com­mit­tee con­sist­ed of Board mem­bers, Tore Bertils­son, Bren­ For Per­storp, the con­cept of in­ter­nal con­trol is fun­da­men­tal and in­ dan Cum­mins, Fab­rice Fouleti­er and Rag­nar Hel­le­nius. The volves the Group’s ca­pa­bil­i­ty of im­ple­ment­ing an ef­f ec­tive sys­tem for com­mit­tee held two or­di­nary meet­ings dur­ing the year, at which con­trol and follow-​up of the com­pa­ny’s ac­tiv­i­ties. It also in­volves min­utes were taken. en­sur­ing that rules are fol­lowed, both with re­gard to ex­ter­nal leg­is­ la­tion/reg­u­la­tion and in­ter­nal guide­lines/con­trol doc­u­ments. An PRESIDENT & EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM im­por­tant part of the prac­ti­cal work on in­ter­nal con­trols, fur­ther­more, The Pres­i­dent of the Group, Jan Sech­er, is also elect­ed by the Board is to iden­ti­fy risks and en­sure that they are man­aged ef­fi­cient­ly. The as the CEO of the par­ent com­pa­ny. He ex­er­cis­es on­go­ing con­trol of pur­pose is to min­i­mize risk ex­po­sure as far as pos­si­ble in se­lect­ed the Group. The EVPs of the Busi­ness Areas along with the func­tions areas while also en­sur­ing the op­por­tu­ni­ties are ex­ploit­ed as de­sired. re­port to him. The Pres­i­dent man­ages the busi­ness in ac­cor­dance The Group’s or­ga­ni­za­tion is adapt­ed to meet the re­quire­ments for with the in­struc­tions con­cern­ing the di­vi­sion of re­spon­si­bil­i­ties be­ good in­ter­nal con­trol and work­ing meth­ods are char­ac­ter­ized by tween the Board and Pres­i­dent adopt­ed by the Board. The work of or­ga­ni­za­tion­al trans­paren­cy with a clear di­vi­sion of re­spon­si­bil­i­ty. the Pres­i­dent and Board is as­sessed an­nu­al­ly. The Group’s fi­nan­cial re­port­ing man­u­al, to­geth­er with the busi­ness Dur­ing the first quar­ter 2019, Per­storp an­nounced a new or­ga­ni­ sys­tems, are im­por­tant con­trol in­stru­ments that en­able re­li­able za­tion con­sist­ing of three new Busi­ness Areas (BAs) to man­age our con­sol­i­da­tion and fi­nan­cial re­port­ing. Group re­ports are pro­duced dif­f er­ent cus­tomers; once per month fol­low­ing well-​established pro­ce­dures, and the out­come is al­ways pre­sent­ed in a re­port that in­cludes ex­ten­sive • BA Specialty Polyols & Solutions: BU Penta, BU TMP & NEO and analy­sis. Work on the year-​end ac­counts in­volves a num­ber of peo­ple BU Formates at Group, de­part­ment and com­pa­ny level, and the sum­ma­rized re­sults • BA Advanced Chemicals: BU Oxo and BU Plasticizers are re­port­ed back con­tin­u­al­ly to man­age­ment func­tions and the Board. For several years, the Group has performed an extensive annual • BA Animal Nutrition: BU Feed Additives and BU Acids & Salts self-​assessment of internal controls, with the majority of the subsidiaries Along with the func­tions; assessed in 2019. The purpose is to identify key control points for the various departments, analyze procedures, follow development in • Supply Chain & Operations relation to previous activity and thus ensure that internal controls are • Global Procurement at a good level and remain so. The continued implementation of a new ERP system in several of our companies has led to improved • Innovation capabilities for performing and ensuring good internal control. • Communications & Sustainability The assessment has been complemented with a partly expanded verification operation by the company’s auditors for certain areas. • Finance, Legal & IT In relation to this, special follow-​up and site visits has been carried out • People & Culture and CEO Office from the central finance function within the Group. Work aimed at securing good internal control is a constantly ongoing process. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Board of Directors 2019 TORE BERTILSSON JAN SECHER FABRICE FOULETIER Member and Chairman of the President and CEO Perstorp Holding AB, Partner, PAI partners Board of Directors since 2015. CEO and member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since 2006. Born 1951. since 2013. Born 1975. OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS Born 1957. OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS Chairman of the Board of Directors of OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS Partner at PAI Partners SAS. Member of Semcon AB, Försäkringsbolaget PRI Member of the Board of Directors of Elekta AB, the Board of Directors of MEP S.à.r.l, MEP Pensionsgaranti and AB Ludvig Svensson, IKEM and CEFIC (The European Chemical II S.à.r.l, AS Adventure Group, Castellano, BOARD OF DIRECTORS JCE Group AB and Salinity. Member of the Industry Council). Chairman of the Board of Euromedia Group and Masaria Investments. Board of Directors of INGKA Holding BV and Directors of Peak Management AG. Ågrenska AB. RAGNAR HELLENIUS BRENDAN CUMMINS ANDERS MAGNUSSON Partner, PAI partners. Head of the Nordic team. Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Technical Market Development Manager. Member of the Board of Directors since 2009. Born 1951. Born 1969. Born 1967. OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS Member of the Board since 2010. OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS Member of the Board of Directors, Audit Appointed by the Boards of PTK of Partner at PAI Partners SAS. Member of the Committee and Chair of the Governance and Perstorp and Stenungsund. Board of Directors Atos Medical AB and Lary Nominations Committee of Ashland Inc. OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS 1-4 AB. Member of the Board of Directors, Audit Chairman of the Board at Swedish PVC Committee and Chair of the Remuneration Forum in Stockholm, Sweden Committee of Nanoco PLC. Member of the Board of Directors of Tom Murphy Car Sales Ltd and Gailtar Ltd., Member of Board of Directors. Vice Chairman and Member Audit and Finance Committee Respond Ireland. 36 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KARIN MARKIDES CLAES GARD Member of the Board of Directors since 2010. Member of the Board of Directors Born 1951. since 2009. HEIDI WALENIUSSEN-ENGLUND Born 1953. Deputy trade union representative OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS PTK-L Professor, Chairman of the Board of Directors OTHER BOARD ASSIGNMENTS of the Scientific Council for Sustainable Member of the Board of Directors of SIMON FRÖJD Development at the Swedish Government. Vasatorps Golf AB. Deputy trade union representative President of the American University PTK-L of Armenia, affiliated to the University of California system. ERICA STÅLHAMMAR Member of the Board of Directors of the Deputy trade union representative, Swedish Knowledge Foundation, and of IF Metall Perstorp and Stenungsund Einride AB. AUDITORS MICHAEL BENGTSSON Authorized Public Accountant – PricewaterhouseCoopers. Born 1959. OTHER AUDIT ASSIGNMENTS Bonnier, Indutrade and SWECO. MATS ÅKERLUND Authorized Public Accountant – PricewaterhouseCoopers. Born 1971. OTHER AUDIT ASSIGNMENTS Victoria Park, Copenhagen Malmö Port, Invisio, ESS and Catena. JESPER FAHLÉN GERRY ACKERT Deputy trade union representative. Operating Technician and Chairman Born 1975. of IF Metall. Member of the Board since 2019. Appointed Born 1972. by the Boards of PTK of Perstorp and Member of the Board since 2017. Appointed Stenungsund. by the Boards of IF Metall Perstorp and Stenungsund. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 Executive Leadership Team 2019 JAN SECHER MAGNUS HEIMBURG ULRIKA ANDERSSON President and CEO. CFO and Executive Vice President Executive Vice President of Business Area Born: 1957. – Finance, Legal and IT. Specialty Polyols & Solutions. Active in the Group since 2013. Born: 1967. Born: 1968. Education and professional experience: Active in the Group since 2014. Active in the Group since 1996. Master of Science in Industrial Marketing Education and professional experience: BSc in Education and professional experience: MBA and Finance from Linköping University. Business Administration from the University of Business & Economics Stockholm School of EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Previously CEO of Ferrostaal AG, Clariant Lund. Previously CFO and Executive Vice President Economics. and SICPA. at Preem AB, Group Treasurer at Swedish Match Several senior positions within Perstorp and Finance Manager at Euroc. Group, as Group Controller, Head of several Business Units and most recently as Vice President BU Advanced Polyols. MAGNUS LANNÉR HELENE DÉRAND MIKAEL GEDIN Executive Vice President Supply Chain Executive Vice President Innovation. Mikael Gedin & Operations. Born: 1965. Executive Vice President People & Culture Born: 1969. Active in the Group since 2017. and CEO Office. Active in the Groupe since 2008. Education and professional experience: Ph.D in Born: 1969. Education and professional experience: Master Polymer Chemistry and MSc in Chemical Engineering Active in the Group since 2009. of Science in Chemical Engineering from from Lund University. Previously Vice President R&D Education and professional experience: BSc in Lund University. Previously held various posiand Intellectual Property, at Perstorp, Director Business Administration and BSc in Psychology, tions within the Perstorp Group, including as Advanced Chemistry and Antibody technology at both from Lund University. Executive Diploma from Deputy Business Group Head, BG Coating Agilent Technologies, and several senior positions Stockholm School of Economics. Executive MBA, additives and General Manager, Shandong within R&D in Life Science industries. General Management from Copenhagen Business Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co. Ltd. Previously School. Previously Executive Vice President of Human CEO of Vencorex Holding. Resources and Communications, Executive Vice President of Sales, Customer Service and Executive Vice President Regions & Group Management for Perstorp, and Vice President Human Resources and Operational Excellence of ABB AB. 38 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GORM JENSEN ROGER MANN Executive Vice President of Business Area Executive Vice President of Business Areas Advanced Chemicals and Global Procurement. Animal Nutrition. Born: 1962. Born: 1960. Active in the Group since 2014. Active in the Group since 2018. Education and professional experience: Diploma Education and professional experience: Over 30 in Economics and in International Marketing, years’ management experience in Agri-business Aalborg School of Economics. Previously, Senior and food related industries, prior to joining Perstorp Manager positions at ICI, Vice President posiwas COO at Anitox. Previously held a variety of tions at Huntsman, President at Valspar EMEA General Management, Commercial and Operational and Vice President at Spolchemie. leadership roles in PE backed, private and publicly held companies, such as Associated British Foods, Elementis and Unilever. CECILIA SVENSSON Executive Vice President Communications & Sustainability. Born: 1965. Active in the Group since 2014. Education and professional experience: Master in Business Administration (marketing) from Lund University. Executive Diploma from Copenhagen Business School. Previously Vice President Communications at Perstorp, Vice President Marketing at Atos Medical and several senior positions in the pharmaceutical industry and at IKEA Group. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 Annual & Sustainability Report 2019 CONTENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 41 CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END ACCOUNTS 45 • Net sales and earnings 45 • Consolidated income statement 45 • Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 46 • Financial position 46 • Free cash flow analysis 46 • Consolidated balance sheet 47 • Consolidated statement of changes in equity 48 • Consolidated cash flow statement 49 THE PARENT COMPANY YEAR-END ACCOUNTS 50 • Income statement 50 • Balance sheet 51 • Cash flow statement 52 • Shareholders´equity 52 NOTES 53 AUDITOR’S REPORT 78 SUSTAINABILITY 80 THE AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 CONTACT 85 40 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Perstorp in brief WORLD LEADER IN SEVERAL SECTORS OF THE SPECIALTY PERSTORP EVERYWHERE CHEMICALS MARKET Perstorp is the operator of 7 production units in Asia, Europe and • Pioneer in formalin chemistry, plastics and surface materials North America with sales representation in all major markets and • Since December 2005, Perstorp has been owned and controlled more than 50 agents, ensures a global presence. by PAI partners, a leading European private equity company • P  resent in 26 countries and production plants in Europe, Asia KEY FIGURES IN SUMMARY and North America Please see page 76. • Sales representation in all major markets Highlights in 2019 DIVESTMENT OF THE CAPA™ BUSINESS Per­storp’s major raw ma­te­ri­als and is cur­rent­ly main­ly pro­duced The sale of the Capa busi­ness to In­gevi­ty was com­plet­ed in 2019, which from fos­sil fuels such as nat­ur­al gas or coal. If suc­cess­ful, the project enabled Per­storp to delever­age and strength­en its bal­ance sheet. will sig­nif­i­cant­ly en­hance Per­storp’s con­tri­bu­tion to sus­tain­abil­i­ty. DEBT RE-FINANCING AGREEMENT IN PLACE CARE AS OUR FOURTH CORE VALUE Per­storp an­nounced the re­fi­nanc­ing of its cred­it fa­cil­i­ties. Pre­vi­ous As part of our ded­ic­ a­tion to health and safe­ty, we de­cid­ed to in­tro­duce bonds and loans were re­fi­nanced through new cred­it fa­cil­i­ties, which Care as a fourth core value along­side Re­spon­si­bil­i­ty, Re­li­a­bil­i­ty and have pro­vid­ed a more flex­i­ble cap­i­tal struc­ture. Per­storp is now very Fo­cused In­no­va­tion. Car­ing is not just about sta­tis­tics, it is a fun­da­ well po­si­tioned to achieve its long-​term strate­gic ob­jec­tives. men­tal be­lief and the basis of every­thing we do. We strong­ly be­lieve that a car­ing com­pa­ny is a more suc­cess­ful and prof­itable com­pa­ny. LEVEL UP PERSTORP IN BRIEF A trans­for­ma­tion­al pro­gram, Level Up, was intro­duced in early 2019. COLLABORATION FOR ANIMAL HEALTH After hav­ing de­vel­oped each of our Group func­tions, we were ready Per­storp teamed up with the com­pa­ny Evonik to re­search and to take the next step and launch a new op­er­a­tional model and a new de­vel­op new an­i­mal nu­tri­tion prod­ucts. The col­lab­o­ra­tion com­bines or­ga­ni­za­tion. The pur­pose was to strength­en the cross-​functional Evonik’s unique gut health sim­ul­a­tion sys­tem and pro­bi­otics prod­ucts, ca­pa­bil­i­ties, to bet­ter ad­dress cus­tomer de­mands – and to im­prove and Per­storp’s ester tech­nol­og ­ y plat­form for ef­fi­cient and safe acid the re­li­ab­ il­i­ty of sup­ply. In ad­di­tion to the Level Up pro­gram, a com­ ap­pli­ca­tion. The col­lab­o­ra­tion is set up to de­liv­er break­through in­ pany-​wide cost mit­i­ga­tion pro­gram was ex­e­cut­ed with good re­sults. no­va­tion sup­port­ing the re­quire­ments for to­mor­row’s an­i­mal farm­ing. PERSTORP BOOSTS ITS SAFETY PERFORMANCE ESTABLISHING PRODUCTION IN INDIA Per­storp’s health and safe­ty in­ci­dent rate has been more than halved In No­vem­ber, Per­storp broke ground for our new Penta plant in since 2017. As part of our Care 365 ini­tia­tive, a new safe­ty pro­to­col for Gu­jarat, India. The plant will se­cure the com­pa­ny’s long-​term pres­ence our man­u­fac­tur­ing sites was de­vel­oped with sup­port from DuPont in Asia. The state-​of-the-art Gu­jarat site will pro­duce re­new­able Sus­tain­able So­lu­tions. The aim was to establish a baseline for Perstorp’s Penta (Vox­tar™), that can re­duce car­bon emis­sions by up to 60 safety status and to develop efficient improvement strategies. The per­cent. Com­mer­cial pro­duc­tion is planned to start in 2022. project also assessed the maturity of safety in various Perstorp func­ tions, which led to detailed action plans. RECENT PRODUCT LAUNCHES Two new grades have been added to Per­storp’s Ymer™ range. GROWING OUR PORTFOLIO OF PRO-ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS The new prod­ucts present op­por­tu­ni­ties for new ap­pli­ca­tions and are The Pro-​Environment con­cept was ex­pand­ed to in­clude new prod­uct bet­ter for human health and the en­vi­ron­ment. Ymer can for in­stance fam­i­lies and a new ser­vice offer to help cus­tomers to switch to prod­ucts be used to im­prove the sur­face feel­ing of leather, mak­ing it ideal based on re­new­able raw ma­te­ri­als. Three new poly­ol prod­uct fam­i­lies for use in the syn­thet­ic leather in­dus­try where there is a strong were added in 2019: Char­mor™ Pro for in­tu­mes­cent coat­ings, Cu­ralite™ trend away from the use of sol­vents. Ox Pro for cation­ic UV cur­ing and Holtac™ Pro for lead-​free PVC. In time for the win­ter sea­son, Per­storp launched a new sus­tain­able Sig­nif­i­cant­ly, sales of our Pro-​Environment So­lu­tions near­ly quadru­pled de-​icer, Per­grip Run Pro, unique­ly made using ISCC cer­ti­fied re­new­able dur­ing the year. raw ma­te­ri­als. Per­storp in­tro­duced an in­no­v­a­tive re­new­able poly­ol ester (non-​ POTENTIAL TO PRODUCE RECYCLED METHANOL phthalate) plas­ti­ciz­er, Pe­valen™ Pro. The re­new­able plas­ti­ciz­er will Per­storp began ex­plor­ing the po­ten­tial to pro­duce re­cy­cled methanol make flex­ib ­ le PVC an even more at­trac­tive choice of plas­tic, based on at its fa­cil­i­ty in Ste­nung­sund, Swe­den. This am­bi­tious fea­si­bil­i­ty study a sig­nifi­cant­ly lower car­bon foot­print ver­sus com­pet­ing ma­te­ri­als is part-​funded by the Swedish En­er­gy Agency. Methanol is one of and tech­nolo­gies. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 Risk management The ob­jec­tive of the Per­storp Group’s risk man­age­ment process is to proac­tive­ly iden­ti­fy, eval­ua ­ te and man­age risks as early as pos­si­ble in order to achieve both op­er­a­tional and strate­gic goals. MANAGING RISKS STRATEGIC RISKS Risks are as­sessed and man­aged at many dif­fer­ent lev­els and lo­ca­tions Strate­gic risks are those that could have a neg­a­tive im­pact or threat with­in the Per­storp Group and for dif­fer­ent pur­pos­es. the Group’s abil­i­ty to de­vel­op in line with pre­vi­ous­ly set strate­gies Cor­po­rate Fi­nance has the glob­al re­spon­si­bil­i­ty for the as­sess­ cov­er­ing up to a five year time­frame. ment of the Group’s fi­nan­cial risks. For de­tails see Note 3. On Group level, based on iden­ti­fied risk areas the in­ter­nal con­trol OPERATIONAL RISKS pro­gram ad­dress­es risks of fi­nan­cial mis­state­ments as well as risk The op­er­a­tional risks are those that may have a di­rect im­pact on as­so­ci­at­ed with busi­ness ethics. the Group’s daily busi­ness up to a one year time hori­zon. This in­ Per­storp has, at Group level, an es­tab­lished data pro­tec­tion gov­ cludes pro­duc­tion re­lat­ed op­er­a­tions and sup­port­ing func­tions. er­nance model, ad­dress­ing cyber se­cu­ri­ty, in­for­ma­tion se­cu­ri­ty and pri­va­cy risks. It is a vital part of the Group’s In­for­ma­tion Se­cu­ri­ty FINANCIAL RISKS Man­age­ment Sys­tem. Fi­nan­cial risks ad­dress ex­po­sure with­in the Group’s fi­nan­cial op­er­a­ On site level a com­bi­na­tion of re­sults of in­sur­ance au­dits per­ tions and other risks that may have a di­rect fi­nan­cial im­pact such as formed by a third party and our own sys­tem­at­ic risk as­sess­ments, through fines, and other forms of di­rect­ly fi­nan­cial lit­i­ga­tion. are re­port­ed to Group level to en­sure rel­e­vant lev­els of mit­i­ga­tion. RISK MANAGEMENT In re­la­tion to third party prod­uct cer­ti­fi­ca­tions, spe­cif­i c risk as­sess­ RISK EVALUATION ments are re­quired, e.g. for our ISCC cer­ti­fi­ca­tions of our pro-​envi­ The Per­storp risk eval­ua ­ ­tion is based on a num­ber of di­men­sions ronment prod­uct range and for prod­ucts re­quired to meet food in­clud­ing fi­nan­cial, rep­u­ta­tion­al, com­pli­ance, op­er­a­tional con­se­ and an­i­mal feed stan­dards. quences, cus­tomers and mar­ket share, po­ten­tial en­vi­ron­men­tal Cov­er­ing all our sites and of­fi ces, we per­form over­all as well as harm, po­ten­tial human harm and missed opportunities to make project based risk as­sess­ments con­cern­ing oc­cu­pa­tion­al health and valuable contribution in the market. safe­ty, as a part of our Care 365 pro­gram. Risk as­sess­ments in re­la­tion The risks are eval­u­at­ed in terms of like­li­hood with­in the strate­gic to daily op­er­a­tions, projects, im­ple­men­ta­tion of new tech­nol­o­gy and plan­ning pe­ri­od, the ef­f ec­tive­ness of cur­rent mit­i­ga­tion ef­f orts and ser­vices are also per­formed through­out both the sites and of­fi ces. the pos­si­ble con­se­quences. The most ma­te­r­i­al risks are re­port­ed to the Board. Ac­tion plans to re­duce and con­trol those risks are de­vel­oped, as­signed and re­viewed dur­ing the year. The re­sults of risk as­sess­ments are also used as input to strate­gic process­es and bud­get process­es. Strategic risks Risks Exposure Activity Business development and competitive Negative variances related to investments, Perstorp’s strategic processes and routines safe­ landscape acquisitions or divestments and/or changes in guard that strategies are followed and investment technology or competitive environment. criteria are met. Demand/customer behavior Economic/geopolitical issues may change custo­ Perstorp’s broad customer base makes the Group mer behavior resulting in reduced demand for our more resilient to demand reductions. In addition, products in certain markets and specific segments. Perstorp follows the supply/demand changes And changes in customer product preferences may in the market as key indicators for own capacity also occur. planning Business opportunities The company would miss opportunities and trends Perstorp´s Innovation function has a solid process in the market as a result of failing to identity or in place to pick up trends and needs in the market capture them in the market at the right time at an early stage through a broad interface and network and bring them to the strategic process for proper resource allocation. 42 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Operational risks Risks Exposure Activity Raw material Eroded margins and/or production disturbance Perstorp’s purchasing policy requires multiple related to volatility in pricing and/or availability supplies of critical raw materials alternatively to of critical raw material. Availability and pricing in sign long-term agreements. Hedging options finding alternative, non-fossil raw materials. is assessed continuously Road map for raw material transition and innovation projects aimed at enabling future scale-up of supply. Production Disruption There are various risks that could lead to major The Group has business contingency plans in interruptions, such as technical issues, fires, place. Furthermore, as part of the Care 365 environmental accidents and other accidents with program, all Perstorp sites work systematically serious personal injuries as a consequence. Distur­ with safety issues, occupational safety issues and bances and interruptions at Perstorp’s plants may environmental issues to prevent any accidents. result in loss of earnings if deliveries are delayed. Safety risks Chemical production plants include processes with Design and construction of our facilities as well as high temperatures, high pressure and requires our operating procedures are based on extensive careful handling of raw materials as well as and in-depth risk level assessment and hazard finished products. This does pose risks for those analysis. We prioritize based on risk levels. We working at sites, the societies surrounding them report major risks and mitigations to authorities and the customers when handling the products, if based on Seveso legislation. The Group has handled incorrectly. invested, and continues to invest further, in the Care 365 program and the Responsible Care program, thus addressing risks related to human harm in our daily operations and in relation to the product users. Governance The risk of decisions being taken on the wrong Perstorp’s governance model and policies grounds or based on inaccurate information. safeguards compliance with external and internal rules and Regulatory & compliance Legal risk is the risk of a negative impact on the Perstorp has routines and process to proactively Group’s result or reputation arising from litigation, develop best practice production, meeting regula­ arbitration, disputes, claims or participation in tory environmental and occupational health and legal proceedings. Increased operational cost and/ safety requirements. Employees are made aware or changes in competitive landscape due to chang­ of legal requirements and our Code of Conduct, es in laws and regulations Risks of individuals not through information and training. Perstorp’s legal complying with regulations and/or the Group’s policy provides the framework and procedures for Code of Conduct. handling potential disputes. IT & cybersecurity The risk of deficiency to or loss of availability, Perstorp has implemented both technical, admin­ confidentiality and integrity of information assets istrative and organizational measures to prevent caused by factors such as technical failures or and remediate negative impact to the availability, deficiencies, environmental factors, unintentional confidentiality and integrity of the IT-environment. activities performed by internal personnel due to lack of competence or awareness, or intentional The measures are decided through risk assess­ actions caused by disgruntled employees or ments and mitigation is based on evaluation of external individuals or organizations. functionality, security, complexity and compliance with rules and regulations set in relation to costs and benefits. Measures include technical measures, supporting processes, policies and guidelines combined with awareness training. Financial risks Risks Exposure Activity Currency Currency risk is divided in; Perstorp’s finance policy defines acceptable • t ranslation exposure – risk related to the currency risk and sets guidelines and hedging conversion of the Group’s assets and profits, and methods for the management of these risks. • transaction exposure – risk related to the value of the Group’s cash flow Interest rate Interest-rate risk is the risk of a negative impact on Perstorp’s finance policy defines acceptable the results due to a rise in market interest. interest rate risk and sets guidelines and hedging methods for the management of these risk. Funding & liquidity Funding risk is the risk that the Group will not have During the first quarter 2019, Perstorp issued access to sufficient funding, or that the funding or redemption notices for all outstanding bonds and re-financing of existing loans becomes difficult or notes issued by Prague CE S.A.R.L.. The redemption too costly was financed by the proceeds of the Caprolactone sale as well as new credit facilities, with lower interests, committed by Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, DNB, SEB, Standard Charted Bank and Nordea. Perstorp also follows development of available funds through regular cash flow forecasts. Availa­ ble funds at the end of 2019 were SEK 1,248 m. Counterparty Counterparty risk is the risk of counter-parties Perstorp has a comprehensive credit policy aiming failing to meet obligations in accordance with to prevent credit losses and optimize tied-up agreed terms. capital. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 The environment recruited to support our ambition to grow and develop animal nutrition. The development of Pevalen was finalized by a study qualifying Pro­duc­tion with­in the Per­storp Group af­f ects the ex­ter­nal en­vi­ron­ an extensive number of stabilizers that works well with Pevalen to ment through emis­sions to air, soil and water, and through the minimize the risk of degradation that could result in un-​pleasant odor. gen­er­a­tion of waste and noise. From a glob­al per­spec­tive, the most Customers that have embraced performance in plasticized PVC and sig­nif­i­cant en­vi­ron­men­tal fac­tors are the con­sump­tion of raw ma­te­ri­als confirm it to be an excellent alternative to standard phthalate plas­ and en­er­gy; emis­sions of green­house gases and volatile or­gan­ic ticizers. Focus is now turning to use our lab capabilities and long sub­stances; and con­sump­tion of and con­t­a­m­i­na­tion of water. Each experience to help customers to develop their optimal formulations. unit in the Group sub­mits an an­nu­al en­vi­ron­ment re­port to be ap­ Synthetic lubricants is one of Perstorp’s most important markets. proved by the in­spec­tion au­thor­i­ties, and this data is ag­gre­gat­ed A better understanding of the value chain from chemicals to end by the cor­po­ra­tion for glob­al re­port­ing. The largest pro­duc­tion customer use has already been gained by building our capabilities sites in the Group are lo­cat­ed in Swe­den and these are re­quir­ing in this area . Development of new products is ongoing. en­vi­ron­men­tal per­mits. Future development Sustainability Perstorp’s financial accounts are based on the going concern principle. The Perstorp Group’s statutory sustainability report for the fiscal year The management and the Board of Directors continuously monitor 2019, in accordance with the requirements of the Swedish Annual the going concern. This principle includes a number of estimates and Accounts Act, is available on page 80–83 in this report. It includes judgments about the future. After the year end 2019 but before our reporting on environmental issues, employee and social matters, the release of this report the spread of the virus Covid-​19 became human rights and anti-​corruption. It has been approved by Perstorp classified as a pandemic by the World Health Organization and has Group’s Board of Directors. since resulted in restrictions and actions from regional and local authorities within the different markets Perstorp are active in. As a Innovation consequence, the management has temporarily installed a Crisis Management Organization (CMO) to safeguard the health and Dur­ing 2019 Per­storp con­tin­ued it’s focus on mar­ket led In­no­va­tion safety of our employees, secure business contingency and strive to for our strate­gic mar­kets. Suc­cess­ful com­mer­cial­iza­tion of sev­er­al minimize the recovery and restoration phase of this situation as fast projects en­abled more re­sources to look for new op­por­tu­ni­ties and agile as possible. The CMO consists of a number of workstreams OTHER build­ing an in­ter­est­ing new In­no­va­tion port­fo­lio. Also areas out­side who all report to a crisis management cockpit team. The cockpit our strate­gic mar­kets are as­sessed if the size is at­trac­tive, if it has a reports directly, on a daily basis, to the CEO and the Executive Lead­ fit with our tech­nol­o­gy and matches mar­ket trends. ership Team (ELT) who takes decisions that are communicated clear Fur­ther as­sess­ing new prod­uct op­por­tu­ni­ties from nat­ur­al re­sources and transparent within the organization. As of this date, the supply is one of the major routes for in­no­va­tion. One ex­am­ple is new sugar of raw material, production and delivery to the customer have based chem­istry to meet de­mand from the Coat­ing and resin mar­ket worked well. Due to the high uncertainty, it is still too early to estimate with the po­ten­tial of open­ing up a new prod­uct line. An­oth­er ex­am­ple the financial impacts on Perstorp from Covid-​19. In order to be pre­ is using bio­gas tech­nol­o­gy to make com­pet­i­tive prod­ucts for sev­er­al pared for a slowdown in demand during the remainder of 2020, a of our key mar­ket seg­ments. number of mitigating actions have been initiated where the focus Formates are an important product family for Perstorp. Over time has been to secure a strong liquidity position. we have re-​vitalized that product portfolio several times with new Management are closely following and monitoring the develop­ applications that have added value and stability over financial cycles. ment of Covid-​19, the health and safety of our employees and the Fertilizers is the latest developments. Potassium formate as the business contingency. Potassium source have many advantages over traditional fertilizers. Especially in hot and dry climates where Perstorp’s solution prohibit damaging increased salt concentration in soil. Our solutions are Proposed treatment of already used in California and South Europe with great potential in South America. The potential is big driven by more intense agriculture unappropriated earnings and climate changes. The product has been tested on potato and on The Board of Directors and President propose that the funds vegetables like tomato, cucumber and salad, all with excellent result. available for distribution by the Annual General Meeting, as Tests in high volume applications, such as soy and wheat, are on-​going. shown in the Parent Company´s balance sheet, namely: Research on animal health and nutrition was accelerated to support the launch of valerins pioneered by Perstorp. Developing of new research partners in academia and among customers is part of the SEK strategy to bring this faster to the market benefiting animal health Retained earnings 4,918,976,622 and well-​being. Two examples are our collaboration with University of Utrecht to develop basic understanding on performance from research Net result for the year -1,354,467,831 on animal cell level and our research in University of Arkansas to be distributed as follows: confirm the improvement in nutrition. New leading competence was To be retained in the business 3,564,508,791 44 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END ACCOUNTS Net sales and earnings Consolidated income statement CONTINUING OPERATIONS SEK m Note 2019 2018 Net sales for con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions dur­ing the pe­ri­od Jan­u­ary to Continuing operations De­cem­ber amount­ed to SEK 11,641 (12,436), a de­crease of SEK Net sales 9 11,641 12,436 795 m or 6%. Ex­clud­ing cur­ren­cy ef­fects, sales prices were 5% lower Cost of goods sold 6,7,8,21 -9,810 -10,404 than last year main­ly linked to raw ma­te­r­i­al prices but also to some Gross earnings 1,831 2,032 ex­tent price com­pe­ti­tion in cer­tain prod­uct lines. Selling and marketing costs 6,7,8 -430 -429 Vol­umes de­creased by 7% com­pared to the same pe­ri­od last Administrative costs 6,7,8,33 -332 -310 year main­ly re­sult­ing from soft­ened de­mand, in­creased com­pe­ti­ Research and development costs 6,7,8 -94 -99 tion and pro­duc­tion dis­tur­bances in 2019. Or­gan­ic vol­ume based Other operating income and expenses 10,11 -90 -12 Result from participations in associated sales growth was -3%. companies 12 4 3 The Swedish krona weak­ened against both the USD and the EUR Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 10,23,27 889 1,185 dur­ing 2019 re­sult­ing in pos­i­tive ex­change rate ef­fects on sales of Net financial items 22 -1,935 -1,870 ap­prox­i­mate­ly 4%. Earnings/loss before tax -1,046 -685 EBITDA excluding non-​recurring items amounted to SEK 1,554 m Tax 24 -222 730 (1,814), corresponding to an EBITDA margin of 13.3% (14.6). The Net earnings/loss for the year -1,268 45 decrease in earnings compared to last year of SEK 260 m was at­ Discontinued operation 35 tributable to lower volumes and unit margins for some product lines Net sales 9 113 2,446 linked to softened demand, increased competition and production Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 4,757 385 disturbances. CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END ACCOUNTS Earnings/loss before tax 4,755 205 Depreciation and amortization amounted to SEK 538 m (511). Tax 24 -12 -26 The comparable numbers for 2018 includes an impairment of Net earnings/loss for the year 4,743 179 approximately SEK 57 m related to fixed assets in Perstorp Polialcoli Group total S.r.l., Italy. EBIT amounted to SEK 889 m (1,185) for the period. Net sales 11,754 14,882 Net financial expenses, excluding currency effects on net debt, Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 5,646 1,570 amounted to SEK 1,731 m compared to SEK 1,408 m for the corre­ Earnings/loss before tax 3,709 -480 sponding period in 2018. The deviation was mainly impacted by the Tax -234 704 refinancing of the capital structure, which was completed during the Net earnings/loss for the year 3,475 224 first quarter 2019. The refinancing lowered the average interest rate of which, attributable to non controlling interest 15 26 39 from approximately 8% to 5%, which had full effect in the income Earnings/loss per share, SEK 69,49 4,47 statement from the second quarter 2019. Tax amounted to SEK -222 m (730). In 2018, deferred tax assets Consolidated Group was assigned to tax losses carry forward due to new tax rules in Operating earnings before depreciation (EBITDA) 6,193 2,191 Sweden. This affected the result in 2018 positively with SEK 788 m, EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items 1,635 2,324 which has been utilized during 2019 with approximately SEK 147 m. Net result for continuing operations amounted to SEK -1,268 m (45). DISCONTINUING OPERATIONS On De­cem­ber 10, 2018 Per­storp an­nounced the agree­ment to sell its Capro­lac­tone busi­ness. The net sales and earn­ings are re­port­ed as dis­con­tin­ued op­er­at­ ions up until the trans­ac­tion date. The trans­ ac­tion was closed on Feb­ru­ary 13, 2019. The net pro­ceeds from the trans­ac­tion was ap­prox­i­mate­ly EUR 579 m. The cap­i­tal gain amounts to ap­prox­i­mate­ly SEK 4,6 bil­lion and is re­port­ed as other in­come for dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions. In No­vem­ber 2018, Per­storp an­nounced and com­plet­ed the di­vest­ment of its Bio­Prod­uct busi­ness in order to stream­line the port­fo­lio. The Bio­Prod­uct busi­ness was con­cen­trat­ed to Swe­den and Nor­way. The net sales and earn­ings was re­port­ed as dis­con­tin­ued op­er­at­ ions up until the trans­ac­tion date in 2018. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m Note 2019 2018 Net result for the period 3,475 224 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Re-measurements of defined benefit plan 23 -44 –5 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Currency translation effects 10 –49 Other comprehensive income net after tax -34 –54 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 3,441 170 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 3,414 124 Non controlling interests 16 27 46 Total 3,441 170 Financial position Perstorps financial accounts are based on the going concern principle. issued by Prague CE S.A.R.L during the first quarter 2019. The re­ The management and the Board of Directors continuously monitor demption is financed by the proceeds of the Capa™ sale as well as the going concern. This principle includes a number of estimates and new credit facilities committed by Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END ACCOUNTS judgments about the future, please see note 4 for further information. Goldman Sachs Bank USA, DNB, SEB, Standard Charted Bank and The company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill as Nordea. The loan agreements includes a covenant, which is tested well as shares in Group companies. Assumptions are based on the quarterly and it has not been breached. business plan with a discount interest rate of 9.7-10.5 % after tax and a terminal growth rate of 2 %. FREE CASH FLOW Following the company’s positive development and the sale of the Free Cash flow for the full year 2019 amount­ed to SEK 1,081 (963) m. Bioproduct and Capa™ business, Perstorp, together with its share­ The im­proved free cash flow was main­ly dri­ven by re­lease of work­ing holders, assessed the refinancing of the capital structure. Perstorp cap­i­tal. Uti­liza­tion of the fac­tor­ing pro­gram as of De­cem­ber 31, 2019 issued redemption notices for all outstanding bonds and notes amount­ed to EUR 77 m (114). Free cash flow analysis CONTINUING OPERATIONS FULL YEAR SEK m 2019 2018 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 1,554 1,814 Change in Working Capital 142 -311 Maintenance capex -296 -361 Free Cash flow before strategic capex 1,400 1,142 % EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 90 63 Strategic Capex -319 -179 Free cash flow 1,081 963 % EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 70 53 AVAILABLE FUNDS & NET DEBT EQUITY The Group’s avail­able funds, liq­uid funds and unuti­lized cred­it fa­cil­it­ ies, At the end of De­cem­ber 2019 eq­ui­ty for the par­ent com­pa­ny, Per­ were SEK 1,248 m at the end of 2019, com­pared with SEK 1,120 m storp Hold­ing AB, amounts to SEK 3,565 m (4,919). Con­sol­i­dat­ed at the end of 2018. Lever­age was 5.5x (5.6x) at the end of 2019. eq­ui­ty, in­clud­ing non-​controlling in­ter­est, for the Per­storp Group amounts to SEK 1,158 m (-2,250). 46 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consolidated balance sheet SEK m Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 ASSETS Non current assets Tangible fixed assets 6 4,767 4,502 Intangible fixed assets 7 4,382 4,381 Deferred tax assets 24 786 895 Participations in associated companies 13 75 72 Other participations 14 148 208 Direct pension, endowment insurance 22,23 151 110 Pension assets, other 22,23 21 – Other interest-bearing, long-term receivables 17,22 1 1 Other interest-free, long term receivables 17 2 3 Total non current assets 10,333 10,172 Current assets Inventories 21 1,440 1,620 Accounts receivable 19 681 863 Operating receivables, associated companies 0 0 Tax receivable 50 55 Other operating receivables 19 340 288 Other current financial receivables 22 7 0 Cash & cash equivalents 20 453 565 Total 2,971 3,391 Assets held for sale 35 – 1,320 Total current assets 2,971 4,711 TOTAL ASSETS 13,304 14,883 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity Share capital (50 000 000 shares, par value of SEK 0.01 each) 0 0 Other capital contributions 6,609 6,609 Reserves -594 -603 Retained earnings -4,986 -8,384 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,029 -2,378 Non controlling interests 16 129 128 Total equity 1,158 -2,250 Non current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 24 709 710 Direct pension 23 188 136 Pensions liability, others 22,23 488 403 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 1) 22 8,675 13,435 Long-term lease liabilities 22 51 – Other liabilities, provisions 25 81 65 Total non current liabilities 10,192 14,749 Current liabilities Accounts payable 26 768 968 Tax liabilities 40 9 Other operating liabilities 26 1,045 1,073 Accrued interest expense 1 127 Short-term lease liabilities 22 50 – Other financial liabilities 22 50 20 Liabilities held for sale 35 – 187 Total current liabilities 1,954 2,384 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,304 14,883 1) The amount includes expenses for loan financing in connection with Perstorp Holding AB´s refinancing of senior debt. The amount was SEK -161 (-213) m. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 Consolidated statement of changes in equity EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY Other capital Share contribuOther Retained Non controlling Total SEK m capital tions reserves earnings Total interest equity Opening balance, January 1, 2018 0 6,584 -547 -8,564 -2,527 144 -2,383 Net Result for the period – – – 185 185 39 224 Other comprehensive income – – -56 -5 -61 7 -54 Transaction with owners, recognised directly in equity – 25 – – 25 -62 -37 Closing balance, December 31, 2018 0 6,609 -603 -8,384 -2,378 128 -2,250 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 0 6,609 -603 -8,384 -2,378 128 -2,250 Changes in accounting principles – – – -7 -7 – -7 Adjusted opening balance, January 1, 2019 0 6,609 -603 -8,391 -2,385 128 -2,257 Net Result for the period – – – 3,449 3,449 26 3,475 Other comprehensive income – – 9 -44 -35 1 -34 Transaction with owners, recognised directly in equity – – – – – -26 -26 CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END ACCOUNTS Closing balance, December 31, 2019 0 6,609 -594 -4,986 1,029 129 1,158 Dividend to shareholders' is limited, subject to customary restrictions under debt agreements. 48 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consolidated cash flow statement SEK m Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating earnings 889 1,185 Adjustments: Depreciation and write-down 538 511 Other -155 -55 Operating activities in discontinued operations 78 509 Interest received and other financial items 6 7 Interest paid and other financial items -1,394 -1,091 Income tax paid -58 -90 Interest and taxes paid in discontinued operations -6 -152 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL -102 824 Change in working capital Increase (−) Decrease (+) in inventories 250 -377 Increase (−) Decrease (+) in current receivables 1) 111 -102 Increase (+) Decrease (−) in current liabilities -219 168 Change in working capital in discontinued operations -38 97 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2 610 Investing activities Acquisition of net assets, subsidiaries – -28 Investment in other participations -2 -3 Acquisition of tangible and intangible fixed assets -615 -512 Sale of net assets, subsidiaries 35 6,057 28 Sales of shares in other participations 5 – Sale of tangible and intangible fixed assets – 1 Change in financial assets, external 0 0 Discontinuing operations -7 -120 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 5,438 -634 Financing activities Dividend paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries -54 -35 New loans external 8,800 – Amortization of loans, external -13,987 – Change in credit utilization 2) -320 -7 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES -5,561 -42 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, INCL SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS -121 -66 Cash and cash equivalents in the operning balance, 565 621 incl. short-term investments Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 9 10 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD 20 453 565 1 ) Including trade receivables financing program 2) In­clud­ing pay­ment of bank fees, SEK 183 (-) m re­lat­ing to re­fi­nanc­ing PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 THE PARENT COMPANY YEAR-END ACCOUNTS Income statement, parent company SEK m Note 2019 2018 Net sales 71 71 Cost of goods sold -1 – Gross earnings 70 71 Administration costs -180 –172 Other operating income and expenses 11 -16 –28 Operating earnings (EBIT) 23, 27 -126 –129 Group contribution received 37 4,260 Earnings from participations in Group companies 1) – 1,100 Net financial items 22 -1,359 –1,238 Earnings /loss before tax -1,448 3,993 Tax 24 94 84 NET EARNINGS/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 2) -1,354 4,077 1) Comprises of dividend from subsidiaries of SEK 0 (1,100) m. 2) Comprehensive income equals Net earnings/loss for the year. THE PARENT COMPANY YEAR-END ACCOUNTS 50 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Balance sheet, parent company SEK m Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 ASSETS Non current assets Tangible fixed assets 6 0 1 Intangible fixed assets 7 1 1 Deferred tax assets 24 178 84 Shares in Group companies 18 7,731 7,731 Long-term receivables, Group companies 22 5,503 9,878 Other participations 14 148 206 Direct pension, endowment insurance 148 104 Total non-current assets 13,709 18,005 Current assets Operating receivables, Group companies 11 10 Tax receivables 5 4 Other operating receivables 19 15 10 Financial receivables, Group companies 22 124 1,649 Total 155 1,673 Cash and cash equivalents 20 0 23 HEADLINE FINACIAL REPORT Total current assets 155 1,696 TOTAL ASSETS 13,864 19,701 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital (50 000 000 shares, par value of SEK 0.01 each) 0 0 Retained earnings 4,919 842 Net earnings/loss for the year -1,354 4 077 Total shareholders´equity 3,565 4 919 Non current liabilities Direct pension 184 129 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 1) 22 8,676 13,235 Total non current liabilities 8,860 13,364 Current liabilities Accounts payable 26 10 13 Other operating liabilities, Group companies 1 Other operating liabilities 26 1 51 Accrued interest expense 41 126 Financial liabilities, Group companies 22 1,350 1,227 Short-term interest bearing liabilities 22 36 – Total current liabilities 1,439 1,418 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,864 19,701 1) The amount includes expenses for loan financing in connection with Perstorp Holding AB´s refinancing of senior debt. The amount was SEK -161 (-213) m. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 Cash flow statement, parent company SEK m Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating earnings -126 -129 Interest received 628 734 Interest paid -1,447 -1,211 Dividend from Group company – 1,100 Group contribution received 4,260 182 Income tax, paid – – Adjustment, depreciation 1 2 Adjustment, change in provisions 11 -1 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 3,327 677 Change in working capital Increase (−) Decrease (+) in current receivables -7 0 Increase (+) Decrease (−) in current liabilities -11 -27 Cash flow from operating activities 3,309 650 Investing activities Sale of financial fixed assets – – Changes in financial receivables, Group companies 126 -627 Acquisition of tangible assets – – Cash flow from investing activities 126 -627 THE PARENT COMPANY YEAR-END ACCOUNTS Financing activities New loans external 8,900 – Amortization of loans, external -13,986 – New loans to Group companies -4,072 – Amortizations of loans, from Group companies 5,883 – Change in credit utilization 1) -183 – Cash flow from financing activities -3,458 – Change in liquid funds, incl. short-term investments -23 23 Liquid funds opening balance, incl. short term investments 23 0 Liquid funds, end of period 0 23 1) Including payment of bank fees SEK 183 (-) m relating to refinancing Shareholders’ equity, parent company Share Retained Net earnings/loss Total shareholder’s SEK m capital earnings for the year equity Opening balance shareholders´equity, January 1, 2018 0 1,595 -778 817 Transfer of preceding year´s results – -778 778 0 Net earnings/loss for the year – – 4,077 4,077 Shareholder´s contribution – 25 – 25 Closing balance shareholders´equity, December 31, 2018 0 842 4,077 4,919 Opening balance shareholders´equity, January 1, 2019 0 842 4,077 4,919 Transfer of preceding year´s results – 4,077 -4,077 0 Net earnings/loss for the year – – -1,354 -1,354 Closing balance shareholders´equity, December 31, 2019 0 4,919 -1,354 3,565 52 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Notes definitions Notes CAPITAL RATIOS Note 1. Gen­er­al in­for­ma­tion 54 Average capital Note 2. Sum­ma­ry of major ac­count­ing prin­ci­ples 54 Based on month­ly bal­ances dur­ing the year. Note 3. Risk man­age­ment 58 Capital employed Note 4.  Sig­nif­i­cant es­ti­mates & judg­ments Total as­sets less interest-​free li­a­bil­i­ties. made for ac­count­ing pur­pose 60 Marginal contribution Note 5.  Seg­ment in­for­ma­tion 60 Is the dif­fer­ence be­tween net sales and the vari­able Note 6. Tan­gi­ble fixed as­sets 61 el­e­ments of the Group’s cost of goods sold, being Note 7. In­tan­gi­ble fixed as­sets 62 vari­able pro­duc­tion and dis­tri­b­u­tion cost, freight and com­mis­sion costs. Note 8. Leas­ing 63 Note 9. Net sales 63 Organic volume-based sales growth is change in or­gan­ic pro­duc­tion vol­ume sold (i.e., sold Note 10. Break­down of costs 63 pro­duc­tion vol­ume times prod­uct price) be­tween suc­ces­ Note 11. Other op­er­at­ing in­come & costs 63 sive pe­ri­ods as­sum­ing a con­stant price over the rel­e­vant pe­ri­od and ex­clud­ing for­eign ex­change ef­fects and the Note 12. Earn­ings from par­tic­i­pa­tions in as­so­ci­at­ed im­pact of ac­qui­si­tions. com­pa­nies & joint ven­tures 63 Note 13. Par­tic­i­pa­tions in as­so­ci­at­ed com­pa­nies EBITDA & joint ven­tures 64 Rep­re­sents the Group’s op­er­at­ing earn­ings (EBIT) be­fore de­pre­ci­a­tion and amor­ti­za­tion. Note 14. Other par­tic­i­pa­tions 64 Note 15. Non con­trol­ling in­ter­ests’ share in EBITDA (excluding non-recurring items) net prof­it/loss for the year 64 Rep­re­sents re­port­ed EBIT­DA as ad­just­ed to ex­clude re­struc­tur­ing costs, cap­i­tal gains/loss­es on di­vest­ment Note 16. Non con­trol­ling in­ter­ests 64 of com­pa­nies and dis­pos­al of fixed as­sets and other Note 17. Other long-​term re­ceiv­ables 64 non-​recurring in­come and cost. Note 18. Par­ent com­pa­ny shares in group EBIT com­pa­nies 65 Cal­cu­lat­ed as the Group’s re­port­ed op­er­at­ing earn­ings. Note 19. Ac­counts re­ceiv­able & other op­er­at­ing NOTES re­ceiv­ables 66 Free cash flow Cal­cu­lat­ed as EBIT­DA (ex­clud­ing non-​recurring items) Note 20. Cash & cash equiv­a­lents 66 less change in work­ing cap­it­ al ex­clud­ing ex­change rate Note 21. In­ven­to­ries 66 ef­f ects and in­vest­ments. Note 22. Bor­row­ings & fi­nan­cial costs 67 Cash conversion Note 23. Pen­sion oblig­a­tion & costs 68 Free cash flow di­vid­ed by EBIT­DA (excluding Note 24. Cur­rent & de­ferred in­come taxes 70 non-​recurring items). Note 25. Other li­a­bil­i­ties, pro­vi­sions 71 Available funds Note 26. Ac­counts payable & other op­er­at­ing The sum of liq­uid funds and unuti­lized cred­it fa­cil­it­ ies. li­a­bil­i­ties 71 Net debt Note 27. Em­ploy­ees & wages, salaries & other Interest-​bearing li­a­bil­i­ties, in­clud­ing pro­vi­sion for pen­sions, re­mu­ner­a­tion 72 less fi­nan­cial interest-​bearing re­ceiv­ables. Ac­ti­vat­ed Note 28. Con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties 74 costs for ar­rang­ing fi­nanc­ing are ex­clud­ed from Net debt. Note 29. As­sets pledged 74 Leverage Note 30. Fu­ture un­der­tak­ings 74 Net debt ex­clud­ing par­ent com­pa­ny loan and pen­sion li­a­bil­i­ties/EBIT­DA ex­clud­ing non-​recurring items. Note 31. Trans­ac­tions with re­lat­ed par­ties 74 Note 32. Pro­por­tion of board mem­bers & se­nior Continuing operations ex­ec­u­tives who are women 74 Ex­cludes the di­vest­ed units Per­storp UK Ltd, Per­storp Bio­prod­ucts AB and Per­storp Bio­prod­ucts AS. Note 33. Au­di­tors’ fees 75 Note 34. Cur­ren­cy ex­change rates 75 Note 35. Di­vest­ment 75 Note 36. Key events after the end of the fi­nan­cial year 75 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 NOTE 1. GENERAL INFORMATION IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases came into effect on 1 January 2019. This Standard regulates Per­storp is an in­ter­na­tion­al spe­cial­ty chem­i­cals Group and a glob­al leader the recognition of leases and replaces IAS 17 “Leases” and the associated IFRIC in high growth nich­es. The Group has around 1,350 em­ploy­ees and man­u­ 4, SIC-​15 and SIC-​27 interpretation statements. IFRS 16 Leases regulates the fac­tur­ing fa­cil­i­ties in Eu­rope, North Amer­i­ca and Asia. The Per­storp Group is recognition of leases and requires that assets and liabilities related to all lease con­trolled by the Eu­ro­pean pri­vate eq­ui­ty com­pa­ny PAI Part­ners. arrangements are recognized in the Balance Sheet with certain exceptions. The Group was formed at the end of 2005. PAI partners control the Group Recognition is based on the view that the lessee is entitled to use an asset for a through Luxembourg-​based Financière Forêt S.à r.l., corp. reg. no. R.C.S. specific period of time and has a simultaneous obligation to pay for that right. Luxembourg: B 111,888, which owns 100 % of Perstorp Holding AB. The Perstorp had over 200 lease agreements at January 1, 2019. The leases Parent Company, Perstorp Holding AB (Publ.), 556667-​4205, is a limited liability consist mainly of property leases, machinery and vehicles. Perstorp Group has company that is registered office in Perstorp, Sweden. The address to the head applied the new standard using the modified retrospective approach, which office is Neptunigatan 1, 201 25 Malmö, Sweden. means that comparative figures have not been restated. The cumulative effect The Board ap­proved this re­port, for pub­li­ca­tion on April 3, 2020. of applying IFRS 16 has been recognized on January 1, 2019. The lease liabili­ The Con­sol­i­dat­ed In­come State­ment and Bal­ance Sheet and the par­ent ties attributable to leases which have previously been classified as operating com­pa­ny’s In­come State­ment and Bal­ance Sheet will be sub­ject to adop­tion at leases under IAS 17 have been measured at the present value of the remaining the An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing (AGM) on May 7, 2020. lease payments, discounted using the weighted incremental borrowing rate as of January 1, 2019. For essentially all its leases, Perstorp Group has decided to measure the opening balance of the right-​of-use assets as if IFRS 16 has been applied since the commencement date but discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the 1st January 2019. For portfolios including leases with NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF MAJOR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES reasonably similar characteristics, the same discount rate has been used for all leases included in a portfolio. The weighted average lessee’s incremental The principal accounting principles applied in the preparation of these consoli­ borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 January 2019 was 9.7%. dated accounts are stated below. The principles are unchanged compared with Lease agreements shorter than 12 months or which expire within 12 months all years of comparison unless otherwise stated. of the transition date are classified as short-​term contracts and are not included in the reported lease liabilities or right-​of-use assets. Furthermore, the Group has chosen not to report lease agreements for which the underlying 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATIONS asset has a low value (assets of a value in new condition below about SEK 50,000) as a right-​of-use and lease liability respectively. Payments for leases of Group short term or low value are recognized on a straight-​line basis as an expense in The consolidated accounts for Perstorp Holding AB have been prepared in profit or loss. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Initial direct costs have been excluded from the measurement of the right-​ Board’s recommendation concerning Supplementary Accounting Rules for Group´s of-use assets at the date of initial application. Hindsight has been used, such (RFR 1) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC inter­ as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or pretations as approved by the European Commission. (The consolidated accounts terminate the lease. This practical expedient means that Perstorp Group has have been prepared in accordance with historical cost method, apart from matters been able to solely use information that existed at around the implementation applying to financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and financial when it comes to determining the lease term. assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that are fair valued via For further information and the effect of the initial application of IFRS 16 as the income statement. of January 1, 2019, see note 8. Preparing financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the use of a number of important accounting estimates. In addition, management must make certain judgments when applying the company’s accounting principles. The areas subject 2.2 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTING to a high degree of judgment and that are complex, or those areas in which NOTES assumptions or estimates have been made that are of material importance to Subsidiaries the consolidated accounts and are presented in Note 4. Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Parent Company returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those The Parent Company’s financial reports are produced in accordance with returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the the Annual Accounts Act and recommendations from the Swedish Financial consolidated accounts from the date on which the Group gains this decisive Reporting Board concerning Reporting for legal entities (RFR 2). The starting influence. Subsidiaries are excluded from the consolidated accounts from the point for RFR 2 is that the Parent Company shall implement all of the EU-​app­ date on which the decisive influence ceases. The Group uses the acquisition roved standards and interpretations as far as possible within the framework of method. The cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary compromises the fair values the Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish law safeguarding pension commitments of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued and with consideration for the relationship between accounting and taxation. by the Group. The main differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s accounting The cost of an acquisition includes the fair value of any asset or liability principles are as follows: resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. The contingent consi­ deration is normally accounted for as a liabilities/provision and a re-​evaluation Subsidiaries is accounted for in income statement. Acquisition-​related costs are expensed Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the time of acquisition at acquisition as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities value/fair value. Impairment tests of reported balance sheet values are carried out assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values in accordance with chapter 2.10. Transaction costs shall be accounted for as part at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-​by-acquisition basis, the Group of the acquisition value and is therefore capitalized under the “Group company recognizes any non controlling interest in the acquirer’s either at fair value or at holdings”. Furthermore, because the Parent Company does not report financial the non-​controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquirer’s net assets. instrument in accordance with IFRS 9 they shall not account for a contingent The surplus, which consists of the difference between the acquisition value and consideration at fair value, as stated in IFRS 3. Instead the Parent Company the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable acquired assets, liabilities and accounts for a contingent consideration as part of the acquisition value only if contingent liabilities, is reported as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than it is likely that the consideration will be paid. The contingent consideration is the fair value of the acquired subsidiary’s net assets, the difference is reported accounted as a liabilities/provision and any future re-​evaluation is accounted directly in the income statement. for as a change in acquisition value under the “Group company holdings”. All intra-​Group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealized gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group contribution & shareholders’ contribution consolidated accounts. In accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board RFR 2, the Parent The accounting principles for subsidiaries have been changed, where Company reports received Group contributions from subsidiaries as dividends necessary, to guarantee the consistent and appropriate application of Group and reports them in the income statement. Shareholder contributions are principles. reported directly under the shareholders’ equity of the receiver and are When the Group ceases to have control of a subsidiary it recognizes any capitalized under the “Group company holdings” of the provider to the extent investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value at the date when that impairment is not required. control is lost. The change in the carrying amount is recognized in income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of Pensions subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture The Parent Company reports pension commitments in accordance with the or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other Swedish law safeguarding pension commitments. Adjustments are made to comprehensive income in respect of that subsidiary are accounted for as if the accounts at Group level in accordance with IAS 19. the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are Changes in accounting policies reclassified to income statement. As of January 1, 2019, the following new or amended standards and interpre­ tations became applicable: 54 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Associated companies • a ll exchange-rate differences that arise are reported as a separate item Associated companies are companies over which the Group exercises a in consolidated shareholders’ equity in the consolidated statement of significant influence, which generally applies to shareholdings corresponding comprehensive income. to 20 to 50 % of the voting rights. On consolidation, exchange-​rate differences arising as a consequence of the Holdings in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method translation of net investments in foreign operations, borrowing and other and are initially valued at acquisition value, including any goodwill identified currency instruments identified as hedges for such investments are allocated on acquisition. The Group’s share of associated company earnings arising after to shareholders’ equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive acquisition is reported after tax in the Group’s operating earnings. Classifica­ income. On the divestment of foreign operations, accumulated exchange-​rate tion in the income statement is the consequence of the company conducting differences reported under shareholders’ equity in the consolidated statement operations in line with the rest of the Group. Accumulated changes following of comprehensive income, are reclassified as part of the capital gain/loss in the acquisition are reported as changes in the book value of the holding. When the income statement. Goodwill and adjustments of fair value arising from the the Group’s share of an associated company’s losses amounts to or exceeds its acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets and liabilities associated holding in the associated company, including any unsecured receivables, the with such operations and are translated at the exchange rate applying on the Group does not report further losses unless it has assumed obligations or made balance-​sheet date. payments on behalf of the associated company. Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its associated companies are eliminated in relation to the Group’s holding in the associated 2.4 REVENUE RECOGNITION company. Unrealized losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction is evidence of there being an impairment requirement for the transferred asset. The Sales of goods accounting principles for associated companies have been changed in places The revenue standard, IFRS 15, establishes a five step model of recognizing to guarantee the consistent and appropriate application of Group principles. revenue from customer contracts. It requires revenue to be recognized when When the Group ceases to have a significant influence over an associate control of goods and services are transferred to the customer. The five step it shall account for the investment in accordance with IFRS 9 from that date, model consist of; provided the associated does not become a subsidiary. On the loss of the controlling influence the investment is measured at it´s fair value. The change Identify contracts with customers in the carrying amount is recognized in income statement. A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates enforcea­ ble rights and obligations. Joint arrangements Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations Identify the separate performance obligation or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of A contract with a customer contains a promise to transfer goods or service to each investor. Perstorp has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and the customer. determined them to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint Determine the transaction price of the contract ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which a company the Group’s share of the post-​acquisition profits or losses and movements expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint customer, excluding VAT, discounts and returns. When such components are venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures (which includes any identified Perstorp determines if a portion of the revenue and any related cost long-​term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment should be deferred to a later period. in the joint ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures. Allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures Once the transaction price has been determined, it is to be allocated to the are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures. distinct performance obligations that have been identified. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Recognise the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied Revenue is recognized when a company has satisfied a performance obliga­ Non-​controlling interest tion, which is when the control of the goods or services has been transferred to The share of net assets belonging to the non-​controlling interest is reported the customer. as a separate item in consolidated shareholders’ equity. In the consolidated The effects of this change for Perstorp Group have been identified in a income statement the non-​controlling interest is included in reported earnings. project and there is no material effect or deviations compared to previous The Group treats transactions with non-​controlling interests as transactions standards.The majority of Perstorp’s revenues consist of sales of products that with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-​controlling interests, are recognised as revenue at a point in time. The sale is recognised as revenue the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired when control of the products has been transferred to the customer. This is of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains usually when the risk and reward criteria are passed to the customer. The or losses on disposals to non-​controlling interests are also recorded in equity. Group has a variety of delivery terms and these impact when control of the products is passed to the customer. 2.3 CURRENCY TRANSLATION Interest income Interest income is recognized as revenue distributed over the contract term Functional currency & reporting currency using the effective interest method. Items included in the financial reports of the various Group units are valued in the currency used in the economic environment in which each company mainly Received dividends operates (functional currency). In the consolidated accounts, SEK is used, Dividends are reported as revenue when the right to receive the dividend is which is the Parent Company’s functional currency and the Group’s reporting judged to be certain. currency. Transactions & balance sheet items 2.5 INCOME TAXES Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency Reported income taxes in the income statement include current tax, adjust­ according to the exchange rates applicable on the transaction date or the date ment of prior-​year current tax and changes in deferred tax. Tax is reported when the items are re-​assessed. Exchange-​rate gains and losses arising through directly in shareholders’ equity if the tax is attributable to transactions that are the payment of such transactions and on the translation of monetary assets reported directly in shareholders’ equity. and liabilities in foreign currencies at the exchange rate applicable on the Calculation of income tax and assessment of all current and deferred tax closing date are reported in the income statement under “Other income and liabilities and receivables are made in accordance with each Group company’s expenses” when the underlying receivable/liability is operational; otherwise in national tax regulations and tax rates that have been decided or that with a net financial items. The exception is where transactions represent hedges me­ great degree of certainty will be determined and apply when the tax is to be eting the requirements for hedge accounting of cash flows or net investments, paid. It can be added that the Group management team regularly assesses where gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income in the claims made in tax assessments concerning situations where applicable tax consolidated statement of comprehensive income. rules are subject to interpretation. When interpretations change and when it is considered to be appropriate, allocations are adjusted to the amount that will Group companies probably be paid to the tax authority. The earnings and financial position of all Group companies are established in Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method each company’s functional currency (none of which is classified as a high-​infla­ on the basis of all material temporary differences between the book values tion currency). In the consolidated accounts these amounts are then translated and taxable values of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets pertaining to into the Group’s reporting currency (SEK) in accordance with the following: unutilized tax loss carry-​forwards are only reported when it is likely that it will • a ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the exchange be possible to realize the loss carry-​forwards within the foreseeable future. rate applying on the balance-sheet date Deferred tax assets/liabilities are offset when there is a legal right to offset the • income and costs for each income statement are translated at the average asset or liability in question and when deferred tax assets/liabilities relate to exchange rate for each year, and taxes debited by the same tax authority. In this context there shall also be an intention to settle the item through a new payment. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 2.6 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS recoverable amount if the asset’s book value exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. See chapter 2.10. Gains and losses on divestment are determined by Goodwill comprises the amount by which the acquisition value exceeds the fair comparing the sales proceeds and the book value and are reported in the income value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidi­ statement under the heading Other operating income and expenses. ary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on the acquisition of Group companies is reported as an intangible asset. Goodwill is tested annually in order to identify impairment requirements. 2.8 LEASING When conducting tests to identify possible impairment requirements, goodwill is divided among cash-​generating units and each unit is tested individually. The Leasing – from 2019 reported value of goodwill comprises therefore the acquisition value less ac­ The Group mainly leases property leases, machinery and vehicles. cumulated impairments. Impairment of goodwill is not recovered. Trademarks, Contracts may contain both lease and non-​lease components. Perstorp patents and licenses that apply to separately acquired assets from external par­ Group separates the non-​lease components from the lease components related ties are reported initially at acquisition value. Trademarks, patents and licenses to rental of premises, leased cars and IT equipment. For rental of storage tanks acquired through acquisition of a business are reported initially at their fair these payments include non-​lease components as they are not possible to separate value on the day of acquisition. Trademarks, patents and licences that have a from lease payments. The Group acts as a lessee, which means that the leasing determinable period of utilization are assessed individually and depreciated li­ contracts are reported as right-​ofuse asset and a corresponding lease liability nearly based on this, normally over 5–30 years. Assets with unlimited utilization at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Assets and periods are not normally subject to depreciation. liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. For the Group, assets with an indeterminate life length within this category Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments: refer to the trademark Perstorp, which in connection with the allocation of • fixed payments acquisition values in 2006, were judged to have an unlimited life, based on the company’s 135 year history and the continuous renewal process. Annual testing • variable lease payment dependent on an index or a rate of possible impairment requirements is performed for assets in this category. • a  mounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value Technological know-​how was identified as a balance sheet item in connec­ guarantees tion with the allocation of acquisition values in 2006 and its acquisition value has linear depreciation to divide the costs over the assessed utilization period The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. of 30 years. Testing of possible impairment requirements is performed annually. If that rate cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case for leases Customer relations: In connection with the allocation of acquisition values in in the Group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate 2006, a value was identified that reflects the future value generation related to that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to core customers. The acquisition value has a linear depreciation in order to divide obtain an asset of similar value to the right-​of-use asset in a similar economic the cost over the lifespan of the relations which is expected to be 30 years and environment with similar terms, security and conditions. To determine the in­ 10 years respectively. Annual testing of impairment requirements is performed cremental borrowing rate, the Group: through the analysis of future value generation in respect of sales to core • w  here possible, uses recent third-party financing received by the individual customers, adjusted for the values already recognized in the form of trade­ lessee as a starting point, adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions marks and technological know-​how. since third party financing was received, and Research costs are expensed directly when they arise, while expenses relating • u  ses a build-up approach that starts with a third-party interest rate adjusted to the development of new products/processes are capitalized as intangible for credit risk for leases held by the Group assets if they fulfill the following criteria: the expenses must be identifiable in a reliable way, the management team intends to complete production of the as­ Right-​of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following: HEADLINE FINACIAL NOTES REPORT set and use/ sell it, there must be external preconditions for using/selling the asset, and it must be highly probable that the asset will generate future finan­ • t he initial amount of the lease liability, and cial benefits. Unless all criteria are met, the cost is reported directly. Costs that • p  ayments made on or before the point in time when the leased asset is have previously been expensed may not subsequently be reported as assets. made available to the lessee The amortization of capitalized development costs is linear and starts when the product starts to be produced commercially or the process starts to be used for Each lease payment is allocated between amortization of the lease liability and a commercial production. The amortization period must not exceed five years. finance cost. The finance cost is allocated over the lease term to produce a Tests are performed annually to see if there is an impairment requirement. constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for Software: acquired software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs each period. The right-​of-use asset is subsequently depreciated over the shorter that have arisen for acquiring and deploying the software. Costs for the deve­ of the useful life of the asset and the lease term on a straight-​line basis. The lopment and maintenance of software are normally expensed when they arise. Group is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments based If the particular software is unique, controlled by the Group and will probably on an index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take generate economic benefits that exceed the costs for more than one year, the effect. When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or rate take effect, software is reported as an intangible asset. Personnel expenses for software the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-​of-use asset. development and a reasonable portion of attributable indirect costs are inclu­ ded. Costs for capitalized software licenses and software development are Options to extend or terminate leases amortized over their estimated useful life, which may not exceed three years. Options to extend or terminate leases are included in the Group’s lease contracts All capitalized assets in this category are subject to an annual test concerning for offices. These terms are used to maximize operational flexibility in terms of utilization period and impairment requirement. managing contracts. Options to extend or terminate leases are included in the asset and the liability where it is reasonably certain they will be exercised. In the majority of the non-cancellable lease contracts for offices, the period has been 2.7 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS set as the lease term. For the leases ending in 2019 it has been assessed that these contracts will with reasonable certainty be extended with one period. Tangible fixed assets are reported at their acquisition value less accumulated depreciation according to plan and in certain cases less impairment. The acqui­ Leasing – Parent Company sition value includes expenses that can be directly attributable to the acquisi­ The parent company has elected not to apply IFRS 16 Leases, but to apply RFR 2 tion of an asset. instead. As a result, no right-​of-use assets or lease liabilities are recognized in This also includes borrowing costs attributable to acquisitions of fixed assets the balance sheet. The lease payments are instead recognized as an expense that take a significant amount of time to complete for use. Additional expenses over the lease term on a straight-​line basis. are added to the asset’s reported value or reported as a separate asset, depen­ ding on which is appropriate, but only if it is probable that the future economic Leasing – 2018 benefits associated with the asset accrue to the Group and the asset’s acquisi­ The Group is party to leasing agreements whereby the Group as leaseholder to all tion value can be measured reliably. Reported value for replaced parts is deducted extents and purposes profits from the economic benefits relating to the leased from capitalized value. All other forms of expenses for repairs and maintenance object while also bearing the economic risks. These agreements are recognized are reported as costs in the income statement during the period they arise. as financial leasing. At the start of the leasing period the leasing object is re­ Straight-​line depreciation is applied based on the asset’s acquisition value ported as a fixed asset in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value and the and estimated useful life. When the assets’ depreciable amount is established current value of the contracted minimum leasing fees. On the liability side, the the residual value of the asset is also considered as appropriate. The following estimated value of the commitment is offset against future cash flow based depreciation periods are used: upon the leasing agreement. A division is made between short-​term and long-​term borrowing depending Buildings 20–50 years on the due date for payment. Upon settlement the paid sum is divided between Land improvements 10–35 years amortization of debt and the financial costs. The interest part of the financial Machinery and equipment 10–30 years cost is reported in the income statement over the leasing period, so that each Computers, tools and cars max. 5 years period includes an amount that corresponds to a fixed interest rate for the reported debt during the period. Capitalized fixed assets in financial leasing Land and construction in progress are not depreciated. agreements are depreciated according to the same principles used for other The residual value and useful life of assets are impairment tested regularly or assets. Some of the Group’s leasing contracts pertain to vehicles and compu­ when external or internal circumstances dictate such impairment testing, and ters, which have been reported as operational leasing. are adjusted as necessary. An asset’s book value is immediately impaired to its 56 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2.9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash & cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances and other short-​term A financial asset or liability is initially recognized in the balance sheet when investments maturing within three months and that can easily be converted the company becomes a party to the contractual conditions of the instrument. into cash. A financial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet when all benefits and risks associated with ownership have been transferred. A financial liability is Borrowings derecognized from the balance sheet when the obligations of the contract Borrowings are reported initially at fair value, net after transaction costs. Other have been met, or otherwise extinguished. At initial recognition, the Group borrowing expenses are also reported in the income statement based on the measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not period to which they relate including borrowing costs attributed over a period. at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), transaction costs that are directly For classification reasons, borrowings are reported as short-​term liabilities to the attri­butable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial extent that the Group does not have a unconditional right to defer payment of assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss. All financial derivatives are the liabilities for at least 12 months after the closing date. Other borrowings measured at fair value. The purchase and sale of financial assets is recognized on are reported analogously as long-​term liabilities. the transaction date, which is the date the Group undertakes to purchase or sell the asset. Borrowing costs Some measurements are conducted according to the effective interest method. General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, The effective interest rate is the rate that, on discounting of all future anticipated construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily cash flows over the expected term, results in the initially recognized value of the take an substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are financial asset or the financial liability. added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Classification of financial instruments – financial assets All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in Debt instruments: classification of financial assets that are debt instruments is which they are incurred. based on the Group’s business model for the management of the asset and the characteristics of the asset’s contractual cash flows. Instruments are classified at: 2.10 IMPAIRMENT • amortized cost • fair value through other comprehensive income, or Tangible and intangible assets with an indeterminate useful life are not depre­ • fair value through profit and loss ciated/amortized but are subject to annual testing of impairment require­ ments. Tangible and intangible assets with a determined useful life are asses­ Financial assets classified at amortized cost are initially measured at fair value sed for a reduction in value whenever events or changes in conditions indicate plus transaction costs. Accounts receivable are initially recognized at the invoice that the book value may not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized in the amount. After initial recognition, the assets are measured according to the effective amount by which the asset’s or cash-​generating unit’s book value exceeds its interest method. Assets classified at amortized cost are held under the business recoverable value, which in the current situation means the higher of the utili­ model of collecting contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal zation value or fair value with deductions for sales costs. In connection with the and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The assets are covered by a test an assessment is made as to whether there has been a change in the reco­ reserve for expected credit losses (loss allowance). vered value for an individual asset/cash-​generating unit and if the previous im­ The Group does not have any assets classified at fair value through other pairment can be recovered fully or partly. Impairment is never recovered for comprehensive income. Fair value through profit and loss is all other debt in­ goodwill. A test for an impairment requirement is performed for financial as­ struments that are not measured at amortized cost or fair value through other sets at the end of the report period. Impairment is performed as soon as there comprehensive income. Financial instruments in this category are initially mea­ is objective evidence that events have taken place which indicate that estima­ sured at fair value. ted future cash flows from an asset will be lower than the reported balance Derivatives: classified at fair value through profit and loss. sheet total. The impairment amount is calculated as the difference between Other participations the asset’s reported value and assessed future cash flow (current value is calcu­ Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for lated for instruments classified as fixed assets). If there are observable market trading. A financial asset is classified as non-​current asset if expected to be settled prices for the instrument, the impairment calculation is based on this fair value. beyond 12 months, otherwise they are classified as current assets. In connection with the test an assessment is also made if events have occurred, and objective evidence is available, which mean that a previously carried out Classification of financial instruments – financial liabilities impairment shall be returned fully or partly. Other financial liabilities: classified at amortized cost except for derivatives. Financial liabilities recognized at amortized cost are initially measured at fair value including transaction costs. After initial recognition, they are measured at 2.11 INVENTORIES amortized cost according to the effective interest method. Derivatives: classified at fair value through profit and loss. Inventories are reported on the closing date at the lower of acquisition value and net realizable value. The acquisition value is determined using a method Loss allowance for expected credit losses mainly based on weighted average prices. The acquisition value of finished The Group’s financial assets and receivables, except for those classified at fair products and work in progress consists of raw materials, direct payroll expen­ value through profit and loss, are subject to impairment for expected credit losses. ses, other direct costs and attributable indirect manufacturing costs (based on Impairment for credit losses under IFRS 9 includes forward-​looking factors and normal manufacturing capacity). Borrowing costs are not included; there are a loss allowance is established when there is exposure to credit risk, already in no inventories for which IAS 23 is applicable. The net realizable value is the es­ connection with initial recognition. timated selling price based on continuing operations, less applicable variable A simplified approach is applied to accounts receivable. Under this approach, selling costs. a loss allowance is recognized using a provision matrix. The financial assets are recognized in the balance sheet at the net of the gross amount and the loss allowance. Changes in the loss allowance are recog­ nized in profit or loss in EBIT for accounts receivable and as financial expenses 2.12 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS or income for other provisions. The Group’s credit exposure is presented in Note 3 and in Note 22. Pensions The Group has both defined-​contribution and defined-​benefit pension plans. Calculation of fair value The characteristic of a defined-​contribution pension plan is that the Group The fair value of unlisted financial instruments, or if the market of a certain financial pays a fixed contribution to a separate legal entity. After the premium is paid asset is not active, the value is determined by applying a present value calculation the Group has no legal or informal obligations to pay additional fees if the that relies on several factors, such as profit/loss, business plan, financial forecast counter party does not have sufficient assets to pay benefits to employee rela­ and market data to reflect the market conditions on the closing date. ting to the employee’s service in earlier years. There are therefore no provisions in the consolidated balance sheet or among contingent liabilities for this cate­ Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies gory of pension. Defined-​benefit pension plans are not determined by contri­ Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are measured at the exchange rate butions; they are instead a commitment for the Group and are thus balanced prevailing on the closing date. Exchange rate differences on operating receivables as a provision. The commitment comprises an amount for the pension benefit and operating liabilities are reported at “Other operating income and expenses”, an employee shall receive upon retirement, which is assessed with reference to while exchange rate differences on financial receivables and liabilities are clas­ age, years of service, future salary increase and inflation. The pension plans are sified as financial items. See also Note 2.3 for translation of foreign currencies. normally financed through payments to insurance companies or funds mana­ Offsetting of financial instruments ged by asset managers in accordance with periodical actuarial calculations. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized at net amount in the The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit balance sheet only when a legal right exists to offset the recognized amount pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end and there is an intention to settle the amount net, or simultaneously realize the of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit asset and settle the liability. This legal right may not be dependent on future obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected events and it must be legally binding for the company and the counterparty in unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the normal business operations and also in the event of payment cancellation, determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest insolvency or bankruptcy. rates of high-​quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating SWAPS to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used. SEK m Market value Nominal amount Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other compre­ Internal lending hensive income in the period in which they arise. The Group’s payments for EUR 0 -95 defined-​contribution pension plans are reported as a cost during the period when the employee performed the services to which the contributions JPY 2 -49 pertain. For defined-benefit plans, the interest effect and return on plan assets Liquidity purposes attributable to the plan are reported in net financial items, while other costs are included in operating profit. EUR 0 -532 USD 3 381 Remuneration for redundancy Remuneration is paid for redundancy when an employee’s employment is terminated before normal retirement or when the employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for remuneration. The Group reports severance pay EXPOSURE PER CURRENCY, FORECAST FOR 20201) when a formal plan is presented or an offer is made and an obligation or legal undertaking is created. Operating Financial Translated Net sales costs EBITDA payments Net to SEK m2) Other remuneration & bonus plans Other short-​term remuneration to employee’s is reported as a cost when an USD 405 –311 94 –26 68 634 employee has performed a service in exchange for remuneration. Reservations EUR 568 –389 179 –30 149 1,559 for bonuses are reported continually as a liability and cost in accordance with predicted outcome and the economic impact of the agreement. 1) Forward-​looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. 2) Currency rate on closing day. 2.13 PROVISIONS Liquidity risk Provisions are reported when the Group has an existing legal or informal The liq­uid­i­ty risk is mon­i­tored through rolling cash flow fore­casts which gives obligation as a result of the occurrence of an event for which it is probable that early warn­ing sig­nals and en­ables cor­re­spond­ing­ly early cor­rec­tive mea­sures an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and for which to safe­guard that the Group has suf­fi­cient liq­uid as­sets and unuti­lized cred­it the amount can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for restructuring are fa­cil­i­ties to meet cur­rent pay­ments. primarily reported for severance pay and other costs affecting cash flow that arise in connection with restructuring of the Group’s activities. NET ASSETS PER CURRENCY, BEFORE & AFTER LOANS 2.14 NON-​CURRENT ASSETS (OR DISPOSAL GROUPS) HELD FOR SALE IN FOREIGN CURRENCY Non-​current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale Net assets per Loans in transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the currency, before foreign currency, lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. loans in foreign Swedish Exposed SEK m currency companies net assets NOTES EUR 772 -5,249 -4,477 2.15 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED USD -1,608 -3,523 -5,131 Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published GBP 5 – 5 that are not mandatory for 31 December 2019 reporting periods and have not SEK 1,297 8,772 10,069 been early adopted by the Group. These standards are not expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on Other currencies 563 – 563 foreseeable future transactions. Total 1,029 0 1,029 At the end of 2019 there was positive exposure in SEK concerning net assets NOTE 3. RISK MANAGEMENT per currency. This is because a large part of the intangible assets that existed when PAI partners acquired Perstorp was in SEK. Exposure of net assets in EUR and USD are correspondingly negative because the Group has raised loans 3.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS in both those currencies to a greater extent than that which corresponds to assets. The translation affect if SEK is changing by 1% against the USD/EUR, will The Groups treasury policy governs the financial risks the Group is prepared be approximately SEK 88 million and affect the financial net. to take and sets guidelines for how these risks should be managed. Corporate Finance has global responsibility for the Group’s financing activities. LIABILITIES, INTEREST RATES & FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, Currency risk PER DUE DATE The currency risk is the risk that the Group’s earnings and net assets will be The table below shows the market value of the Group’s financial liabilities adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The Group has conside­ and derivative instruments with their due dates. The amounts shown are the rable flows, earnings and assets in foreign currency, primarily in EUR and USD. agreed, undiscounted amounts. Both sales and raw material purchase is primarily USD or EUR based, whereas a large portion of costs is in SEK, mainly as a result of the fact that more than half of the Group’s employees are based at Swedish sites. 0–1 1–2 2–5 >5 As of 31 December 2019 years years years years NET SALES PER GEOGRAPHIC MARKET, % Borrowings Amortization -17 -36 -108 -8,692 Interest -509 -505 -1,501 -576 48 % EU 4% Europe (not EU) Derivative instruments 21 % NAFTA Interest swaps – – – – 22 % Asia Currency swaps outgoing -676 – – – 3% South & Latin America 2% Africa Currency swaps ingoing 381 – – – 0% Oceania Currency swaps net amount -295 – – – Accounts Payable & Other Liabilities -1,726 – – – 58 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Financing risk payments. Internal guidelines also include procedures for monitoring outstanding Fi­nanc­ing risk refers to the risk that re­fin ­ anc­ing of due loans be­comes more dif­fi­cult receivables before and after the maturity date depending on materiality and the or ex­pen­sive. Dur­ing the first quar­ter 2019, Per­storp is­sued re­demp­tion no­tices individual customer’s risk profile. for all out­stand­ing bonds and notes is­sued by Prague CE S.A.R.L.. The re­demp­tion The Group’s out­stand­ing cus­tomer re­ceiv­ables on the clos­ing date amount­ed was fi­nanced by the pro­ceeds of the Capro­lac­tone sale as well as new cred­it to SEK 681 (863) m. The amounts re­port­ed are those that are ex­pect­ed to be fa­cil­i­ties, with lower in­ter­ests, com­mit­ted by Bank of Amer­i­ca Mer­rill Lynch, re­paid by cus­tomers based on an in­di­vid­ual as­sess­ment of out­stand­ing re­ceiv­ Gold­man Sachs Bank USA, DNB, SEB, Stan­dard Chart­ed Bank and Nordea. ables and there­by in­clud­ing a re­serve for ex­pect­ed/stat­ed cus­tomer loss­es The Group’s new fi­nanc­ing con­sists of In­sti­tu­tion­al Term Loans and a Re­volv­ing amount­ing to SEK 8 (10) m. Ac­counts re­ceiv­able that are over­due are close­ly Cred­it Fa­cil­i­ty with ma­tu­ri­ties in 2026 and 2025 re­spec­tive­ly. The ma­tu­ri­ty mon­it­ ored in order to not in­crease the ex­po­sure. If a bi­lat­er­al agree­ment can­not struc­ture is pre­sent­ed in note 22b. Loan agree­ments are linked to a Fi­nan­cial be reached with the cus­tomer it is sent for ex­ter­nal cred­it col­lec­tion and as a last Covenant that in­clude net debt in re­la­tion to EBIT­DA. step also to court. The lat­ter process­es tend to take long time and there­fore the Group ap­plies a pru­dent pol­i­cy when to write off a re­ceiv­able. INTEREST-RATE RISK To high­light the cred­it qual­it­ y of re­ceiv­ables that has ei­ther fall­en due for pay­ment In­ter­est risk refers to the risk of a neg­a­tive im­pact on earn­ings due to a rise in or have been writ­ten down, a ma­tu­ri­ty analy­sis is pre­sent­ed below (see note 19) mar­ket in­ter­est rates. Note 22, table C, shows the in­ter­est rate and fixed pe­ri­od per for a ma­tu­ri­ty analy­sis of all ac­counts re­ceiv­able. The book value of ac­counts cur­ren­cy as per De­cem­ber 31, 2019. All ex­ter­nal fi­nanc­ing, are is­sued with re­ceiv­able is equal to the fair value since the ef­fect of dis­count­ing is not ma­te­r­i­al. float­ing in­ter­est rate. Fi­nanc­ing is is­sued with a base rate floor that is high­er than It should also be noted that it is not un­com­mon for a re­ceiv­able to be set­tled the cur­rent EUR base rate level. The cur­rent mar­ket sit­ua ­ ­tion with neg­a­tive EUR short­ly after the due date, which af­fects the ma­tu­ri­ty in­ter­val by 1–10 days. base rates there­fore gives a lower sen­si­tiv­it­ y to changes in in­ter­est rates. The Group’s sales and thus also its ac­counts re­ceiv­able are di­vid­ed among a large num­ber of cus­tomers spread across a wide ge­o­graph­ic area. This lim­its COUNTERPARTY RISK/CUSTOMER SENSITIVITY the con­cen­tra­tion of cred­it risk ex­po­sure. See di­a­gram below. Coun­ter­par­ty risk re­lates to the cred­it risk that may arise when a coun­ter­part The dis­tri­b­ut­ ion of cus­tomers based on the size of ac­counts re­ceiv­able at the can­not ful­fil its com­mit­ments and thus caus­es a fi­nan­cial loss to the Group. end of the pe­ri­od is pre­sent­ed in di­a­gram below. The seg­ment with amounts Lim­its for fi­nan­cial coun­ter­parts are reg­u­lat­ed in the Group’s trea­sury pol­i­cy and ex­ceed­ing SEK 20 m refers to 1 (1) in­di­vid­ual cus­tomers, the seg­ment be­tween stip­u­lates that bi­lat­er­al cred­it fa­cil­i­ties shall be pro­vid­ed by fi­nan­cial in­sti­tu­tions SEK 10-20 m refers to 4 (3) in­di­vid­ual cus­tomers. The cat­e­go­ry of cus­tomers with a min­i­mum A3 rat­ing from Moody’s or Afrom Stan­dard & Poor’s which is owing the Group less than SEK 1 m on the clos­ing date cor­re­sponds to around reg­u­lar­ly mon­i­tored. For fi­nan­cial coun­ter­parts, the ex­po­sure at year-​end, de­fined 90 (89)% of all counter par­ties. here as un­re­al­ized gains for short term cur­ren­cy swaps amounts to SEK 6 m. On the clos­ing date the Group had cred­it in­sur­ance, let­ters of cred­it or other In addition there is a group credit policy. The purpose of this policy is to establish pledged se­cu­ri­ties amount­ing to SEK 6 (5) m. Of these, SEK 1 (0) m is at­trib­ut­able standard procedures to minimize credit losses. The credit policy sets a framework to re­ceiv­ables that have fall­en due for pay­ment. Of re­ceiv­ables that have fall­en for approving credit, defines who has responsibility and how deliveries may be due and which are as­so­ci­at­ed with a lim­it­ed cred­it risk due to pledged se­cu­ri­ties, approved in the event of limits being exceeded or customers having overdue SEK 0 (0) m are over 30 days due. CONCENTRATION RISK OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE CONCENTRATION RISK OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE DIVIDED BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION, % BASED ON SIZE OF CUSTOMER, % 32% EU 6% More than 20 MSEK 2% Europe (not EU) 8% 10–20 MSEK 11% North America 8% 5–10 MSEK 10% South America 41% 1–5 MSEK 40% Asia 37% Less than 1 MSEK 5% Africa 0% Oceania 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91-180 days >180 days Dec 31, 2019 Current past due past due past due past due past due Total Loss Allowance Expected loss rate, % 0.2 1.9 8.0 16.0 32.0 38.4 1.2 Gross carrying amount – accounts receivable 617 60 7 3 -2 5 690 Loss Allowance -1 -1 -1 -1 0 -5 -9 Carrying value 616 59 6 2 -2 0 681 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91-180 days >180 days Dec 31, 2019 Current past due past due past due past due past due Total Loss Allowance Expected loss rate, % 0.2 2.9 8.0 71.6 32.0 89.7 1.1 Gross carrying amount – accounts receivable 824 46 10 0 2 -9 873 Loss Allowance -2 -2 -1 0 -2 -3 -10 Carrying value 822 44 9 0 0 -12 863 Perstorp Group applies the simplified approach to measure lifetime expected credit losses. Compared with the former applied incurred loss model, the new requirements imply an earlier recognition of credit losses. Historical information is used regarding credit loss experience to forecast future credit losses. In addition, current and forward looking information is used to reflect current and future conditions. The effects following IFRS 9 is presented above. 3.2 OPERATIONAL RISK FACTOR Access to raw materials Most of the Group’s raw materials are based on oil or natural gas. Many of the Perstorp operates on the global chemicals market with suppliers who meet the Group’s products are both sold externally and further processed internally. highest environmental and safety requirements, but as far as possible Perstorp also To safeguard supplies of raw materials and spread risks, the Group’s purchasing aims to minimize transport by buying on local markets. policy requires that supplies of critical raw materials are made by more than one Supplies of raw materials to Perstorp’s site in Stenungsund – the largest site in suppliers where possible. Supplies are secured through long-​term delivery agreements. Sweden in terms of volumes – is primarily done via pipelines directly from nearby PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 producers, a setup which eliminates storage costs and minimizes freight costs but Environmental liabilities: The Group’s ongoing activities are reflected in how any also entail a risk of being closely tied to these suppliers. Perstorp manages this risk possible environmental damage is assessed. The Group complies with decisions by through a terminal agreement that gives Perstorp the right to use the supplier’s public authorities and conducts measures both proactively to prevent environ­ infrastructure for raw materials supplied by other producers. mental impact and reactively in the event that environmental disturbances arise. The prices of crude oil and natural gas fluctuate constantly. To provide stability in the shorter perspective, Perstorp purchases raw materials using pricing formulas based on quarterly or monthly prices on each market where the raw material is used. Opportunities for hedging raw material prices are assessed continually. To make this a possible alternative, Group policy requires a very strong correlation between NOTE 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION the raw material price and the Group’s own selling price. At end of 2019 no raw material prices were hedged. In the historic perspective, the Group has been very successful in passing on increases in raw material prices along the customer chain. During the first quarter Perstorp announced a new organization with three On the electricity market there is a possibility to secure prices for longer periods. new Business Areas (BAs) to manage our different customer categories and Perstorp closely monitor the need of electricity. In accordance with the Group’s maintain strong customer intimacy: policy the electricity usage in Sweden is secured up to four years in a range of • B  A Specialty Polyols & Solutions: BU Penta, BU TMP & NEO, BU Formates 0-75%. This is done by a preferred supplier that owns and sell a physical product and Business Development with a mix of secured and spot to Perstorp. • B  A Advanced Chemicals: BU Oxo and BU Plasticizers • BA  Animal Nutrition: Feed Additives and Acids and Salts PRODUCTION DISRUPTIONS Disruptions at Perstorp’s plants may lead to a loss of earnings in the short The historical numbers has been restated according to the new organization. term if the Group cannot deliver agreed volumes to customers and in the long term if this leads to alternative products taking over for the same application. On December 10th, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement to sell its Capro­ Regular technical inspections are performed at production sites to minimize lactone business. The transaction was closed on February 13th 2019. At year these risks. end 2018 the assets and liabilities was classified as assets and liabilities held Perstorp has a global function whose job is to ensure that, in case of unforeseen for sale in the balance sheet. In the income statement this is classified as events, the Group has complete insurance coverage while also supporting discontinued operations. work aimed at minimizing risks. Through a global insurance program involving different international insurance companies the Group can capitalize for competitive advantage in insurance terms and cost. SEK m 2019 2018 Net Sales Specialty Polyols and Solutions 6,435 7,008 Advanced Chemicals 3,837 4,072 Animal Nutrition 1,221 1,236 NOTE 4. SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES & JUDGMENTS MADE Internal sales FOR ACCOUNTING PURPOSE Specialty Polyols and Solutions -4 -88 Advanced Chemicals -519 -618 Perstorp’s financial accounts are based on the going-​concern principle. To a certain extent, the financial statements are based on estimates and judgments about Animal Nutrition -13 -19 the future trend. In turn, these judgments are based on historical experience and Other/eliminations 684 845 different assumptions that are considered to be reasonable in current circum­ Continuing operations 11,641 12,436 stances. Reported values may have another actual outcome if other assumptions NOTES are made or circumstances change. The following particular areas can be dis­ Divested units 155 2,960 tinguished where estimates and judgments are of importance to the amounts Eliminations -42 -514 entered in the accounts and differences can have a significant effect on the Discontinued operations 113 2,446 Group’s earnings and financial position. Total Group 11,754 14,882 Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks: In accordance with the accounting principle described in point 2.10, impairment testing is currently EBITDA performed annually through analysis of individual assets’/cash-​generating units’ recovery value. The Group tests goodwill for any impairment on an annual basis Specialty Polyols and Solutions 1,012 1,151 or whenever events or objective circumstances indicate that the fair value of Advanced Chemicals 524 481 acquisition-​related goodwill may have decreased. To determine whether the Animal Nutrition 186 240 value of goodwill has decreased, the cash-​generating unit to which the goodwill is attributable must be valued and this is done by discounting the future cash flow. Other/eliminations -295 -176 In applying this method, the Company relies on several factors, such as profit/ loss, Continuing operations 1,427 1,696 business plans, financial forecasts and market data. For further information see note 7. Discontinued operations 4,766 495 Total Group 6,193 2,191 Valuation of shares in subsidiaries: Impairment testing is performed annually Non allocated items through analysis of the value of shares in subsidiaries, in each owning companies, taken into account discounted future cash flow based on the latest business Depreciation, Amortization and write down -547 -621 plan. For further details, see note 7. Operating earnings (EBIT) 5,646 1,570 Financial income and expenses -1,937 -2,050 Other participations: In accordance with the accounting principle other participa­ tions is valued at fair value. To determine the fair value the Company relies on Earnings/loss before tax 3,709 -480 several factors, such as profit/loss, business plans, financial forecasts and market Tax -234 704 data. For further details, see note 14. Net result 3,475 224 Valuation of tax-​loss carry-​forwards: The valuation of tax-​loss carry-​forwards is based on an assessment that it will be possible to utilize these carry-​forwards EBITDA excluding non-recurring items in the foreseeable future. Assessments are based on, among other matters, an Specialty Polyols and Solutions 1,029 1,165 assumption about future business opportunities and earnings capability. The outcome is often dependent on tax rules that are current or likely to come into Advanced Chemicals 524 484 effect. Tax-​loss carry-​forwards have been assigned values in, primarily, the Group’s Animal Nutrition 186 241 companies in Sweden, Germany and Holland. For booked values see Note 24. Other/eliminations -185 -76 Pension benefits: The current value of the Group’s future pension commitments Continuing operations 1,554 1,814 regarding defined-​benefit pension plans is based on a number of assumptions Discontinued operations 81 510 in connection with the actuarial estimate. Changes in these assumptions may Total Group 1,635 2,324 affect the reported value of the pension commitment. For further details, see chapter 2.12 and note 23. The group is domiciled in Sweden. The result of its revenue from external customers Available funds: The future estimated available fund includes a number of in Sweden is 5% (3), and the total of revenue from external customers from estimates and judgments based on the long term business plan. Perstorp is other countries is 95% (97). constantly monitoring the available funds to secure that available funds are on a satisfied level for the coming periods. No single external customer accounted for more than 10 % of our sales. 60 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY OPERATING SEGMENT, TOTAL GROUP Specialty Polyols & Advanced Animal Solutions Chemicals Nutrition Other Total Group 2019 2018 1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Goodwill 762 737 858 854 212 211 – – 1,832 1,802 Other intangible assets 1,247 1,273 1,091 1,092 212 214 – – 2,550 2,579 Tangible assets 2,173 1,885 1,900 1,984 174 151 520 494 4,767 4,514 Shares in associated comp – – 75 72 – – – – 75 72 Working capital, net 650 663 21 -87 -11 48 19 27 679 651 Deferred tax liabilities -299 -350 -278 -280 -82 -70 – – -659 -700 Operating Capital 4,533 4,208 3,667 3,635 505 554 539 521 9,244 8,918 1) Excludes assets and liabilities held for sale. NOTE 6. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 1,2) Work in progress Buildings & land Plant & Equipment, tools, incl. advance Right of Group Land improvments machinery fixtures & fittings payments use assets Total SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Acquisition value Opening balance 206 186 1,402 1,453 7,140 7,833 466 335 420 399 – – 9,634 10,206 Change in accounting principles (IFRS16) – – – – – – – – – – 101 – 101 – Investments 1 26 5 5 11 42 3 108 498 396 54 – 572 577 Divestments of subsidiary -1 – -2 -23 -44 -79 – – -15 -4 -16 – -78 -106 Divestments and disposals – – – – -21 -7 -1 -1 – -1 -4 – -26 -9 Reclassifications – – 59 10 250 192 45 13 -360 -199 – – -6 16 Translation effects 4 7 10 19 68 147 4 11 9 4 -1 – 94 188 Assets held for sale – -13 – -62 – -988 – – – -175 – – – -1,238 Closing balance 210 206 1,474 1,402 7,404 7,140 517 466 552 420 134 – 10,291 9,634 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance 0 0 -596 -559 -4,033 -4,189 -288 -265 – – – – -4,917 -5,013 Depreciation – – -53 -54 -258 -332 -50 -15 – – -39 – -400 -401 Divestments of subsidiary – – 1 2 28 21 – – – – – – 29 23 Divestments and disposals – – – – 16 4 1 – – – 2 – 19 4 Reclassifications – – 1 – 4 – -1 2 – – – – 4 2 Translation effects 0 0 -5 -8 -25 -81 -3 -10 – – – – -33 -99 Assets held for sale – – – 23 – 544 – – – – – – – 567 Closing balance 0 0 -652 -596 -4,268 -4,033 -341 -288 – – -37 – -5,298 -4,917 Write-downs Opening balance -8 -7 -19 -19 -182 -180 -2 -2 -4 -4 – – -215 -212 Reversal of previous year – – – – – – – 3 – – – – – 3 Write-downs during the year – – – – – –55 – – -11 – – – -11 -55 Divestments of subsidiary – – – – – 55 – – – – – – – 55 Reclassifications – – – – – – – –3 – – – – – -3 Translation effects – -1 0 0 – -2 – – – – – – – -3 Closing balance -8 -8 -19 -19 -182 -182 -2 -2 -15 -4 – – -226 -215 Closing book value 202 198 803 787 2,954 2,925 174 176 537 416 97 – 4,767 4,502 1)  he Group’s tangible fixed assets were assessed in 2006 in connection with an acquisition analysis. The assessment was based on replacement cost, remaining life and the difference in operating T costs between newly acquired plants and existing ones. The re-​assessment, after deductions for deferred tax, was credited to Other reserves under Shareholders’ equity. 2) Buildings and land with a value of SEK 59 (1,593) m are used as collateral for bank loans, whereof – (670) m relates to assets held for sale. Depreciation per function 2019 2018 Parent company Tangible fixed assets Cost of goods sold 367 331 2019 2018 Selling Cost 13 1 Opening balance 1 2 Administration 10 3 Investments 0 – R&D 5 3 Depreciation -1 -1 Continuing operations 395 338 Closing balance 0 1 Discontinued operations 5 63 Total 400 401 Impairment and the result effects of scrapping are included in Other operating expenses. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 NOTE 7. INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Patents, licenses & Customer Development Group Goodwill Trademarks similar rights Know-how relations costs Reach Other 1) Total SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Acquisition value Opening balance 2,264 2,484 1,184 1,363 16 207 1,219 1,216 808 1,554 234 229 57 65 93 312 5,875 7,430 Investments – – – – – – – – 20 – 25 5 15 6 34 35 94 46 Acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0 Divestment of subsidiary -13 – – – – -6 – – -13 -488 – – -1 -4 -17 -2 -44 -500 Divestments and disposals – – – – – – – – – 2 – – – – – – – 2 Reclassifications – -2 – – 6 -6 – – – – 54 – 1 – -54 -5 7 -13 Translation effects 43 79 – – – – 1 3 23 30 – – 1 – 17 5 85 117 Assets held for sale – -297 – -179 – -179 – – – -290 – – – -10 – -252 – -1,207 Closing balance 2,294 2,264 1,184 1,184 22 16 1,220 1,219 838 808 313 234 73 57 73 93 6,017 5,875 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance 0 0 -5 -94 -13 -139 -541 -500 -338 –911 -98 -73 -15 -14 -7 -252 -1,017 -1,983 Depreciation – – -1 -9 -2 -13 -39 -39 -54 -73 -30 -25 -3 -3 -1 -1 -130 -163 Divestment of subsidiary – – 1 – 1 2 – – 15 359 – – – – 16 – 33 361 Divestments and disposals – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0 Reclassifications – – – – -6 6 – – – 14 – – -1 – – – -7 20 Translation effects – – – – – 1 -1 -2 -17 -15 – – – – -16 -6 -34 -22 Assets held for sale – – – 98 – 130 – – – 288 – – – 2 – 252 – 770 Closing balance 0 0 -5 -5 -20 -13 -581 -541 -394 -338 -128 -98 -19 -15 -8 -7 -1,155 -1,017 Write-downs Opening balance -462 -462 0 0 0 -4 -14 -13 0 -130 0 0 -1 -1 0 -2 -477 -612 Write-downs during the year – – – – – – – – – – -3 – – – – – -3 0 Divestment of subsidiary – – – – – – – – – 130 – – – – – 2 – 132 Divestments and disposals – – – – – 4 – – – – – – – – – – – 4 Reclassification – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0 Translation effects – – – – – – – -1 – – – – – – – – – -1 NOTES Closing balance -462 -462 0 0 0 0 -14 -14 0 0 -3 0 -1 -1 0 0 -480 -477 Closing book value 1,832 1,802 1,179 1,179 2 3 625 664 444 470 182 136 53 41 65 86 4,382 4,381 1) Other intangible assets refer to tenancy rights, development costs, advance payments for intangible assets and non-​compete agreements in connection with acquisitions. Depreciation per function 2019 2018 Assets not depreciated – goodwill & trademarks from acquisition Goodwill and the trademarks assigned a value in connection with the acquisition Cost of goods sold 55 53 allocation following the acquisition of the Group at the end of 2005 (Perstorp) Selling Cost 56 51 have been adjudged to have an unlimited life. A summary of the allocation per R&D cash-​generating unit, for goodwill and trademarks, is presented below. 0 0 Administration 16 12 Continuing operations 127 116 Discontinued operations 4 47 2019 (SEK m) Goodwill Trademarks Total Total 131 163 Specialty Polyols & Solutions 762 495 1,257 Advanced Chemicals 858 568 1,426 Animal Nutrition 212 116 328 Know-​how and customer relations are depreciated linearly. The remaining average life length is 16 (17) and 13 (13) years respectively. For further details concerning Total 1,832 1,179 3,011 accounting principles for intangible assets, see note 2.6. Impairment testing Goodwill and other assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications of a decline in value. This testing is based on defined cash-​ 2018 (SEK m) Goodwill Trademarks Total generating units (CGU). During the first quarter 2019, Perstorp announced a new Polyols 737 495 1,232 organization with three new Business Areas, which also are defined as CGU:s, Specialty Polyols & Solutions, Advanced Chemicals and Animal Nutrition. Oxo 854 568 1,422 Allocation of Goodwill & Operating capital to the CGU’s have been performed Food & Feed 211 116 327 based on relative values and original PPA. The recoverable amount has been de­ Continuing operations 1,802 1,179 2,981 termined on the basis of calculations of value in use. These calculations are based on internal budget and strategic plan over the next five years. The assessments of Assets held for sale 297 81 378 management are based on both historical experience and current information Total 2,099 1,260 3,359 relating to the market trend. Following the forecast period, the cash flows were extrapolated using an assumed rate of growth of 2% (2). When calculating the present value of future cash flows for the total group, a weighted average cost of PARENT COMPANY capital (WACC) of 9.7% (10.5) after tax was applied to CGU Specialty Polyols & Other Solutions and Advanced Chemicals, while 10.5% (11.0) after tax was applied to CGU Animal Nutrition. Acquisition value 2019 2018 The impairment test supports the book values . Opening balance 1 2 A sensitivity analysis shows that an increase in the WACC with 1 % after tax, Investments – – wouldn’t lead to a need for impairment for any of the cash-​generating units. Depreciation 0 -1 Closing balance 1 1 62 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 8. LEASING NOTE 9. NET SALES OPENING BALANCE SHEET IMPACT OF IFRS16 SEK m Group SEK m IFRS16 adjustments Net sales by type of income 2019 2018 Right-of-use assets 101 Goods 11,470 12,289 Deferred tax assets 2 Services 171 147 Lease liabilities 110 Total continuing operations 11,641 12,436 Equity -7 Discontinued operations 113 2,446 Total 11,754 14,882 The difference between Perstorp future minimum leasing fees under operating lease agreements in accordance with IAS 17 and the lease liability which was recognized as of January 1, 2019, in accordance with IFRS 16 was as follows : SEK m Group Net sales by geographic region 2019 2018 SEK m Movement EU and rest of Europe 6,061 6,754 Minimum lease payments for operating leases, IAS17 80 North and South America 2,852 2,805 Discontinued operations reassessed as lease contracts 15 Asia 2,548 2,662 Continuing operations reassessed as lease contracts 35 Africa 159 188 Low value leases and short term leases recognized as expenses -10 Oceania 21 27 Other changes -10 Total continuing operations 11,641 12,436 Lease liabilities recognized at January 1, 2019 110 Discontinued operations 113 2,446 RIGHT-OF-USE-ASSETS Total 11,754 14,882 GROUP MachiThe Parent Company did not report any net external sales in 2019 or 2018. Acquisition Buildings Vehicles nery Other Total Adjusted opening balance due to IFRS16, 1 January 2019 42 19 23 17 101 NOTE 10. BREAKDOWN OF COSTS Additions 11 11 30 2 54 SEK m Group Discontinued Costs divided by type 2019 2018 operation 0 -1 0 -15 -16 Raw materials, goods for sale, energy, -8,829 -7,483 Terminations -1 -3 0 0 -4 transport and packaging costs -8,194 -8,829 Translation difference 0 -1 -1 1 -1 Other external costs -643 -644 Closing balance 52 25 52 5 134 Employee remunerations (note 27) -1,307 -1,315 Accumulated Depreciation (note 6 and 7) -522 -454 depreciations Other operating income & expenses (note 11) -90 -12 Terminations 1 1 0 0 2 Earnings from participations in associated companies 4 3 Depreciations for the year -18 -9 -10 -2 -39 Total continuing operation -10,752 -11,251 Translation Discontinued operations 4,644 -2,061 differences -1 0 0 1 0 Total -6,108 -13,312 Closing balance -18 -8 -10 -1 -37 Net carrying value 34 17 42 4 97 NOTE 11. OTHER OPERATING INCOME & COSTS AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT Group Parent company Group 2019 SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciations for the year -39 Insurance remuneration 5 20 – – Interest expenses related to lease liabilities -8 Operations-related Expenses for low value assets -18 exchange rate differences 4 26 – – Expenses for short-term leases -5 Restructuring costs -60 -34 -1 – Total amounts recognized in income statement -70 Write downs, disposal Total cashflow for leases during the year -70 (note 6,7) -16 -57 – – Other -23 33 -15 -28 LEASE LIABILITIES BY MATURITY Total continuing Group 2019 operations -90 -12 -16 -28 Due: Discontinued operations 4,672 -104 – – 0-1 year 53 1-2 year Total 4,582 -116 -16 -28 26 2-5 year 28 >5 years 0 Total 107 NOTE 12. EARNINGS FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED OPERATING LEASES WITH PERSTORP AS LESSEE ACCORDING TO IAS17 COMPANIES & JOINT VENTURES Future mimimum leasing fees 2018 Due: SEK m 2019 2018 Year 1 31 PetroPort Holding AB, Sweden 4 3 Year 2-5 42 Total 4 3 Year 64 Total continuing operations 77 The companies´sales amounted to a total of SEK 83 (84) m in 2019 and earnings Discontinued operations 3 after tax was SEK 8 (7) m. Total 80 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 NOTE 13. PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED NOTE 16. NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS COMPANIES & JOINT VENTURES Book value Book value Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Share of Group’s SEK m 2019 2018 capital/ share of voting shareholders’ Book value, Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co., Ltd, China 129 127 SEK m rights, % equity Group Elogio AM B.V. – 1 PetroPort Holding AB, Sweden 50/50 75 75 Total 129 128 Total 75 75 SEK m 2019 2018 SEK m 2019 2018 Opening book value 128 144 Opening book value 72 68 Translation effects 1 7 Earnings from participations 4 3 Change in the period 26 39 Rounding -1 1 Contribution from non controlling interests – 2 Closing book value 75 72 Dividend -25 -64 Divestment of non controlling interest -1 – The assets of associated companies amounted to SEK 265 (271) m at the end of Closing book value 129 128 2019 and liabilities amounted to SEK 115 (127) m. Perstorp´s share in Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co.,Ltd at the end of the year is 68.3 (68.3) %. Perstorp´s share in Elogio AM BV at the end of the year is 0 (51) %. NOTE 14. OTHER PARTICIPATIONS Group Parent company NOTE 17. OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES Book value Book value Book value Book value Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK m 2019 2018 Opening book value 208 247 206 247 Interest-bearing long-term receivables New shares 2 3 – – Other receivables 1 1 Sale of shares -5 – – – Total 1 1 NOTES Revaluation -57 -42 -58 -41 Interest-free long-term receivables Closing book value 148 208 148 206 Other receivables 2 3 Other participations consists of Parent Company shareholding in Vencorex Total 2 3 Holding France SAS 9.2 (9.2) %. In 2019 the holdings in Adesso BioProducts AB were divested. NOTE 15. NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS’ SHARE IN NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR SEK m 2019 2018 Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co., Ltd, China 26 40 Elogio AM B.V. 0 -1 Total 26 39 64 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 18. PARENT COMPANY SHARES IN GROUP COMPANIES 2019 2018 2019 2018 Registered Holding, Holding, Book Book Direct holdings in Group companies Corp. Reg. number head office % % value value Perstorp Financial Services AB 556762-4563 Perstorp, Sweden 100 100 7,712 7,712 Perstorp Services AB 559036-9574 Perstorp, Sweden Perstorp AB 556024-6513 Perstorp, Sweden Perstorp Quimica do Brasil Ltda NIRE 35.218.522.982 Brazil Perstorp Sales France SA 442650768 R.C.S. Nanterre France Perstorp SpA 171 467 Italy Perstorp Japan Co Ltd 9-0100-0105-3962 Japan Perstorp (Shanghai) Chemical Trading Co.,Ltd 91310000681008322R China Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemical Co. Ltd 782323786 China Perstorp Chemicals Asia PTE Ltd 199905508W Singapore Perstorp Iberica SL B65592503 Spain Perstorp UK Ltd 1) 02715398 UK Elogio AM B.V. 1) 72069813 Netherlands Perstorp Services UK Ltd 11632438 UK Perstorp Fastighets AB 556571-3798 Sweden Perstorp Oxo AB 556041-0895 Sweden Perstorp Formulas AB 559178-6297 Sweden Perstorp Specialty Chemicals AB 556247-6290 Sweden Perstorp Specialty Fluids AB 559160-9309 Sweden Perstorp Holding (U.S.) Inc. 26-3020217, Delaware USA Perstorp Polyols Inc. 34-1386676, Delaware USA Perstorp Industries India Private Ltd U24299MH2017FTC294152 India Perstorp Equipment S.r.l. 4320860168 Italy Driveadd GmbH HRB 148860, Hamburg Germany Perstorp Holding B.V. 34089250 s-Hertogenbosch, Netherlands Perstorp Specialty Chemicals BV 23091252 Netherlands Perstorp Specialty Chemicals Holding BV 23092336 Netherlands Perstorp Waspik BV 18116759 Netherlands Perstorp Chemicals India Private Ltd 04-32032 India Perstorp Chemicals Korea Co. Ltd 230111-0095660 South Korea Perstorp Holding GmbH HRB 7465, Arnsberg Arnsberg, Germany 6% 6% 19 19 Perstorp Chemicals GmbH HRB 1900, Arnsberg Germany Perstorp Service GmbH HRB 6542, Arnsberg Germany Total book value in Parent Company 7,731 7,731 1) Company was sold during 2019. All companies are wholly-​owned by the Group except for Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemical Co. Ltd, for which the ownership is 68.3 (68,3) % and for Elogio AM B.V. for which the ownership is 0 (51) %. SEK m 2019 2018 Opening book value 7,731 7,731 Reversal write down shares in group companies – – Closing book value 7,731 7,731 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 NOTE 19. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE & OTHER NOTE 20. CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS OPERATING RECEIVABLES Group Parent company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Accounts receivable, gross SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 690 873 Bad debt provision Unrestricted cash 317 357 – – -9 -10 Accounts receivable, net Restricted cash 1) 136 208 – 23 681 863 Total 453 565 – 23 Other operating receivables Value added tax Cash in Perstorp accounts in countries where international movement of funds 1)  50 46 are restricted and cash held in escrowed accounts as collateral for different Emissions credits 58 30 business activities. Receivables from suppliers 26 24 Other current receivables 95 76 Prepaid insurance premiums 10 10 Other prepaid costs and deferred income 101 102 NOTE 21. INVENTORIES Total other operating receivables 340 288 SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 The parent company other recievables totaling SEK 15 (10) m, and accounts Raw material and consumables 489 490 receivables amounting to SEK 0 (0). Products in progress 25 24 Finished goods and goods for resale 910 1,097 Analysis of accounts receivable Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Work in progress on behalf of others 4 6 Not due 617 824 Advance payment to suppliers 18 8 Impairment reserve -6 -5 Due: Total 1,440 1,620 1-10 days 38 29 11-30 days 22 17 SEK m 2019 2018 31-60 days 7 10 Impairment reserve opening balance 5 15 61-90 days 3 0 Provision utilized during the year -4 –4 91-180 days -2 2 Allocation for the year 5 2 180 days or more 5 -9 Translation effects 0 – Accounts receivable, gross 690 873 Assets held for sale – -8 Impairment reserve closing balance 6 5 Reservation for bad debts -9 -10 NOTES Accounts receivable, net 681 863 Of the total value of inventories, SEK 0 (16) m is assesed at net sales value. Proportion of accounts receivable due 10.6% 5.6% During the assessment of net sales price, impairment that affects earnings (Cost of goods sold) amounts to SEK 0 (2) m. The net value of the year´s allocations/ Proportion of accounts receivable due provisions utilized during the year affects earnings for the year. over 60 days 0.9% -0.8% Reservation in relation to total accounts receivable 1.3% 1.1% For more details about the credit risk in outstanding receivable, and effect of applying the expected credit losses model following the adoption of IFRS 9, see the section on Counterparty risk in note 3.1. Perstorp has an off-​balance, non recourse, long-​term trade receivables program. Trade receivables, for which substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred are de-​recognized and excluded from the reported figures. This program includes the legal entities in Sweden, Germany and US. Allocation for bad debts 2019 2018 Allocation, opening balance -10 -9 Recovered predicted customer losses – 1 Established customer losses 0 3 Reservation for predicted customer losses -1 –5 Exchange rate effects and other 2 0 Allocations at year-end -9 -10 66 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 22. BORROWINGS & FINANCIAL COSTS A. SPECIFICATION NET DEBT Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Senior secured notes/loans 1) 8,892 6,885 8,892 6,885 Second lien secured notes/loans – 3,768 – 3,768 Mezzanine loans – 2,936 – 2,936 Revolving credit facility 100 200 100 – Inter-company financial liabilities – – 1,350 1,224 Other financial liabilities -106 -124 -120 -141 Financial liabilities, excl.pension liabilities and lease liabilities 8,886 13,665 10,222 14,672 Interest-bearing pension liabilities, net 467 403 – – Lease liabilities 100 – – – Total interest-bearing debt 9,453 14,068 10,222 14,672 Cash and cash equivalents -453 -565 0 -23 Inter-company financial receivables – – -5,627 -11,525 Other interest-bearing receivables, longand short-term -7 2 – – Interest-bearing assets -460 -563 -5,627 -11,548 Net debt including pension liabilities and lease liabilities 8,993 13,505 4,595 3,124 1) Senior secured loans recorded at a discount at the time of issuance. The difference between the issue price and par value amounts to -120 (-68) million by the closing date and recognized over the vesting period. This item is included in other financial liabilities. The Net debt includes secured loans (secured notes and other borrowing against collateral). See note 29 for further information. B. MATURITY STRUCTURE Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Between 1 and 2 years 36 – 36 – Between 2 and 3 years 36 11,079 36 10,879 Between 3 and 4 years 36 2,569 36 2,569 Between 4 and 5 years 36 – 36 – More than 5 years 8,692 – 8,692 – Long-term borrowing, excl.pension liabilities and lease liabilities 8,836 13,648 8,836 13,448 Short-term borrowing, 0-1 year 50 17 36 – Inter-company financial liabilities – – 1,350 1,224 Financial liabilities, excl.pension liabilities and lease liabilities 8,886 13,665 10,222 14,672 The related financing agreements include quarterly key indicator (covenant) linked to net debt in relation to EBITDA. The key indicator has not been breached. C. CURRENCY COMPOSITION, INTEREST RATES & DURATION Average interest rate on Actual balance sheet duration Local currency SEK m date, % days SEK 100 100 3.0% 2,067 EUR 503 5,249 4.8% 2,251 USD 378 3,523 6.9% 2,251 Other currencies – 14 5.0% 17 Financial liabilities, excl.pension liabilities and lease liabilities 8,886 5.6% PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 D. UNUTILIZED CREDITS Available funds at the end of the year amount to SEK 1,248 m (1,120) where the Group’s available credit limits amounts to SEK 931m (763). E. FINANCIAL INCOME & COSTS Group Parent Company SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income 5 9 – – Interest income from discontinued operations 13 128 – – Interest income, Group companies – – 603 741 Total financial income 18 137 603 741 Notes and loans -841 -1,330 -830 -1,314 Loans from Parent Company – -2 – -2 Periodised borrowing costs -235 -75 -235 -75 Pension costs, interest -8 -8 – – Leasing, interest -8 – – – Currency gains and losses from financing measures, net -204 -462 -196 -431 Interest costs, against discontinued operations – -3 – – Interest costs, group companies – – -114 -97 Trade receivables financing cost -47 -60 – – Other financial costs -610 -67 -587 -60 Total financial costs -1,953 -2,007 -1,962 -1,979 Net financial items continuing operations -1,935 -1,870 -1,359 -1,238 Discontinued operations -2 -180 – – Total -1,937 -2,050 -1,359 -1,238 F. MARKET VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Interest terms for the external loans are based on an underlying official market rate plus an interest margin. The market value for forward currency contracts was calculated using the rates on the closing date. All outstanding financial derivative instruments were held for hedging purposes. All recognized derivatives are classified under level 2 of the NOTES value hierarchy. The reported amount, after possible impairment, for accounts receivable and accounts payable, is expected to correspond to the fair value because these are current items. Internal loans are subject to customary restrictions under debt agreements. NOTE 23. PENSION OBLIGATION & COSTS The group has both defined-contribution and defined-​benefit pension plans. B. PENSION COSTS, DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS During the year costs for these plans, including Discontinued operations had an accumulative effect on earnings of SEK 262 (267) m, of which SEK 235 (238) m is attributable to defined-​contribution plans and SEK 27 (29) m to defined-​benefit SEK m 2019 2018 plans. Pension costs attributable to non comparable items of SEK 12 (25) are State pension plans 78 77 included in the accumulated amount. The distribution of costs in the income Other defined-contribution pension plans 88 79 statement are as follows: ITP, insured through Alecta 68 70 A. PENSION COSTS IN THE INCOME STATEMENT Continuing operations 234 226 Discontinued operations 1 12 SEK m 2019 2018 Total 235 238 Cost of sold goods 129 133 Sales and marketing costs 27 28 Most of the Group’s Swedish companies have secured their obligations for old-​ Administrative costs 72 50 age and family pensions via pension insurance with Alecta. In accordance with a statement by the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council, UFR3, this Research and development costs 16 14 is a defined-​benefit plan that covers several employers. For the 2019 and 2018 Non comparable items 12 25 financial years the Group did not have access to information that enabled it to report this plan as a defined-​benefit pension plan, so it is therefore reported as a Net financial items 5 4 defined-​contribution pension plan. The surplus at Alecta may be divided between Continuing operations 261 254 the plan provider or the insured. At year-​end 2019, Alecta’s surplus in the form Discontinued operations 1 13 of its collective funding ratio amounted to 148 % (142). The collective funding ratio equals the market value of Alecta’s assets, in percentage of the insurance Total 262 267 obligations as computed in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions; this does not comply with IAS 19. Defined-contribution pension plans There are defined-​contribution pen­sion plans in most of the coun­tries in which Defined-benefit pension plans the Group is ac­tive. In the Swedish units, these main­ly con­sist of state pen­sion There are defined-​benefit pension plans in most of the companies and countries con­tri­bu­tions and ne­go­ti­at­ed pen­sions for blue-​collar work­ers. In the Unit­ed in which the Group is active. The main provisions for defined benefit pension States, such plans are called 401K and in Ger­many they are called Staatliche Rente plans pertain to the Pension Registration Institute (PRI) and Pensionszulage und Pen­sion­skasse, etc. The costs that are cap­it­ al­ized dur­ing the year at­trib­ut­able (Germany), pension plans for employees in certain currently divested units and to defined-​contribution pen­sions plans can be clas­si­fied as fol­lows: specific pension insurance plans for senior executives in various countries. In the table below, the defined-​benefit pension obligations are specified, divided into funded and unfunded pension plans. 68 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 C. PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS, DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Commitments are divided Unfunded pension plans as follows by region: Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Defined-benefit obligations 185 155 Sweden 302 247 Continuing operations 185 155 Germany 178 148 Other EU 5 5 Funded or partly funded pension plans USA -21 0 Defined-benefit obligations 710 588 Other countries 3 3 Salary taxes 31 21 Net liability concerning defined-benefit Fair value of plan assets -459 -361 pension plans 467 403 Total 282 248 Net Value 467 403 The plan assets presented here relate primarily to Group companies in the US, 99% (99), of which 77% (70) are invested in debt securities and 20% (27) in equity securities. The expected return is assumed to be 4.0% (3.5), which is based on historic returns. The actual return on plan assets in 2019 was SEK 69 (34) m. In addition to the above, so-​called direct pensions are included under assets with SEK 151 (110) m and liabilities with SEK 188 (136) m including salary tax. The asset is capital insurance, with assets and liabilities reported separately at gross amounts. Healthcare insurance is not included in pension commitments. Development during the year for the Group’s commitments, plan assets and unrecognized actuarial profit/loss is presented below: D. CHANGES DURING THE YEAR IN COMMITMENTS, PLAN ASSETS, UNREALIZED ACTUARIAL GAINS & LOSSES & PAST SERVICE COSTS 2019 2018 Defined-benefit Defined-benefit Defined-benefit Defined-benefit plans, unfunded plans, funded Plan plans, unfunded plans, funded Plan SEK m plans or partly funded assets plans or partly funded assets Opening balance 155 609 -361 152 641 -375 Costs for current year service 3 15 – 4 17 – Expected return on plan assets – – -69 – – 24 Interest expense 3 21 -16 3 20 -14 Settlement payments – – – – -51 50 Fees from employer – -7 -10 – -6 -26 Disbursement -5 -10 9 -5 -15 12 Actuarial profit/loss 27 90 0 -5 -13 0 Divestment – – – – -21 – Translation effects 2 23 -12 6 37 -32 Closing balance 185 741 -459 155 609 -361 E. NET PENSION PROVISIONS, CHANGES DURING THE YEAR G. KEY ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS SEK m 2019 2018 SEK m 2019 2018 Opening balance 403 418 Discount rate, % 2.1 2.2 Pension costs during the year 27 29 Future salary increases, % 2.7 3.0 Disbursements during the year -23 -40 Anticipated return on plan assets, % 3.1 3.8 Gains/losses from change in assumptions 58 6 Anticipated average remaining Divestment – -21 employment term, year 11.5 13.9 Translation effects 2 11 Closing balance, provision for pensions, net 467 403 The principal actuarial assumptions, weighted in accordance with closing amounts for the various pension obligation/plan assessed, are specified in the Amounts reported in the income statement are as follows concerning defined table above: benefit pension plans: H. PARENT COMPANY F. PENSION COSTS, DEFINED-BENEFIT PLANS The par­ent com­pa­ny re­ports a pen­sion ex­pense of SEK 44 (42) m, which is sole­ly SEK m 2019 2018 based on defined-​contribution plans as there were no benefit-​based pen­sion plans at the end of the two most re­cent fi­nan­cial years. For clas­si­fi­ca­tion rea­sons, the Costs for current year service 19 21 en­tire amount is re­port­ed as ad­min­is­tra­tion costs in the in­come state­ment, with Interest expense 8 8 the ex­cep­tion of SEK 8 (19) m of the cost at­trib­ut­able to non-​recurring items Gains/losses on a curtailment or settlement 0 0 which is in­clud­ed in Other in­come and ex­pens­es. Total pension costs, defined-benefit plans 27 29 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 NOTE 24. CURRENT & DEFERRED INCOME TAXES A. INCOME TAXES IN THE INCOME STATEMENT Group Parent Company SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax -106 -41 – – Deferred tax -128 745 94 84 Total -234 704 94 84 Whereof discontinuing operations -12 -26 – – The tax on pretax earnings differs as follows from the theoretical amount that would have arisen from applying a weighted average tax rate for the earnings in the consolidated companies: Tax costs Group Parent Company SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pretax earnings 3,709 -480 -1,448 3,993 Tax computed on basis of national tax rates applying in each particular country -802 97 310 –878 Non-taxable revenues 963 26 0 242 Non-tax-deductible costs -270 -120 -241 -27 Re-measurement of deferred tax – -31 – – Tax loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax asset has been recognized – 787 – 752 Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset has been recognized -94 -52 – – Tax not related to current year’s profit/loss -22 0 28 – Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax -8 2 -3 -5 Other tax expenses -1 -5 – – Tax cost -234 704 94 84 The effective tax rate for 2019 is estimated to be 21.6% (20.2). NOTES B. DEFERRED TAX, NET CHANGE Group Parent Company SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance, net deferred tax liability 185 -576 84 – Change in accounting method (IFRS 16) 2 – – – Divestment – 9 – – Acquisition – – – – Exchange-rate differences -5 -7 – – Assets/Liabilites held for sale – 15 – – Tax recognized in the income statement, Continuing operations -120 745 94 84 Tax recognized in shareholders’ equity 15 -1 – – Closing balance 77 185 178 84 C. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS, SPECIFICATION Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Loss carry-forward 669 818 150 84 Provisions 98 50 28 – Other receivables 19 27 – – Total 786 895 178 84 70 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 D. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY, SPECIFICATION Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Tangible ﬁxed assets 170 182 – – Intangible ﬁxed assets 488 504 – – Other receivable 51 24 – – Total 709 710 – – E. TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS Effects of changed tax rules in Sweden The pro­pos­al for new tax rules in Swe­den was adopt­ed on the 14th of June 2018. The value of unuti­lized tax loss carry-​forwards is cap­it­ al­ized in cases where it is The new rules has entered into force from the 1st of Jan­u­ary 2019. The areas that ex­pect­ed that the carry-​forwards will be uti­lized in the fore­see­able fu­ture. Tax loss af­fects the ac­count­ing and re­port­ing in this re­port are the change in the cor­po­rate carry-​forwards main­ly re­lates to the groups sub­sidiary in Swe­den, Hol­land and tax rate and the gen­er­al in­ter­est rate de­duc­tion rules. A change in the tax rate Ger­many. In ad­di­tion, there are unuti­lized tax loss carry-​forwards to­tal­ing SEK af­fects the val­u­a­tion of de­ferred tax as­sets and de­ferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties, while the 666 (311) m that have not been as­signed any value, since it is con­sid­ered that interest-​rate lim­i­ta­tion rules can have an ef­fect on the com­pa­nies’ abil­i­ty to re­port these will not be uti­lized in the fore­seable fu­ture. de­ferred tax as­sets re­lat­ed to tax loss­es carry for­ward. NOTE 25. OTHER LIABILITIES, PROVISIONS Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Provision for environmental measures 47 30 – – Other provisons 34 35 – – Other liabilities, provisions 81 65 – – NOTE 26. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE & OTHER OPERATING LIABILITIES Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Accounts payable 768 968 10 13 Other operating liabilities Value added tax 42 7 1 – Advance payments 1 3 – – Payroll tax 28 26 2 2 Other operating liabilities 163 188 3 19 Accrued wages, salaries and social security costs 188 200 25 25 Allocation for restructuring costs 23 7 1 – Other accrued costs and prepaid income 600 642 9 5 Total 1,045 1,073 41 51 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 NOTE 27. EMPLOYEES & WAGES, SALARIES & OTHER REMUNERATION AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WAGES, SALARIES & OTHER REMUNERATION, BY COUNTRY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total of which Total of which Board and Other Board and Other Country employees men employees men SEK m CEO employees CEO employees Sweden Sweden Parent company 33 16 31 15 Parent company 13 34 18 33 Subsidiaries 814 541 851 580 Subsidiaries 3 497 5 516 Belgium 1 1 1 1 Belgium 0 1 0 1 France 3 2 3 2 France 0 3 0 3 Italy 28 21 31 23 Italy 0 16 0 45 The Netherlands 46 37 40 32 The Netherlands 0 29 0 32 Spain 3 3 3 2 Spain 0 5 0 4 Poland 3 2 2 1 Poland 0 2 0 2 UK 10 8 88 76 UK 1 18 3 50 Slovakia 1 1 0 0 Ireland 0 1 0 1 Ireland 1 1 1 1 Germany 0 91 0 84 Germany 119 105 122 108 Total EU 17 697 26 771 Total EU 1,062 738 1,173 841 Turkey 0 2 0 2 Turkey 4 1 3 0 Norway 0 0 0 11 Norway – – 17 15 Russia 0 0 0 1 Russia – – 4 2 Total non-EU Europe 0 2 0 14 Total non-EU Europe 4 1 24 17 Brazil 0 4 0 4 Brazil 9 5 11 5 Argentina 0 2 0 1 Argentina 1 1 1 1 USA 0 111 0 100 Mexico – – Total North & South USA 115 99 122 106 America 0 117 0 105 NOTES Total North & South America 125 105 134 112 India 1 5 2 4 Japan 0 7 0 6 India 29 19 24 17 China 0 33 0 32 Japan 8 2 10 3 Singapore 0 8 0 5 China 148 104 145 100 Dubai 0 3 0 3 Singapore 8 3 7 1 South Korea 2 2 1 3 Dubai 1 0 3 1 Total Asia 3 58 3 53 Taiwan 3 1 0 0 Total 20 874 29 943 South Korea 5 2 6 3 of which discontinued Total Asia 202 131 195 125 operations 1 15 5 62 Total average no. of employees 1,393 975 1,526 1,095 of which discontinued operations 7 6 108 92 Proportion of men,% 70.0 71.8 REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES Group Parent Company 1) Of which discontinued operations SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Salaries and other remuneration 894 972 47 51 16 67 Pension – defined contribution (note 23) 235 238 44 42 1 13 Pension – defined-benefit (note 23) 27 29 0 0 0 0 Social fees 170 170 10 11 1 9 Total 1,326 1,409 101 104 18 89 1) Cost reported in accordance with IFRS. 72 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 REMUNERATION TO THE GROUP’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS & MANAGEMENT Bonus & other Pension SEK thousands Board fee Salary remuneration costs 1) Total Chairman of the Board 950 – – 121 1,071 Other Members of the Board 2,040 – – 244 2,284 President – 9,121 584 19,362 29,067 Other members of Group management – 23,671 1,959 12,303 37,933 Total 2,990 32,792 2,543 32,030 70,355 1) All pension costs refer to defined-contribution plans. Other members of group management comprised of 8 (7) persons during the year. Principles Mem­bers of the Board re­ceive di­rec­tor fees in ac­cor­dance with res­o­lu­tions passed at the An­nu­al Gen­er­al Meet­ing. Em­ploy­ee rep­re­sen­ta­tives do not re­ceive di­rec­tor fees. Re­mu­ner­a­tion to the Pres­i­dent and other mem­bers of Group man­age­ment com­pris­es basic salary, vari­able re­mu­ner­a­tion, com­pa­ny car and pen­sions. The Pres­i­dent is also en­ti­tled to a bonus cor­re­spond­ing to a max­im ­ um of 225 % of his ﬁxed salary. Other mem­bers of Group man­age­ment are cov­ered by a bonus sys­tem that pro­vides a max­i­mum of 75% (75) of their basic salary. The vari­able re­mu­ner­a­tion is based on the Group’s earn­ings trend and cash ﬂow. In ad­di­tion, bonus­es can be paid out on the ful­fill­ment of cer­tain strate­gic projects, after ap­proval from the Re­mu­ner­a­tion Com­mit­tee. Pension & employment termination A de­fined con­tri­bu­tion (DC) pen­sion plan, in ad­di­tion to the tra­di­tion­al Swedish ITP pen­sion, has been taken out for the Pres­i­dent cor­re­spond­ing to 15% of his basic salary. In ad­di­tion, a more ben­e­fi­cial ITP pen­sion plan has been signed with pre­mi­ums equiv­a­lent to 10% of basic salary in the range of 20-30 times the basic in­sur­ance amount and 25% of basic salary above 30 times the basic in­sur­ance amount. Ac­cord­ing to a spe­cial un­der­tak­ing, the em­ploy­ment con­tract can be ter­mi­ nat­ed by both the com­pa­ny and the Pres­i­dent as of age 60. The pe­ri­od of em­ploy­ ment ter­mi­na­tion no­tice is 18 months if no­tice is served by the com­pa­ny and six months if it is served by the Pres­id ­ ent. If the com­pa­ny ter­mi­nates the Pres­i­dent’s em­ploy­ment, the Pres­i­dent will also re­ceive sev­er­ance pay cor­re­spond­ing to 18 month­ly salaries. If or­ga­ni­za­tion­al changes or other changes ini­ti­at­ed by the own­ers re­sults in sig­nif­i­cant lim­i­ta­tions on the Pres­i­dent’s re­spon­si­bil­i­ty or au­thor­i­ty, the Pres­i­dent is en­ti­tled under cer­tain cir­cum­stances to ter­mi­nate his em­ploy­ment and be sub­ject to the same em­ploy­ment ter­mi­na­tion terms as those that would have ap­plied if the com­pa­ny had ter­mi­nat­ed his em­ploy­ment. Other mem­bers of Group Man­age­ment are cov­ered by an agree­ment re­gard­ing DC pen­sion plan, the aim of which is to en­able the ex­ec­u­tives con­cerned to re­tire at age 60. The pe­ri­od of employment-​termination no­tice for other mem­bers of Group Man­age­ment is six months. If the com­pa­ny ter­mi­nates the em­ploy­ment of a mem­ber of Group Man­age­ment, the sum total of salary dur­ing the pe­ri­od of no­tice, sev­er­ance pay and cor­re­spond­ing beneﬁts will be paid for 12 months. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 NOTE 28. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Guarantees 264 206 264 206 Guarantees and other contingent liabilities for subsidiaries 12 33 258 379 Total 276 239 522 585 These contingent liabilities are not expected to result in any material liabilities. NOTE 29. ASSETS PLEDGED Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Property mortgages 59 1,593 – – Chattel mortgages 566 1,514 – – Shares in subsidiaries 5,436 1) 0 1) 7,731 7,731 Other participations – 206 – 206 Liquid funds 0 23 – 23 Internal financial assets (loan) – – 5,503 7,154 Investments, receivables, inventories – 523 – – Endowment insurances 151 106 148 104 Total 6,212 3,965 13,382 15,218 1) Net assets for Perstorp Financial Services AB, including it´s subsidiaries. Endowment insurance relates to pension commitments, see note 23. NOTES NOTE 30. FUTURE UNDERTAKINGS At the end of the year the Group had no material undertakings that had not been included in the accounts. NOTE 31. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Perstorp Holding AB is 100 % owned by the Luxembourg-​based Financière Forêt participate, with contributions amounting to around EUR 5 million. Shares and S.à r.l., which is controlled by the private equity company PAI partners. options were priced on normal commercial terms. Within the framework of an incentive program, PAI partners offered senior The receivables and liabilities in relation to associated companies are reported Group executives an opportunity to become shareholders in the Parent Company in the balance sheet. Remuneration to the Group’s Board of Directors and Financière Forêt S.à r.l. and a total of around 50 manager and others key personnel Management is reported in Note 27. NOTE 32. PROPORTION OF BOARD MEMBERS & SENIOR EXECUTIVES WHO ARE WOMEN 2019 2018 of whom, of whom, Total women % Total women % Board members 105 16 15% 114 11 10% Other senior executives 103 24 23% 104 25 24% The numbers excludes the divested units BioProducts and Perstorp UK. The Board members category comprises ordinary members of the boards of all companies within the Group. The same person may be counted several times if he or she is a member of the board of more than one company. The other senior executives category comprises the Group´s executive management team, management teams within each business area and department, and the management teams of the major companies. 74 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Details of sale of subsidiaries SEK m 2019 2018 NOTE 33. AUDITORS' FEES Discontinued operations Group Parent Company Net proceeds 6,037 47 SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Carrying amount of net asset sold -1,334 -60 PricewaterhouseCoopers Translation differences -12 Audit assignments 5 6 1 2 Capital result 4,691 -13 Tax consultancy 0 1 – – Other 3 5 3 3 Cash flow SEK m 2019 2018 Total 1) 8 12 4 5 1) Of which discontinued operations – 1 – – Discontinued operations Cash flow from operating activites 34 454 Other auditing firms Cash from investing activites 6,050 -92 Audit assignments 2 1 – – Cash flow from discontinuing operations 6,084 362 Tax consultancy 2 2 – – Other 5 3 1 3 Sum 1) 9 6 2 3 SEK m 2019 2018 1) Of which discontinued operations – 1 – – Assets held for sale Audit assignments comprise verification of the annual report and accounts Tangible fixed assets – 672 and the administration of the Board and President, other assignments that are required to be performed by the company´s auditors and advice or other support Intangible fixed assets – 439 arising from observations made during verification or performance of other Deferred tax asset – 41 duties. All other work is referred to as “Other” and mainly refers to consultation Inventories – 86 on accounting activities. Accounts receivable – 54 Other operating receivables – 28 Cash and cash equivalens – 0 NOTE 34. CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES Total – 1,320 Liabilities held for sale – Year-end exchange rates Average exchange rates Deferred tax liability – 56 Currency Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Accounts payable – 65 BRL 2.298 2.316 2.400 2.391 Other operating liabilities – 66 CNY 1.333 1.307 1.369 1.314 Total – 187 EUR 10.434 10.275 10.589 10.257 GBP 12.215 11.348 12.066 11.593 INR 0.133 0.128 0.134 0.127 JPY 0.085 0.081 0.087 0.079 NOTE 36. KEY EVENTS AFTER THE END KRW 0.008 0.008 0.008 0.008 OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR NOK 1.058 1.025 1.075 1.069 SGD 6.904 6.561 6.933 6.440 After the year end 2019 but before the release of this report the spread of the virus Covid-​19 became classified as a pandemic by the World Health Organization and USD 9.317 8.971 9.460 8.692 has since resulted in restrictions and actions from regional and local authorities within the different markets Perstorp are active in. As a consequence, the management has temporarily installed a Crisis Management Organization (CMO) to safeguard the health and safety of our employees, secure business contingency and strive to minimize the recovery and restoration phase of this situation as NOTE 35. DIVESTMENT fast and agile as possible. The CMO consists of a number of workstreams who all report to a crisis management cockpit team. The cockpit reports directly, on a On December 10, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement to sell its Caprolactone daily basis, to the CEO and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) who takes deci­ business. The transaction was closed on February 13 2019, the net proceeds from the sions that are communicated clear and transparent within the organization. As transaction was approximately EUR 579 m. The capital gain amounts to SEK 4.691 m. of this date, the supply of raw material, production and delivery to the customer At year end 2018 the assets and liabilities are classified as assets and liabilities held have worked well. Due to the high uncertainty, it is still too early to estimate for sale in the balance sheet. In the income statement this is classified as discontinued the financial impacts on Perstorp from Covid-​19. In order to be prepared for a operations. slowdown in demand during the remainder of 2020, a number of mitigating In November 2018, Perstorp announced and completed the divestment of its actions have been initiated where the focus has been to secure a strong liquidity BioProduct business in order to streamline the portfolio. The BioProduct business was position. Management are closely following and monitoring the development of concentrated to Sweden and Norway. In the income statement this is classified as Covid-​19, the health and safety of our employees and the business contingency. discontinued operations. On March 31, Moody’s announced a downgrade of Perstorp’s rating to B3 with a negative outlook. No other major events have occurred since the balance sheet date and up to SEK m 2019 2018 the publication of this report. Discontinued operations Net sales 113 2,446 Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 4,757 385 Earnings/loss before tax 4,755 205 Tax -12 -26 Net earnings/loss for the year 4,743 179 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 Key figures in summary, consolidated group Full year SEK m unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 11,754 14,882 13,592 11,305 11,149 Operating earnings before depreciations (EBITDA) 6,1931) 2,191 2,7012) 1,800 1,653 % of net sales 52.71) 14.7 19.92) 15.9 14.8 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 1,635 2,324 2,133 1,865 1,667 % of net sales 13.9 15.6 15.7 16.5 15.0 Operating earnings (EBIT) 5,6461) 1,570 1,9732) 1,206 971 % of net sales 48.01) 10.5 14.52) 10.7 8.7 Free cash flow 1,0813) 1,450 1,275 1,370 1,127 Net debt excluding parent company loan and pension liabilities 8,526 13,103 12,056 12,964 11,196 Available funds 1,248 1,120 1,220 983 934 Leverage 5.5x 5.6x 5.7x 7.0x 6.7x 1) Including capital gain of SEK 4.691 m related to the divestment of Perstorp UK Ltd. 2) Including capital gain of SEK 604 m related to the divestment of Perstorp Oxo Belgium AB. 3) Continuing operations. KEY FIGURES IN SUMMARY One molecule can change everything 76 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Perstorp, April 2, 2020 Tore Bertilsson Jan Secher Fabrice Fouletier Brendan Cummins Chairman President & Chief Executive Officer Claes Gard Karin Markides Ragnar Hellenius Gerry Ackert Jesper Fahlén Anders Magnusson (elected by employees) (elected by employees) (elected by employees) BOARD AND CEO ASSURANCE Our audit report was submitted April 3, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Michael Bengtsson Mats Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead auditor PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 Auditor’s report To the gen­er­al meet­ing of the share­hold­ers of Per­storp Hold­ing AB, cor­po­rate iden­ti­ty num­ber 556667-​4205 Report on the annual accounts In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli­ dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified and consolidated accounts above and consider whether the information is materially inconsis­ tent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this OPINIONS procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise of Perstorp Holding AB for the year 2019. The annual accounts and appears to be materially misstated. consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 1-50 If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, in this document. In the document published on the website, trans­ conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other infor­ lated to English, the annual report and the consolidated accounts mation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to are included on pages 40-77. report in this regard. In our opin­ion, the an­nu­al ac­counts have been pre­pared in ac­cor­dance with the An­nu­al Ac­counts Act and present fair­ly, in all RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S AND THE ma­te­r­i­al re­spects, the fi­nan­cial po­si­tion of par­ent com­pa­ny and the MANAGING DIRECTOR group as of 31 De­cem­ber 2019 and its fi­nan­cial per­for­mance and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible cash flow for the year then ended in ac­cor­dance with the An­nu­al for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated ac­ Ac­counts Act. The con­sol­i­dat­ed ac­counts have been pre­pared in counts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with ac­cor­dance with the An­nu­al Ac­counts Act and present fair­ly, in all the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, ma­te­r­i­al re­spects, the fi­nan­cial po­si­tion of the group as of 31 De­ in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors cem­ber 2019 and their fi­nan­cial per­for­mance and cash flow for the and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal AUDITOR´S REPORT year then ended in ac­cor­dance with In­ter­na­tion­al Fi­nan­cial Re­port­ control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation ing Stan­dards (IFRS), as adopt­ed by the EU, and the An­nu­al Ac­ of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from counts Act. The statu­to­ry ad­min­is­tra­tion re­port is con­sis­tent with material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the other parts of the an­nu­al ac­counts and con­sol­i­dat­ed ac­counts. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, We there­fore rec­om­mend that the gen­er­al meet­ing of share­ The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for hold­ers adopts the in­come state­ment and bal­ance sheet for the the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue par­ent com­pa­ny and the group. as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. BASIS FOR OPINIONS The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative Our responsibilities under those standards are further described but to do so. in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material mis­ This document also contains other information than the annual statement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 53-57. and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they The document published on the website, translated to English, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions containing the annual report and the consolidated accounts on of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoli­ pages 40-77 also contains other information on pages 1-39 and dated accounts. 80-85. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisors­ accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other inspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion This description is part of the auditor´s report. regarding this other information. 78 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Report on other legal and AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and regulatory requirements thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether OPINIONS any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated any material respect: accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of • h as undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which Director’s and the Managing Director of Perstorp Holding AB for can give rise to liability to the company, or the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the stat­ Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations utory administration report and that the members of the Board of of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, Director’s and the Managing Director be discharged from liability is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the pro­ for the financial year. posal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a BASIS FOR OPINIONS guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with the Companies Act. in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: with these requirements. www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient part of the auditor’s report. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropria­ Malmö, April 3, 2020 tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s Michael Bengtsson Mats Åkerlund type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant company’s and the group’ equity, consolidation requirements, Partner in charge liquidity and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organiza­ tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company´s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guide­ lines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 79 Sustainability This is the Perstorp Group’s statutory sustainability report for the ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY fiscal year 2019. It was prepared in accordance with the require­ Our performance on the major impacts (listed below) is relatively ments of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and has been approved flat over the last three years. Most of the change from last year can by Perstorp Group’s Board of Directors. It includes our reporting on be accounted by the divestiture of the Capa™ business. environmental issues, employee and social matters, human rights and anti-​corruption. This report covers all subsidiaries of the Perstorp Summary of Impacts 2017 2018 2019 Group, unless otherwise stated. In addition, in note 3, there is re­ Energy consumed (GWh) 2,102 2,225 2,007 porting on the Group’s most material risks, of which some are related Water withdrawn (millions m3) 24.7 26.7 24.4 to these issues. Other sustainability risks, of less material character Scope 1 GHG (kT) 383 394 395 such as those related to our daily operations are used as input into Scope 2 GHG (kT) 163 182 136 Perstorp’s systematic approach to sustainability. VOC (T) 168 173 151 Perstorp has an important role in the value chain of specialty NOx (T) 145 159 195 chemicals. Perstorp produces specialty chemicals mainly for resins and SOx (T) 9 6 7 coatings, plastic materials, animal nutrition and synthetic lubricants & Waste (kT) 21.4 25.1 22.3 engineered fluids. From research and development to a final product that is produced at one of the production sites, Perstorp supplies INVESTMENTS IN RESPONSIBLE CARE customers mainly in the coating, plastic-​processing and automotive As vol­umes and sales have in­creased over time, so have our costs industries. Perstorp’s raw materials are sourced by Perstorp’s Pro­ re­lat­ed to Re­spon­si­ble Care (RC). The cost to prop­er­ly dis­pose of curement department. Perstorp has sales representation in all major waste has also in­creased over the past few years in every coun­try markets and further support from sales agents. In this report, we where we op­er­ate. Per­storp con­tin­ues to in­vest in pro­tec­tion of the explore Perstorp’s impacts in detail, consolidated from the seven en­vi­ron­ment, our em­ploy­ees and other stake­hold­ers. “Other RC re­ production sites (operating in six countries) which were owned in lat­ed costs” in the table below in­cludes train­ing costs and cer­ti­fi­ca­ part or in total by Perstorp at the end of 2019. tion of local ex­perts, but not the salaries of em­ploy­ees ded­i­cat­ed to These sites are: Re­spon­si­ble Care. • Perstorp, Sweden SUSTAINABILITY • Stenungsund, Sweden Responsible Care (RC) Costs • Zibo, China SEK million 2017 2018 2019 • Bruchhausen, Germany Disposal hazardous waste 19 30 20 • Waspik, The Netherlands Disposal of non-hazardous waste 3 11 15 • Castellanza, Italy Disposal of waste water 29 31 27 • Toledo, United States Contaminated soil 0 0 0 RC fees paid 5 6 6 In 2019 Perstorp divested two business areas, BioProducts and RC fines paid 0 0 0 Capa™, along with their respective plants in Fredrikstad, Norway Other RC related costs 3 3 3 and Warrington, UK. The environmental data presented in this report for 2017 and 2018 has not been re-​calculated; it is the same Total RC Costs SEK million 59 82 71 data presented in last year’s report. % of net sales 0.4% 0.5% 0.6% As of January 2019, the EVP Group Communications and Sus­ tainability has a position in the Executive Leadership team and Total RC investments SEK million 40 99 69 leads our corporate change program for Sustainability. We have a % of total investments 6.1% 18.2% 11.3% cross-​functional team that drives our sustainability ambitions and builds internal processes and capacity. The team includes represen­ OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY tatives from innovation, procurement, operations, HR, responsible Per­storp has set a goal of safe­ty per­for­mance to place it among the care and communications as well as those responsible for each top quar­tile of chem­i­cal com­pa­nies by 2020. One of the tools that focus area in our Finite Material Neutral Ambition. Perstorp has a has been em­ployed to reach the goal is the “Per­storp Care­way”. range of group policies which cover environmental issues, occupa­ The Care­way is a model that points clear­ly and specif­i­cal­ly at suc­ tional health and safety and other employee matters. The main cess by fo­cus­ing on the be­hav­iors of in­ter­de­pen­dent or­ga­ni­za­tions. policies covering these issues are the Code of Conduct, the Respon­ It is a way to ma­ture in terms of health and safe­ty prac­tices and sible Care Policy, the Security Policy, the Anti-​Bribery Policy, the move up­ward along a ma­tu­ri­ty scale. In 2018, a health di­men­sion Vendor Policy, the Global Travel Policy and the General Data Pro­ was added to the pre­vi­ous safe­ty di­men­sions of the pro­to­col. Also tection Policy. The Perstorp Group is in the process of developing a since 2018, year­ly Care­way as­sess­ments have been con­duct­ed, in policy covering social engagement and sponsorships. order to iden­ti­fy health and safe­ty gaps at the pro­duc­tion sites. The Perstorp Group has a management system for quality and This has proven to be a very use­ful method­ol­o­gy, so start­ing in environment, third party certified against ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 2020 the as­sess­ments will also be car­ried out at all of­fi ce sites. 9001:2015. 80 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Based on the re­sults of the as­sess­ments, ac­tion plans are de­vel­oped Dur­ing 2019 the gen­der di­ver­si­ty sta­tus at the pro­duc­tion sites and from team lev­els and up to the cor­po­rate level. in sup­port func­tions was mapped. Based on the cur­rent base­line In 2019 a new cor­po­rate Health and Safe­ty Pol­ic­ y was ap­proved and a bench­mark, wished po­si­tions for 2025 and 2030 are now be­ as well as min­i­mum re­quire­ments for em­ploy­ee trav­el, from a ing for­mu­lat­ed. A frame­work, based on the UN Women em­pow­er­ health and safe­ty per­spec­tive. A new health and safe­ty lead­er­ship ment prin­ci­ples, will be im­ple­ment­ed in 2020. These prin­ci­ples train­ing has been in­tro­duced in 2019 and will con­tin­ue to be rolled would help guide us at Per­storp to an action-​focused, long-​term out in 2020. ap­proach to gen­der equal­i­ty. To pri­or­i­tize the health and safe­ty of one­self and fel­low work­ers Tar­get 2025: 60/40 male/fe­male is what is ex­pect­ed of all em­ploy­ees at Per­storp Group and this is some­thing all em­ploy­ees need to think about 365 days a year. This is what Per­storp calls Care 365. Care 356 is an ini­tia­tive at Per­storp GENDER, ALL EMPLOYEES which start­ed in 2017. Look­ing back at un­de­sir­able lev­els of work-​ related in­juries and health is­sues, more ef­forts were put into en­sur­ ing health and safe­ty for all em­ploy­ees, at all lev­els of the busi­ness. The work with Care 365 is dri­ven company-​wide and it ad­dress­es 70% Male cul­ture, lead­er­ship and em­ploy­ee en­gage­ment in health and safe­ 30% Female ty. It places em­pha­sis on vis­i­ble lead­er­ship from top man­age­ment, a sense of ur­gency when it comes to in­ci­dents and ac­ci­dents, clear stan­dards and com­pli­ance man­age­ment. As a re­sult, Care has now been in­tro­duced as a fourth cor­po­rate value for Per­storp. In 2019, we con­duct­ed an em­ploy­ee sur­vey for the group. It GENDER, MANAGEMENT showed a pos­i­tive trend in the En­gage­ment Index where we moved from an av­er­age score of 3,3 to 3,5. An out­come of the Care­way As­sess­ments is the in­tro­duc­tion of a new tool to follow-​ up on em­ploy­ee well­be­ing. As from Feb­ru­ary 2020 em­ploy­ee ex­pe­ 75% Mgr male ri­ence will be mea­sured on a more fre­quent basis with Pulse sur­ 25% Mgr female veys. These will be short­er sur­veys, which will be sent out each month, com­ple­ment­ed with the more ex­ten­sive sur­vey once a year. This will con­tribute to a con­tin­u­ous im­prove­ment di­a­logue with­in the teams and sup­port the Per­storp jour­ney up the Care­way. In 2019, work con­tin­ued with the im­proved iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of haz­ ENERGY CONSUMPTION ards, em­ploy­ee train­ing and em­pha­sis on risk re­duc­tion. The over­all Specialty chemicals manufacturing is an energy intensive process. trend is pos­i­tive, but in 2019 there was an in­crease in the OSHA-​re­ Perstorp uses significant amounts of energy at each of its plants, cordable ac­ci­dents com­pared to the year be­fore due to a va­ri­ety of and therefore continues to focus on efficiency as well as transition fac­tors. We know that we are on the right track. to renewable energy at the production sites. The sites in Perstorp The per­for­mance on stan­dard safe­ty met­rics, in­clud­ing our own and Stenungsund are supplied with electricity from renewable em­ploy­ees and con­trac­tors: sources. The experience gained from the use of alternative fuels will be a springboard for further use at other sites in the future, Occupational Injuries 2017 2018 2019 and is a focus of the road maps developed for the Finite Material Fatalities 0 0 0 Neutral ambition. The continued emphasis on process efficiency Lost Time Accidents 8 6 10 has helped Perstorp keep the energy consumption relatively low. Total Lost Days 36 103 66 OSHA-Recordable Accidents 16 9 13 OSHAR* 1.00 0.49 0.78 Energy Consumption (in GWh) 2017 2018 2019 Energy Produced in-house 1,529 1,574 1,591 * OSHAR = number of injuries X 200 000 / number of hours worked Renewable energy 16% 16% 15% Reclaimed from production waste 56% 51% 52% Amount delivered externally (195) (188) (165) DIVERSITY With sites lo­cat­ed from Tole­do in the West, to Zibo in the East and Energy purchased as steam 447 509 267 with the com­pa­ny roots in Per­storp, Swe­den, there is nat­ur­ al­ly di­ Renewable Energy 6% 4% 0% ver­si­ty among the em­ploy­ees. Eng­lish is the cor­po­rate lan­guage, mak­ing po­si­tions at­trac­tive for peo­ple of di­verse back­grounds. A Electricity from local grid 321 331 313 di­ver­si­ty pol­i­cy is in place for the Group. In 2019, Per­storp has fo­cused specif­i­cal­ly on gen­der di­ver­si­ty. Total Energy Consumed 2,102 2,225 2,007 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 81 WATER WASTE Water is not con­sid­ered a fi­nite ma­te­r­i­al as such but as a scarce re­ Min­i­miza­tion of waste (in all phas­es of pro­duc­tion) re­mains a pri­or­ source glob­al­ly. For Per­storp it is there­fore high­ly rel­e­vant to ad­ i­ty at Per­storp and waste is one of the focus areas of the Fi­nite Ma­ dress it as a part of our over­all Fi­nite Ma­te­r­i­al Neu­tral am­bi­tion. Ac­ te­ri­­al Neu­tral Am­bi­tion. We ad­dress waste first­ly by try­ing to avoid cess to drinking-​quality water and water fit for food pro­duc­tions is waste gen­er­a­tion, by fo­cus­ing on qual­i­ty man­age­ment at all our es­sen­tial to human life and so­ci­eties. We con­tin­u­ous­ly work with sites. We also try to min­i­mize waste going to a land­fill, by look­ing low­er­ing our water foot­print so that we will not limit drinking-​ into how we can bet­ter close the loops, link­ing our pro­duc­tion quality water. plat­forms, with­in Per­storp and in sym­bio­sis with other busi­ness­es. Per­storp’s plants all use water to some ex­tent: as a sol­vent for chem­i­cal re­ac­tions, as a car­ri­er for prod­ucts or as a heat-​transfer Waste (T)* 2017 2018 2019 medi­um. There­fore, Per­storp has in­creased its ef­forts to con­serve Hazardous Waste (T) 12,149 17,596 16,369 water and re­turn water back to the en­vi­ron­ment fol­low­ing care­ful Non-hazardous Waste (T) 9,300 7,507 5,895 treat­ment pro­to­cols. The com­mit­ments made to the fu­ture de­ Total Waste (T) 21,449 25,103 22,265 mand as lit­tle water use as pos­si­ble and pre­ven­tion of water pol­lu­ tion through in­no­v­a­tive re-​uses of waste wa­ters and ef­fi­cient waste * d  ue to updated group wide definitions of waste from our production sites the data is not comparable to previous reports. In the re-calculations the divested production site water treat­ment tech­nolo­gies. in Warrington, UK was not included for 2017, 2018 or 2019. Water Use (in millions of cubic meters) 2017 2018 2019 Surface Water 18.9 20.2 22.0 ETHICAL PRINCIPLES & ANTI-CORRUPTION Ground Water 4.5 5.1 1.2 Our Code of Con­duct forms a recipe on how to live the com­pa­ny Rainwater 0.02 0.01 0.00 val­ues. It cov­ers the areas of Per­storp’s busi­ness prin­ci­ples, prod­ucts Municipal Supply 0.74 0.81 0.63 & sus­tain­abil­i­ty, work­ing con­di­tions and human rights. It has been Other Sources 0.50 0.55 0.57 de­vel­oped to un­der­line the prin­ci­ples that di­rect our re­la­tions with Total water withdrawn 24.7 26.7 24.4 em­ploy­ees, busi­ness par­ties and other par­ties. It ap­plies to all em­ ploy­ees with­in Per­storp Group and mem­bers of the Board of Di­rec­ SUSTAINABILITY tors. Per­storp also ex­pects its sup­pli­ers, dis­trib­u­tors and other busi­ Wastewater 2017 2018 2019 Chemical Oxygen Demand (T) 6,057 6,586 5,599 ness part­ners with which it has close re­la­tions, to act ac­cord­ing to these prin­ci­ples. Per­storp’s Code of Con­duct is based on the com­pa­ny’s four core val­ues and has been de­vel­oped in ac­cor­dance with the OECD’s EMISSIONS TO AIR guide­lines for multi­na­tion­al en­ter­pris­es, the chem­i­cal in­dus­try’s Re­spon­si­ble Care pro­gram and the guide­lines out­lined in the In­ter­ Ozone Depleting Substances 2017 2018 2019 na­tion­al Labor Or­ga­ni­za­tion (ILO) con­ven­tion. Per­storp sup­ports In use (kg) 2,666 6,533 5,421 the UN’s Glob­al Com­pact and its ten prin­ci­ples as well as the 17 Leakage (kg) 126 249 121 Sus­tain­able De­vel­op­ment Goals. All em­ploy­ees must know the con­tent of the Code of Con­duct and are re­quired to go through a web-​based learn­ing mod­ule. Air Emissions 2017 2018 2019 Per­storp Group also has a num­ber of more spe­cif­ic poli­cies Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ad­dress­ing e.g. anti-​corruption and pre­vent­ing anti-​competitive Scope 1 GHG (kT) 383 394 395 be­hav­ior. Scope 2 GHG (kT) 163 182 136 In case of any sus­pi­cions of il­le­gal con­duct or other breach­es of Total GHG (kT) 546 577 532 our own eth­i­cal prin­ci­ples, there is a whistle­blow­ing pro­ce­dure VOC (T) 168 173 151 avail­able on our in­tranet. How­ev­er, this can be seen as a last re­sort, NOx (T) 145 159 195 as our legal de­part­ment, the HR de­part­ment and each man­ag­er SOx (T) 9 6 7 with­in the com­pa­ny, are also avail­able for di­a­logue with our em­ ploy­ees, should they need to raise ques­tions re­gard­ing in­ter­pre­ta­ tions of our poli­cies or wish to raise con­cerns. On a quar­ter­ly basis all areas of the busi­ness are re­spon­si­ble to re­port into the Legal Risk Re­view, which is reg­u­lat­ed by our Legal Pol­i­cy. Any lit­i­ga­tion, dis­putes or claims re­lat­ed to legal or reg­u­la­to­ry vi­o­la­tions that are ma­te­ri­­al to the Group must then be re­port­ed. Any in­ves­ti­ga­tion by an au­thor­i­ty (e.g. po­lice, anti-​trust au­thor­i­ty) must also be re­port­ed. 82 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In 2019 there were no sus­pect­ed or con­firmed cases of cor­rup­tion, are free of con­flict min­er­als orig­i­nat­ing from the De­mo­c­ra­t­ic Re­ nei­ther through the Legal Risk Re­view nor through the whistle­ pub­lic of Congo or ad­join­ing coun­tries in ac­cor­dance with the US blow­ing pro­ce­dures and there were no other lit­ig ­ a­tion is­sues con­ Se­cu­ri­ties Ex­change Com­mis­sion Rule of Con­flict Min­er­als. The is­ cern­ing eth­i­cal con­duct. sued Mod­ern Slav­ery State­ment sum­ma­rizes how the com­pa­ny The legal de­part­ment has his­tor­i­cal­ly held train­ings of em­ploy­ees works, and will con­tin­ue to work, to pre­vent any oc­cur­rences of re­gard­ing cer­tain poli­cies and pro­ce­dures. Start­ing in 2018, more mod­ern slav­ery, in our own busi­ness­es and in our sup­ply chain. spe­cif­i c e-​learning mod­ules are con­tin­u­ous­ly being de­vel­oped, Sup­pli­ers are given a risk rat­ing based on their lo­ca­tion as well as fo­cused on dif­fer­ent as­pects of busi­ness ethics and com­pli­ance. Dur­ing on a set of ad­di­tion­al cri­te­ria de­fined by Per­storp. All sup­pli­ers of 2019, 215 em­ploy­ees have taken an ex­ten­sive and in­ter­ac­tive e-​ large spend and/or rated as being of specif­i­cal­ly high risk, are sys­ learning train­ing on pre­vent­ing bribery and cor­rup­tion. In ad­di­tion, tem­at­i­cal­ly as­sessed using a sup­pli­er eval­u­a­tion tool. The tool con­ 151 em­ploy­ees have dur­ing 2019 taken an equiv­a­lent e-​learning sists of ques­tions, ad­dress­ing is­sues such as en­vi­ron­men­tal man­ train­ing on pre­vent­ing anti-​competitive prac­tices. Fur­ther e-​learn­ age­ment, human rights, labor stan­dards and anti-​corruption. The ings are in the pipe-​line. The use of e-​learnings en­ables us to bet­ter pro­ce­dure also re­quires sup­pli­ers to ac­knowl­edge and sign the track the im­ple­men­ta­tion of train­ings, and also sys­tem­at­i­cal­ly en­sure ven­dor pol­i­cy. 70 % of our spend is cov­ered by this sys­tem­at­ic ap­ that such train­ings are re­peat­ed in ap­pro­pri­ate in­ter­vals, or in case proach. of any up­dates of rel­e­vant leg­is­la­tion, reg­u­la­tions or poli­cies. Dur­ing 2019 focus has been to in­clude sus­tain­abil­i­ty im­prove­ ment claus­es in our key con­tracts. In ad­di­tion to this the work con­ RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN tin­ues to as­sess the need to follow-​up the sup­pli­ers’ self-​evalua­ Dur­ing 2019 as part of Level Up, Pro­cure­ment of Trans­porta­tion tions, e.g. through au­dits. Per­storp’s com­pa­nies con­duct au­dits of Ser­vices was added to the Pro­cure­ment Func­tion as well as the fact their sup­pli­ers al­ready as of today, but then main­ly fo­cus­ing on that the site pur­chas­ing man­agers and their or­ga­ni­za­tions now man­age­ment sys­tems for qual­i­ty and en­vi­ron­ment. also re­port di­rect­ly into the Pro­cure­ment Func­tion. Dur­ing 2019 Per­storp has in­ten­si­fied the in­te­gra­tion of sus­tain­ abil­it­ y in the pro­cure­ment process­es, and the as­sess­ment method­ olo­gies have been up­dat­ed. In 2019 pro­cure­ment is now rep­re­sent­ed by an ad­di­tion­al Sourc­ ing Man­ag­er re­spon­si­ble for Trans­porta­tion be­sides the al­ready ex­ist­ing Sourc­ing man­ag­er for raw ma­te­ri­als and they both have a cen­tral role in the cross-​functional sus­tain­abil­i­ty team, where much focus has been on de­vel­op­ing road maps for the tran­si­tions to non-​ fossil raw ma­te­ri­als. The Per­storp pro­cure­ment can be di­vid­ed into two main areas, each rep­re­sent­ing dif­f er­ent risks, im­pacts and chal­lenges: • Production related material and services • Non-production related material and services. Cor­po­rate poli­cies and pro­cure­ment pro­ce­dures have been adopt­ ed to ad­dress pro­cure­ment risks, such as risks re­lat­ed to Human Rights and other up­stream so­cial and en­vi­ron­men­tal im­pacts. The poli­cies and pro­ce­dures in­clude a Ven­dor Pol­i­cy, a Mod­ern Slav­ery State­ment and a sys­tem­at­ic work to man­age in­for­ma­tion about the sup­pli­ers and track and as­sess their per­for­mance. The Code of Con­duct is the over­ar­ch­ing tool to com­mu­ni­cat­ing ex­pec­ta­tions to the sup­pli­ers to ad­dress sus­tain­abil­i­ty is­sues in­clud­ ing human rights, labor stan­dards, cor­rup­tion and en­vi­ron­men­tal im­pacts. Fur­ther­more, through the Ven­dor pol­i­cy, the Per­storp Group more specif­i­cal­ly re­quires of its sup­pli­ers to act in ac­cor­dance with in­ter­na­tion­al prin­ci­ples in re­la­tion to is­sues such as child labor, bond­ed labor, oc­cu­pa­tion­al health and safe­ty and free­dom of as­so­ ci­a­tion in the work­place. The Ven­dor Pol­i­cy was up­dat­ed in 2019 to fur­ther clar­i­fy Per­storp’s po­si­tion on anti-​bribery. The Ven­dor Pol­i­cy fur­ther re­quires of sup­pli­ers to as­sure that they are work­ing to en­sure that Per­storp’s pro­duc­tion and prod­ucts PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 83 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the gen­er­al meet­ing of the share­hold­ers of Per­storp Hold­ing AB, cor­po­rate iden­ti­ty num­ber 556667-​4205 ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report on pages 53-57, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The document published on the website, translated to English, containing the statutory sustain­ ability report on pages 80-83. THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard AUDITOR´S OPINION REGARDING THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Malmö, April 3, 2020 Michael Bengtsson Mats Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 84 PERSTORP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 perstorp.com @PerstorpGroup #perstorpgroup https://www.linkedin.com/company/perstorp-group/ https://twitter.com/perstorpgroup https://www.youtube.com/user/ThePerstorpGroup PERSTORP HOLDING AB Post address: Box 597 201 25 Malmö Sweden Visitor address: Neptunigatan 1 211 20 Malmö Sweden One molecule can change everything Perstorp believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, more convenient, more fun and more environmentally sound for millions of people all over the world. As a trusted world industrial leader, our innovations provide essential properties for products used every day at home and work. You’ll find us everywhere from your car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines and the local dairy farm. Simply put, we work to make good products even better. Perstorp’s focused innovation builds on more than 135 years of experience, representing a complete chain of solutions in organic chemistry, process technology and application development. Manufacturing is based in Asia, Europe and North America, with sales and support in all major markets. The Perstorp Group is controlled by funds managed and advised by the European private equity company PAI partners. For more information, visit perstorp.com
