Sustainability Report 2019 Contents WHO WE ARE 2 About IPC ..............................................................2 Our industry in the global context ....................4 Advancing our ESG reporting............................5 Our approach to sustainability ..........................6 PEOPLE 8 Safety ....................................................................9 Health ..................................................................12 Employment .......................................................14 Communities ......................................................15 ENVIRONMENT 16 GHG emissions & climate strategy ................17 Land & biodiversity ...........................................22 Water management ..........................................26 Waste management .........................................27 ETHICS & GOVERNANCE 28 Corporate governance .....................................29 Revenue transparency .....................................31 Anti-corruption ..................................................31 Human rights ......................................................32 APPENDIX 34 Sustainability data.............................................34 GRI index ............................................................36 Abbreviations .....................................................40 Message from the CEO Responsible operatorship and ensuring that we Our engagement with local communities became a more prominent adhere to the highest principles of business conduct area of involvement in 2019 with the integration of the northern assets have been an integral part of how we do business in Alberta and Saskatchewan. The Onion Lake Cree Nation is one of our key stakeholders and business partners, and we share the benefits since the creation of IPC in 2017. Over the past three from our activities at Onion Lake with them. We also supported local years, IPC has rapidly grown our business with the economic development by investing more than USD 14 million with completion of three acquisitions in Canada as well as indigenous suppliers in 2019. significant investments in our French and Malaysian businesses. In parallel, we have made a concerted Climate change has become an increasing topic of interest among our effort to further develop and improve our sustainability stakeholders. To align with growing expectations in this field, we have strategy. An important part of this journey involves the developed our climate strategy with a five-year horizon. Operational measurement and transparent reporting of a broad efficiency has been our main contribution to reduced levels of emission range of ESG metrics. I am very pleased to present in the past. Today, we continue to pursue new operational emission reduction opportunities and engage in carbon offsetting to compensate to our stakeholders for the first time, IPC’s inaugural for our direct emissions. I am very pleased to advise that starting in Sustainability Report. 2020 we have made the commitment to progressively invest in carbon offsetting projects to lower our carbon footprint by up to 50% of our Throughout 2019 we set out an ambitious development and CO2 emissions over the next five years. optimisation plan in each of our operating regions. Thanks to the performance of our high calibre teams we were able to deliver an While a great focus is on reducing CO2 emissions, we must also focus impressive production increase of more than ten percent. Our teams on terrestrial and marine environmental conservation. These are at have demonstrated operational excellence once more with the many the core of our environmental stewardship in all our operating regions successes in 2019. where we monitor potential impacts to preserve the surrounding biodiversity. In Canada, we safely delivered a 26 development well program in the Suffield area, upgraded the Onion Lake Thermal facility and completed The backbone of our responsible business is the strong corporate the drilling and commissioning of the new F-Pad. In France, we governance we have in place. Our Board of Directors oversees all successfully delivered the drilling of the first horizontal wells in our aspect of our business and ensures that we apply the necessary checks Rhaetian reservoir as part of the Vert-la-Gravelle field redevelopment and balances at all times. We have zero tolerance for any form of project. In Malaysia, through our third infill drilling campaign, we saw fraudulent or corrupt practices and we promote revenue transparency. the successful delivery of an additional three wells at the Bertam field. I am please to announce that IPC has joined the United Nations Global The challenges we faced and overcame in 2019, such as the extreme Compact in 2020, the year of the 20th anniversary of this leading global cold weather in Canada, refinery shutdowns in France and rig delays initiative for good corporate citizenship. We support and are committed in Malaysia, now seem small in comparison to the unprecedented to upholding the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact on human situation that we faced in 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report is our first global economy, put people’s health at risk and led to the collapse in oil Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and we look demand and prices. At IPC we rapidly adapted our working practices forward to reporting on our progress in the years ahead to keep our people safe whilst continuing to run our operations with business continuity plans in place. The profound weakness in oil prices Yours Sincerely, in the first half of 2020 required swift action to reset our business plan to preserve the financial strength of IPC for brighter times ahead. Today, the focus on the industry’s contribution to address environmental challenges that the planet faces is higher than ever. We believe that Mike Nicholson it is critical for IPC to demonstrate to all of our stakeholders how we President and CEO integrate sustainability into the responsible execution of our projects, the management of our workforce and in our corporate governance. Our sustainability strategy encompasses our commitment to protecting people and the environment, as well as upholding the highest standards of business ethics. We foster a respectful work environment with a strong safety culture, where employees are given the support needed to develop competency as well as having various forums to contribute and raise questions or concerns. In 2019, we have had a good health and safety performance with only low severity incidents. We recognise that every incident is one too many. Therefore, we make sure that every safety incident, no matter how small, is recorded and improvement measures implemented. It is our priority to make sure everyone comes home safely. IPC Sustainability Report 1 About International Petroleum Corporation International Petroleum Corporation (‘IPC’) is an internationally focused upstream oil and gas company with a portfolio of exploration and production assets in Canada, Malaysia and France. Our vision is to grow a successful upstream The Bertam field in Malaysia is an offshore asset exploration and production company in a safe and with light, high quality oil. The field is operated with a environmentally responsible manner for the longwellhead platform and a floating production storage term benefit of all stakeholders. and offloading vessel (FPSO) at approximately 170 km offshore Peninsular Malaysia. Established in 2017, IPC is now operating on three continents with assets in Canada, France In France, IPC’s assets are comprised of two main and Malaysia. IPC operates its assets in Canada, operating basins, the Paris Basin, which is operated France (Paris Basin) and Malaysia and owns nonby IPC, and the Aquitaine Basin, which is operated operated interests in France (Aquitaine Basin). by a subsidiary of Vermilion Energy Inc. Production from IPC’s oil and gas assets in France is light, high Our growth strategy involves investment in quality oil. organic growth to ensure that the full resource and value potential of our assets can be realized as well as the acquisition of additional reserves and resources at the production and/or development stage, allowing us to mature those resources and additional shareholder value over time. In Canada, IPC’s oil and gas assets are located in Alberta and Saskatchewan. The Suffield area oil and gas assets and the recently acquired Ferguson oil asset are high quality conventional assets in southern Alberta. The Onion Lake, Mooney and Blackrod assets are heavy crude oil assets with conventional and steam assisted development methods in northern Alberta and Saskatchewan. Canada Dec 2017 · Phase 2 infill drilling, Bertam field, Malaysia Dec 2018 Jan 2018 · Acquisition of BlackPearl Apr 2017 · Acquisition of the Suffield Resources Inc. · Creation of IPC as spin-off area oil and gas assets in · Sale of non-operated gas from Lundin Petroleum AB southern Alberta, Canada assets in the Netherlands 2017 2018 2019 2 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Highlights Operating Reserves Production cost & resources 46 Mboepd 12.8 USD/boe 1,389 MMboe Operating Capital Total cash flow expenditure revenues 308MUSD 181 MUSD 554 MUSD France Malaysia Sep 2019 · First horizontal development well online at the Vert-la-Gravelle field, France Jun 2019 · Phase 3 infill drilling, Mar 2020 Bertam field, Malaysia · Acquisition of Granite Oil Corp. Exploration Production Development FPSO Facility 2020 IPC Sustainability Report 3 Our Industry in the Global Context One of the most relevant contributions of the oil and gas industry is providing affordable and reliable energy to the world. Heat, light and mobility have lifted millions of people out of poverty in the past century. Today, the world is at an intersection; balancing the need to continue to provide affordable energy while addressing the complex environmental challenges it faces. At IPC, we believe that energy lies at the heart of the global economy and will remain an integral part Improving of our modern lives. standards of life We understand that the global energy system is Pharmaceuticals Road transport undergoing rapid and significant change and it is likely that renewable energy sources will become the fastest growing source of energy to meet the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario. Oil and gas represent 60% of global energy Roads Air transport sources today and will continue to be an essential Oil and gas part of the energy mix in the foreseeable future usage where world energy demand is predicted to increase by 30% over the next two decades. Oil and gas are integral to modern life. Beyond their Building Sea transport use as fuels, oil and gas are used across many sectors materials in a wide variety of products and manufacturing applications ranging from everyday items, to life-saving Chemicals medical equipment. At the Heart of Energy Supply Upstream Midstream Downstream Oil & gas exploration Transport Product preparation and production and storage and usage Oil & gas exploration, drilling, Storage, transportation Refining, retail & marketing development, production & distribution of petroleum products & sales of crude oil 4 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Advancing our ESG Reporting This is the first sustainability report for IPC. We report on how we manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors, including impacts, risks and opportunities. About this report We strive to continuously improve our sustainability In guiding the development of this report, IPC implemented reporting and will engage with our stakeholders to ensure the reporting frameworks and best practices in the oil our disclosures are relevant and focused. We will continue and gas industry including the Global Reporting Initiative to evaluate our approach to materiality as we progress in (GRI) Standards and the International Petroleum Industry our disclosures and conduct materiality assessments both Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) reporting through internal and external methodologies with a view to guidance. The report aligns to the GRI standard disclosures, and refining the topics we report on and remaining aligned with GRI principles have defined our reporting approach. The GRI stakeholders’ evolving expectations. index is included on pages 36-37 and indicates where specific disclosures are addressed within the report. The index also Reporting on data cross references progress on the UN Global Compact principles, Data presented in this report covers the entire Company as well as contributions to the SDGs. In 2019, we updated our with our three operating countries and operations offices environmental reporting using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol unless otherwise stated. The terms “IPC”, “International Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Petroleum Corp.”, “our”, “we”, “us”, “the Company” and “organisation”, refer to International Petroleum Corporation Materiality for sustainability reporting combined with its subsidiaries. Any data limitations are Materiality in sustainability reporting is determined by the explicitly noted within the performance figures. The data potential of a particular topic to affect, positively or negatively, a contained in this report includes data through to December company’s performance and external opinion. To determine our 31, 2019 and all financial information is presented in USD material topics, we sollicited internal and external stakeholder unless otherwise stated. While the reporting period is 2019, views through dialogue, media articles, public reports and trends key developments in early 2020 have been provided for in sustainability and ESG assessments. IPC then benchmarked additional context given the extraordinary nature of Q1 and these results against those topics most reported by our industry Q2 2020. peers. In the process of defining the report content we adopted a stakeholder identification and engagement approach in line with IPC’s Stakeholder Relations Policy. The content of the report reflects the most material areas of focus to the Company and its stakeholders, and has been approved by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors (“Board”). Material Topics Human rights GHG emissions Health Emission reductions Safety Carbon offsets Covid-19 response Emergency preparedness Environment Biodiversity Employment People Archaeological & cultural sites Diversity Contractors Land reclamation Communities Water & waste Corporate governance Ethics Revenue transparency Executive remuneration Anti-corruption Carbon pricing Whistleblowing Risk management IPC Sustainability Report 5 Our Approach to Sustainability IPC has created a sustainability framework under which we integrate environmental, social and governance issues across all aspects of the Company. Responsibility and accountability 2019 Highlights for the conduct of our activities lies with the Board of Directors, our highest governing body, and its dedicated Reserves and HSE Committee. Strategic decision making with respect to IPC’s sustainability strategy sits with the Executive Committee. 30% First Nations In our operating regions, General Managers have the overall workforce at 98% local responsibility for the safe and sound conduct of operations. We Onion Lake hiring have established sustainability task forces and health & safety committees, recognising that our sustainability journey requires 14.3 MUSD the involvement of everyone. 29% women spent with Zero In working towards defining and executing on our sustainability employees First Nations severe strategy, we align with the United Nations Global Compact businesses injuries Principles and seek to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Developments Goals (SDGs). We believe all members of society have a role to play in achieving the SDGs, 150,000 t CO2e 2.3 MUSD and IPC contributes positively to a number of the SDGs, annual reductions spent towards such as SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and asset retirement we are working to improve our impact on others, such as SDG 13 (Climate Action). Based on the estimated demand 24,000 t CO2e for oil and gas in the coming decades, we understand our offsets generated 71.9 MUSD main contribution is to ensure that this demand is met in a paid in taxes responsible way. The SDG icons within this report help the reader navigate the report through a SDG lens. Integration of and royalties 1 In 2019, the Board adopted a Sustainability Policy which UN Global Zero provides high-level guidance and reflects how sustainable Compact incidents of business practices are part of every aspect of our activity. The principles discrimination or human overall policy is further supported by subject specific policies rights grievance and procedures setting clear expectations and providing guidance to our countries of operations, ensuring we apply 1 Including fees, production entitlements, bonuses the same high standards across IPC. This structure creates accountability throughout IPC from the Board and executive level to the operations in each country. We manage the environmental effects of our operations and work to continuously improve upon the ways in which The Sustainability Policy sets out the following overarching we interact with and impact the environment. We operate principles that guide IPC in developing and implementing its in a manner that seeks to preserve biological diversity and sustainability strategy: safeguard ecosystems, species and genetic diversity for future generations. Deliver energy to meet the needs of society by: Strong governance starts at the top of our organisation. Our • Responsibly developing our assets in a manner that Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is the foundation of minimises adverse impacts to the environment and our corporate values. We place responsibility on each and to people; and every employee to comply with and uphold these standards. At IPC, we are driven by values of fairness and transparency. • Supporting the economic and social well-being of We promote a culture of open and honest dialogue with our our stakeholders and the communities in which we stakeholders and recognise the principles set out in the UN work Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Each of these principles is further explored and developed Our journey continues through the lens of three focal areas; namely, People, 2019 marks the first year of IPC’s sustainability reporting. Environment and Ethics & Governance. With that we are embarking on the journey of disclosing our management of ESG aspects and pursuing our sustainability People drive our performance and are key to our success. vision. Our sustainability goals represent the elements which Positive relationships are fundamental to maintaining our social provide the foundation on which IPC continues to refine its licence to operate and enable IPC to have a positive impact on sustainability strategy towards achieving broad integration of people by providing opportunities and increased quality of life. sustainability across all areas of our business. 6 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Our Sustainability Goals 1 Foster a safe and healthy work environment that promotes dignity, respect and diversity Recognise and value the contributions of all employees 2 Strive towards a goal of zero harm to people Continuously reinforce our safety culture and competence through appropriate measurement and analysis of KPIs People 3 Work with our communities in the planning of our projects and contribute to their development Share in the benefits that come from our operations, including through job creation, local sourcing and align with community needs 4 Engage with the Onion Lake Cree Nation and other First Nations and Métis communities, with an approach of respect, openness and transparency Operate in a manner that recognises the historical and cultural importance of the lands and work collaboratively with the First Nations and Métis communities to enhance their wellbeing through employment and other opportunities 1 Reduce direct emissions Identify, invest and implement technologies in operations that reduce emissions, and undertake carbon offsetting to further reduce environmental footprint 2 Develop and execute on our asset retirement strategy Environment Return lands to equivalent land capability after operations are complete 3 Minimise, manage and remediate any adverse impacts of our operations on native species Conduct environmental impact studies, surveys and monitoring 4 Minimise the occurrence of spills Incorporate preventive measures and response plans to safeguard the environment 1 Ensure appropriate governance in line with international best practice Implement policies and control mechanisms to address the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact 2 Ensure a consistent approach to enterprise risk management across the whole company Ethics & Conduct regular risk review processes both at the country and corporate level Governance 3 Adhere to a zero tolerance policy for any fraudulent or corrupt acts Communicate on a regular basis fundamental policies and practices 4 Provide employees and other stakeholders a means of raising concerns Employ systems that protect anonymity and integrity, and encourage concerns to be brought forward IPC Sustainability Report 7 PEOPLE Health and safety of employees and contractors working for IPC always comes first. We are committed to a goal of zero harm to people and to providing our workforce with a safe, healthy and productive work environment wherever we operate. 8 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Safety Approach to safety in our workplace Hierarchy of Controls most IPC is committed to developing and maintaining a strong effective safety culture across our organisation. IPC pursues a goal of causing zero harm to people by providing our workforce Elimination with a safe, healthy and productive work environment that promotes a culture in which all employees have shared Remove the hazard ownership and accountability towards safety. IPC strives to ensure that we can deliver strong business performance, maintain our reputation as a responsible operator, and keep Substitution staff fully engaged in our operations and safety culture. Replace the hazard Safety is integrated into every aspect of our operations, and ownership and responsibility for safety is shared across all levels of the organisation. Our priority is ensuring that every employee, contractor and service provider at IPC returns Engineering Controls home safely. Isolate worker from the hazard Safety culture IPC recognises that a culture of safety requires a strong commitment from the highest levels of the organisation. As part of that commitment, members of our senior leadership Administrative team participate in regular safety meetings held with field Controls staff. These meetings encourage staff and management Change the way to share safety moments and to learn from one another. of working Daily reports and toolbox talks, weekly site-level safety meetings and monthly management meetings form part of the day-to-day integration of safety planning and execution in our operations. Analysis of safety performance and PPE targets is also important for the leadership team, with Protect the management performance evaluated in part through key worker safety performance indicators. In order to mitigate risks to our culture, IPC safety advisors are integrated into the day-to-day operations. This also helps to promote a collaborative approach to safety, as well as prioritizing safety as a defining aspect of our overall culture. least effective Health and safety management systems The IPC Health & Safety Policy and Health & Safety Management System set the context for the local health and safety management systems in our operating regions. Executing our operations in a safety conscious manner also Safety planning for drilling means providing staff with adequate and relevant guidance, Drilling programmes involve a coordinated effort from staff across regular training opportunities and involving them in the various disciplines at IPC. As part of our 2019 drilling season reviews of key policies, procedures and safe practices. preparations in Canada, Malaysia and France, we conducted a Online training modules and quick reference guides are two-phased approach which included a “drilling a well on paper” daily reminders of safe work practices. (DWOP) exercise, as well as large-scale drilling safety meetings. The intent of the DWOP is to ensure a common understanding Fundamental to ensuring our activities are conducted of the technical features of the well, including identification of in a safe manner is the identification, elimination or any potential hazards. That information then forms the basis of minimisation of hazards, which we do according to the the drilling safety meeting held primarily with field operations, hierarchy of safety controls. Workplace hazard identification including staff and service providers, which allows operation teams and control, qualitative and quantitative risk assessments, to anticipate and prepare for the drilling programme. During drilling safe work procedures and permit-to-work systems, safe operations, safety tailgate meetings are held at the beginning of work observations, stop card systems, incident reporting each day in the drilling programme to ensure that staff and service and investigation are intrinsic parts of our management of providers are aligned from a safety and technical perspective and to health and safety. share key learnings from the previous day’s activities. IPC Sustainability Report 9 Health and safety reporting Our health and safety performance is shared across the Safe offshore transportation Company from field operators to the Board. Incidents that are in Malaysia classified as high-potential or result in a reportable injury are reported, analysed and lessons learnt are shared and integrated On September 1, 2019 IPC operated its first in work practices. Consolidated health and safety performance flight for routine crew change to the Bertam data are evaluated to identify trends and to develop focused field in Malaysia. Months of planning and incident and injury prevention strategies. coordination with the helicopter operator, authorities and industry partners preceded the Over the years 2018 and 2019 we have leveraged on modern first flight. Industry recognised offshore survival technology by implementing in all our Canadian assets a training is mandatory for all passengers, with software application through which data is continuously safety controls and measures enhanced by collected, recorded and reviewed. Switching to this online robust boarding and departure compliance HSE data management system allows field workers to record protocols. Additionally, there are stringent incidents or hazard identifications in real time from their mobile metocean condition limitations and monitoring device. A notification is sent to the competent supervisor who requirements to be met prior to any planned can act quickly to address the reported incident. Collected data helicopter takeoff. is then analysed to understand emerging trends, and shared in Helicopters service offshore oil and gas regular safety meetings where staff are given the opportunity operations. Not only are they utilised for routine to share key learnings and raise awareness around potential crew change operations, they are also key hazards. to emergency transportation such as vessel evacuation, medical evacuation, and search Performance indicators and rescue operations. IPC joined a Malaysian We measure our health and safety performance using a industry initiative to substitute vessels with combination of leading and lagging indicators. Leading indicators helicopter crew transfers during the monsoon help us identify strengths and weaknesses in our health and season. In 2019, the helicopter services safety systems and procedures, and highlight areas where we operated for 18 weeks and a total of 177 flight need to address potential hazards to safety or health to prevent hours with no safety incidents. No helicopter incidents from occurring. Leading indicators include occurrences transfer for emergency transportation was like near-misses, workplace inspections, identified hazard required for 2019. reports, workplace safety observations and health and safety suggestions. Lagging indicators help us to learn from incidents and to improve our existing practices using that knowledge. Our primary lagging indicators for measuring health and safety performance are lost time incidents (LTI) and total recordable incidents, which is the sum of fatalities, LTIs, restricted work incidents (RWI) and medical treatment incidents (MTI). We account for employee and contractor incidents equally. In 2019, we recorded in total four low severity LTIs; two in Canada and two in France, as well as one RWI and two MTIs in Canada for 2.2 million hours worked. 2019 Performance 0 Fatalities 4 LTIs 1 RWIs 2 MTIs 2.2 Million hours worked (1) (1) employees & contractors 10 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Contractors IPC engages contractors as part of its regular ongoing operations. Offshore oil spill response training Responsible contractor management starts with a due diligence process at pre-qualification stage, during which contractors are In April 2019, IPC’s FPSO Bertam operation screened using HSE criteria. Our agreements with contractors team completed a 3-day advanced oil spill contain clauses respecting their obligation to abide by nationally response training course provided by our and internationally recognised safety standards and highest partner Pimmag, Malaysia’s oil spill response standards of business conduct. After we have ensured that organisation. contractors meet our high safety standards, they are introduced into our operations, and integrated into our safety practices and culture through continued engagement with our staff. Developing strong relationships with our contractors helps to ensure that we are aligned in our operations and promotes learning opportunities across all members of our team. In France, we organise an annual contractor safety day with more than 100 people representing approximately 80 contracting companies. General managers, HSE managers and health and safety committee members attend our safety day where operational updates, safety statistics and requirements, and lessons learnt are communicated. It is also a unique opportunity for our contractors to learn about IPC’s development activities and participate in site visits. Finally, one-on-one sessions are held with each contractor for a final review of the previously established risk assessments of their activities. Through the conduct of these safety days we ensure to engage with our contractors in Spill management in Canadian onshore operations a meaningful manner prior to the start of the work, to establish IPC’s operations involve more than 6,000 km of pipelines, individual prevention plans and meet regulatory requirements. oil and gas processing facilities as well as over 10,000 wells. We actively strive to minimise the occurrence and Emergency preparedness impact of oil or produced water spills in a variety of ways. Crisis management, emergency response and site-specific IPC has developed an asset integrity plan which guides us contingency plans are in place at all of our operations. We ensure in our spill reduction efforts. The plan is supplemented by appropriate levels of emergency response preparedness through a newly implemented pipeline management software that regular training and simulated emergency exercises at site, incorporates operational parameters along with static pipeline country and corporate level. In addition, each operation maintains data to quantitatively aid in determining which pipelines emergency response capabilities and equipment suited to the present the highest risk. In addition, IPC’s Emergency operating environment and the associated risks. Response Plan ensures that spills receive timely action when they occur. Through continuous investment in proven Spill prevention and response technologies and engaging in collaborative working sessions Oil spill contingency plans, training and affiliations with oil spill between management, operations and engineering, IPC response organisations are key elements to effective prevention works to proactively safeguard the surrounding environment and remediation of spills. Every operation has arrangements where our assets are situated. with regional oil spill response organisations in order to obtain assistance in the event of a spill that would exceed IPC’s internal In 2019, IPC strengthened its approach to spill management response capabilities. We are also a member company to the through various operational implementations. IPC completed world largest oil spill preparedness and response organisation, the installation of leak detection in the Suffield asset which Oil Spill Response Limted (OSRL), as an additional tier to our oil transmits data through radio networks to its supervisory response capabilities. control and data acquisition systems. This has resulted in a more than 50% improvement in response time to pipeline In 2019, we had no reportable oil spills in our offshore operations. failures, thus minimising spill volumes. Additionally, IPC In Canada, releases reported to the regulator include emulsion increased cathodic protection measures on pipelines and leaks due to top drive seal failure and nipple fitting corrosion at conducted leak detection surveys to reduce the likelihood Suffield and handling error during tank fill operations at Onion of spills. Staff are trained internally to recognise early signs Lake. Due to access constraints at Suffield, one spill resulted in of potential leaks, and spills are tracked and analysed with 30 m3 of emulsion, composed of 98% of produced water and 2% historical data being used to understand spill sources and of oil. The spill did not spread on land as all fluids were contained predict potential areas for further investigation. within the wellhead caisson. Recovery and remediation is deployed as soon as a release is identified. A steam and vacuum technique is used to remove the released fluids. Top soil is removed and replaced where required, and native grass sowed. Our goal is to recover as close to 100% of the released volumes as possible within the shortest time frame. IPC Sustainability Report 11 Health 2020 Global Challenge Occupational health In January 2020, IPC participated for the first time Industrial hygiene and occupational health are an integral part in the Global Challenge. of our overall health and safety management system. We have stringent measures in place, from product selection and We had 259 participants from IPC Canada, France, storage, operating practices to PPE requirements, to prevent Malaysia and Switzerland. exposure to chemical substances, noise or other potential During the 100-day challenge we walked: hazards. We continuously monitor the control of exposures to chemical, biological, physical and ergonomic risks at our sites • 4,75 times around the world or 190,596 km. to prevent acute illness and long-term chronic occupational The Global Challenge benefits: disease. Health assessments and fitness-for-work examinations include hearing tests, respiratory evaluations and workplace • 71% of IPC participants walked 10,000+ steps drug and alcohol screenings. per day (vs 17% before the programme). • 62% of IPC participants report greater Health promotion awareness about what they eat. Our occupational health efforts go beyond regulatory requirements. IPC employees globally benefit from medical • 74% of IPC participants lost weight. insurance coverage and paid medical leave. We also promote • IPC participants slept on average 47 minutes sound health practices and encourage office and field staff to more per night. adopt healthy habits. Health campaigns conducted in 2019 include: “This journey took me to a better place by helping me be more aware of my choices, stimulating me • General health awareness to be more active and as a bonus, helping me shed • Stress management and mental health a few pounds.” • Ergonomics campaign Carmen Koch Senior Facilities Engineer Canada • Availability of sport facilities • Promotion of bike to work 12 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 COVID-19 Response We have site specific business continuity plans in place at our The impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has operating sites to make sure we can continue to produce oil and touched every corner of the globe in 2020. At IPC, we gas, one of the key sectors recognised as an essential service have been working across our organisation in response during this crisis. to these unprecedented circumstances that our people, communities and business have faced. Operating practices We implemented processes and PPE to protect those workers had to rapidly adapt, including a swift response incorporating involved in critical operations and required to continue to work at recommendations from governments on dealing with the their normal workplace. This includes operating robust protocols outbreak. Throughout the peak of the pandemic, we held for health and pre-mobilization checks, travel and workplace daily meetings with emergency response teams, leadership access, social distancing and isolation. and senior management to address and respond to the everchanging conditions in the countries where we operate. Credible information As the situation related to the spread of the coronavirus evolved, Robust processes we recognised the importance of sharing credible information on Since January 2020, we have been closely monitoring the the virus to counteract to the myths and false information spread evolving epidemic, putting proactive measures in place across the internet. We regularly updated our staff with the latest to safeguard the health and safety of our employees and information from credible sources such as local health authorities contractors. Our pandemic response plans were swiftly and the WHO, touching on topics such as transmission, signs adapted to ensure business continuity during the COVID-19 and symptoms, risks of exposure and preventive actions. pandemic and activated measures to address COVID-19 in accordance with the guidance of local health authorities and COVID-19 response working group the World Health Organization (WHO). To date, we have not IPC also participates in a COVID-19 response working group experienced any serious disruption to our operations directly with other Lundin group companies and coordinated by the due to the coronavirus. Lundin Foundation. A broad spectrum of socio-economic and health aspects brought to light during this crisis continues to be Protecting people addressed through sharing of best practice and lessons learnt. To allow work from home for a portion of our workforce, Common areas of concern and interest include stakeholder and thus reduce interactions through commuting or close communication, building community trust, mental health, contact with co-workers, we have enhanced IT systems and crisis preparedness and a possible rebalancing of ESG interest security, and ensured the internal control framework, financial in favour of social aspects by the investor community post reporting and review process remain active. COVID-19. IPC COVID-19 Response Business Proactive continuity Case measures planning management · Awareness campaign · Operational impact assessment · Health monitoring · Promotion of personal hygiene · Supplier management · Preventive isolation of close · Travel restrictions · Staggered work shifts contacts · Spread prevention · Engagement with local regulators · Work from home IPC Sustainability Report 13 Employment Four post-secondary students from the First Nations participated in our internship programme at IPC Canada. In France, IPC People drive our performance and are key to our success. sponsored and mentored one student from the French IPC aims to create a safe work environment that promotes petroleum institute IFP School for the academic year 2019-2020. dignity and respect, and in which diversity and the Working together with the Onion Lake Cree Nation contributions of all employees are recognised and valued. In our operations on the Onion Lake Cree Nation (OLCN) lands, located in Saskatchewan, we partner with the local community Our approach to human resources to support employment opportunities. In 2019, members of We believe that success depends on a skilled and motivated the OLCN represented 30% of our workforce at Onion Lake. workforce. Our corporate culture is based on the values of trust, Through its operations, IPC has aided in the establishment and integrity, respect, transparency and accountability. We strive contracting of service companies that are owned and operated to attract, retain and develop talented and enthusiastic people by the OLCN or its individual band members. The services who are dedicated to creating a respectful environment of high provided are directly translatable to other operations and provide performance and achievement. We are committed to the training opportunities for OLCN members to work across the industry. and development of our people. We offer in-house and external In addition, students in related post-secondary programmes training in the areas of health and safety, technical expertise and can apply for an internship with IPC where they receive direct, courses that enhance team performance and capability. hands-on field training. After completion of the programme, interns are placed on a priority list for hiring. Our workforce As of December 31, 2019, IPC had a total of 285 full-time Diversity in the workforce employees. IPC’s global workforce in 2019 constituted of We are committed to diversity in the workplace and equal 529 people, including employees (54%) and contractors (46%). opportunity between women and men. As outlined in our Diversity Policy, we value individual differences and diversity in Local hiring our workforce, and recognise its benefits in accessing a broad Economic development is supported through our local recruiting pool of quality employees and ensuring employee retention. IPC efforts. It is a priority at IPC to draw our workforce from our fosters a work environment free from all forms of discrimination host countries, regional and local communities, to ensure the and harassment, and promotes an inclusive environment where economic benefit of employment remains in the communities employees have equal opportunity to contribute to our success. near our operations. IPC recruits its workforce locally, with 98% of our global workforce hired in our countries of operations. We The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the also promote youth education and work experience by offering Board of Directors is responsible for making recommendations internships to students with a variety of backgrounds. In 2019, on the election or re-election of Board nominees and considers we welcomed interns at our operations office as well as regional a range of factors, such as performance, skills and diversity, offices in Canada, France and Malaysia. including identification and nomination of female directors. 29% 26% Women in our 17% 14% Employees Managers Business Senior management Board of Directors 14 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Communities Community Investment IPC believes in providing financial support to the communities Meaningful engagement with communities nearby in which we operate in a way that supports continued our operating assets is key to ensuring sustainable community development is key to our community investment operations. strategy. We align our contributions with the areas that matter most to our stakeholders and that impact the success of our Operating context business. We currently operate in three different countries, each with unique and diverse cultures, languages, landscapes For the past two years, IPC has made financial donations to and levels of economic development. Our approach to HALO Air Ambulance, a dedicated air ambulance helicopter for community engagement is tailored to these differing the south-east corner of Alberta which is able to reach remote operational contexts, making sure we respect and consider areas and locations with difficult accessibility. HALO serves the rights, concerns and traditional land uses of nearby all area residents and is critical to ensuring that community communities. Through inclusive dialogue, we are able to members can reach emergency medical care with minimum develop long-term relationships built on trust and mutual delay. IPC has also committed to ensuring that local emergency understanding. responders are equipped properly to respond to emergencies and provided the Slave Lake fire department’s oil field training Our approach to stakeholder engagement response centre with funding to secure safety specific We continuously engage with all of our stakeholders. equipment for oil and gas operations. Engagement takes place with regulators, mayors, local communities, indigenous communities and employees, and can take the form of in person meetings, town “This service means the world to the Suffield hall meetings, consultation processes or written employees of IPC and our families that want us safe. communications. For instance, engagement with the It’s a security blanket for our families knowing that Onion Lake Cree Nation community, living 10 km away we, their loved ones, work for a company that cares from the Onion Lake asset, takes place on an ongoing enough about us to help this service stay in the air and basis. IPC’s Senior Vice President Canada is in direct available to us if the need arises.” regular contact with the community’s Chief and Council to share and discuss any activity being planned by the Brad Christian Company. In France, local municipalities are engaged with Foreman Suffield Field Operations on a regular basis. In annual meetings with the mayors of surrounding towns our IPC France General Manager shares IPC engages with the OLCN to support initiatives that are past performance and future plans. In 2019, we have also meaningful to its members and to the ongoing development of organised site visits for community representatives during the community. IPC provided financial support for the building the VGR drilling campaign and hosted an open door day for of a community centre as well funds towards a housing high school students sharing our knowledge about geology initiative, both of which represented key infrastructure projects and oil & gas with the next generation. geared at community well-being. Our partnership with the Onion Lake Cree Nation IPC is proud of its long-standing relationship with the Onion Lake Cree Nation (OLCN). As our stakeholder, the OLCN is consulted at each stage throughout the development project in Onion Lake, Canada. As our partner, the OLCN is encouraged to participate as a working interest owner in the day to day business in addition to receiving a royalty on every barrel produced. IPC strives to be recognised as part of the OLCN community and we work closely with the community to ensure that they share in our success. We contribute funding for various community driven projects as well as support for spiritual and educational initiatives. IPC is committed to minimizing the environmental impact of our operations and we respect the importance for the OLCN to preserve the land for future generations. As part of our continued presence on the lands, we seek to learn and understand stewardship of the land from the OLCN perspective guided by their historical and spiritual connection to the lands. lands Chief Henry Lewis Onion Lake Cree Nation IPC Sustainability Report 15 ENVIRONMENT We recognise the need to conserve ecosystems and living organisms and we aim to avoid, minimise, restore or offset potential impacts resulting from our operations. IPC operates in an environmentally responsible manner We account for and report on our emissions to air, effluents and everywhere we operate. We integrate environmental waste. We seek to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and considerations in all phases of our project planning and seek optimise natural resource use where operationally possible. We to minimise risks to the natural environment. This includes are committed to applying the Best Available Technique (BAT) measures such as environmental assessments, continuous principle and operate our facilities with enhanced operational monitoring, rehabilitation, and the implementation of new or efficiency. improved technologies for the management of resources and facilities. We aim to make the most efficient use of natural resources recognising the valuable ecosystem services they provide. 16 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 GHG Emissions Emission reduction target & Climate Strategy During 2019, more than 80% of our production came from our Canadian business. Our average emissions intensity of 39.86 kg CO2e/boe was more than one third below We understand that impacts related to greenhouse gas (GHG) the Canadian average emissions intensity of 59 kg CO2e/ emissions are increasing in importance for our stakeholders and boe. As part of our commitment to continually improve society as a whole, and that it is our responsibility to mitigate these our emissions performance our Board of Directors has effects. Our operations are subject to GHG emissions regulations, approved our plan, commencing in 2020, to reduce including carbon cap and pricing policies. These are in constant our emissions intensity over the next five years to the evolution as governments are refining their policies post the Paris global average of 20 kg CO2e/boe through a combination Agreement on climate change. of identifying and implementing operational emissions reductions as well as investing in carbon offsetting projects. Having a climate strategy helps us mitigate climate-related risks to our business and informs our approach in a changing industry and society. IPC is committed to minimising emissions that pose potential climate risks while recognizing the importance of economic viability of development activities. Emission Reduction Target kg CO2e/boe Methane reduction Canadian IPC recognises its responsibility to continue to address emissions Industry Average 1 reductions in its operations, not only to meet regulatory requirements, but also to remain a credible operator. Under the Pan-Canadian Framework, as well as under Canadian provincial 59 legislation, the government has set rigorous goals relating to IPC emissions reductions and targets. In advance of the 2023 regulatory deadline, steps were taken at the Suffield asset to reduce emissions through retrofitting and upgrading older equipment. All 39.9 IPC Global post footprint pneumatics have been converted from high bleed to low bleed, or Average 1 reduction to instrument air, with the effect of reducing methane venting. In addition, various pieces of equipment have been fitted with engine fuel management and vent gas capture technologies which work to 20 20 reduce fuel usage and vented emissions of natural gas from engine driven gas compression facilities through engine fuel management and using ventilated natural gas as supplementary engine fuel. 1 Sources National Inventory Report Canada and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers IPC Sustainability Report 17 GHG emission data GHG emissions To implement a climate strategy that effectively evaluates costs, In 2019, our emissions intensity was 0.039 tonnes of CO2e risks and opportunities, IPC must have a clear understanding of per barrel produced. IPC began to measure its emissions its carbon footprint. We have therefore developed a reporting using more advanced methodologies in 2019, in line with approach that includes mandatory and voluntary reporting the GHG Protocol and including the implementation of requirements to track our GHG emissions and measure industry recognised software. Our 2019 data for stationary performance on an annual basis. We maintain an emissions fuel combustion at the Onion Lake Thermal asset has been inventory and identify emission sources for each asset we verified by a third-party engineering firm. Verified emissions operate. account for nearly 50 percent of our total 2019 scope 1 emissions. GHG emissions from our operations are classified as scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions Scope 1 emissions are primarily generated by the combustion from owned or controlled assets. Scope 2 emissions are indirect of hydrocarbons in support of operations in northern Alberta, emissions from the generation of purchased electricity. Scope 3 Canada. Scope 2 emissions originate 95% from purchased includes emissions from sources owned or operated by a third electricity for the Suffield asset, and IPC’s scope 3 emissions party. The reporting boundaries applied reflect operational include business travel by air and land, crew transfer by air control, and we account for 100% of emissions from operated and sea as well as drilling operations. assets. Drilling Business travel by air SCOPE 3 Other indirect GHG emissions Business travel by car 33,171 SCOPE 2 t CO2e Energy indirect GHG emissions Electricity 138,404 t CO2e Own cars SCOPE 1 Direct GHG GHG Emissions emissions by Scope Own oil/gas use 696,699 t CO2e 18 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Enhanced operational efficiency IPC’s onshore and offshore facilities have been designed or adapted to enhance energy efficiency and reduce emissions Emissions to Air to air. With current processes in place we save more than Reductions by Assets 20% of CO2 emissions compared to the base case, with Suffield achieving a 30% reduction and Onion Lake Thermal and Bertam each realising a 25% reduction when compared to the base case. This results in a total annual saving of 150,000 t CO2e. These are achieved mainly through: -25% • Heat recovery – using process heat to pre-heat feed water for boilers • Gas recovery – reducing flaring and fugitive emissions ONION LAKE by reusing the waste gas as fuel gas • Operational efficiency – reducing the need for fuel gas by aligning operational requirements and equipment capacity We recognise that further reductions of this magnitude -30% will be difficult to attain in the future, but we continue to assess new opportunities and technologies to reduce our operational emissions. We monitor R&D developments and emerging technologies in low carbon oil and gas extraction. SUFFIELD Carbon credit generation IPC has been actively participating in carbon offset generation and the carbon markets. In 2018 and 2019, through the operation of engine fuel management and vent gas capture systems as well as pneumatic device conversions in Canada, IPC has validated nearly -25% 11,000 t CO2e of offsets and has generated another 13,000 t CO2e carbon credits. IPC expects to generate a further 30,000 t CO2e carbon credits in 2020, and will evaluate how to best apply these offsets as we continue BERTAM to understand the carbon tax regime in Canada as well as opportunities to reduce our emissions. Operational emission reductions Operational efficiencies: IPC has implemented several design features at its Onion Lake facility which result in operational efficiency. The installation of a single glycol Instrument air and high bleed to low bleed pneumatics: heater for both Phase 1 and 2, rather than two glycol Pneumatic devices are required for control and management of heaters, one in each phase, results in increased efficiency. valves of critical site equipment and have the potential to emit The piping in the entire facility is insulated providing various methane when controlled with gas. They are the largest source benefits; namely, protecting people from piping heat in case of methane emissions in Alberta. In order to reduce or eliminate of contact, retaining heat energy and reducing heating cost. methane venting, the majority of IPC facilities in Suffield have IPC estimates that these measures save approximately low bleed or instrument air systems. The result is an approximate 7,740 t CO2e per year. reduction of 25,000 t CO2e per year of emissions from its operations. Capture and recovery: Vent gas capture systems installed at 14 facilities in IPC’s Suffield operation prevent venting of Flare reduction: In 2019, IPC installed three micro-turbines as part methane, by capturing and reusing it as fuel gas. Similarly, of the Vert-la-Gravelle (VGR) development in France. Associated gas vapour recovery units recover tank vapours and route is used as the energy source to fuel turbines generating electricity these back through the hydrocarbon recovery process. The on site. The produced electricity supplies power to the VGR1 estimated savings from these two initiatives have resulted in production centre which gathers the gas produced on the field. The savings of approximately 15,000 t CO2e per year. use of micro-turbines at VGR contributes to a 30% reduction of flaring emissions. Power: In addition to powering approximately 97% of drive heads using electricity instead of combustion of propane or Electricity reduction: At the Villeperdue site in France IPC gas, IPC has installed electrically driven pumps on various enhanced the efficiency on water injection pumps in 2019. glycol pumps, preventing more than 10,000 t CO2e from These have been modified to reduce the need for electricity by being emitted. approximately 30%. IPC Sustainability Report 19 Carbon offsetting Voluntary carbon offsets IPC is committed to compensating for emissions that cannot be How Carbon Offsets Work avoided or reduced. In the first half of 2020, we have invested in a carbon offset project and retired 50,000 t CO2e carbon credits. This accounts for 7% of IPC’s 2019 scope 1 emissions. 4 1 IPC has partnered with First Climate, one of the world’s leading providers of climate protection solutions, and currently engage in an offset project through which we contribute to the CO2 development of renewable energy. Supporting solar energy The carbon offsets we have acquired though First Climate originate from a solar energy project in northern India. The project consists of two solar parks with a total capacity of 100 MW. It delivers 166,440 MWh of renewable electricity to CO2 India‘s national grid and meets the electricity needs of over 200,000 people per year. This is particularly relevant in India where 75% of energy is fuelled by coal and where 25% of the population is still disconnected from the grid. The project is certified by Verra and received certification from the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), a global standard for 3 2 the validation and verification of voluntary carbon emission reductions. Emissions reductions from VCS projects must be real, measurable, permanent, additional, unique, transparent, and third-party verified. The VCS certification gives assurance on the 1 When CO2 2 ...an investment can be additionality of a project in terms of emission reductions and its emissions cannot made in a project contribution to sustainable development. be avoided... elsewhere. The project contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions 3 This project 4 ...and issues carbon by replacing electricity from fossil-fuelled power plants. It has reduces CO2 credits that can be retired been demonstrated to be 100% additional on the basis of the emissions that to demonstrate that “Approved consolidated Baseline and monitoring methodology otherwise would carbon emissions have ACM0002“published by the Clean Development Mechanism not be avoided... been offset. under the Kyoto Protocol. Without the additional revenues generated by voluntary carbon offsetting, this project would not have been economically viable and therefore would not have been realised. This ensures that supporting the energy project generates real benefits and maximum impact. Industry, innovation and infrastructure: This project supports the implementation of Solar energy solar power and the installment of new power lines in India. project contribution to the SDGs Sustainable cities and communities: By increasing India‘s power supply with While focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, renewable sources, the project helps support the project also generates multiple co-benefits supportive India‘s development without increasing its of the Sustainable Development Goals. output of carbon emissions. Affordable and clean energy: Climate action: Solar energy is an emissions-free source According to the IEA, 11 of the world‘s 20 most of electricity. The addition of the power polluted cities are located in India. This is largely plant sustainably reduces the gap between due to the heavy reliance on coal. Supporting the supply and demand in India‘s power grid. development of renewable alternatives actively contributes to cutting the country‘s emissions. 20 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Carbon pricing As a result of participation in the various carbon tax As the carbon pricing regime continues to evolve in Canada programmes, our facilities are required to meet performance both federally and provincially, particularly as benchmarks are standards that are expected to increase in stringency over time being established, there remains potential for changes to the in accordance with established benchmarks. price of carbon in Canada where 80% of IPC’s production and 94% of GHG emissions originate from. We currently model The regular carbon price for 2020 sits at CAD 30 per tonne and implement a carbon price into our operational expenditures CO2e in Alberta and Saskatchewan, based on equivalency using assumptions which we have developed internally in agreements with the Federal government, and a carbon price of relation to scope 1 and 2 emissions and in line with regulatory CAD 40 per tonne CO2e for 2021 and CAD 50 per tonne CO2e programmes established in the provinces we operate in. for 2022 is foreseen. IPC also evaluates future projects with consideration for carbon pricing impacts and is working towards Alberta and Saskatchewan have implemented programmes the development of a carbon based model which incorporates which have received equivalency from the Canadian Federal the benefits of reduced emissions as they relate to carbon Government in respect of carbon pricing. We participate pricing. in programmes administered by each of the Alberta and Saskatchewan governments, such as the output-based performance standard (OBPS), through which we are measured against a facility-specific benchmark. IPC Sustainability Report 21 Land & biodiversity National Wildlife Area Through environmental impact studies, surveys Suffield Suffield rights and monitoring, we work to limit our impact on the Natural Environment Suffield CFB Main facilities surrounding biodiversity and plan for efficient land use. We risk assess, mitigate and remediate any adverse impacts. Our management approach We are committed to the preservation of biological diversity, to safeguard ecosystems, species and genetic diversity. Through environmental baseline and impact studies we acquire information and understanding of the environments we operate in and how to best act to preserve the natural environment. Regular monitoring and sampling are used to assess any potential impact on biodiversity in the most sensitive places in which we operate. We also support local biodiversity efforts, from ALBERT A planting trees to preserving coral reefs in areas where we SASKA TCHEW operate. AN Suffield CFB Suffield land use Oil and gas operations at the Canadian Forces Base (CFB) Suffield commenced in the mid-1970s under a 0 Miles 10 series of agreements between the federal and provincial governments that enabled exploration and development on Medicine Hat 0 KM 10 a military base. In addition to oil and gas activities, the lands at CFB Suffield are used for military training exercises, cattle grazing, and elk hunting. CFB Suffield has distinct areas used for research, oil facilities and a designated Natural environment in southern Alberta wildlife protection area. Successful co-existence is founded IPC’s assets in southern Alberta, Canada, are located exclusively on an approach of mutual understanding and cooperation within grasslands. It is characterized by level to undulating between the various users of the lands. In order to landforms covered predominantly with semi-arid grasses and recognise the varying uses, IPC accesses sensitive areas occasional shrubs. Trees are generally restricted to river valleys. only during dry and frozen ground conditions, constructs Despite the aridity, the area hosts diversity of over 1,100 species, infrastructure underground, and removes equipment including plants, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and insects. from sites at different times of the year. In addition, IPC It is common to see large mammals like pronghorn and elk as well has strategically placed its facilities to be able to operate as hear birds like meadowlarks and pipits. Five snake species, them year-round during the periods of military training and including the prairie rattlesnake, and a small variety of amphibians exercises. are known to occupy wetlands. Regularly cited species at risk are present on the lands where we operate in and include the CFB Suffield National Wildlife Area ferruginous hawk, burrowing owl, ord’s kangaroo rat and sprague’s Approximately 2% of IPC’s assets at CFB Suffield in pipit. To protect these species, we abide by the Species at Risk southern Alberta are located within the CFB Suffield Act and the Alberta Wildlife Act, conduct regular environmental National Wildlife Area. While the National Wildlife Area assessments and adapt our operational plans where they are does not have an international classification, it is considered present. nationally significant as it contains some of the largest tracts of native prairie grassland in Canada. As a result, it Environmental assessments at CFB Suffield contains species at risk endemic to the prairie environment. Environmental assessments are conducted prior to submitting all The combination of designation and protection under the new applications for activities which involve ground disturbance. Canada Wildlife Act, the listing of critical habitat for species The environmental assessments include field studies to determine at risk under the Species at Risk Act, and no public access the presence or absence of individual species, wetlands, as a result of being on lands under the administration topographical constraints, soil types, and historical or archaeological of the National Defense Act arguably make the Suffield features. The results of the field studies are incorporated into the National Wildlife Area one the most protected areas in land acquisition process to ensure developments have minimal Canada. Interference between the natural environment and impact to the land while still achieving resource development IPC activities is minimal as much of IPC’s infrastructure is objectives. Due to the time between initial studies and project below ground with compressor stations and the oil battery commencement, additional field studies are often completed prior appearing above ground in designated areas. to field mobilization to again confirm absence of sensitive features. 22 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Archaeological and cultural sites in southern Alberta Environmental monitoring at Onion Lake There are archaeological and cultural sites located in IPC’s IPC and its predecessors have been monitoring ambient air southern Alberta assets. Alberta’s Historical Resource Act since 2014 through nine passive exposure stations. This currently applies on both CFB Suffield and Alderson, creating helps to ensure there are no adverse effects from industry the regulatory requirement of seeking clearance under that act. emissions. Sites are continually monitored and collect Significant historical sites on CFB Suffield are already permanently data to determine ongoing air quality which is shared with out of bounds (i.e. Ellis Medicine Wheel), but tipi rings are neighbouring communities. regularly encountered on hill tops and other prominent landscape features. Lands with historical features like tipi rings are assigned IPC has installed 76 shallow groundwater monitoring wells a historic resource value and trigger the need for an archaeological to assess the quality of the shallow groundwater within our assessment. IPC conducts archaeological assessments on lands thermal facilities and well pads. Additionally, water samples with historic resource values to ensure archaeological or cultural are collected from seven surface sampling locations to detect features are preserved. any potential changes in surface water quality. Onion Lake natural environment Wetlands are continually monitored from 77 monitoring The Onion Lake asset is situated within the mid-boreal ecoregion, stations to preserve the functional health of each wetland which is characterised by continuous land cover of aspen and as they affect the abundance and distribution of aquatic mixed-wood forests pitted with wetlands. The area has a rich and terrestrial species. Continued long term monitoring of and diverse wildlife population of which a number of species are wetlands provides important data in terms of proper wetland considered as endangered species under the Canada Species at management, how specific wetlands are reacting to site Risk Act, such as the tiger salamander, horned grebe, common specific conditions and influences, and for future planning nighthawk, and the barn swallow. The presence of provincially purposes. rare plant species, as well as bird and amphibian species at risk, are monitored through IPC’s environmental programmes. IPC’s wildlife monitoring programme is designed to monitor At its Onion Lake assets, IPC works with the local community, the wildlife populations which are listed under the Canada the Onion Lake Cree Nation, to steward the land in a manner that Species at Risk Act. In addition, the programme monitors respects the Nation’s traditional uses. As part of our commitment, the long-term cumulative effects of IPC’s operations on the IPC has developed environmental monitoring programmes and abundance and biodiversity of wildlife present in the region. has conducted traditional land use and cumulative effects studies Data is collected through annual visual and auditory surveys to better understand the short and long-term effects of our for breeding birds, water birds, common nighthawk and operations on the environment. amphibians as well as winter track surveys for mammal species. Air monitoring Onion Lake Surface water monitoring Environmental Monitoring Groundwater monitoring Above ground pipeline Onion Lake AN TCHEW ALBERT A SASKA 0 Miles 10 0 KM 10 IPC Sustainability Report 23 Land reclamation and asset retirement obligations Preserving the surrounding environment in France IPC’s activities therefore include the final steps of putting In France, we conducted environmental impact studies to the lands back to equivalent land capability for the use of determine whether IPC’s activities at the Vert-la-Gravelle site future generations. To accomplish this, IPC has a robust would have a negative impact on the diverse bird population asset retirement obligation (ARO) strategy in which we in the adjacent nationally protected area. Recommendations plan the retirement of our assets in the near and long term, from the studies were implemented in the development of the including the costs associated with abandonment and Vert-la-Gravelle project to minimise the impact of IPC’s activities reclamation. on the surrounding fauna and flora. IPC continues to invest in reducing its ARO through setting Coral reef preservation in Malysia annual budgets and developing strategies that look to IPC is partnering with the Institute of Oceanography & Environment retiring sites that have the greatest environmental impact. of the University Malaysia Terengganu (UMT) on the project “Coral Full details of IPC’s ARO obligations for 2019 are disclosed Reef Conservation & Restoration Towards Sustainable Ecosystem”. in its audited consolidated financial statements for the year The project aims at assisting the scientific community in generating ended December 31, 2019 and is available on SEDAR at information for a better understanding of coral reef and ways to www.sedar.com. conserve it, as well as preserving and restoring deteriorated coral reef areas involving local communities. In addition, in 2019, IPC participated in Alberta’s Area Based Closure Programme, which required it to commit In the course of this 3-year project UMT researchers recover live to spending 4% of its deemed liability on closure activities coral cover at the damaged reef and restore coral-related species during the year. In Alberta, IPC contributes financially, on assemblages, improve food webs and contribute to healthy reef an annual basis, to the Orphan Well Association, which ecosystem, including the recovery of coral reef species and is tasked with cleaning up sites which have been left associated marine benthic communities. As a result of this in situ orphaned by defunct oil and gas companies. work, a sustainable coral restoration model will be developed and put in application to empower local stakeholders to take part in reef management. 24 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Coral reefs and climate change Tree planting in Malaysia Coral reefs harbour the highest biodiversity In 2019, IPC participated in an environmental of any ecosystem globally and provide unique rehabilitation programme in Malaysia promoting ecosystem services. Coral reefs assist in environmental awareness among employees carbon and nitrogen fixing, protect coastlines and their families. The IPC team planted from flooding and erosion, provide shelter 120 trees in the north Selangor peat swamp for marine organisms which are the source forest. of essential nutrients for marine food chains essential to the fishing industry, and directly support over 500 million people worldwide. But coral reefs are among the most threatened ecosystems on earth, largely due to climate change. An increase of 1–2°C in ocean temperatures sustained over several weeks can lead to coral bleaching, a stress response turning corals white. If corals are bleached for prolonged periods, they eventually die. Sustaining and restoring coral reefs is key to avoid their disappearance. IPC Sustainability Report 25 Water management Onion Lake Thermal Our management approach We are committed to responsible use of this natural resource Water Withdrawal 2019 and to minimising any negative impact on water sources. Environmental stewardship of water resources includes Compared to daily river flow protecting water bodies, such as oceans, lakes and rivers, as much as pursuing water efficiency in our operations. We take a 2,500 m3 per day location-specific approach, complying with or exceeding water (0.0001% of the total) 6,245 m3 per day and operating regulations in all of our countries of operations and Onion Lake (0.0004% of the total) engaging with key stakeholders. Community use Onion Lake Thermal Project use Water sourcing for the Onion Lake Thermal project The water required for steam injection at the Onion Lake asset is sourced from the North Saskatchewan River in Canada. IPC’s use of the water is approximately 0.0004% of the total daily flow from the river and represents the entirety of IPC’s water withdrawal in the area. Water is sourced and withdrawn in accordance with local regulations and after obtaining prior informed consent from the Onion Lake Cree Nation (OLCN). As 18 million m3 per day part of IPC’s ongoing relationship with the OLCN, IPC recognises the importance of prioritising access to water for the OLCN, such that the OLCN will always have first rights to river water use and North Saskatchewan River withdrawal. The exposure to water risks in this region is low, and daily flow the water withdrawal from North Saskatchewan River is minimal compared to its daily flow. Protection of water bodies We source and dispose of water in a manner that seeks to reduce our impact on water supply and the surrounding environment. We protect water bodies through water management and contingency planning, including water recycling and reinjection. None of our operations take place in areas that are considered water stressed under local regulation. However, we take seriously our responsibility to protect water bodies close to our operations. Water and climate change Water withdrawal, recycling and discharges We seek to reduce water extraction from natural water systems Climate change manifests itself primarily through operational efficiency, water re-use and water recycling. through changes in the water cycle with Reflecting the diversity of natural environments in which IPC’s uneven consequences across the globe, which operations are located, our assets rely on different sources range from droughts to floods and severe of water for operational and potable water needs, including storms. The resulting impact can be felt in desalinated seawater, surface water, municipal water and alterations to agricultural patterns and water groundwater. IPC monitors its water withdrawals and discharges. availability. Produced water is reinjected or disposed of in accordance with Water is a shared resource upon which people, regulatory requirements and corporate standards. cities, businesses and nature depend. Its availability is varied among geographic regions The installation of the ECO3 produced water recycle system at due to natural topographies and impacts of IPC’s Onion Lake Thermal site in 2019 is the first implementation climate change. As a company, we identify of the technology in a steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) risks related to water scarcity and quality and operation. The ECO3 facility separates water from emulsion and work to ensure water is sourced in a way cleans it to be used as boiler feed water, thereby reducing the that is socially equitable and environmentally need for fresh water intake. IPC’s innovative approach to water sustainable. recycling in SAGD has been proven a technical success and will continue to be evaluated for economic implementation. 26 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Waste management Plastic reduction on Bertam FPSO We manage waste to minimise, segregate and dispose safely any In 2019, IPC launched a plastic bottle reduction waste generated in our operations. IPC’s Environmental Policy campaign in its offshore operations in Malaysia. incorporates the ‘‘3 R’’ principle, i.e. reduce, reuse and recycle to Bottled water has been replaced with water minimise the waste generated and for the continual improvement dispensers to reduce the amounts of single-use of waste management processes. Everywhere we operate, we plastic items onboard, including items such as cups have waste management plans in place, and handle and dispose and drinking bottles. of waste in accordance with local regulations. We aim at reducing waste production and minimising the potential for environmental or health and safety impacts. All waste is identified, characterised and Recycling in Malaysia tracked from generation to final disposal to ensure there is minimal Two third of IPC’s offshore waste is being recycled risk related to our waste production and transportation. at the onshore scheduled waste treatment facility. Gloves, cotton rags, drums, activated carbon and Drilling waste wood are recycled into reusable drums, rags, and Waste from drilling operations are singular to oil and gas operations fuel pellets. and have been optimised with various technologies to reduce volumes and maximise the opportunity for reuse of drilling fluids. Drilling waste generally consists of rock, clay and other sediments with small amounts of entrained drilling fluids, and are termed 10 tonnes/year ‘cuttings’. Drilling fluids are stripped from the cuttings as much FPSO Bertam as possible and reconditioned and re-used where practical. Spent portions of drilling fluids, not suitable for reuse, are safely disposed to off-site treatment plants or by injection into specially classed disposal wells at approved facilities. 3R Principle REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE IPC Sustainability Report 27 ETHICS & GOVERNANCE Strong governance starts at the top of our organisation. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is the foundation of our corporate values. We place responsibility on each and every employee to comply with and uphold these standards. At IPC, we are driven by values of fairness and transparency. We promote a culture of open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders. Governance Structure Shareholders Board of Directors External audit Committees Nominating Reserves Audit and Corporate Compensation and HSE Governance Internal audit Independent qualified reserves auditor CEO and Executive Committee 28 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors sets the tone and standards for IPC. The Our Code of Ethics Board’s fundamental objectives are to enhance and preserve and Business Conduct long-term shareholder value, to ensure IPC meets its obligations on an ongoing basis and to ensure that IPC operates in a reliable Commitments and safe manner. • Act in a fair, honest and equitable way IPC adheres to principles of corporate governance found in • Observe local laws and regulations both internal and external rules. Through our corporate policies we ensure that all employees understand our values and • Respect local customs and traditions commitments and that ethical business practices are applied • Observe applicable international laws and throughout the Company. standards Sustainability Policy • Accurately reflect all transactions in books and In 2019, IPC adopted a Sustainability Policy articulating the records approach around three components: people, environment and ethics. IPC recognises that people are key to the Company’s • Comply with the highest standard of integrity success and confirms the commitment to ensure health, safety throughout the organisation and well-being at work. In respect of the environment, IPC • Be honest and forthcoming with the Company's seeks to conserve ecosystems and living organisms and aims internal and independent auditors to avoid, minimise, restore or offset potential impacts resulting from our operations. We are also driven by values of fairness and • Avoid actual or apparent conflict between a transparency and adopt high standards of professional integrity director’s or an employee’s own personal and ethics. interests and the interests of the Company The Board has also adopted and implemented policies to • Protect the assets of the Company and use them address and ensure appropriate governance in respect of the efficiently to advance the interests of IPC 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. IPC’s Human Rights Policy affirms IPC’s commitment to respect internationally recognised human rights and not to infringe on individuals’ human rights, nor be complicit or contribute directly or indirectly to human rights abuses. IPC’s Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits all forms of corruption, including direct, indirect, active and The Board has also adopted a mandate which acknowledges passive forms, in all of the Company’s activities. IPC’s Anti-Fraud its responsibility to supervise the management of the Policy has the objective of preventing fraud and enhancing the Company, and through the Executive Committee Charter Company’s governance and internal control standards for its has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company. business activities. Our Anti-Money Laundering Policy states The Board’s fundamental objectives are to enhance and IPC’s commitment to the highest standards of integrity and preserve long-term shareholder value, to ensure IPC meets compliance in striving to prevent money laundering or potential its obligations on an ongoing basis and to ensure that the unintended financing of criminal activities. Company operates in a reliable and safe manner. Board of Directors Board Composition and Independence The Board of Directors is primarily responsible for the oversight In 2020, the Board is composed of seven members, six of of management, as well as IPC’s strategy and business affairs. whom are independent, non-executive directors. Ashley The Board ensures that appropriate governance mechanisms are Heppenstall, Don Charter, Chris Bruijnzeels, Torstein Sanness, in place to monitor the Company’s activities, and that relevant Daniela Dimitrov and Harry Lundin are independent for the information and reporting are provided, including progress and purposes of the Canadian regulation NI 58-101 (a director is continuous improvement efforts with respect to its operational, independent if he or she has no direct or indirect material financial and ESG performance. relationship with the Company). There is an independent Chair of the Board and the role of the Chair and CEO is separated. The Board is committed to sound corporate governance practices which are both in the interest of its shareholders and contribute The Board carries out its responsibilities directly and through to effective and efficient decision making. The Canadian National its four standing committees: Policy 58 201 Corporate Governance Guidelines (“NP 58-201”) • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee establishes corporate governance guidelines which apply to all public companies. The Company has reviewed its own • Audit Committee corporate governance practices in light of these guidelines to • Compensation Committee ensure compliance. The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for the Company’s directors, officers and • Reserves and Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) employees that sets out the Board’s expectations for the conduct Committee of such persons in their dealings on behalf of the Company. IPC Sustainability Report 29 Executive remuneration The Compensation Committee receives information and makes recommendations to the Board and, if applicable, shareholders, on matters relating to the principles of compensation, as well as all remuneration and other terms of employment of executive officers. Individual compensation of the Board of Directors and IPC’s five highest paid executive officers is communicated via the annual Information Circular. Sustainability performance is reflected in IPC’s executive officers’ compensation. Performance in the core areas of safety and environment is linked to incentive compensation for all executives. The 2019 goals for corporate and operational performance for management were: production (15%), proved plus probable reserves replacement (15%), net asset value accretion (15%), ESG performance (10%), financial performance based on capital and operating expenditures and cash flow generation (20%) and operational and corporate strategic targets (25%). Starting 2020, the ESG performance target includes the carbon intensity reduction as per IPC’s climate strategy. 30 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Revenue transparency Risk management One of the key roles of the Board and the Executive Committee We believe revenue transparency in the natural resource is to provide risk oversight, including sustainability related risks, sector advances good governance by providing citizens and ensure adequate controls and mitigations are put in place. with information to hold their government representatives accountable, ensuring revenues from the natural resource IPC has a systematic approach to identify, analyse, evaluate and extraction support economic growth and enhance social manage business risks. Our risk management process is based development. IPC complies with applicable tax laws wherever on the COSO ERM framework that considers a broad spectrum we operate and we are transparent about our tax payments to of stakeholders and risk exposures, both internal and external. governments. We conduct risk assessments to assess operational, health and safety, environmental, financial and reputational risks and Payments to governments in countries where we operate opportunities, among others, at both a country and corporate are disclosed in the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures level. Act (ESTMA) report available on our website. Canada is a supporting country to the Extractive Industries Transparency Our risk review process is conducted twice per year with Initiative (EITI), which has confirmed that ESTMA provides an country and corporate level risk reviews. Risk exposures are equivalent level of reporting to the EITI Standard. In our ESTMA captured in risk registers, and ranked based on the anticipated report we publicly report on payments totaling CAD 100,000 impact severity and likelihood of an event occurring in or more which are made to all governments both in Canada consideration of potential human, environmental, social licence and abroad related to the commercial development of oil and to operate and financial consequences. Serious risks are those gas. Types of payments reported include taxes, royalties, fees, that are assessed as having the potential to result in a major production entitlements, bonuses, dividends, and infrastructure impact on the Company and its stakeholders. We track the improvement payments. effectiveness of controls and the implementation of related risk mitigation strategies. Identified key risks are monitored and Anti-corruption reported on a bi-annual basis to the Executive Committee and inform the internal audit plan. IPC is committed to maintain the highest business standards Risks associated with climate change are part of the risk at all times. We have policies on anti-corruption, anti-fraud, review process and are ranked for each country of operation. anti-money laundering and anti-competition in place to ensure We assess implications and identify mitigating measures that ethical business practices throughout the Company. are required to limit or reduce risk and potential liabilities to an acceptable and manageable level. IPC prohibits all forms of corruption, bribery, money laundering and other illegal behaviour, and we encourage anyone working Whistleblowing for us to report suspected wrongdoing. We conduct internal IPC is committed to conduct operations in an honest, audits of all our subsidiaries and have robust financial controls transparent and ethical manner and encourages employees, and processes in place for monitoring and oversight with former employees and contractors of the Company or any of respect to the financial aspects of operations. There were no its affiliates who have serious concerns about any aspect of known incidents of corruption in 2019. the business to raise them and to disclose any information which relates to improper, unethical or illegal conduct in the workplace, including questionable accounting or auditing procedures. Whistleblowers are protected from reprisals and victimization for raising concerns in good faith. In 2019, we have revised our Whistleblowing Procedure and introduced an independent third-party service for the reporting and investigation of concerns regarding improper, unethical or unlawful conduct in the workplace. Individuals governed by the Whistleblowing Policy are entitled to report any such improper conduct on a confidential and, if preferred, anonymous basis, including by submitting a report to the independent third-party service provider, via online platform, telephone, email or mail. The Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure are available on our website. IPC Sustainability Report 31 Human rights Grievance mechanism IPC provides various channels through which affected Protecting people is one of the three key areas around which stakeholders can communicate their grievance. Any grievance IPC’s sustainability approach is articulated. Safeguarding the against the Company is taken very seriously and due process is health, safety and security of our employees, contractors and followed to ensure adequate mitigation is implemented and any the public is our priority. Respecting human rights also means potential harm addressed. offering fair and equitable employment terms and respecting indigenous rights. The most appropriate grievance mechanism is selected for each stakeholder group and location. In Canada, landowners Respect for human rights is a fundamental commitment, adjacent to the Suffield and Alderson block are provided consistent with IPC’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, with direct points of contact within the Company with whom Human Rights Policy and UN Global Compact commitment. they can raise concerns. For indigenous communities in the We recognise the principles of the Universal Declaration of areas of our operations the community’s consultation office Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political brings forward any questions or concerns by the community Rights, International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural members. Further grievance and dispute settlement Rights, UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples mechanisms are determined in the agreements we have and International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Conventions. entered into with First Nations communities. IPC understands the responsibility of businesses to protect human rights in respect of the UN Global Compact, OECD To date there have been no grievances brought against the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and UN Guiding Company. Principles on Business and Human Rights. We have policies in place to support these principles throughout our operations, including the creation of an equal-opportunity workplace, free of discrimination and harassment, and maintaining constructive engagement and relationships with local communities. No human rights-related grievances were filed against the Company in 2019. There were no recorded incidents of discrimination at our operations during the reporting period. 32 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 IPC Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability data PEOPLE 1 2019 ENVIRONMENT 9 2019 Health and safety 2 Unplanned releases to sea or land Fatalities Oil spills 10 Employees 0 Number 1 Contractors 0 Volume from spills (m3) 30 Total 0 Produced water spills 11 Number 1 Lost time incidents Volume from spills (m3) 350 Employees 0 Chemical spills 12 Contractors 4 Number 0 Total 4 Volume from spills (m3) 0 Restricted work incidents Water Employees 0 Water withdrawal Contractors 1 Surface water Total 1 Fresh surface water (m3) 2,313,541 Medical treatment incidents Saline surface water (m3) 868,902 Employees 0 Ground water Contractors 2 Fresh ground water (m3) 95,176 Total 2 Saline ground water (m3) 413,203 Total water withdrawal (m3) 3,690,822 Lost time incident rate 3 1.8 Withdrawal from areas with high water stress (m3) 13 0 Total recordable incident rate 4 3.1 Water recycling Exposure hours Volume (m3) 57,628 Employees (hours) 523,617 Produced water Contractors (hours) 1,692,813 Volume (m3) 26,010,608 Total (hours) 2,216,430 Disposal of produced water Produced water reinjected into the reservoir (m3) 22,162,998 Near misses with high potential 5 2 Produced water injected into disposal wells (m3) 3,157,547 Employment Produced water discharged to sea (m3) 14 690,063 Employees 6 Produced water discharged to surface water (m3) 0 Canada 156 Waste Malaysia 62 Drilling waste France 47 Drill cuttings (t) 3,610 Switzerland 20 Oil-based drilling fluid (t) 3,328 Total 285 Water-based drilling fluid (t) 15,761 Contractors 244 Other wastes generated during drilling (t) 1,155 Employee turnover (%) 7 10.4 Hazardous waste generated (t) 3,596 New hire rate (%) 7 31.7 Hazardous waste recovered or recycled (t) 317 Gender diversity 8 Non-hazardous waste generated (t) 20,247 Number of men 203 Non-hazardous waste recycled (t) 340 Number of women 82 GHG emissions Women in workforce (%) 8 29 Emission intensity (kg CO2e/boe) 15 39.86 Women in senior management (%) 17 Scope 1 GHG emissions (t CO2e) 16 696,699 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 14 Scope 2 GHG emissions (t CO2e) 17 138,404 Employees by age groups (%) Scope 3 GHG emissions < 30 years 7 410 Business travel by air (t CO2e) 18 30–50 years 68 Offshore travel and logistics (t CO2e) 5,332 > 50 years 25 Sales trucking (t CO2e) 2,077 Board of Directors by age groups (%) Drilling activities (t CO2e) 25,352 > 50 years 86 34 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT (continued) 2019 1 The People data boundary includes Canada, France, Malaysia and Switzerland. Energy 2 HSE data is based on assets where IPC has operational control, Energy consumption (KWh) 19 220,221,327 excluding Aquitaine Basin asset where IPC has no operational control. Energy intensity (MWh/bbl) 0.012 3 Lost time incident rate is a rate calculation based on the 2019 total hours worked (employee + contractor). It indicates the number of lost time injuries and fatalities per 1,000,000 hours worked. Carbon offset 4 Total recordable incident rate is a rate calculation based on the 2019 Voluntary carbon offsets purchased (t CO2e) 18 50,000 total hours worked (employee + contractor). It indicates the number of recordable injuries (medical treatment incidents + restricted work Carbon credits earned (t CO2e) 21 24,000 incidents + lost time injuries + fatalities) per 1,000,000 hours worked. First aid injuries are not included. Biodiversity 5 Near miss with high potential incidents are incidents or near miss IUCN Red List species with habitats in operating areas 22 events which in combination of potential consequences (people, environment, asset) and likelihood are assessed to be in the red area Critically Endangered 0 of the risk matrix. Endangered 1 6 We account for permanent and fixed term employees by end of year. Vulnerable 5 7 Employee turnover and new hire rate reflect organisational changes Near Threatened 3 resulting from amalgamation of IPC Alberta Ltd. and BlackPearl Resources Inc. National conservation list species with habitats 8 Gender diversity figures include employees only. in operating areas 22 23 9 The Environment data boundary includes Canada, France and Malaysia. Endangered 9 Data is represented as 100% ownership interest regardless of actual share owned by IPC with acquisitions and divestitures reflected using Threatened 18 the effective date of the transaction. 10 Significant oil spills greater than 100 barrels or 15.89 m3. ETHICS & GOVERNANCE 24 2019 11 Produced water spills greater than 100 barrels or 15.89 m3. Human Rights 12 Chemical spills greater than 100 barrels or 15.89 m3. Incidents of discrimination 13 Based on the 2019 national water stress rankings, World Resource Number of incidents 0 Institute. Incidents of indigenous rights infringement 14 Discharged produced water with a ppm content of 23 ppm, below the 40 ppm regulatory limit. Number of incidents 0 15 Emission intensity includes scope 1 CO2e emissions. Anti-corruption 16 Scope 1 is accounted for on an operated basis accounts for all direct Confirmed incidents of corruption emissions to air from operated assets. Number of incidents 0 17 Scope 2 is accounted for on an operated basis accounts for indirect emissions from electricity consumption. Whistleblowing 18 Business travel emissions include Switzerland. Critical concerns 19 Energy consumption includes electricity only. Number of incidents 0 20 Voluntary carbon offsetting was initiated in 2020. Compliance 21 Carbon credits were validated in 2019 covering the years 2018-2019. Disputes associated with operations 0 22 IUCN and national conservation list species reported for Canadian assets. Significant fines 25 23 National conservation list species are based on Canadian national listNumber 0 ings, including COSEWIC and SARA. Value (USD) 0 24 The Ethics & Governance data boundary includes Canada, France, Environmental fines 25 Malaysia and Switzerland. Number 0 25 We apply a reporting threshold of USD 50,000 reflecting the size of our company and qualification of significant monetary sanction. Value (USD) 0 26 The report on payments to governments (ESTMA) with details of Non-monetary sanctions payments is available on www.international-petroleum.com Number 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Note: IPC will report sutainability data on an annual basis with 2019 as baseline year for 2020 reporting. Number 0 Payments to governments (TUSD) 26 Production Taxes Royalties Fees Entitlements Bonuses Canada 6,260 23,840 7,890 – 280 France 11,150 – – – – Malaysia 660 220 – 21,620 – IPC Sustainability Report 35 GRI Index Standard UN Global Disclosure Description Reference IPIECA UN SDG Compact GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016) 1. Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation SR front cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services SR 2-3 102-3 Location of headquarters AIF 9 / SR back cover 102-4 Location of operations SR 2-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF 9 102-6 Markets served SR 4 / AIF 14-23 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR 2-3, 14, 34 / AIF 24, 49, 56, 60 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SR 14, 34 8.2, 8.5, 10.3 102-9 Supply chain SR 4 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain AIF 10-12, 24 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 16, 22 102-12 External initiatives SR 5-7, 29, 32, 36-37 102-13 Membership of associations SR 11, 31 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 1 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities SR 6-7, 31 / AIF 37-43 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour SR 14, 28-29 / Code of Ethics 16.3 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and Business Conduct 7, 8, 9, 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics SR 28-32 GOV-2, SOC-8 16.3 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 28-30 GOV-1 102-19 Delegating authority SR 29 GOV-1 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics SR 28-29 GOV-1 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics SR 15 GOV-2 16.7 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees SR 14, 28-29 GOV-1 5.5, 16.7 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body SR 28-29 GOV-1 16.6 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body GOV-1 5.5, 16.7 102-25 Conflicts of interest SR 29, 31 / AIF 66 GOV-2, GOV-3 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy SR 28-30 GOV-1, GOV-2 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body SR 28-31 GOV-2 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance SR 30 GOV-1 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts SR 15, 31 GOV-2, SOC-13 16.7 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes SR 31 GOV-2 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social impacts SR 30 / IC 37 GOV-2 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting SR 5-6 102-33 Communicating critical concerns SR 31-32 GOV-2, SOC-8 102-34 Nature and number of critical concerns SR 31, 35 GOV-2, SOC-8 102-35 Remuneration policies SR 30 / AIF 64-65 / IC 102-36 Process for determining remuneration SR 30 / IC 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration IC 16.7 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 15 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 7 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 5 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AIF 9 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries SR 6 102-47 List of material topics SR 5, 7 102-48 Restatement of information SR 6 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 5-6 102-50 Reporting period SR 5 102-51 Date of most recent report SR 5 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 5 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 40 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 5 102-55 GRI content index SR 36-37 102-56 External assurance N/A 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary SR 5 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 5-6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 5-6 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption SR 31, 35 / Business Conduct GOV-3 16.5 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 31, 35 GOV-3 16.5 10 GRI 302: ENERGY (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 35 CCE-6 7.2, 8.4, 9 12.2, 13.1 302-3 Energy intensity SR 35 CCE-6 7.2, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 36 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Standard UN Global Disclosure Description Reference IPIECA UN SDG Compact GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS (2018) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource SR 26 ENV-1, ENV-2 6.1, 6.3, 6.4, 7, 8 6.6, 12.4 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts SR 26 ENV-1, ENV-2 6.3 7, 8 303-3 Water withdrawal SR 34 ENV-1, ENV-2 6.4 7, 8, 9 303-4 Water discharge SR 34 ENV-2 6.3 7, 8, 9 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY (2016) 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas SR 22-23 ENV-3, ENV-4 6.4, 6.6, 14.2, 7, 8 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 15.1, 15.5, 15.8 304-2 Significant impacts of activities on biodiversity SR 22-23 ENV-3, ENV-4 6.6, 14.2, 15.1, 7, 8 15.5, 15.8 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SR 22-23 ENV-3, ENV-4 6.6, 14.2, 15.1, 7, 8 15.5 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in SR 35 ENV-3 6.6, 14.2, 15.1, 7, 8 areas affected by operations 15.6 GRI 305: EMISSIONS (2016) 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions SR 15, 34 CCE-3, CCE-4, 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 7, 8, 9 CCE-5 14.3, 15.2 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions SR 18, 34 CCE-3, CCE-4, 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 7, 8, 9 CCE-5 14.3, 15.3 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions SR 18, 34 CCE-3, CCE-4, 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 7, 8, 9 CCE-5 14.3, 15.4 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 17, 34 CCE-3, CCE-4, 13.1, 14.3, 15.2 CCE-5 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 17-21 CCE-3, CCE-4, 9.4, 13.1, 14.3, 9 CCE-5 15.2 GRI 306: WASTE (2016) 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts SR 27 ENV-7 3.9, 6.3, 6.4, 7, 8 6.6, 12.4, 12.5, 14.1, 15.1 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts SR 27 ENV-7 3.9, 6.3, 12.4, 7, 8 12.5 306-3 Significant spills SR 11, 34 ENV-6 3.9, 6.3, 6.6, 7, 8, 9 12.4, 14.1, 15.1 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (2016) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 35 16.3 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 34 5.1, 8.5, 8.6, 10.3 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (2018) 1. Management approach disclosures 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system SR 9 SHS-1, SHS-2 3, 8.8 1 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation SR 9-10 SHS-1, SHS-2 8.8 1 403-3 Occupational health services SR 9-11 SHS-1, SHS-2 8.8 1 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR 9-12 SHS-1, SHS-2 8.8 1 403-6 Promotion of worker health SR 12-13 SHS-1, SHS-2 3.3, 3.5, 3.7, 3.8 1 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly SR 9-13 SHS-1, SHS-2 8.8 1 linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and managament system SR 9-10, 34 SHS-1, SHS-2 8.8 1 403-9 Work-related injuries SR 10, 34 SHS-1, SHS-2 3.6, 3.9, 8.8, 16.1 1 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 14 SOC-5 5.1, 5.5, 8.5 1, 6 GRI 406: NON DISCRIMINATION (2016) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 31, 35 SOC-5 5.1, 8.8 1, 6 GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR (2016) 411-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour SR 31 8.7, 16.2 1, 2, 5 GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (2016) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples SR 35 SOC-10 2.3 1, 2 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES (2016) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and SR 15 SOC-9, SOC-12 1, 2 development programmes 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local SR 15 SOC-9, SOC-12 1.4, 2.3 1, 2 communities GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (2016) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area SR 35 16.3 G4: OIL AND GAS SECTOR DISCLOSURE (2012) G4-OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production SR 3 G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 34 ENV-1, ENV-2 G4-OG7 Drilling waste SR 34 ENV-7 G4-OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indegenous peoples SR 35 SOC-10, SOC-12 G4-OG11 Decomissioned sites and sites that are in the process of being decomissioned SR 24 ENV-8 AIF: Annual Information Form / IC: Information Ciruclar / SR: Sustainability Report IPC Sustainability Report 37 Forward-looking statements This Sustainability Report contains statements and information which constitute “forward-looking statements” or “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including the Company’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Sustainability Report are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Sustainability Report, unless otherwise indicated. IPC does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forwardlooking statements, except as required by applicable laws. The Covid-19 virus and the restrictions and disruptions related to it, as well as the actions of certain oil and gas producing nations, have had a drastic adverse effect in 2020 on the world demand for, and prices of, oil and gas as well as the market price of the shares of oil and gas companies generally, including the Company’s common shares. During Q2 2020, commodity prices improved although such prices are still below historical levels and there can be no assurance that commodity prices will not decrease or remain volatile in the future. These factors are beyond the control of the Company and it is difficult to assess how these, and other factors, will continue to affect the Company and the market price of IPC’s common shares. In light of the current situation, as at the date of this Sustainability Report, the Company continues to review and assess its business plans and assumptions regarding the business environment, as well as its estimates of future production, cash flows, operating costs and capital expenditures. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, forecasts, guidance, budgets, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “forecast”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe”, “budget” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to: IPC’s estimates of future production, cash flows, operating costs and capital expenditures that are based on IPC’s current business plans and assumptions regarding the business environment, which are subject to change; IPC’s financial and operational flexibility to react to recent events and to prepare the Company to navigate through periods of low commodity prices; IPC’s ability to maintain operations, production and business in light of the Covid-19 outbreak and the restrictions and disruptions related thereto, including risks related to production delays and interruptions, changes in laws and regulations and reliance on third-party operators and infrastructure; IPC’s intention and ability to continue to implement our strategies to build long-term shareholder value; the ability of IPC’s portfolio of assets to provide a solid foundation for organic and inorganic growth; IPC’s belief that oil and gas will continue to be an essential part of the world’s energy mix; IPC’s ability to improve future sustainability reporting; IPC’s ability to implement its GHG emissions and climate strategy and achieve emission reduction targets; and IPC’s ability to reduce exposure to carbon pricing related costs.. Statements relating to “reserves” and “contingent resources” are also deemed to be forward-looking statements, as they involve the implied assessment, based on certain estimates and assumptions, that the reserves and resources described exist in the quantities predicted or estimated and that the reserves and resources can be profitably produced in the future. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources is based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. The forward-looking statements are based on certain key expectations and assumptions made by IPC, including expectations and assumptions concerning: prevailing commodity prices and currency exchange rates; applicable royalty rates and tax laws; interest rates; future well production rates and reserve and contingent resource volumes; operating costs; the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals; the performance of existing wells; the success obtained in drilling new wells; anticipated timing and results of capital expenditures; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the timing, location and extent of future drilling operations; the successful completion of acquisitions and dispositions; the benefits of acquisitions; the state of the economy and the exploration and production business in the jurisdictions in which IPC operates and globally; the availability and cost of financing, labor and services; and the ability to market crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids successfully. Although IPC believes that the expectations and assumptions on which such forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements because IPC can give no assurances that they will prove to be correct. Since forward-looking statements address future events and conditions, by their very nature they involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors and risks. These include, but are not limited to: the risks associated with the oil and gas industry in general such as operational risks in development, exploration and production; delays or changes in plans with respect to exploration or development projects or capital expenditures; the uncertainty of estimates and projections relating to reserves, resources, production, revenues, costs and expenses; health, safety and environmental risks; commodity price fluctuations, including those experienced in 2020; exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; marketing and transportation; loss of markets; environmental risks; competition; incorrect assessment of the value of acquisitions; failure to complete or realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or dispositions; the ability to access sufficient capital from internal and external sources; failure to obtain required regulatory and other approvals; and changes in legislation, including but not limited to tax laws, royalties, environmental and abandonment regulations. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. Additional information on these and other factors that could affect IPC, or its operations or financial results, are included in the Company’s unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and management discussion and analysis (MD&A) for the six months ended June 30, 2020 (See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information”), the Company’s Annual Information Form (AIF) for the year ended December 31, 2019 (See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information”, “Reserves and Resources Advisory” and “Risk Factors”) and other reports on file with applicable securities regulatory authorities, including previous financial reports, management’s discussion and analysis and material change reports, which may be accessed through the SEDAR website (www.sedar.com) or IPC’s website (www.international-petroleum.com). 38 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 The current and any future Covid-19 outbreaks may increase IPC’s exposure to, and magnitude of, each of the risks and uncertainties identified in these documents that result from a reduction in demand for oil and gas consumption and/or lower commodity prices and/or reliance on third parties. The extent to which Covid-19 impacts IPC’s business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the current and any future Covid-19 outbreaks, their severity, the actions taken to contain such outbreaks or treat their impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions resume and their impacts to IPC’s business, results of operations and financial condition which could be more significant in upcoming periods as compared with the first half of 2020. Even after the Covid-19 outbreaks have subsided, IPC may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to IPC’s business as a result of the global economic impact. Non-IFRS Measures References are made in this Sustainability Report to “operating cash flow” (OCF), “free cash flow” (FCF), “Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization” (EBITDA), “operating costs” and “net debt”, which are not generally accepted accounting measures under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and do not have any standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS and, therefore, may not be comparable with similar measures presented by other public companies. NonIFRS measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. The definition and reconciliation of each non-IFRS measure is presented in IPC’s MD&A (See “Non-IFRS Measures” therein). Actual results may differ materially from forward-looking estimates and forecasts. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Disclosure of Oil and Gas Information This Sustainability Report contains references to estimates of gross and net reserves and resources attributed to the Company’s oil and gas assets. Reserve estimates, contingent resource estimates and estimates of future net revenue in respect of IPC’s oil and gas assets in Canada (including oil and gas assets acquired in the acquisition of the Granite Acquisition) are effective as of December 31, 2019, and are included in reports prepared by Sproule Associates Limited (Sproule), an independent qualified reserves evaluator, in accordance with National Instrument 51-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities (NI 51-101) and the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook (the COGE Handbook) and using Sproule’s December 31, 2019 price forecasts. Reserve estimates, contingent resource estimates and estimates of future net revenue in respect of IPC’s oil and gas assets in France and Malaysia are effective as of December 31, 2019, and are included in the report prepared by ERC Equipoise Ltd. (ERCE), an independent qualified reserves auditor, in accordance with NI 51-101 and the COGE Handbook, and using Sproule’s December 31, 2019 price forecasts. The price forecasts used in the Sproule and ERCE reports are available on the website of Sproule (sproule.com) and are contained in the AIF. These price forecasts are as at December 31, 2019 and may not be reflective of current and future forecast commodity prices. 2P reserves as at December 31, 2019 of 300 MMboe includes 286.2 MMboe attributable to IPC’s oil and gas assets and 14.0 MMboe attributable to oil and gas assets acquired in the Granite Acquisition. Contingent resources (best estimate, unrisked) as at December 31, 2019 of 1,089 MMboe includes 1,082.5 MMboe attributable to IPC’s oil and gas assets and 6.2 MMboe attributable to oil and gas assets acquired in the Granite Acquisition. The product types comprising the 2P reserves described in this Sustainability Report are contained in the AIF. Light, medium and heavy crude oil reserves/resources disclosed in this Sustainability Report include solution gas and other by-products. 2P reserves and contingent resources included in the reports prepared by Sproule and ERCE in respect of IPC’s oil and gas assets in Canada, France and Malaysia have been aggregated by IPC and may also be aggregated by IPC with the 2P reserves and contingent resources attributable to the oil and gas assets acquired in the Granite Acquisition included in the reports prepared by Sproule on behalf of IPC. Estimates of reserves, resources and future net revenue for individual properties may not reflect the same level of confidence as estimates of reserves, resources and future net revenue for all properties, due to aggregation. This Sustainability Report contains estimates of the net present value of the future net revenue from IPC’s reserves. The estimated values of future net revenue disclosed in this Sustainability Report do not represent fair market value. There is no assurance that the forecast prices and cost assumptions used in the reserve evaluations will be attained and variances could be material. BOEs may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A BOE conversion ratio of 6 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per 1 barrel (bbl) is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not represent a value equivalency at the wellhead. As the value ratio between natural gas and crude oil based on the current prices of natural gas and crude oil is significantly different from the energy equivalency of 6:1, utilizing a 6:1 conversion basis may be misleading as an indication of value. Currency All dollar amounts in this Sustainability Report are expressed in United States dollars, except where otherwise noted. References herein to USD mean United States dollars. References herein to CAD mean Canadian dollars. IPC Sustainability Report 39 ABBREVIATIONS bbl Barrel (1 barrel = 159 litres) boe Barrel of oil equivalent, including crude oil and natural gas boepd Barrel of oil equivalent per day CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalents, including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide ERM Enterprise risk management ESG Environmental, social and governance GHG Greenhouse gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative HSE Health, safety and environment IEA International Energy Agency IPC International Petroleum Corporation IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association KPI Key performance indicator LTI Lost time incident LTIR Lost time incident rate Mboepd Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day MMboe Million barrels of oil equivalents MTI Medical treatment incidents OLCN Onion Lake Cree Nation PPE Personal protective equipement RWI Restricted work incidents SAGD Steam assisted gravity drainage (a thermal recovery process) SDG Sustainable Development Goal t CO2e Tonne of carbon dioxide equivalents TRIR Total recordable incident rate SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FEEDBACK We welcome feedback from stakeholders regarding our 2019 Sustainability Report. For further information or comments, please contact: Zoë Falquet Sustainability Lead zoe.falquet@international-petroleum.com Telephone: +41 22 595 10 50 40 IPC Sustainability Report 2019 Printed by Imprimerie G. Chapuis SA, Switzerland 2020 Corporate Office International Petroleum Corp Suite 2000 885 West Georgia Street Vancouver, BC V6C 3E8, Canada Tel: +1 604 689 7842 Operations Office International Petroleum SA 5 ch. de la Pallanterie CH-1222 Vésenaz Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 595 1050 Email: info@international-petroleum.com Web: international-petroleum.com
