Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 1 About the report 3 Scope 4 Reader’s guide 4 CEO statement 5 Introduction 7 Company profile 8 Corporate social responsibility 13 Corporate governance 18 People and society 20 Contributing to society 21 Research alleviates hearing loss 23 Improving health and giving back to society 26 Quality products and services 31 Protecting human and labour rights 34 Taking good care of our employees 37 People development 38 Employee engagement 39 Diversity and inclusion 40 Stress management 42 Environmental protection 43 Climate impact 44 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions 45 Material compliance 46 Efforts to reduce our impact 47 Business Ethics 50 Business ethics and legal compliance 51 Responsible procurement 53 Looking ahead 54 Plans for 2020 55 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 2 About the report Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 3 About the report Scope Reader’s guide In this report, we present Demant Management’s commitment to uphold The report consists of five main chapters: As you read the report, each chapter An introduction to Demant and a brief will entail an indication of the relevant social and environmental responsibilities tied to our business, and to walk-through of our CSR framework, Sustainable Development Goals. ensure governance and business ethics. encompassing our sustainability priorities, followed by four main themes covering Below is an overview of where to find Communication on Progress Danish Financial Statements Act the four grand pillars in our current CSR information on the report requirements The report serves as Demant’s CommuniThis report also covers the statutory framework (corporate governance, people that apply to us: cation on Progress (COP) as a signatory reporting requirements on Corporate and society, environmental protection, and member of the United Nations Global Social Responsibility (CSR) and the gender business ethics). Compact initiative. Unless it is declared, composition of management as prescribed third parties such as distributors are not by section 99a and 99b of the Danish included in the reporting. The numbers Financial Statements Act. The report stated in the report are representative of covers the twelve-month period from the Demant Group and the policies en1 January to 31 December 2019. compass all companies within the group, Reporting requirements Where to find it unless stated otherwise. The report pins Within Demant, Vice President of out specific numbers and initiatives from Corporate Communication & Relations Communication on Progress, UN Global Compact our joint venture Sennheiser CommunicaTrine Kromann-Mikkelsen is responsible f action platforms, plans and outcomes: tions A/S. or coordinating the CSR policies, activities, • Human rights (Principles 1-2) Page 15, 34-36 reporting, and the liaison between the or• Labour conditions (Principles 3-5) Page 15, 37-39 With this report, we wish to express ganisation and the Executive Management • Environment (Principles 7-9) Page 15, 43-49 Demant’s continued support of the UN Board. • Anti-corruption (Principle 10) Page 15, 50-51 Global Compact initiative, its 10 fundamental principles, and the 17 Sustainable Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen Development Goals. +45 23 968 968 Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a trkr@demant.com Business model, Policies, key risks, KPIs and results: • Social and employee conditions Page 15, 37-39 • Environment and climate Page 15, 43-49 • Human rights Page 15, 34-36 • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Page 15, 50-51 Danish Financial Statements Act, §99b Gender composition in management Page 15, 40-41 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 4 CEO statement Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 5 CEO statement Taking responsibility for society, people, tion; our efforts to ensure reliability, quality, Even though our value chain entails limited companies within our Group. During 2019, and the environment is deeply rooted in and safety of our products and services; impact on the environment compared to we initiated a concentrated process of Demant’s culture. We acknowledge the and our guarantee to secure a responsible heavy industry, we are aware of and highformulating an updated CSR framework broader responsibility that comes with value chain. ly committed to reducing our environmenfor 2020–22. We will refine and employ the operating a large, global business – our tal footprint. As part of this promise, we new framework and generally sharpen our responsibility towards customers, employHearing health is general health, and this support the Paris Agreement and are comCSR focus in 2020. I am personally excited ees, business partners, shareholders, as year we have worked with a dedication mited to support the 70% reduction target about the journey on which we have well as the society which surrounds us. to deepening and broadening the knowlby 2030 brought forward by the Danish embarked towards becoming even better While strengthening our business activiedge and understanding of the detailed government. We have worked to identify at framing and aligning our work with ties for the future is essential, we aspire to relationship between hearing, health, opportunities within reducing, reusing, responsibility and sustainability. always put responsibility first. and the brain. Stressing the link between and avoiding excess materials. Furthergood hearing and well-being is not only more, our business activity Diagnostic has Demant’s CSR work mirrors our continued More than 115 years ago, one man’s extremely important to me personally; obtained an ISO 14001 certification in their commitment to the United Nations Global mission to help his hearing-impaired with the prospects of an increasing elderly production, and thus we have become the Compact and support of the Sustainable wife lead a better life paved the way for population and more people suffering from only environmentally certified supplier of Development Goals. We focus on access a business aimed at helping people with hearing loss, it becomes more necessary audiology equipment in the world. to health, jobs, and education, as well as hearing loss take an active part in society. for countries and their healthcare systems innovation and economic growth, susTo this day, Hans and Camilla Demant and not to neglect benefits from hearing care. The Demant family continues to grow and tainable consumption and production, the Demant family’s purpose of creating transform, and so does the world around the climate, fair businesses, and inclusive life-changing differences through hearing Focus on care extends beyond our customus. This year, we have worked intensely on societies. health remains unchanged. The essence ers and users and is essential to everyintegrating our modern headset business, of this, backed by the testimonials from thing we do. We care about employee Sennhesier Communications A/S, into the We believe that progress thrives on the our customers and users, is the reason my engagement, well-being, development, diGroup and on the process of rebranding nourishment of creative minds. The cases colleagues around the world and I wake versity, and inclusion. This year, I am proud the company to EPOS. brought forward in this report illustrate up every morning and go to work highly to see that our global engagement score that we do more than pay mere lip service committed. improved, paving the way for further talent As a parent group of a complex organisato responsibility. We live it every day and development of the Group. This year’s tion, we have identified a need to frame will continue to move forward in the purBehind this purpose stands our Group’s reporting has also indicated a need to a one-company approach to our broader suit of improving. constant investments in innovation and sustain our ongoing focus on diversity and work with CSR. This new approach will technology; our contribution to better rethe need to identify enablers and barriers not merely lay out drivers for responsible Søren Nielsen President & CEO search, education, and hearing rehabilitato create an even more inclusive culture. behaviour but set specific priorities for the Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 6 Introduction Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 7 Introduction Company Profile For more than a century, Demant has played a vital part in developing innovative technologies and know-how to help improve people’s hearing. All over the world, in every aspect, at every touchpoint from hearing devices, hearing implants, diagnostic equipment, hearing care, and intelligent audio and video solutions to modern headsets. Demant is present, active, and engaged. We aspire to pave new ways within hearing health while we ensure our long-term presence and conduct responsible business. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 8 Introduction A world-leading hearing health group The Demant Group operates in a global market with companies in more than 30 countries. We employ more than 15,800 people, and our products are sold in more than 130 countries. We facilitate good hearing by offering the newest technology and hearing care, as well as by bringing Hearing Hearing true innovation to the market in an efficient Diagnostics Communications manner. Sharing knowledge and expertise Devices Implants across our Group also includes our shared services function, infrastructure, and common distribution to increase cost efficiency and stay highly competitive. In the financial year 2019, total Group revenue was DKK 14,946 million. Demant is listed on the Nasdaq Copenhagen stock exchange as one of the 25 most traded shares in terms of free-floated market capitalisation, also known as the C25 index. William Demant Invest A/S, a company wholly owned by William Demant Foundation, holds the majority of the shares in Demant A/S, providing stability and strength for the future. A copy of Demant’s annual report for 2019 can be found online at: www.demant.com/media#media-documents Shared functions Distribution activities Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 9 Introduction The Demant brand Business activities During 2019, we changed our name from approach. The aim of all our businesses The Demant companies collaborate and We focus on four business activities: HearWilliam Demant Holding to Demant. The is to become each customer’s preferred share resources and technologies in ing Devices, Hearing Implants, Diagnostics, name change was part of a bigger journey supplier of state-of-the-art solutions and multiple ways throughout the entire value and Communications. of providing a stronger parent company services, and to create a platform for conchain, from procurement and production to brand for the group services, shared functinued organic growth. We strive to meet R&D, marketing, and sales. These synerWithin Communications, during 2020, our tions, and business activities of the Group user needs by maintaining a high level of gies enable millions of people to experiformer joint venture Sennheiser Communito use as a corporate communication platinnovation and constantly expanding our ence the joy of sound, whilst at the same cations will end and the business segform. We have evolved our approach and global infrastructure. time facilitating smarter ways of working. ments Enterprise Solutions and Gaming transformed from a silent holding company All companies, however, have their own Headsets will evolve as a new indepento a more active parent company, containThe stronger Demant brand has foremost organisation and unique identity in order dent company under the Demant Group, ing a group of individual companies that enhanced collaboration and provided a to service their individual markets in the EPOS. In autumn 2019, we announced all benefit significantly from being part of a sense of belonging across the Group, best way possible. that the new company will be branded global, high-performing hearing healthcare while it also works well to attract EPOS and will from 2020 be included in group. All brands continue to approach and retain talent. Demant’s CSR reporting. their markets and customers individually based on a multi-brand and multi-business Hearing Devices represents our core business. Hearing Implants is comprised of boneWith several hearing aid brands, we target anchored hearing systems and cochlear imall sales channels and customer segments, plants, offering treatment for people who are striving to deliver the best products possible profoundly deaf or have severe hearing loss. and state-of-the-art technology. With Diagnostics, we offer solutions for With our business activity Communications, measurement and diagnostics within hearing we address an attractive and fast-growing and balance, as well as new-born hearing market for intelligent audio and video screening and a large service organisation. solutions. We are active in Enterprise Solutions and Gaming headsets. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 10 Introduction Europe 41% North America Asia 41% Other 8% countries 4% Pacific 6% Revenue by geographic regions 100% of the total volume of hearing aids production is based in Poland, while our amplifier production is located in Denmark. Custom production and service and repair is located mainly in the Americas (US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil), EMEA region (Poland, Italy, Germany, Turkey, South Africa) and Asia Pacific (Australia, China, Japan and Korea). Hearing implants are produced in France. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 11 Introduction Our supply and value chain Raw Suppliers Inbound R&D Production Distribution Customers Users materials logistics Logistics Service and repair Life-changing hearing health In a world where integrity and authenticity are key decision drivers, being led by an original purpose is an essential reference point for the whole Group: We create life-changing differences through hearing health. Three pillars that set us apart: Our company history begins with one man’s Hearing care is healthcare and we cannot Our passion for innovation and technology passion to help his hearing-impaired wife. By stress the strong link between hearing and will help make the unthinkable a reality. With committing to improving the lives of people general health enough. Through the unique solutions that are compatible with modern with hearing difficulties, the Demant family combination of qualified care and the newlife and work in the digital age, we continue gave us a solid foundation on which to create est technology in hearing instruments and to bring innovative products to market. And the future of hearing health. This commitment implants, as well as in diagnostics and fitting by pushing scientific boundaries and sharing continues to motivate us every single day. equipment, we believe that what we do is our research-based expertise, we play a crumore than merely amplifying sound. In the cial role in shaping a better future; benefitting same way, the health care professionals we us all as we live active lives and grow older. work with do more than merely fit hearing aids. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 12 Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Demant’s activities have an indisputable positive impact on people’s health and well-being. Our products and services improve the quality of life of users and patients, new-borns, young and elderly alike, by offering sound to the brain and the access to life it brings. In 2019, we helped more than 2 million hearing aid users and, with our hearing implants, we helped well above 10,000 users with profound, conductive, and single sided hearing loss. Our technology helped diagnose a three-digit million number of people with suspicion of hearing loss and screened a two-digit million number of new-borns. While we recognise our ability and responsibility to the reduce our environmental footprint and to positively influence ethical behaviour, our core responsibility lies in our ability to make a true difference with our positive impact on world health. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 13 Corporate social responsibility Framework for Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Corporate governance Our CSR work is rooted in a framework of 14 principles for responsible business practices within: Corporate governance, people and society, environmental protection, and business ethics. We also acknowledge our responsibility to promote similar practices among our suppliers and external business partners. Business The framework was developed in alignment with People and ethics The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global society Compact, to guide our management and employees, and support progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. It is reviewed and updated if necessary, by Demant Management, on an annual basis. Environmental protection Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 14 Corporate social responsibility CSR framework Corporate People and Environmental Business governance society protection ethics The Board of Directors and the ManageThe Group contributes positively to indiDemant endeavours to protect the enviWe strive to be responsible corporate citiment of Demant review the corporate viduals and communities with our purpose ronment for future generations by monzens and are commited to conducting our governance on an ongoing basis and of bringing life-changing hearing health itoring and reducing the environmental business in accordance with the law and regularly assess whether amendments of through our products and services and by impacts of its business activities and drivhigh ethical standards. Our ambition is to the Company’s Articles of Association or job generation, economic growth, and tax ing specific initiatives to further increase act based on a one company approach. managerial processes are required. payment. Demant supports the Universustainable practices. In a competitive market, our business can sal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO’s only flourish if based on sound business Declaration of Fundamental Principles ethics. We have implemented a new Deand Rights at Work, and the UK Modern mant Group Third Party Compliance Code Slavery Act. in 2019. We have also formulated a new Demant Group Code of Conduct which will be implemented in 2020. 1. We maintain an accountable and 4. We treat our employees with respect 9. We use materials efficiently and 12. We are committed to abide by the efficient management structure. and dignity, encourage diversity, and strive to optimise packaging as well laws and regulations of the countries ensure fair treatment. as waste handling. in which we operate. In the absence 2. We communicate in an open, transof adequate laws and regulations, parent, impartial, and timely manner 5. We prohibit the use of forced or child 10. We limit the use of hazardous subwe refer to recognised international with the stock market about the labour. stances in products and processes. standards and industry norms. Group’s strategy, objectives, and risks. 6. We provide a safe and healthy work11. We monitor our impact on the 13. We work against bribery and other ing environment where employees climate and aim to reduce energy forms of corruption, both directly 3. We maintain adequate internal can perform to their full potential and consumption. and indirectly, and we strive to avoid control mechanisms with a view to where initiative is encouraged. facilitation payments. monitoring, managing, and mitigating any material risks associated 7. We recognise our employees’ rights 14. We avoid actions that may impropwith our business. to freedom of association and collecerly influence business decisions. tive bargaining. 8. We strive to maintain good relations with local communities and the surrounding society through in-volvement and open communication. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 15 Corporate social responsibility Sustainable Development Goals Demant supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and aspires to contribute to their success. Even though we contribute to several of the goals, we believe our contribution primarily falls under SDG 3, 4, 8, 9, and 12. We will briefly introduce why we consider this our biggest contribution. In addition to the primary SDGs mentioned above, we also pay attention to SDG 5, 13, and 16. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 16 Corporate social responsibility Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3 is about ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being at Goal 9 is about building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive all ages. and sustainable industrialisation, and fostering innovation. Here lies our biggest contribution because of our core business: treatBy providing scientific research, upgrading the technological capament of hearing loss. There is a strong correlation between mental bilities of relevant industrial sectors, and encouraging innovation, we health and hearing health, and state-of-the-art research continues boost R&D spending in the countries where we operate. to support this link. We contribute to groundbreaking hearing health research. Through William Demant Foundation, we make donations to universities around the world and contribute with cutting-edge health We do our very best to promote a system of care and rehabilitation research. within hearing health by collaborating with national political bodies and institutions on seeking the best way to treat hearing loss. Goal 4 is about ensuring inclusive and equitable, quality education Goal 12 is about ensuring sustainable consumption and production and promoting life-long learning opportunities for all. patterns. Through our products and services, we offer the gift of sound to Although our core business is not heavy production, we still address people with hearing loss. Hearing capabilities can be essential for how our own products, services, and business operations impact the access to education and labour; directly and indirectly, we contribute environment. We continue to pursue substituting more sustainable to increasing the availability of a skilled workforce. materials in our operations, production, and products. We foster education by supporting hearing health as well as educaWe especially focus on reducing waste generation through prevention and research through William Demant Foundation. tion, reduction, and recycling. We also acknowledge that we must address our own climate impact. Goal 8 is about promoting sustained, inclusive, and sustainable SDG 5 economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent We focus on ensuring equal access to positions, development opportunities and work for all. management roles at all levels. We believe diversity is fundamental to driving a As a responsible employer, we offer quality job opportunities and successful business. We work on creating an even more diverse and inclusive decent work conditions for our employees. As a catalyst for jobs, we organisational culture. stimulate the economy while trying to reduce the negative impact we have on the environment. By providing the ability to hear, we make SDG 13 it possible for people with hearing loss to enter or stay in the labour Even though the Group’s core business is neither intense on energy nor on the use market. of materials, we are committed to reducing our energy consumption. We strongly believe all large-scale companies can do their part to combat climate change and We protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working envihave joined the Danish climate committee to support this obligation. ronments for all employees within our Group. We also work to ensure diversity and inclusion in teams and management. SDG 16 To us, most of the targets within SDG 16 is implicit and an undeniable part of As part of leading a decent business, we promote responsible supply conducting a responsible and sustainable business. We are committed to ethical chain management. business practices and compliance to detect non-complaint and unethical behaviour within our value chain. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 17 Corporate Governance In order to balance our many stakeholders’ interests, we have established Demant A/S is subject to the Danish Recommendations on Corporate a set of processes and relations by which we control and direct our comGovernance laid down by the Danish Committee on Corporate Goverpany. Demant’s Board of Directors and Management consider Corporate nance in respect to the way in which we adhere to the recommendations. Governance on an ongoing basis and regularly assess whether amendAs a listed company, the Group strives to maintain an accountable and ments to the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes efficient management structure and communicate in an open, transare required. parent, impartial, and timely manner with the stock market about the Group’s strategy, objectives, and risks. Control mechanisms are in place with an objective to monitor, manage and mitigate any material risks associated with our business. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 18 Corporate governance Management structure Demant A/S has a two-tier management The Executive Board has the overall respon• Policies for IT, insurance, cash manageand supporting the corporate social responsistructure consisting of a Board of Directors sibility for the activities and the day-to-day ment, procurement etc. bility mission and activities of the Group, and and an Executive Board. operations of the Company. The tasks, the responsibility for coordinating, aligning, responsibilities and scope of the Executive • Reporting instructions, as well as reporting and reporting to the Executive Board lies with Under the Company’s Articles of Association, Board, as well as the guidelines in respect to and finance manuals Demant Corporate Communication & Relations. the Board of Directors must consist of four the delegation of duties between the Board The responsibility for maintaining sufficient to six board members elected by the shareof Directors and the Executive Board, are and efficient internal control and risk manholders at the general meeting, in addition stipulated in the Instructions for the Executive agement in connection to financial reporting, to staff-elected board members. Currently, Board. governance, and corporate social responsibilthe Company’s Board of Directors has eight ity lies with the Executive Board. As such, the members: five elected by the shareholders The annual general meeting is the supreme Executive Board is responsible for shaping and three elected by our employees in Denauthority in all company matters. The mark for a duration of four years. The staff Company has one majority shareholder, the elections took place in January 2019. William Demant Foundation, which directly or indirectly holds 55–60% of the shares and The Company’s Executive Board presently voting rights at the annual general meeting. consists of two executives: President & Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Internal control and risk management Reporting on corporate governance The Board of Directors and the Executive we conduct a very detailed planning and When reporting on corporate governance, instead. To further increase transparency, we Board are in an ongoing dialogue on the budgetary process. Any deviations from the we follow the “comply or explain” princihave decided to provide supplementary and identification, description and handling of the plans and budgets concluded in the process ple, which means a failure to comply with relevant information even when we follow business risks to which the Company may are carefully monitored on a monthly basis. a recommendation does not constitute a the recommendations. A complete schematic be exposed. Any material risks are described in the Annual Plan and Budget on an annual To ensure high quality of the Group’s financial breach, as long as we explain why we have presentation of the recommendations and basis, which the Board of Directors approves. reporting systems, the Board of Directors and chosen not to follow a given recommendation our compliance, Corporate Governance 2019 In the chapter on risk management activities the Executive Board have adopted policies, and explain what we do instead. The cases – Statutory report on corporate governance, in our annual report, we provide a review of procedures, and guidelines for financial where we have chosen to deviate from a cf. section 107 b of the Danish Financial the main elements of our internal control and reporting and internal control to which the recommendation are well-founded, and we Statements Act, is available at our website: risk management systems in connection with subsidiaries and reporting units must adhere, have substantially explained what we do the financial reporting process. including: From a financial reporting process and • Continuous follow-up on results achieved internal control point of view, once a year compared to the approved budgets www.demant.com/media#mediadocument Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 19 People and society Our founder Hans Demant started the company out of a passion to help his hearing-impaired wife Camilla, and subsequently more and more people, live a better life. More than 115 years later, this care continues to be a central part of Demant. Being able to interact with others is a vital part of living. When we hear sound and impulses, they stimulate the brain and help keep our hearing more fit. This allows us to communicate and interact with our surroundings and stay active and engaged. Demant aspires to help people improve their lives through hearing, so that they can engage in conversation with their loved ones, stay in or enter the labour market, and take part in society. We do this as our core business and through various processes, principles and prioritisations presented in the following chapter. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 20 People and society Contributing to society We work every day to alleviate hearing loss by providing state-of-theart research, and our majority shareholder William Demant Foundation supports education and research, rehabilitation projects, hearing care programmes, and the society, through several philanthropic activities. With our products and services more people can pursue education, the workforce population grows, mental illness, such as depression can be prevented, and the risk of dementia reduced. We aspire to aid promotion of better hearing rehabilitation by collaborating with politicians, authorities, institutions, and government officials on constantly refining what we know about hearing loss and treatment hereof. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 21 People and society Opn changed my life a lot. Hanging out with friends and not knowing what they’re talking about, that was always the worst. A word from our users With Opn hearing aids I don’t have that problem. Carlo, age 18, Oticon Opn user I can really participate in life again – that’s just Opn S has changed my fantastic. We’ve had the TRV Chair world! I’m hearing the (“spinning chair”) for two nuances of sounds that I Hans Bladt, Oticon Medical years now and see great missed for years – from the Neuro 2 user potential to be able to soft sweep of the brushes treat BPPV (balance on my cymbals to the steady disabled) patients quicker beat of my loudest drums. and more efficiently. Opn S is helping to bring back the passion I have for Dawn Clare, Head of Audiology, Royal National Throat, Nose and my music and my life. Ear Hospital, London, UK Lenny, Oticon Opn S user Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 22 People and society Research alleviates hearing loss Eriksholm Research Centre Through a joint effort with our research and development experts, we At Oticon’s Research Centre, Eriksholm, we conditions during a day. Therefore, we experprovide groundbreaking scientific research, upgrading the technological study hearing, the concept of BrainHeariment with applying artificial intelligence to ing, and we develop the next generation the user information obtained from hearing capabilities of relevant industrial sectors and encouraging innovation. of solutions. The research is anchored in aids, in order to create optimised settings Our research efforts enable us not only to create exceptional audiological two megatrend research areas: Augmentdynamically. The technology will make the products, but to understand what improves the overall hearing health ed hearing science and Cognitive hearing performance of hearing aids even better and science. and quality of life. As shown by scientific proof, quality hearing solutions thus give the users the best possible support improve people’s overall health and mental well-being. On the following Whereas the most central impact of our in any listening situation. pages, we highlight some of the most prominent research projects and research and innovation activities becomes The Deep Neural Networks (DNN) algorithm results of the Demant Group in 2019. evident when implemented in our products can mimic the human brain’s capability of or services, we believe it is essential to share separating voices. Whereas the capability and distribute the knowledge we generate. to separate voices comes easily and intuitively for people with normal hearing, it can Eriksholm Research Centre, 2019: be increasingly difficult for hearing impaired • 24 papers in published peer reviewed people. In recent research with our academic journals partners at Tampere University in Finland, • 6 papers in conference proceedings we were able to show that when using DNN • 1 book chapter it is possible for people with hearing loss • 14 conference posters to achieve the same separation of compet• 21 conference presentations ing voices that people with normal hearing achieve. As part of an ongoing PhD project, Augmented hearing science Oticon is collaborating with Aalborg UniverA well-known challenge within hearing sity in Denmark to further study DNN and the healthcare continues to be the “Cocktail possibilities of improving speech enhanceparty problem”, where multiple speakers and ment by introducing a visual input source to background noise create a “babble”, which is the hearing system. With the combination of hard to understand for people with hearing visual and auditory inputs, the idea is to build loss. Artificial intelligence is very helpful in speech enhancement algorithms to work in solving the issue. While modern hearing aids noisy environments. A demonstration test are powerful and offer many parameters that indicates a significant increase in speech can be adapted to specific listening condiquality when you combine the visual input tions, it is practically impossible to adapt all with the auditory input. parameters to the ever-changing listening Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 23 People and society Cognitive hearing science tension on the surface of our in-ear skin. The been able to document that hearing aids emneeds, however, most of the public healthPupillometry has proven to be a highly effisignal can be used to continuously adjust power the brain to better organise complex care providers do not have enough time nor cient means of measuring the cognitive load the hearing aid’s performance to minimise sound environments. We documented this the capabilities to provide such customisaof listeners. Our pupils change size depending listening effort by steering the hearing aid using a new research method developed in tion. The BEAR project investigates how dion the level of cognitive effort we put into with eye gaze. The eyes are strong dipoles the previously mentioned, EU-funded Europeagnosis of hearing loss and customisation of listening. Constant monitoring of the listening and their movements can be measured via an Horizon 2020 project COCOHA (COgnitive hearing aids can be improved to show that, effort in future hearing aids will help support the EEG electrodes in the ear. By knowing COntrol of a Hearing Aid), working together in the long term, it leads to improved health the listener in keeping the listening effort at a where the user is looking, we can focus the with leading universities in the UK, France, outcomes and presents a good investment minimum level in any situation. hearing aid in the same direction. EEG signals Switzerland, and Denmark. It is the first time for the public healthcare system. measured over long periods of time also offer that hearing aids have been documented to In an European Horizon 2020 project COCOnew opportunities for helping people not only be able to improve this most central listening In 2019, we made the first major learnings HA (COgnitive COntrol of a Hearing Aid), we within hearing healthcare but also in general ability of the brain, using objective research from the BEAR project, which we are now documented how it is possible to measure the well-being. An combination with the above methods. using to create improved methods for hearing EEG signal of the human brain via electrodes described DNN for speech separation, this aid fitting and rehabilitation. These improved on the hearing aids. EEG is a technology presents a big step toward the solution of the Improving customisation from the public methods will be tested in a large-scale clinithat measures extremely small changes of cocktail party problem. healthcare system cal study in 2020. Oticon continues to be actively involved in the Danish BEAR study, which investigates BrainHearing for hearing implants the benefits of better individualisation of Within our business activity Hearing ImBrainHearing and better fitting treatment for people who are fitted with hearing aids from the public healthcare sysplants, we run several BrainHearing research projects with Cochlear Implants (CI) and tem. Modern hearing aids can be customised Bone-Anchored Hearing Systems (BAHS) Oticon life-changing technology loss. Traditional hearing aid technology was to individual diagnoses and other listening partners across the globe to ensure that Oticon works with improving the unoften not able to provide full audibility during derstanding of the detailed relationship chewing, hugging, drinking, or standing close between hearing and the brain and using to reflective surfaces. This is due to feedback, insights from that work to develop new the squealing sound that still haunts many technologies that empower the brain. hearing aid users and their significant others. Reduced access to all the details in sound A new technology developed in the Demant and noise is what limits the brain of a innovation labs, and integrated into the person with hearing loss. By ensuring that hearing aids deliver more details from products launched in 2019, prevents feedsound that can be used by the brain to back from happening when the hearing aids effectively navigate noisy environments, are fitted according to clinical best practices. we can provide increased quality of life to With this new technology and launch (e.g. people with hearing loss. in Oticon Opn S), we have seen continued reduction of both objective and perceived How the brain can grasp sound listening effort as well as an improved ability more effectively to remember what was heard. This year, we have had a breakthrough in our understanding of how the brain makes Combining the above-mentioned technology sense of sound when a person has a hearing with noise reduction technology, we have Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 24 People and society patients are using solutions and fittings that multi-national research programme with not only bring audibility, but also minimise academic partners in Denmark and the listening effort. The programme “The BrainUnited Kingdom on combining CI and haptic Hearing Network”, is being rolled out at clin(vibro-tactile) stimulation. Although it is not ics across the globe, including Medical School a simple fix but an effort which requires Hannover, Seoul National University hospital, substantial research and technology develGentofte/ Rigshospitalet in Denmark, Univeropment in the years to come, we are detersity Hospital of Sao Paulo, and many others. mined to bring a better music experience to CI users. We continue to develop and grow our portfolio of research tools and projects for underCreating solutions that work for the individstanding the adverse implications of hearing ual user deprivation on cognition. Through studies Across manufacturers, we see a large with academic and clinical partners, we variance in outcomes, especially for Cochlelearn that hearing care is really about brain ar Implants (CI). There is no single reason care, and that intervention with, for example, for this; differences in pathologies, hearing a Cochlear Implant (CI) can have positive history, duration of deafness, access to good effects on cognition and even delay cognirehabilitation, and surgical aspects all contive decline. In 2020, we will, through our tribute to the variation. As manufacturers, we participation in the European Horizon 2020 are obliged to understand how we can help research project Comm4Child, further expand reduce the variation in outcomes to make our activities in the BrainHearing domain to treatments more cost-effective and enable include more research on the importance of a higher penetration of implantable hearing low listening effort for learning for children solutions. To this end, we are supporting a with hearing loss. range of research projects within: Music and cochlear implants • Image-guided CI surgical planning and Listening to music evokes many cognitive evaluation for individual anatomies processes including emotional responses and can be used for relaxation or even manage• Analysis of individual and fundamenment of mental health conditions such as tal mechanisms for bio-integration of stress. Music also triggers associations and implants activates motor functions such as tapping or dancing, and it plays an important role in • Understanding real-life needs and chalsocial interactions. Many Cochlear Implant lenges for implanted patients through sta(CI) users are deprived of this experience. tistical analysis and Artificial Intelligence Our portfolio of activities in this area embodmodelling of multi-modal data collected ies our dedication to support the research across many patients in the field community in bringing music to CI users to improve mental health and social well-being. • Use of virtual reality and virtual acoustics For example, the bi-annual Music & Cosetups for emulating real-life sound and chlear Implants Symposium, as well as our visual environments in the lab Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 25 People and society Improving hearing health and giving back to society Improving life with hearing loss Oticon Medical Friends – Connecting users users and people with common interests can Oticon Medical Friends is the new online connect and learn from each other. community for Oticon Medical users. It premiered for American Ponto users (bone-anWHO’s World Hearing Day chored hearing systems) in November 2019 World Hearing Day is held on 3 March each and will expand to Neuro users (cochlear year to raise awareness of how to prevent implants) in France, in 2020. The community deafness and hearing loss and to promote welcomes both users and caregivers of users, ear care and hearing health across the world. such as parents and relatives. Each year, Demant partners up with WHO to communicate and create awareness around Oticon Medical Friends features: different topics of hearing care – and to • Groups based on interests, device type, enlighten and educate on how to take care and experience, where people can connect of your hearing. A great part of the Demant and exchange experiences and ideas DNA is to develop innovative technologies • A library with downloadable articles and and know-how to help improve people’s guides on how to make the most of your hearing health and it is therefore natural implantable hearing device. These for us to celebrate and take part in World materials are exclusively available to Hearing Day. Oticon Medical Friends members • Direct messaging capabilities that allow In recent years, an increasing number of you to chat directly with fellow Oticon countries and other partner agencies have Medical users and Oticon Medical joined World Hearing Day by hosting a range employees of activities and events locally, thus support• First looks at new products and ing this global initiative. We celebrate the day accessories by opening our company doors to meet and • Exclusive offers and competitions engage in dialogue with users and citizens about hearing health. The community will continuously welcome new countries during 2020, eventually The Veterans Health Administration making it possible for Oticon Medical users to Oticon has been awarded the Veterans connect worldwide. In the community, they Health Administration (VA) National Hearwill be able to exchange experiences and ing Aid and Wireless Accessories contract advice, as experienced users can guide new effective from 2019–2024. VA is the United Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 26 People and society States’ largest integrated health care system, the audiologist as they evaluate the test. It people with hearing loss, to create the kind of for Better Hearing gets a donation. With the providing care at 1,243 health care facilities, operates on GSI audiometers and utilises awareness that changes attitudes and opens donation money we provide free hearing aids serving 9 million enrolled veterans each year. a touchscreen computer. This telehealth the doors of opportunity for all. to people who need them but cannot afford Roughly 500 of the sites provide audiology technology will improve efficiency, save them, based on nominations from the clinics. services, including compensation, pension, travel time, and enable remote locations Campaign for Better Hearing So far, ten markets (Australia, Brazil, Canada, and hearing aid dispensing. During the VA in the VA to provide hearing care without An initiative from our hearing aid retailers France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, fiscal year 2018–2019, it dispensed more having an audiologist at that location. puts hearing on the healthcare agenda by Spain, the UK, and the US) have launched than 843,000 hearing aids. offering free hearing aids and providing the campaign. In 2019, we have screened • Oticon has developed a technology called crucial information and education about 465,633 people with a Campaign for Better Demant has in recent years grown to become Oticon RemoteCare, which will enable the hearing healthcare and the consequences of Hearing campaign code, raised more than one of the leading suppliers of hearing aids VA audiologist to remotely fine-tune the untreated hearing loss. Each time someone USD 1.75 million, and helped 509 people by to the VA system, currently representing veteran’s hearing aids while they are in gets their hearing tested in one of the clinics providing 865 free hearing aids. around 16% of the hearing aids purchased the comfort of their own home. participating in the campaign, the Campaign by the VA. Much of this success is due to Oticon’s sound quality and life-changing techVelkommen Hjem nology, enabling veterans to increase their From 2017, Demant has supported the participation in the situations that matter organisation Velkommen Hjem (Welcome most to them, in turn improving their quality Home), which works with companies to of life. Demant partners with the VA within bridge the gap between military veterans the area of Teleaudiology to increase and and businesses. The road from military to ease the veterans’ access to care through the civil can be challenging. Therefore, compaVA. Here follow some examples of how: nies offer mentors to veterans to help them start a career out of the military. Following • The Automated Method for Testing Audiprevious year’s success, Demant mentors tory Sensitivity (AMTAS) was developed have mentored two veterans in 2019. by Robert Margolis, PhD, through a partnership between Audiology Incorporated Changing perceptions of hearing loss and three research institutions: the UniverThe Oticon Focus on People Awards recogsity of Minnesota, the University of Utah, nise the achievements of people with hearing and the James H. Quillen Veterans Affairs loss and hearing care professionals who help Medical Center. Within the Demant Group, eliminate the negative stereotypes which Grason-Stadler (GSI) has implemented it often discourage people from seeking help in products and introduced it to the marfor hearing loss. More than 100 hearing care ket. AMTAS is a patient-directed, diagnosprofessionals and Oticon staff celebrated tic audiometry test that enables veterans the 2019 award winners: 13 remarkable in remote locations to receive a full clinical individuals whose courage and commitment evaluation without the test being attended are changing perceptions of what it means by an audiologist. The results are then to live with hearing loss. Nearly 15,000 votes forwarded to a VA audiologist for evaluwere cast by people from across the US to ation. The AMTAS Pro uses patented test help determine the first, second, and third methods and provides quality indicators to place winners. It is a national celebration of Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 27 People and society Grants and donations through William Demant Foundation Since 1957, William Demant Foundation, the Demant channels its philanthropic activities With a grant of DKK 40 million from William majority shareholder of Demant, has been a through William Demant Foundation, based Demant Foundation, the leading specialised charitable business foundation whose main on a wish to separate grants and donations hospital in Copenhagen Rigshospitalet will purpose is to secure and expand the comfrom the commercial activities of the combe able to offer complicated audiological mercial activities of the Demant Group. The panies within the Group. We believe that the patients specialised treatment and research Foundation reinvests in society by donating Foundation allows us to allocate resources to within hearing loss, and to offer balance to altruistic causes and by expanding its people and society in the best possible way. treatment at a new hearing and balance sustainable investments, particularly in the Following this, two experts specialised in centre. MedTech industry. Based on its charter to audiology and related disciplines work jointly donate to the hearing loss cause, as well as with the board of the Foundation to ensure research, education, culture, and care, the the necessary expertise and see that applicaFoundation supports social and educational tions are reviewed in a professional manner. programmes, publications, conferences, cultural activities and researchers, students, and hearing care professionals. 153.2 105.6 47.6 DKK MILLION DKK MILLION DKK MILLION In 2019, William Demant Foundation donated Donated in 2019 to projects aiming at alleviatAllocated in 2019 to support a range of different a total of DKK 153.2 million to projects within ing hearing loss all over the world, as well as to projects within areas such as cultural activities, research, education, culture, and care. promote education and research projects within exhibitions, and humanitarian healthcare. hearing healthcare. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 28 People and society William Demant Foundation is the sponsor employees, leading scientists from Eriksholm which they experienced audiological lectures 2019, William Demant Foundation donated of the annual, world-renowned Eriksholm Research Centre, guest experts, audiologists, given by renowned professionals, visited DKK 2 million to support the Danish Hearing Summer Camp. In 2019, the 14th camp and specialists put in a huge effort to create universities, and visited Oticon’s US headAssociation in its efforts to prevent further engaged 57 young audiologists from 23 a very successful 2019 summer camp. quarters. The students were fitted with a hearing impairment among young people in countries. This year’s theme ‘The Future of specially modified Oticon Opn hearing aid to Denmark. Audiology’ involved an academic programme Oticon and William Demant Foundation hostlog and map the sounds of the urban space. packed with fascinating, hands-on lectures ed their fourth nationwide competition, the By measuring the sound and then labelling it Since 2007, William Demant Foundation has ranging from audiology best practices and Audio Explorers Challenge, aimed at engiin a special app, the students helped to train funded the Ida Institute, a non-profit organpaediatric trends, to big data and cognitively neering students with an interest in mechanan artificial intelligence application – someisation working to integrate person-centered controlled hearing aids. As always, the parical, electrical, or software development. 250 thing that will eventually help the engineers practice in hearing care. In collaboration with ticipants took part in a slew of exciting social students signed up in small teams to solve of Oticon make hearing devices even better. hearing care professionals and other experts activities such as bonfires and a GPS scava real hearing technology brainteaser posed around the world, the institute develops enger hunt, explored Copenhagen, and took by our R&D team. The 25 highly talented An increasing number of young people are tools and resources that help professionals part in an international evening organised by winners went for an action-packed study at risk of suffering from either tinnitus, de deliver care based on the needs and life the participants. A dedicated team of Oticon trip to New York with the Oticon crew, during facto hearing loss, or hearing sensitivity. In situations of their clients and enable people Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 29 People and society with hearing loss to take a more active part in their own care. To further promote hearing health, William Demant Foundation supports the Ida Institute on its mission to integrate person-centred practice in hearing care and help professionals deliver the best care possible. Ida has a growing community of 16,000 hearing care professionals and partners with 24 leading patient associations, professional organizations, and universities around the world. In 2019, the institute trained +2000 professionals in providing person-centred care. What is earwax really? Is it true that humans have a “drum” inside their ear? And what role does the shape of our ears play in making us hear sound? With support from William Demant Foundation, the Danish non-profit organisation Børneliv is unfolding these questions, alongside the rest of the wondrous world of hearing, by creating engaging workshops for children. The aim of the project is to boost children’s knowledge of hearing loss, as well as contributing to minimising the risk of hearing damage among the youngest members of society. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 30 People and society Quality products and services Guided by our quality policy, we pay special attention to the quality assurance of our products and services. We know that when we deliver the expected and required quality on time, it has a positive impact on our customers and users and helps us fulfil our purpose of making life-changing differences through hearing health. Product compliance and safety within hearing aids With people at our core, it is essential to us We carry out risk assessments on all prodthat we produce and provide safe products ucts, and safety procedures are available and services. As a quality-focused healthcare for the products on the market in order to company, we adhere to EU and national regidentify, correct, and prevent any safety ulations for product safety. Thus, we follow issues. Our quality team attends to external the safety standard IEC 60606 and conduct databases to capture any potential safety safety tests in accredited test houses followreporting from other MedTech companies, ing ISO 17025, as assessed by our notifying and we have internal procedures to ensure body. In the end, it is Demant Management’s that we report any safety issues to nationresponsibility that our products and services al authorities. All the above are assessed are safe when they reach the customers and through audits conducted by our notifying users, and we take this on with great care. body. Today, all employees working within hearing aids are carefully introduced to the department of quality and to how we work with product safety. Some employees are also enrolled in national committees, through which matters concerning medical safety are brought forward. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 31 People and society Quality within our business activity Quality objectives include product quality to the quality management system to ensure We therefore utilise assessment by chemical Hearing Implants as measured through QSP (quality system efficiency and support a fast-growing organextraction and characterisation of materials Within our Hearing Implants business activprocedures), complaints, vigilance, and isation. when viable. The evolution of the standard ity, we also follow a quality policy covering delivery quality. We also measure through ISO 10993–23 is closely monitored, to replace Oticon Medical BAHS (Bone-Anchored Hearobjectives related to other areas such as During 2019, we focused on developing our animal irritation testing with in vitro testing ing Systems). Oticon Medical AB is the legal follow-up on project goals, supplier monitornew sound processor Ponto 4, to ensure as soon as it is possible. The primary role of manufacturer of the Ponto system, which is a ing, delivery performance, employee training, reliability. Based on what we have learned the standard is to serve as a framework in medical implant. launch quality, and continuous improvement via the complaint system and return investiwhich to plan a biological evaluation. The gations of previous-generation products, we standard also minimises the number and have implemented learnings from the Deexposure of animal tests by giving preference mant group in the new design, by leveraging to in vitro models and to chemical, physical, synergies in development and testing. morphological, and topographical characDuring the forthcoming year, we will target terisation testing. This applies in situations further implementation of and certification where these methods yield equally relevant according to the EU Medical Device Reguinformation to that obtained from in vivo lation, will update our quality management models. system to cover higher classification products, and continue aligning with the Group on We also use ISO 10993 as the guiding systems and processes. standard in connection with biological safety evaluation of our hearing aid products. We ISO 10993 evaluate materials in skin contact in accorISO 10993 is used to evaluate biological dance with the standard, and when necessafety of our products. By deciding to utilise sary we perform animal testing according the ISO 10993, we have committed to reduce to sub-standard ISO 10993-10. Comparable animal testing as much as we possibly can. to the procedure in hearing implants, we The following presents how we operate with evaluate whether chemical extraction and testing of this kind within our three main characterisation is suitable instead. For both business activities: Hearing Implants, Hearbusiness activities, tests are performed at ing Devices and Diagnostics. external partners who ensure animal welfare. Regarding hearing implants, the key safety When producing diagnostic equipment, we objective is to ensure that our devices are are committed to reduce animal testing as safe for skin contact and for long-term immuch as we possibly can in accordance with plantation in the body. We evaluate products’ ISO 10993-1 as well. We solely utilise animal contact safety according to standard ISO testing whenever it is necessary, in order to 10993 and the 3R principle, which encourage test the safety of our products. The test is that animal testing is kept at a minimum. conducted by authorised test laboratories. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 32 People and society Marketing claims Within the Demant Group we work extensively with research to ensure that we hold evidence to substantiate all product and campaign claims stated in our marketing materials. It is essential that healthcare professionals and users can trust the claims we make. The research spans from audiology research for our hearing aid wholesale and Diagnostics to surgical, medical and biological research for our implantable business in Oticon Medical. The claims in our materials are created and substantiated at Headquarters for the hearing aid wholesale brands, and in collaboration with clinic and researchers worldwide for our implantable brands. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 33 People and society Protecting human and labour rights Demant is committed to internationally recognised human rights standards and relevant laws and regulations aimed at protecting and promoting human rights globally and at work. Wherever we operate, we strive to meet local human rights standards. Should national legislation and international human rights principles conflict, we adhere to the highest standard. As a large, international group, we do not fail to acknowledge our responsibility in this matter, yet we have neither encountered nor identified any risk of adverse impact on human rights within our activities. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 34 People and society Human and labour rights We are obligated to shoulder our responsiEven though 90% of Demant’s production bility towards the people and organisations sites operate in OECD countries, we cannot we work with, and we are aware of how completely avoid the risk of human rights we influence our surroundings through our violations. However, it presents a significantly business. We are committed to respecting low risk. When present in countries outside everyone’s human rights and dignity, and we of the OECD, we take precautions to cope support international efforts to promote and with the risk of human rights violations by protect human rights. Where local legislation adhering to our five human and labour rights does not naturally protect human and labour principles as guidance for operations, busirights, we apply UN Global Compact princiness activities, and relationships. Violating ples as well as principles from the Universal proclaimed human and labour rights is not in Declaration of Human Rights, ILO’s Declaraaccordance with Demant’s business model tion of Fundamental Principles and Rights at and against our business ethics. Work, and the UK Modern Slavery Act as well as our Group Codes and policies. We did not identify any human rights violations during 2019. Please find our Demant Group Third Party Compliance Code at our website: www.demant.com/media#documentlibrary UK Modern Slavery Act UK Modern Slavery Act as a large company that works within a Demant adheres to the UK Modern Slavery global environment, we recognise a risk Act and we stand against exploitation of hereof and strive to be compliant. Further labour, slavery, forced labour of any kind, details about our statement on the UK and human trafficking. We have not had Modern Slavery Act can be found on our any cases of modern slavery. However, website at: www.demant.com/about/responsibility Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 35 People and society Commitment against child labour Risk and accidents We strongly condemn child labour. Our training and/or education. We have conOn an ongoing basis, we assess our Mierzyn in Poland, Tijuana in Mexico, Somproduction and other functions call for cluded that the risk of child labour within potential adverse impact on human rights erset in the US, and Ballerup & Smørum in certain requirements and skills. Therefore, our business activities is very low, and we and labour rights and have not identified Denmark. This is a positive development most of our employees and the employees have not had any cases of child labour. any critical or significant risks rooted in our compared to 21 accidents in 2018, none of the companies with which we conduct operations or business networks. Producof which were significant or fatal. Recordbusiness are highly skilled, with years of ing hearing health equipment is not identiable incidents are defined as incidents that fied as a dangerous or risky manufacturing result in days away from work or restricted activity, as employees are not exposed to work. We have not observed any systemhazardous materials, chemicals, or proceatic patterns to the incidents and the great dures. majority of the incidents are likely to occur in any situation, such as stumbling while Demant upholds a considerably low acciwalking or finger cuts. Collective agreements and labour unions dent rate within production. In 2019, Global Operations within hearing devices registered 10 recordable incidents across our In relevant areas Demant signs collective thus further improving terms regarding key manufacturing and distribution sites in agreements with labour unions. Subsesalary, working hours, salary increments, quently, we negotiate and sign local agreeeducation. ments, duly considering local conditions, Policy to avoid harassment and bullying We are committed to providing a safe work complaints to one’s immediate manager, environment free of any form of discriminabefore bringing the matter to the attention tion, including sexual harassment at work. of one of the other designated represenWe strive to avoid harassment and bullytatives; manager’s manager, HR business ing. Partner, or anyone in HR. We then clarify the incident(s), if needed, an independent We want to highlight our Danish Headthird person is brought in to mediate and quarter policy, which states that the help resolve disciplinary or grievance employer is responsible for protecting the issues. We received one allegation in 2019. employees from harassment and violence The policy is formulated by the Work Enat work. We will treat all incidents seriously vironment Committee and is approved by and promptly investigate all allegations of the Organisational Development Board. It harassment and they are treated as conis currently applied locally, but efforts on a fidential. There is no obligation to report global level have been initiated. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 36 People and society Taking good care of our employees With people at our core, caring for employees is of course of high importance to Demant. We want to create conditions within which it is possible for everyone to establish good relationships as well as a healthy balance between work, family life, and leisure. Through every part of the Group, we have a responsibility to generate, sustain, and develop a safe, healthy, and open working environment for employees to thrive in. Managers especially have an obligation and are empowered by the Group to act on cases of stress or other aspects that might affect employee well-being. The occupational health and safety team makes sure our company is run in a safe environment. Our initiatives include safety evaluations at work, risk assessments, safety training for employees, safety instructions at the workplace, protective measures, and relevant consultancy. Our HR Board serves as a coordinating body in terms of HR strategy, organisational and management development, and deployment of global HR systems. It meets regularly and can furthermore be summoned in case of urgency or breaches of company policies. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 37 People and society People development To ensure that our people have the right roles and competencies to match our business needs and challenges, people and talent development is high on Demant’s agenda. People development functions as an ongoing process between manager and employee, and our concept of an annual Employee Development Dialogue supports this process by following up and planning actions to ensure further development. Our Training Academy offers internal training within leadership, project management, people development, and professional skills. The training is conducted by internal trainers or selected external trainers. In 2019, we developed new training opportunities within project management. We have begun carrying out training within stakeholder engagement, trust, and cultural awareness in teams. Employees and managers can, as individuals or as groups, request external training when they have specific training needs. In the future, we wish to utilise new ways of learning. In certain parts of the organisation we have already gathered great experiences that support knowledge sharing and learning communities. There are great opportunities to build on this in the interests of the entire Demant Group. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 38 People and society Employee engagement We believe that employee engagement ing employee engagement. To ensure the munications A/S. Compared to 13 counthis result puts us just below average is a crucial aspect of general well-being most effective processes, each part of the tries in 2018, the 2019 survey engaged a compared to other companies enrolled in and key to a thriving workforce. Ensuring business works on locally identified actions total of 29 countries. We believe that we Gallup’s survey. According to Gallup, this highly engaged employees is not merely based on the results of the yearly survey, have, to a large extent, achieved our 2019 year’s development is a statistically signifa responsibility towards our employees, in order to increase employee engagement. goal, which is evident in the positive reicant increase, which indicates that we are it is essential for Demant to evolve and sponses we have received throughout the on the right track. Pulse gives us a sense of maintain a leading position globally. We The engagement survey was introduced business. However, we recognise that this where we are at, and even though we are acknowledge that employees are a key in parts of the business in 2017. In 2018, is an ongoing task that we must continue pleased about the development, we do not resource for uncovering potential gaps we measured engagement based on input to work on, thus a fruitful implementation fail to acknowledge that there is still quite and ways of improving, and the annual from approximately 11,000 employees is a clear target for our 2020 engagement some potential for further improvement. engagement survey “Pulse” is our way of from 13 countries, and in 2019, our amactivities as well. establishing a dialogue within the organbitions led us to fully roll out the survey in We sense that the introduction of Pulse isation about how we can develop our our global organisation, involving approxiThe engagement survey is carried out by has brought needed attention to employee shared workplace. mately 15,000 employees worldwide. an external collaborator, Gallup, and in engagement throughout the Group, and 2019 we reached an employee participawe aspire to continue to grow this awareThe Pulse survey provides valuable inforA main target for 2019 was to effectively tion level of 84%. In 2018, our engagement ness. As of 2021, EPOS, alongside other mation on the employee engagement level introduce and implement the employee score was 3.69 (on a scale from 1–5). In newly acquired companies joining the throughout our global business, as well as engagement focus globally within all busi2019, we improved our engagement score Demant family, will also be enrolled in the enabling us to work actively with improvness activities apart from Sennheiser Comto 3.83. Looking at the Gallup benchmark, survey. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 39 People and society Diversity and inclusion With an organisational culture characterFemale leadership Approaches to enhance female employment in the Group: ised by care and respect for others, and Our understanding of diversity is that it with an increasing need to attract talent refers to age, gender, and nationalities. • We always strive to balance the tone recruitment events, relevant departacross borders, cultures, and backgrounds, In recent years, soft law and statutory between gender-related connotations ments must prioritise appointing the areas of diversity and inclusion are requirements have focused explicitly on and visuals in job advertisements, female employees to relevant jobs important drivers. During 2019, we have gender equality. Our annual CSR report employer branding material, and analysed our work culture with the aim of covers our focus, policy, and progress on communication • From a talent management perspecidentifying potential enablers and barriers female leadership. tive, our managers make an effort to sustaining our inclusive culture. The • When we cooperate with external to guide and nudge female talent analysis will lead to concrete efforts to adWe are obligated to set a time framed recruitment agencies, we require towards pursuing opportunities for dress and handle unconscious biases and target for representation of the under-repqualified female candidates in the promotion other factors that influence the Demant resented gender in the Board of Directors. second round. In terms of external work culture. Our target is to have at least two female members of the Board before the end of Demant wants to be able to attract talent 2020. At the annual general meeting in within the Group. Our policy “More female and Enterprise Solutions and Gaming headfrom all parts of the world and across gen2019, the Board of Directors decided to managers” encourage and blaze a trail for sets will evolve as a new independent comders. We wish to stay an open and inclupropose re-election of the candidates as female employees to seek opportunities for pany, EPOS, under the Demant Group, the sive organisation, which encompass many the Board assessed that the competences executive and managerial positions. The female leadership of EPOS will be a part of nationalities, cultures, and languages. And and qualifications of the memebers meet policy points to areas within recruitment Demant’s reporting and future focus. we know that diversity is an important the needs of the company. Hence, the and qualifications, and ensures that female By default, the policy will apply to all Group driver for innovation. We strive for diversity composistion of the Board of Directors did candidates and employees can obtain companies worldwide, but the adopted in candidate shortlists for any vacancy, as not change. At the annual general meeting executive positions in Demant. Unless initiatives will, as the initiatives prove their we want to be sure that we tap into the in March 2020, the Board of Directors will otherwise stated, “managers” refers to all worth in the Danish part of the business, full talent pool. In 2020, we will revisit our propose election of another female member personnel managers regardless of their subsequently be propagated to other Group diversity policy, to ensure that it is updated and thus – if adopted – reach the target set. level, not including project managers. companies. Moreover, we continuously and reflects any updated objectives within oversee initiatives to support the policy, this field. Gender diversity is not merely about There are currently no female Board memincluding communication, recruitment, and board representation, and Demant tries bers at Sennheiser Communications A/S. governance. to promote female managers at all levels As the joint venture will end during 2020 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 40 Netherlands Sweden Denmark People and society Headquarters Interacoustics Sennheiser Communications Canada 5 4 8 16 56% 44% 69 150 8 22 13 39 33% 67% 43 32 32% 68% 27% 73% 25% 75% 57% 43% United Kingdom Poland Total 799* 17 15 84 76 53% 47% Germany 53% 48% Belgium Schwitzerland 9 15 326 473 France 38% 63% 3 1 14 29 10 19 41% 59% 75% 25% 34% 66% 33% 67% Gender representation in management Continuously expanding our scope of reporting, we currently report on the basis of input from 13 countries and a total of 8,414 employees (out of a total of 15,837 employees). From a global perspective, we see a South Africa positive development in 2019 in Denmark, Australia, South Africa, Poland, and the UK. Notably in Poland, Canada, South 7 2 Australia Africa, Sweden, and the UK, there are cur78% 22% rently more female than male managers. 33 50 In France, New Zealand, and Germany, our companies have indeed engaged female female managers in 2019. Over the last six At our joint venture Sennheiser Communi40% 60% managers during 2019, but not to a similar years, we have been able to grow the share cations A/S, the ratio of male and female or larger extent than they have male manof female managers in the Group by 8% in managers in top management in 2019 was agers. Denmark. However, from 2018 to 2019, the 2/0, which is the same ratio as the previous number remained stable, and hence we will year. The ratio of male and female managNew Zealand In our Danish companies, the percentage put in additional efforts to recapture the ers until second management level in 2019 of female managers has been relatively growth of this area seen in previous years. was 39/13 compared to 25/7 in 2018 and stable for the past four years. Since we 28/5 in 2017, which indicates progress. 3 3 started tracking these numbers, the male/ We will continuously work on our recruitWe are proud of the steady progress and 50% 50% female manager ratio in our Danish comment process to address gender equality intend to continue to develop this area panies has improved from 89% male and and employ even more talented females in when part of Sennheiser Communications 11% female in 2009 to 70% male and 30% the Group. A/S will join the Demant family as EPOS during 2020. *Based on reporting from 13 contries with a total of 8,414 employees Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 41 People and society Stress management Demant takes prevention and handling of During 2019, we continued to work with stress seriously and we actively engage linking the tools from our leadership trainemployees in avoiding and dealing with ing programme with the tools we have for stress. At Headquarters, our work is guidpreventing stress. A similar link is pursued ed by a company stress policy. The stress between the stress tools and our Gallup policy covers prevention initiatives, coursQ12 employee engagement system – the es, and a stress toolbox. It aims at specifyPulse survey. The aim is to make it easier ing what we as individuals and as part of for the individual manager to determinedthe organisation must do based on our role ly relate concrete learnings from training within the company, and it clarifies what is to their work with employee well-being. expected of each of us in our various roles Being a new initiative, it is too early to during different stress phases. We strive comment on results but a zero increase to keep stress to an absolute minimum in stress cases compared to the previous and to always get better at preventing and year is our target for the coming year. handling the cases we encounter. It is expected that managers are acquainted with Our 2020 ambition is to sustain the Table 1: Number of employees at Danish sites affected by stress per year the company stress policy so they can act strong focus. As something new, we plan 60 accordingly should anyone in their team be to pilot a tool that assists employees in affected by stress. recharging their energy during a workday. 50 The concept is based on short breaks to 40 The development in table 1 shows a slight recharge the brain by bringing attention to, 30 decrease in stress-related cases in 2019. for instance, breathing. All to improve work The numbers include all occurrences from well-being. 20 minor, short-term situations to longer, 10 monthly leaves of absence due to stress. Stress management globally Table 2 shows the percentage of employWithin the Group, perception of and focus 0 ees affected by stress in relation to total on work-related stress is highly dependent 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 volume of employees at Headquarters. on country culture, which is why our stress Even though we are pleased about the policy does not function on a global scale. Table 2: Percentage of number of employees at Danish sites affected by stress per year positive development, we are well aware However, stress management is on the 6,00 of the potential for further improvement agenda throughout the Group. In Poland, within this area. we are working dedicatedly on structuring 5,00 our work with stress management, and the 4,00 We want to maintain our solid focus on same goes for Bern in Switzerland, where stress prevention to strengthen our ema stress workshop was initiated this year. 3,00 ployee’s well-being and general health. It is 2,00 a clear ambition of ours to identify cases of 1,00 stress early prefrably before they occur. 0,00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 42 Environmental protection Environmental protection Demant naturally complies with all current environmental rules and regulations in every country we operate in, and we are committed to minimising our negative impact on the environment, as well as to undertaking initiatives that advocate environmental responsibility and reduction of our environmental footprint. To reduce our footprint, we aspire continuously to optimise our operation, and as a result of our efforts in previous years, we do see the potential to improve. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 43 Environmental protection Climate impact As a Group in growth, we do not fail to Climate committee recognise that as we expand our business, In the wake of the Paris Agreement, an we face a risk of negative environmenambitious climate policy formulated by the tal impact on the societies that surround Danish government and a target to reach us. We wish to stay conscious about our a 70% greenhouse gas reduction by 2030 impact and we are determined to improve measured from 1990, Demant is faced our environmental performance. The with an opportunity to contribute to the impacts of our business on climate change definition of a more climate-friendly future are considered minimal and the risks are for the life science sector. We have therelow; we have not identified risk of climate fore joined a climate committee initiated by change affecting our business. To us, public authorities and the industry organtaking on an environmental responsibility isations in Denmark in which we will take means ensuring that our Group limits any an active part in the dialogue and presenadverse impacts on the external environtation of solutions to meet the 2030 target. ment, including climate changes, as much as possible. Among the general regulatory risks, which are not only applicable to Demant, but to most manufacturing companies, are: Stricter energy efficiency requirements for offices and factories, higher taxation on energy consumption leading to higher production and logistics costs and mandatory energy standards for manufacturing equipment. Within the material challenge of our operation, we have identified potential for reducing our footprint by reducing consumption of materials, such as plastic in production and excess materials in our packaging. Read more on page 47. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 44 Environmental protection Energy consumption and CO2 emissions To track our corporate CO2 emissions, we sible, but it is our clear ambition to expand rates. If we look at CO2 emissions per emEmission mission factors collect consumption data annually. The the scope in 2020 and continue this progployee in 2019 compared to 2018, we see Demant’s emissions are calculated using total Group CO2 emissions refer to the ress in the years to come. a minor increase of 2%. emission factors and reported as carbon total emissions of the entities currently in dioxide gases (CO2e) as required by the our scope. The increase in absolute emissions from GHG Protocol. Emission factors convert 2017 to 2018 is minor considering that we Emissions per employee operational activity data (e.g., kilomeIn 2019, our Group’s CO2 emissions included four additional retail entities in (tonnes) tres driven, kilowatt hours of purchased reached 27,595 tonnes compared to our scope in 2018. electricity) into a value indicating the GHG 24,811 tonnes in 2018*, which is an 11% 2015: 2.36 emissions generated by that specific acincrease. Energy consumption 2019 2016: 2.32 tivity. Externally sourced emissions factors In 2019, some of our production and have been used to calculate our scope 1 2017*: 2.25 Even though our industry is not notoriously retail sites around the world carried out and 2. a “black” industry, we take the current deinitiatives to reduce energy consumption, 2018*: 1.89 velopment very seriously and are commitand we hope to see even clearer results 2019: 2.03 The emission factors are based on calted to work on reducing our footprint. from this the forthcoming year. Maico in culations from national energy agencies Demant’s value chain does contribute to Germany, Audmet Canada, and Bernafon and similar official bodies. The emission emission of greenhouse gasses, and we Switzerland reduced their consumtions Scope 1 and scope 2 factor is among others determined by the have an obligation to raise awareness of by shifting from Diesel to gasoline on all We track our CO2 emissions using scope conversion efficiency of each country, and where we ourselves can do better in company vehicles, and Demant Technol1 (vehicles) and scope 2 (electricity and thus fluctuations are likely to occur when pursuit of a more climate friendly future for ogy Centre in Poland and SES in Turkey heating). In 2017, electricity and heating the factors are updated. MedTech and healthcare companies, both leased fewer cars in 2019. Hidden Hearing accounted for 82% and vehicles for 18% of in the local and international communities Portugal equipped all their lamps with LED the Group’s total CO2 emissions. In 2018, Sennheiser Communications and our suppliers. bulbs, leading to a large decrease in enerelectricity and heating accounted for 71% The total Sennheiser Communications gy consumption. Oticon Germany manand vehicles for 29%. In 2019, electricity CO2 emission reached 384.9 tonnes in aged to reduce their electricity consumpand heating accounted for 72% and vehi2019 compared to 243.8 tonnes in 2018, Total Group CO2 emissions tion by deactivating a cooling system. cles for 28%. and 232 tonnes in 2017. The emission (tonnes) per employee reduced from 1.15 tonnes At the other end of the scale, we do also This development can be explained by our in 2017 to 1.14 tonnes in 2018. In 2019, 2015: 14,406 experience an increase in energy congrowing business on one side, and by sites the emission per employee reached 1.50, 2016: 14,973 sumption within some of our entities, changing their consumption structure for which should be seen in the light of busimainly in the US, Poland, and Switzerland. electricity and fuel on the other. Furtherness growth. 2017*: 24,265 This should be understood in the light on more, we included more retail entities in 2018*: 24,811 the expansion of our business activities, the reporting in 2018. The retail entities We have tracked our energy consumption 2019: 27,595 but at the same time it indicates that there included in the reporting represent over since 2009. Former reports on energy conis potential for improvement. 77% of our shops, and the nature of retail sumption can be found here: business inherently encompasses more To improve our reporting, we attempt to Emissions per employee frequent travel. Despite the expanded expand our scope by including more retail Demant has a growth strategy, and in scope in 2018, the reported retail entiwww.demant.com/ entities each year, and have done so since terms of both revenue and employees we ties’ CO2 emissions have moved from 9,9 media#media-document 2017. During 2019 this has not been poscontinuously experience increasing growth tonnes in 2017 to 9,1 tonnes in 2018, and the same in 2019, where the scope was unchanged from 2018. *Adjusted numbers due to overstatement in 2017 and 2018 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 45 Environmental protection Material compliance Although the use of raw material is limited Substances are categorised as below: in our manufacturing compared to other industries, we still enforce a precautionary Class I: approach to environmental challenges conProhibited (not to be introduced in nected with raw materials. We have implethe production or be presented in any mented the use of a “restricted list”, which products put on the market provides instructions and information on the by companies of Demant) utilisation and categorisation of substances and materials. The aim is to ensure that the Class II Group complies with relevant regulations reRestricted (for restricted use only) lated to specific substances. In the restricted list, all relevant substances that are banned or restricted are listed. Class III Subjected to special deliberation (can The restricted list is based on the followbe used, but under observation) ing regulations: Class IV • Restriction of Hazardous Substances Under observation (can be used after (ROHS) thorough risk assessment) • Toys directive • Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) On top of the mandatory requirements directive according to law, we have enforced extra specifications, for example a ban on the use of all phthalates and natural rubber latex. In relation to conflict minerals that are subject Working with the restricted list ensures full to the requirements of Dodd-Frank Section transparency on the use of hazardous sub1502, suppliers are requested to declare stances, compliance with relevant directives, content. and the opportunity to set a higher bar than the external required or recommended standards. We have introduced a risk-based approach where material compliance is not only secured by supplier declarations, but also via material analysis for high risk materials. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 46 Environmental protection Efforts to reduce our environmental impact New exciting and innovative projects will lead us to reduce, reuse, and avoid extenIn 2020, we introduce sive amounts of excess materials in both packaging with fewer compoour packaging and merchandise portfonents, 70–100% recycled and lios, as well as in production of parts of our hearing devices. At our Danish sites, FSC-certified materials, and a we have initiated several in-house envisignificant reduction of excess ronmental initiatives within IT and Facility packaging. We will reduce Management. Finally, waste optimisation need for transportation, as the and reduction are paving the way for production of diagnostics equipment with less new boxes will be produced in environmental impact. Sweden, with 100% certified green electricity. Packaging and merchandise We continue to work dedicatedly to reduce waste as well as to substitute materials We are proud to declare that by the end for more sustainable options within our of 2020, the majority of Demant hearing packaging and merchandise portfolios. As aids will be transferred to this improved a result, our packaging management team packaging. We are indeed excited about within Oticon Sales & Marketing is carrying this progress and motivated by the opout a large transformation of our hearing portunities that lie ahead to develop this aid packaging, making it more sustainarea further. During 2019, we have taken able by reducing excess materials and initial steps to reach the above-mentioned substituting with recycled materials. The ambition of making our packaging more ongoing process is driven by a user-centric sustainable. focus and based on feedback from hearing aid users and hearing care professionals As an example, we have introduced through a large study in 2019. FSC-certified paper on wax filters as well as FSC-certified charger boxes. We have also removed excess plastic components on speaker unit packaging. Initiatives started to reduce our global CO2 footprint. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 47 Environmental protection To improve further, we collaborate with The first new turtles will come out of their We continue our ambitious goal of ensurEnvironmental initiatives in Denmark our packaging suppliers, who support us moulds by summer 2020. We are especialing more for less, and we have succeeded At our Headquarters in Smørum, Denmark, with knowledge on trends and world-class ly pleased with this optimisation because it in decreasing power consumption at our our canteen has introduced a new sysstandards within sustainable packaging. indicates potential within other parts of our main data centre. While growing, we have tem for waste disposal of biodegradable Demant aspires to continue this developproduction. The next subject on the agenda lowered our power consumption due to waste. To ensure the high standard and ment of how we pack our products in the is the handles, which hold the small filters investments in more efficient solutions and level of organic food (70–90%), the food is forthcoming year. in place inside the turtles. Opportunities for meticulous planning. Decreasing the powmade from scratch and this process leaves optimising different containers for filters er consumption in the data centre is a vital quite an amount of leftover material. The By early 2020, within the range of Oticon will be investigated too. parameter, but the paramount accomnew disposal machine helps discard our merchandise, the paper bags we supply plishment is our centralisation of services 55 tons of biodegradable waste every will be made from FSC-certified and 100% in countries with more environmentally year. We have experimented with disposal recycled paper. This covers a development We produce around friendly power deliveries. of hard plastic waste from the kitchen, and from 0% recycled paper to 100%. 13.5 million turtles a year. during 2019 abrogated all single-use plasWith a high degree of virtualisation of our tic from our servings and the take-home Turtles of tomorrow IT infrastructure, we already run a powfood scheme we offer employees. DevelopOur New Product Development team has In total, we are looking at a er-efficient IT environment. And as we ment within this area also means that we worked intensively on how to optimise reduction of material use of replace older hardware with newer and now collect, wash, and compress the hard production of certain objects. One of them ~10,000 kg/year. better hardware on an ongoing basis, we plastic we use, so it takes up less space in is the small plastic containers for the will slowly but surely improve our power containers and during transportation. user to store ear-wax filters for hearing efficiency. Pulling us further in the right instruments, internally referred to as a Additionally, in early 2020, we will purdirection is our gradual adoption of cloudEvery fourth year, our internal certified “turtle”. We discovered a huge potential for chase a grinder for plastic to grind the based IT services, as cloud data centres energy expert – in collaboration with an alterations. Briefly, the alterations include excess plastic materials from when we proare even more power-efficient than our external partner to oversee the process reducing plastic usage, both in terms of duce hearing aids. This will further enable own. – carries out energy inspections at all our the subject itself, and excess material from a reduction in waste materials, and this too Danish sites. In general, our headquarters production. The new part optimisation is a development we are pleased with. Offshore wind farm site has a low energy use, which we are also eliminates use of an additive blowing Another example of our environmental proud of, but we do aspire to improve the agent, and the production optimisation will IT – Hardware recycling and refresh initiatives is our stake in the offshore wind conditions, if possible, on all Danish sites. lead us to cut back time and administraSupporting circular economy efforts, farm in the German North Sea, commistion in both production and logistics – all Demant collaborates with Tier1Asset, a sioned in 2017. It is an investment that In 2020, we open a new building at headof which contribute to Demant reducing its global hardware recycling company. Our can produce electricity equivalent to the quarters. Environmental aspects of this negative footprint. work with Tier1Asset includes our Danish, consumption of 320,000 households with new building have been a strong focus, Spanish, French, and US offices. Tierall 78 wind turbines operating. and consequently all lighting in and outWe have worked to make a sustainable 1Asset collects used hardware, predomiside the building including parking lots will optimisation of the turtle without compronantly computers and printers. All data is use LED lighting sources. Additionally, we mising its functionality and quality. then deleted correctly with an ISO 27001 are upscaling the opportunities for parking certified Blancco tool, ensuring we abide electrical cars in the new parking lot. ComWe have used some of the brilliant techby the latest GDPR regulations. Instead of pared to the four current spots, the new lot nology we have at our hands today, which instantly recycling the material from the will offer spots for 18 electrical cars. was not available when the first turtles hardware, Tier1Asset refurbishes and rewere produced. In total, we are looking at purposes 90% of the hardware, increasing a reduction of material use of ~10,000 kg/ its lifespan and decreasing IT waste. year. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 48 Environmental protection Reducing waste in Diagnostics we are the world’s first diagnostic equipWaste optimisation at hearing aid tion on and systems of waste disposal, At the production facility of business activment company to obtain this certification. production side as well as reducing the use of disposable ity Diagnostics we have a clear ambition The initiatives to support this goal are Our hearing aid production site in Poland plastic in the workplace. During 2019, this to reduce waste, and in 2019 we have imfomulated in an Environmental Policy and have also worked on waste reduction and strengthened focus has given rise to four plemented an environmental management centred around three main areas: Packagproper waste segregation. This includes targets to reduce influence on the environsystem according to ISO 14001 – in fact, ing, paper, and waste. employee training, updated communicament: Reducing waste in accordance with ISO 14001 Packaging optimisation Paperless factory Waste segregation Waste reduction • Reduction of pack• Reduction of printing • Waste segregation aging material pre on paper system Energy shipped unit Hazardours consumption • Releasing of human • Training and awarewaste reduction reduction • Reduction of transporresources needed ness among employtation space ees Volatile organic compounds from • Elimination of plasisopropyl and tic cups, spoons and ethyl alcohol bottles reduction We have already reduced the use of printDiagnostics Environmental Policy Each month, we monitor our initiatives to 15% reduction of energy consumption as ing on paper in the Diagnostics production, Concern for the surrounding environment lower the environmental impact and we well as a 1% reduction of volatile organand our goal is to run a paperless factory is a declared part of our business. We aim are pleased to see that two of the targets ic compounds from isopropyl and ethyl by the end of 2020. Furthermore, we are in to introduce such changes in our organihave been met. alcohol. Unfortunately, we have not met the process of reducing the use of packing sation, to move towards economic develthe targets connected with waste and material, including the way we pack items opment becoming equivalent to ecological Compared to 2018, for each product prohazardous waste reduction because of a and produce boxes for shipping. This will development. We act in accordance with duced we have managed to significantly supplier related procedure. Consequently, also reduce the space needed in transporthe requirements to maintain and improve decrease the waste weight, resulting in a we wish to focus on meeting the remaining tation. the effectiveness of the environmental two goals for 2020. management system. Thanks to this, To secure recycling of the waste, we have we have the possibility of effective risk implemented waste segregation, and emmanagement and continuous improvement ployees have been trained in waste segrein the area of our business results. Our gation. Furthermore, we have eliminated commitment to environmental protection all plastics cups, spoons, and bottles, is confirmed by our engagement with and replaced these with environmentally preventing environmental pollution during friendly material. production processes, technologies and materials used. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 49 Business ethics Business Ethics Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 50 Business ethics Business ethics and legal compliance We are convinced that high ethical stanAnti-corruption and bribery dards play a significant role in ensuring our Demant is against any form of direct or continued growth and success. At Demant, indirect corruption and bribery, and we are we strive to do business with integrity committed to avoid such practices. We did and honesty when we deliver innovative not identify any cases of anti-corruption or technologies and services to help improve bribery during 2019. people’s health and hearing. Our primary goal is for the users to benefit from our Demant adheres to the United Nations products, and we disapprove of business Convention against Corruption, Foreign conduct that contributes to distorting Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery market mechanisms. Equally, we want to Act. protect any user data that we process. In 2019, we have increased our strategic Most of the Group’s activities can be charefforts and focus on business ethics, and acterised as “relationship business”, which have recently formulated a new Group frequently involves close interaction with Code of Conduct, which sets out the stanclients, including consulting, training, and dards and ethical principles applicable to collaborating with hearing care professionall employees and third parties. als, for instance audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-and-throat specialWe have incorporated business ethics ists, and clinic owners. principles into contracts with third parties. We have various processes in place to We make sure that our business parties ensure that our third parties adhere to the are familiar with our Demant Group Third same standards of anti-corruption that we Party Compliance Code and apply a set uphold. of principles to avoid misuse of payments and financial transactions. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 51 Business ethics Whistleblower Hotline Data privacy In 2019, we decided to establish a global Data privacy continues to be among our Whistleblower Hotline. We are now in the top compliance priorities. We are aware process of formulating the content and and highly respectful of the sensitive process of introducing such new global nature of the personal data that our Hotline. With a Whistleblower Hotline we customers, users, employees, and other will encourage our employees and third stakeholders trust us to process, and we parties to raise their concerns of serious are committed to protecting such personal and sensitive improper actions that fail data through high levels of security meato comply with our Group Code of Consures and responsible policies. duct and/or applicable laws and regulations. The Whistleblower Hotline will be In 2019, the Privacy Office continued its launched in 2020, and will be available in tireless efforts to increase awareness of various languages via www.demant.com data privacy in the organisation as well or directly via an app on mobile devices, as to develop and refine internal processand we will ensure anonymity if desired es and procedures. Further, additional and no retaliation towards whistleblowers. resources were added to the Privacy Office during 2019. For 2020, we envision continuing our primary focus on training employees, whilst adhering to policies and monitoring the international development in privacy regulations. Naturally, following the IT incident in September 2019, the increased investment in and focus on IT security will also affect the work of the Privacy Office, as IT security is an integral part of data privacy. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 52 Business ethics Responsible procurement In our hearing aid wholesale, which is We assess our direct suppliers based on the majority of our business, we set high their ability and willingness to comply with Demant Group Third Party ethical standards – it is an essential part the Demant Group Third Party Compliance Compliance Code in writing: of our culture and the way we do business. Code. Based on our assessment, the supAs a company that engages with suppliers pliers are grouped into three categories. • Further assurance to prevent and worldwide, we must document the way The category determines which CSR action reduce modern slavery we handle and interact with our suppliers. should be taken towards the suppliers. The Consequently, we require that most of our risk assessment is based on the supplier’s • Defining a maximum amount of strategic suppliers sign and comply with geographical presence, sector, etc. weekly working hours our Demant Group Third Party Compliance Code. If we identify a high risk of a direct supplier • Provision of religious breaks not living up to our standards, we conThe Demant Group Third Party Compliduct a CSR audit documented by an audit • Clearer and better-defined health ance Code lists criteria governing aspects report listing the observations that need and safety rules, including signs of human rights, labour rights, the environto be addressed. In 2019, we estimated on machinery, machine guarding, ment, as well as anti-corruption. It is aimed a need for CSR auditing and re-auditing precautionary rules for pregat helping our suppliers improve social and of four direct suppliers. The audits indinant women, clear instructions in environmental standards, and works as cated zero critical, 12 major and 12 minor languages understandable to all guidance for our suppliers, to contribute to non-conformities (a total of 24 non-conworkers, physically demanding the protection of human and labour rights. formities) within all audited suppliers. The tasks needing to be identified and following re-audits identified a total of six controlled In 2019, Demant worked with a total of non-conformities. 381 active direct suppliers, out of which • Bonded labour and recruitment fees 313 suppliers have signed our Demant Sennheiser Communications carried out 5 defined and prohibited Group Third party Compliance Code. In CSR audits during 2019. 2018, 309 out of a total of 360 active • Increased focus on environmental suppliers signed. Today, our indirect suppliers are not diissues, impacts, and proactive prerectly covered by the Demant Group Third ventative measures Party Compliance Code. The next step is to investigate how to deploy some of these • Defined data privacy CSR criteria within indirect procurement in the future. Find our Demant Group Third • Defined fair business Party Compliance Code document here: www.demant.com/ • Encouragement of management media#documentlibrary systems and management processes to ensure compliance and follow-up Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 53 Concluding remarks Looking For many years, Demant’s CSR work has been rooted in the previously presented framework. However, as the Demant Group continues to grow and transform, so does the world ahead around us. Within Demant, we all share a strong purpose of contributing with life-changing hearing health. And as a parent company of a large and complex group we have initiated work, which will eventually lead to a new, updated framework for our responsibility and sustainability work. A framework that will help us optimise our resources and refine the way we define our targets for the Group as a parent company. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 54 Concluding remarks Plans for 2020 In 2019, we conducted a materiality asprojects, as well as investigating continued sessment a process of identifying potenstakeholder feedback and engagement, The materiality process tial social, environmental, and ethical topto strengthen the framework process and in short ics, which could affect our business in the thus the outcome. future. Based on this assessment we have 1. Scoping defined around 40 relevant CSR topics. Consequently, during 2020 a CSR board Looking at these, it is evident that within will be set up to drive strategic action on 2. Analysis people & society lies our core contribution the CSR framework of the Demant Group. • Internal interviews for a sustainable and healthy future for all. The CSR board will ensure that respon• Peers analysis Our contribution to a healthier world has sibility and sustainability considerations • Stakeholder analysis always been and will continue to be part and activities are anchored in the strategy • Existing policies and processes of our DNA. and daily operations of business activities • Laws, regulations, and standards across the group. All business activities Based on this, we will continue to work across the group are represented in the 3. Categorisation of material topics on formulating and scoping the CSR CSR board to ensure employment in all framework for 2020–22. We aim to begin parts of our business. 4. Scoring topics on impact on driving action on selected priorities and business and importance to internal and external stakeholders 5. Prioritisation 6. Management engagement Demant ∙ CSR Report 2019 55 Life-changing hearing health Demant A/S Phone +45 3917 7300 Kongebakken 9 info@demant.com DK-2765 Smørum www.demant.com Denmark
