Contents Content Message from CMD ONGC & Chairman ONGC Group of Companies Page 01 Message from the Managing Director – MRPL 05 Message from the Chief Executive Officer – OMPL 07 Message from the Managing Director – OPaL 09 Message from the Managing Director – OTPC 11 Message from the Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM & SG – ONGC 13 Message from GGM Chief Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC 14 About the Report 15 Key Highlights 17 Pillars of Sustainability for ONGC 17 1. ONGC – A pioneer in Energy Sector 18 2. Corporate Governance 25 3. Reporting the EssentialStakeholder Engagement 29 4. Materiality Assessment 32 5. Economic Performance 35 6. Climate Change and Energy 39 7. Contributing to India’s Energy Security 51 8. Water and Waste Management 53 9. Biodiversity 59 10. Our Human Capital 61 11. Respecting Human Rights 75 12. Safety and Security 77 13. Supply Chain Management 87 14. Product Quality 90 15. CSR Journey of ONGC Group 93 Summary of Performance 115 Independent Assurance Statement 117 Content Index 121 Acronyms 126 Message Chairman and Managing Director – ONGC & Chairman – ONGC Group of Companies Dear Stakeholders, and gas sector. While some may consider the changing times and consequent changing norms as a challenge, in ONGC we accept this challenge as an opportunity to integrate the concepts of sustainable and responsible business into our planning. As a result, today ONGC Group It gives me immense pleasure to present ONGC Group's of companies is a fully integrated energy major with Sustainability Report for FY’19, focusing on the verticals from upstream, midstream and downstream performance highlights of the year and our growth domains of the sector. agenda lined up for the future. For almost a decade now, We demonstrate our goal of becoming a global leader in we have been proactively disclosing information through integrated energy business and our commitment towards our annual sustainability report and it serves as the doing so through our excellent performance in FY’19 and de nitive source for our comprehensive eﬀorts in this upcoming growth prospects for the future. Since we are in area. constant endeavor to reduce our carbon footprint, our At ONGC, we believe that being a safe, responsible and eﬀorts translate to reduced footprint of our customers as ethical operator while being mindful of our neighbors and well. Sustainability is at the heart of our business planning communities, is crucial to our ability to create long-term and our philosophy towards sustainable development is value for our stakeholders. governed by the triple bottom line principles of enhancing social, environmental and economic We recognize that global perspective around energy performance of our organization. sources is undergoing a transition and there is growing concern around environmental issues related to the oil As India's largest Maharatna company in the energy sector, ONGC's contribution to the country's energy rst signatory in India to the Integrity Pact, a tool by security is of huge importance, which is factored into our Transparency International to mutually enhance long-term strategic planning. During the year, the transparency with suppliers. We are committed to company has made impressive E&P performance with a conduct the business in a transparent manner and total of 13 discoveries of which 8 were in onland and 5 observes highest standards of corporate governance. were in oﬀshore areas and monetization of 5 of them. The Accordingly, the company has been continuously rated rst-time discoveries in Bengal Basin (Well Asokenagar-1) “Excellent” grade for its compliances with the Department and Vindhyan Basin (Well Hatta-2) are noteworthy of Public Enterprises Guidelines on corporate governance. exploratory success during the year. The reserve accretion With the growing global consensus on climate change for the year stood at 63.03 MMtoe on 2P basis with a and its impacts, ONGC Group has been at the forefront of Reserve Replacement Ratio of 1.41 during the period. The the industry in addressing this issue. In line with our production of standalone oil and gas increased from 45.79 commitment, ONGC had sanctioned a scienti c study in MMtoe in FY'18 to 45.86 MMtoe in FY'19 driven by association with other oil and gas sector PSUs on 'Climate increased gas output which grew 5.4% year-on-year. Change Risks: Preparedness for Oil and Gas sector' This is the fourth year in succession that gas output has speci c to climate change, which was completed during increased with positive outlook for coming years with the year. Further, ONGC Group continues to undertake signi cant contributions expected from East-Coast deepinitiatives for reducing GHG emissions by focusing on water development project KG-DWN-98/2 and Daman in improved energy eﬃciency. western oﬀshore. The overall production of the group We constantly improve our footprints in renewable stood at 50.04 MMtoe. This year also marked another year energy and this year we commissioned a 10 MW Solar of strong performance for our drilling operations, as Power Plant at Hazira Plant, Surat; 1 MW Solar Power Plant ONGC drilled a record number of 516 wells, the highest at IPSHEM-Goa; and another 5 MW roof top solar plants ever in the last 28 years. connected to grid in February 2019. The paperless oﬃce In terms of nancial performance, ONGC recorded a Gross project is also fully functional and successful across our Revenue of INR 1,096,546 Million in FY'19 as compared to Pan India work centers. INR 850,041 Million in FY'18. The net pro t touched a Being part of an industry where eld operations are record high at INR 267,158 Million, an increase of 34% as considered prone to risk, safety of our employees is the compared to FY'18. top-most priority for ONGC Group. We are deeply Our overseas E&P operations also ourished immensely in saddened to report nine fatalities in FY'19. We re ected FY’19. ONGC Videsh, the overseas arm of the company deeply on the terrible events which led to these fatalities. achieved a turnover of INR 146,320 Million during FY’19 We are currently contributing to long-term relief eﬀorts against the turnover of INR 104,176 Million during FY’18 for the families aﬀected from these accidents. Events like an impressive growth by 40.5%, while achieving a PAT of these are a stark reminder that we must never forget the INR 16,823 Million in FY'19, as against a PAT of INR 9,815 role that safety plays in our everyday life. ONGC has Million in FY'18. ONGC Videsh currently maintains stake in implemented the latest OISD Standards to improve 41 oil and gas projects across 20 Countries and its contingency combat capabilities. Third party safety audits production constitutes 23% of ONGC Group's production are conducted regularly for oﬀshore and onshore for the year. It is a matter of great pride to communicate installations by established national and international that ONGC Videsh has successfully resumed its operations HSE agencies. ONGC's oﬀshore assets have been rated in South Sudan after being closed because of internal under 'acceptable risk' by international underwriters, disturbance and security concerns. enabling a lower-than-peer insurance premium for these assets. As a Group, we continue to conduct regular ONGC adheres to the highest standards of ethics, trainings, mock drills and knowledge sessions for transparency and accountability fostering the mutual spreading awareness regarding a strong safety culture. respect and trust of its stakeholders. Your company is the 2 At ONGC Group, we have always been committed to our the “Energy and Environment Foundation Global responsibility toward the communities around us. In Environment Award 2018” in the 9th World Renewable FY'19, ONGC spent INR 6,146 Million for CSR initiatives in Energy Technology Congress, Golden Peacock Award for the areas of education, healthcare, rural development, HR Excellence organized by Institute of Directors (IOD) at skill development, promotion of sports and other themes Mumbai, Best Innovative Practices Award for Women at covered under section 135 (Schedule VII) of the Companies Workplace at the 2nd Gender Equality Summit organized Act, 2013. In this year alone, ONGC has undertaken more by Global Compact Network India, and Greentech Safety than 4,000 projects to cover parts of India as extensively as Gold Award 2019, etc. to name a few. possible. This re ects ONGC's commitment as a The noteworthy performance also extends to our responsible Corporate Citizen of giving back to the society overseas operations. ONGC Videsh was conferred the in equal measure. ONGC's leadership has ensured that as Golden Peacock Award for Risk Management from per the Government's mandate, 33% of the CSR budget Institute of Directors for its outstanding risk assessment INR 2,019 Million, was spent on Swachh Bharat projects. In and management. ONGC Videsh also received the India line with directives of Niti Aayog, ONGC has given special Risk Management Award constituted by ICICI Lombard & priority for development of Aspirational districts a CNBC-TV18. In this report you will nd details of the programme that focuses on prompt improvement of actions we are taking to operate safely, to respect the socio-economic status of 117 districts across 28 states. environment and to work closely with communities. Projects worth INR 769.5 Million have been implemented to address health care issues. With the objective of communicating our growing focus on integrating sustainability in our organization, I am As a result of our consistent performance, we have happy to present to you the tenth sustainability report of received multiple awards and accolades during the year, ONGC and sixth sustainability report of ONGC group of which further motivate us to enhance our performance as companies comprising of ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL, a Group. The company ranked 160th in the coveted OPaL and OTPC. This report which adheres to 'core' option Fortune Global 500 list for its robust scal and nancial of GRI Standards for reporting, is independently assured performance, bagged First Position globally in the as per AA1000AS standard. industry category and achieved overall ranking of 21st position in the Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Sincerely, Rankings-2018, adjudged as winner of the 'Oil and Gas Exploration' category of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporate Awards 2018. The Federation of Indian Petroleum Shashi Shanker Industry (FIPI) conferred ONGC the Exploration & Production – Company of the year” and “Environmental Chairman and Managing Director ONGC Sustainability – Company of the year Awards, bagged & Chairman ONGC Group of Companies ONGC's state-of-the-art Rig mounted Platform RS16 at Mumbai High. ONGC is India's largest oil and gas producer contributing ~75% of domestic oil and gas production 4 Message Managing Director – MRPL 'CCR AAA/Stable’ on Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL). MRPL processed 16.23 Million Tons of Crude during FY’19, against the previous highest crude processing of 16.13 Million Tons in FY’18. Total input to the re nery was 16.43 Million Tons against previous highest of 16.31 Million Tons during FY’18. MRPL registered the highest ever throughput of 16.43 MT and lowest ever energy consumption of 74.27 MBN for FY’19. MRPL Polypropylene production was 388.17 Thousand MT (TMT) in the FY’19 as against 294.5 TMT in the FY’18. MRPL Polypropylene dispatch was 405.72 TMT in the FY’19 as against 278.16 TMT in the FY’18. MRPL continued to include newer crude grades in the processing basket with an aim to diversify crude sourcing. Urals from Russia, Basra Heavy from Iraq and Nagayalanka crude from domestic sources, were processed in the re nery for the rst time. MRPL maintained leadership position in its marketing zone for direct sales products such as Bitumen, Fuel Oil, Sulphur, Pet Coke and Xylol Dear Stakeholders, (Xylenes). The total domestic sales volume of all products during the FY’19 has been 2,050 TMT against 1,786 TMT in FY’18 with a sales value of INR 80,340 Million during the year FY’19 against INR 59,400 Million, which is about 35 % higher than previous year sales value. MRPL also successfully marketed its entire production of Petcoke on Sustainability eﬀorts of MRPL have reached the a consistent basis with sales volumes of 993 TMT in FY'19 mainstream with opportunities on long term viable against 809 TMT in FY’18. MRPL also sold about 123 TMT approaches in all segments of the organization. Sulphur (against 103 TMT in FY’18) in its marketing zone Embracing environmentally sustainable business and the surplus Sulphur is being exported in larger parcel practices and sustainable business processes are sizes. prioritized in all endeavors of the organization with focus on ensuring sustainability to build a culture of MRPL again top notched its eﬀorts to environment accountability across the organization. MRPL has friendly initiatives in FY’19. MRPL continuously recycled balanced the performance across physical, nancial, treated eﬄuents and decreased the reliance on fresh social and environmental targets of the re nery in water. In addition to existing eﬀorts being undertaken by furtherance to previous sustainability eﬀorts. MRPL to preserve fresh water an extra eﬀort is being endeavored to preserve fresh water for potable and MRPL achieved turnover of INR 722,830 Million during the irrigational usage. MRPL is setting up a state of art Sea FY’19 and earned a Pro t After Tax (PAT) of 3,320 Million water Desalination plant to cater re nery fresh water with a Gross Re ning Margin (GRM) of 4.06 $/bbl. ICRA has requirements. This sustainable water sourcing caters an reaﬃrmed the long-term rating of AAA (pronounced ICRA extra dimension in mitigating the risk of river water triple A) and the short-term rating of A1+ (pronounced shortage in summer season. Desalination plant of ICRA A one plus) on the 70,000 Million bank facilities of capacity 30 MLD (expandable to 70 MLD) will cater to Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL). present and future water requirement of the company. CRISIL has reaﬃrmed its Corporate Credit Rating (CCR) th This Project is approved by MoEF&CC for Environmental Nisarga Dhama on 14 December 2018 for the Clearance and formal grant of EC obtained on 18.04.2019. development of Bio-Diversity Park in 41 acres of Marshy MRPL is in the process of setting up 2G Ethanol project in land area in MRPL premises. This Bio-Diversity park will the State of Karnataka in line with the National policy on promote the native species to ourish in the re nery Bio-Fuels 2018 which enables the nation in reducing premises and thus promoting an ecological balance. import dependency of crude oil. MRPL proposes to set up MRPL continued the eﬀorts of disposing hazardous waste 60 KLPD 2G Ethanol Bio-re nery at Hanagavadi village in in environmentally friendly mode and in the process 1,643 Harihar taluk of Davanegere district using agricultural MT of Oily sludge, 2,369 MT of PFCC Spent catalyst, 842 MT residues like Corn cobs, Rice straws as feed. of Spent Clay, 140 MT of Spent Adsorbent and 406 MT of MRPL has recognised the on-going Industry 4.0 revolution Waste Insulation was sent for co-processing in SPCB 3 and taken many initiatives to leverage on Information Authorized Cement Industries. Also 5,089,921 m Tertiary Technology for improving its business productivity. To run Municipal Sewage Water from Mangalore City Corporation SAP applications, a state-of-the-art Data Centre has been received in MRPL during FY’19 and after proper functioning at Mangalore site for supporting 24x7 disinfection treatment was utilized in cooling towers as business operations. As part of an up-gradation & make-up water. In another novel endeavor, MRPL along migration phase, SAP system at MRPL is being migrated to with Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has HANA (High-Performance Analytic Appliance) platform embarked on building an Urban eco-park wherein using Suite-On-HANA (SoH) approach with refreshed measures undertaken by MRPL to protect the environment hardware setup. This would enable SAP system to process and the initiatives for positive impact to prevent, reduce, massive amounts of data in main memory resulting in recycle and recover. MRPL intends to emphasize the performance improvement and user experience. On the environmental responsibility undertaken and sensitize Cyber Security front, all the necessary audits pertaining to the role of technology in sustainable re nery operations. Information Security Management System (ISMS) have MRPL has also initiated one more novel drive which is to been completed and MRPL has been recommended for replace the use of inorganic fertilizer with in-house IS0-27001:2013 certi cation. Future projects on IT front generated organic fertilizer within the re nery premises for MRPL include implementation of CRM (Customer by Vermicomposting of MRPL horticulture debris. Relationship Management) on SAP system during FY’20 MRPL is committed to the responsibility of carrying out for enhancing customer relationship. re nery operations by continuing high standards towards MRPL continues to endure ora & fauna in and around Sustainable Development. re nery and a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has Sincerely, been signed with M/s. Dr. Shivarama Karantha Pilikula M. Venkatesh Managing Director, MRPL 6 01 Message Chief Executive Ofcer — OMPL strategy of inclusive growth. Sustainability is one of our corporate values that motivates and inspires our employees. We want to create sustainable value for our customers, employees, shareholders and society through many innovative ways. During the year, OMPL has achieved a turnover of INR 83,620 Million. We have made consistent eﬀorts to increase our capacity utilisation. The capacity utilization for the year was about 99%. We are continuously undertaking measures to augment the capacity utilisation by ensuring continuous feedstock for plant operation. Consistent product quality, timely delivery and dedicated customer focus have ensured a presence for both products in all the major consuming regions. NABL certi cation & IMS certi cation is a testament to our consistent performance in maintaining higher standards of product quality. OMPL has considered energy performance improvement opportunities and operational control in the design of Dear Stakeholders, new, modi ed and renovated facilities, equipment, systems and processes that can have a signi cant impact on its energy performance. In keeping with our commitment towards environment, OMPL took the lead in many outreach programs by ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) a conducting interactive awareness sessions with school green eld petrochemicals project, is promoted by Oil and students and village community around OMPL. Outreach Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC), India's Most Valuable programs also emphasised on responsible use, reuse and Public Sector Enterprise, and Mangalore Re nery and recycling of plastic. Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) which is a subsidiary of ONGC. With the vision to become a world-class leader in OMPL has given ample opportunity to employees to petrochemicals industry, OMPL is tirelessly working unleash their innovative skills. In this regard, Innovative towards providing quality products and services technical study was developed in OMPL and the same was by means of continuous innovation, learning and showcased by means of poster presentation during the th operational excellence, safety and energy. We are 13 International Oil & Gas Conference Exhibition, committed to convey our concern and commitment organized on the theme “Shaping the New Energy World towards environment, safety and energy conservation by through Innovation and Collaboration” under the aegis of ful lling customers' / interested parties' requirements. the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Government of We are continually improving keeping in view the range of India. our products, systems and facilities. Ensuring safety of our employees will always be a priority At OMPL, we thrive to achieve sustainability in our area for OMPL. To enhance health and safety, we took business operations, as it supports us in our long-term various measures including medical check-ups and regular internal mock drill exercises considering the various emergency scenarios in plant and non-plant opportunities to leverage on the expertise, knowledge areas. As a result of our tireless eﬀorts to improve the and insights of our employees and stakeholders, to safety practices of the company, we have been able to pioneer new ways to address current and future achieve a Zero Loss Time Incident (LTI) for the FY'19. challenges. OMPL has successfully created and Another exemplary indicator of our safety performance is implemented innovative strategies for learning and the achievement of 1,251 Safe working days without LTI development, using people development as a tool to which was recorded on 31st March 2019. achieve objectives. In recognition of our eﬀorts, OMPL has been conferred Being a responsible organization, we conduct business in with the First Prize in Best Safe Boiler category in “State a manner that improves our pro tability, while creating level Safety Awards-Oil Industries” conducted by the positive impact on the environment and society. By Department of Factories and Boilers, Karnataka. Also won working further in this direction, we will ensure the second prize in Best Safe Worker category given by company's long-term resilience and sustain our Department of Factories and Boiler on the occasion of competitive edge, enabling us to deliver greater value to th National Safety Day observed on 4 March 2019, held at our stakeholders and shareholders. Tumkur, Karnataka. Safety accolades are achieved for third Sincerely, time consecutively on the event of National Safety Day observed every year on 4th March. Working in synergy with our group of companies and strategic partners, OMPL is determined to identify Sujir Suresh Nayak Chief Executive Oﬃcer, OMPL 8 Message Managing Director — OPaL business along with the social and environmental aspects related to our business. This year has been signi cant to us in terms of our operational performance and eﬃciency. During FY'19, OPaL plant has run at an average capacity of around 72%, which is 26% more than the capacity utilization in FY’18. Upon complete ramp up, OPaL would be producing about 1.4 Million tons of Polymers and 0.5 Million tons of liquid chemicals, generating about INR 150 Billion annually in revenues by FY'20. Our Polymer products are marketed under the brand name of 'OPaLene PP', 'OPaLene HDPE' and 'OPaLene LLDPE'. The OPaLene brand which was introduced in the year 2017 has already established its presence in more than 40 countries across the globe. In terms of economic performance, OPaL has clocked a turnover of INR 97,854.01 Million during the year through product sales of over 1.3 MMT, both in domestic as well as export markets which has increased by 56% as compared to FY'18. Dear We are a quality-driven organization and pursue continual improvement of our products and performance leading to maximum customer satisfaction and business growth Stakeholders, through dedication, commitment and teamwork of all employees. We carry out operations in a manner that is responsive to the environmental requirements of all the ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) is committed to concerned stakeholders at large. In line with Paris imbibing the principles of sustainability and responsible Agreement on Climate Change, we are committed to business planning and operational conduct, in line with bring a signi cant reduction in our GHG emissions. Being the philosophy of ONGC Group. OPaL started out as a one of the largest polymer producers in India, we private joint venture company incorporated in the year acknowledge our responsibility to promote practices for 2006. Over a period of time, we transformed to become responsible use of plastic. As part of our Extended one of the single largest Integrated Petro-Chemical Producers Responsibility (EPR), OPaL has taken the lead in Complexes in South-Asia. OPaL Plant at Dahej was creation of “seed – awareness” by conducting interactive inaugurated by Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra awareness sessions with school students across Vadodara. Modi in March 2017. The Dahej facility integrates the The health and safety of our employees is our top-most world's best technology, producing approx. 2 MTPA of priority. The ultimate goal is to have no incidents that Polymers and Chemicals. harm our people, neighbours or put our plants at risk. To At OPaL, we strive to achieve sustainability in our business enhance health and safety, we took various measures operations, as it supports us in our long-term strategy of during the year including medical check-ups and regular inclusive growth. We want to create sustainable value internal mock drill exercises considering the various through our business activities – for our customers, emergency scenarios in plant and non-plant areas. We are employees, shareholders and society. We believe in committed towards imparting continuous training in re striking a balance between the economic aspects of and safety practices. An oﬀsite mock drill was also conducted to enhance the emergency preparedness of operations, besides complying with government employees. By working towards strengthening of safety directives to discharge social responsibility. The CSR Policy st processes tirelessly, our company achieved Zero Loss Time was approved by the Board on 1 August 2016. Incident (LTI) for FY'19. Also, it is an exemplary In recognition of our eﬀorts, we received 'The Economic achievement to state that 1367 safe working days without Times Polymer Award 2019' as the best brand for LTI were recorded as on 31st March 2019. In order to 'OPaLene'. OPaL received the coveted “Golden Jubilee enhance employee's awareness levels and make them Memorial Trust Award for the FY’18 which was conferred more vigilant towards safety, we also observed National on OPaL in May 2019 by Southern Gujarat Chambers of Safety Day/week 2019. Commerce & Industry (SGCCI). The award was in We have continued to maintain cordial and harmonious recognition of OPaL's outstanding performance in relations with the collectives and there was no industrial Environment Conservation & Pollution Control. Similarly, disturbance during FY’19. With regard to human resource in September, OPaL received another laurel in the form of development, many employee engagement activities “Certi cate of Merit” for excellence in the management of were undertaken in the nancial year. These initiatives not the environment bestowed by the Indian Chemicals only improved the organizational work culture but also Council (ICC), an authority in the chemical industry. provides a boost to the productivity of employees. As India gears up to take up the 'Make in India' initiative OPaL adheres to highest standards of integrity, forward, OPaL's 'Made in India' products will provide a transparency, ethics and accountability fostering the tremendous boost to the nation's economy and give an mutual trust of its stakeholders. We are in process of impetus to the downstream industry. We are determined adopting digitalisation of our business processes, which to identify opportunities where we can leverage the in turn, will help us to ensure faster decision making and expertise, knowledge and insights of our employees and will signi cantly strengthen our eﬀorts towards fair stakeholders, to pioneer new ways to address current and corporate practices. future challenges. We are working in synergy with our For OPaL, Corporate Social Responsibility means group companies and strategic partners to rede ne the responsible business practices through the involvement global petro chemical landscape. of all stakeholders in the decision making process and in Sincerely, operations. It entails having business policies that are ethical, equitable, environmentally conscious, gender sensitive, and sensitive towards the diﬀerently abled. We are committed to ensure equitable and sustainable Avinash Verma growth of society in and around the areas of our Managing Director, OPaL 10 Message highest generation but also achieved its highest Plant Availability Factor, Plant Load Factor and Machine Managing Director OTPC Availability Factor since commissioning of the power station. Several factors like increase in fuel supply from ONGC, optimization of gas turbine & steam turbine operations, reduction in plant outage hours and implementation of Special Protection Scheme contributed to this achievement. The Company exported about 4,522 Million units of electricity during FY'19 and realized more than 90% of dues from its bene ciaries, which again is an exemplary performance. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) has registered the power plant at Palatana as a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project. The project is amongst the largest CDM projects registered in the country. By virtue of cleaner fuel (natural gas) being used as against traditional fossil (coal, diesel, oil) fuels for generation of electricity, OTPC is helping in reducing the carbon footprint of the country. UNFCCC has already issued about 1.7 Million Certi ed Emission Reduction (CER) credits to the project. OTPC estimates about 4 Million CERs for generation period from April 2015 to March 2017. Dear Stakeholders, The Company takes pride in being a socially responsible company. Eﬀorts undertaken as part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs have helped in enhancing the quality of life and economic wellbeing of the people living in vicinity of the plant. The local community has lauded eﬀorts of the company in area of CSR on numerous Humankind is at cross roads with choice between the occasions and on various platforms. The Company has present consumption pattern with rami cations as huge tailored the programs considering requirement of the as rampant planet degradation and adoption of local population, in consultation with local panchayats, sustainable living pattern to save the planet for livelihood government authorities and local bodies. During the year, of the masses and for prosperity of the greater good. The OTPC spent about Rs 14.3 Million on the CSR projects that situation calls for a concerted eﬀort at individual, are aimed at improving the lives of the students, women corporate, government and global level. and young and old alike. ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) is committed We at OTPC believe that our human capital is the bedrock to the cause of sustainability and is contributing towards of our success story. A multitude of programs is conducted cleaner environment, better economy and prosperous for attracting, developing and retaining talent within society. In this vein, it is a pleasure to present sustainability organization. OTPC strives to adopt best standards for report of OTPC as part of sustainability report of its parent well-being and quality of life for its workforce. The organization, ONGC. Company has taken a series of employee friendly FY'19 was a phenomenal year for OTPC. For the year, initiatives for providing a congenial work environment, Central Electricity Authority, the technical arm of Govt. of recreational facilities, rewards, recognition programs and India for power sector, acknowledged the company as the other employee welfare measures. To provide quality largest Central sector gas based operating power plant in accommodation and amenities to employees and their terms of electricity generated. OTPC not only achieved its families, the Company is constructing a township with 82 housing units at Khilpada, in vicinity of the plant. The on latest security gadgets. Health awareness programs, Company has also set up a training centre at Palatana tree plantation, water and electricity conservation Plant to upgrade skill, attitude, knowledge, and activities are regularly undertaken at the plant site from competencies of the employees and other personnel. time to time. Regular plant inspection and review is During the year, OTPC conducted training sessions on carried out to prevent any slippage in security and for various subject matters. In addition to OTPC employees, further strengthening of the security system. Safety oﬃcials of ONGC, NETC and STEAG also attended these performance of the Company is discussed in the trainings. Committee Meetings of the Company and status on the same is also placed at the Board meetings of the Company. In furtherance of its eﬀorts to enhance customer A healthy workforce is vital for eﬀective work conduct. To satisfaction, ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) is achieve this, the Company organises regular annual yoga committed to continuous improvement of its quality of camp and health check-up camp, for its employees both services. To achieve the same, the Company has started at Delhi oﬃce and Palatana Plant. A fulledged Medical the initiative “MILAAP: OTPC Conclave” for knowledge Centre has also been set up at the plant premises to take sharing by industry leaders for the bene ciaries of our care of imminent health needs of the employees and their project. Two editions of MILAAP have been conducted families posted at Palatana. These initiatives have successfully with enthusiastic participation of oﬃcials provided the necessary secure work environment to our from all seven North East bene ciary states. OTPC employees resulting in improved employee satisfaction management gives utmost priority to environmental, and welfare. sustainability issues for plant operation and associated occupational health, and safety related issues. OTPC is OTPC has been one of the most competitive producers of ISO/OHSAS certi ed in areas of Quality Management clean power in India having reliable fuel supply System (ISO 9001:2008), Environmental Management arrangements and power purchase tie-ups. In order to System (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupational Health and harness its existing capability and to participate in future Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007). During addition of clean power in the country, the Company the year, the Company was conferred with awards and intends to pursue the business expansion plans in the gas, recognitions such as OSHAI 3rd Annual HSE Excellence & solar and hydro based power projects. Sustainability Award 2018 in Gold Category, Power Plant At OTPC, we believe in thought leadership and regularly performance Award 2018 by Mission Energy Foundation update ourselves with the ever-changing market scenario and 18th Annual Greentech Environment Award in Gold by adapting to the dynamic regulatory changes and (Environment Management) category by Greentech adopting newer and innovative technologies to remain Foundation. In area of Sustainability, the Company was nd competitive and sustainable. Being a socially responsible accorded Certi cate of Merit during 2 Innovative company, we are forward looking and consider it Practices Awards for Sustainable Development Goals as our responsibility to not only enhance the enabling (SDGs) by UN-GCNI. The Company received Certi cate of environment in power sector but to also care for and Appreciation from National Safety Council of India for conserve the society at large by using eco-friendly achievement in Occupational Safety and Health. technologies for generating power in an environmentally Employee Safety and health is a key focus area for the sustainable manner. Being a nascent yet successful Company. OTPC continuously undertakes initiatives to company, I see a bright future for OTPC, growing provide a healthy and safe workplace to its employees and harmoniously while honouring its commitment to the the contractors working on its plant premises. Highest society and the environment. priority is attached to safety, occupational health and Sincerely, protection of environment in and around its working areas. Being situated in a remote location and close to the international border, OTPC prioritizes security of the plant. The Company has implemented necessary re safety Satyajit Ganguly measures, installed CCTV cameras, conducted regular re Managing Director, OTPC and safety mock drills and trained concerned personnel 12 Message Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM&SG, ONGC company has launched an array of focused actions like developing Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) mitigation projects, detection and arresting of fugitive methane emissions, energy eﬃcient lighting, renewable energy, paperless oﬃce, elimination of single use plastics, etc. In spite of the declining carbon markets, your company is still continuing validation of new CDM projects and veri cation & renewal of our existing CDM projects under the Kyoto protocol, in the interest of environmental protection. So far, we have registered 15 CDM projects accounting for a total emission reduction potential of about 2.1 Million ton CO2e every year. Conservation of fresh water and sustainable use of fresh water is another focus area where your company has adopted various measures like water foot-printing, rainwater harvesting, sewage treatment plants and seawater desalination. We thank you for your con dence and investment in ONGC. We are rmly moving forward to make your company more and more climate resilient through Dear modern technological interventions while maintaining our established position as a global leader in integrated energy business through sustainable growth, knowledge Stakeholders, excellence and exemplary governance practices. Sincerely, It is an honour and pleasure to present you the 10th GRI based, independently assured sustainability report of ONGC and ONGC group of companies. The report is a Rajesh Kumar Srivastava testimony to the social, economic and environmental Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM&SG contributions of your company in an unbiased manner. ONGC While exploration and production of hydrocarbons is essential to drive the economic growth of our country, the company as a responsible citizen is conscious about the perpetual warming of the environment and the consequences of disastrous climate change. Extreme weather continues to remain the top most global risk for the third consecutive year, according to Global Climate Risk Index 2019. Your company is a fore runner in demonstrating its commitment towards creating a sustainable planet, for ourselves and for future generations. To this extent, the Message Group General Manager Chief Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC Development Goals and the Expectations for companies to take more meaningful and goal-oriented initiatives on sustainability. Clean Development Mechanism, Global Methane Initiative, Greenhouse Gas Accounting, Green Buildings, Paperless Oﬃce, Energy Conservation, Emission Mitigation, Sustainable Water Management, etc. are some of our focus areas for Sustainable Development activities and rebuilding of a better planet for all of us. Despite the growing energy demand to exploit its depleting reservoirs, ONGC has been able to maintain a ne balance between its operations and energy consumption, keeping emission intensity almost at at 65.07gm of CO₂/MJ of energy consumed in FY’19. Carbon Management and Sustainability Group is a dedicated set up of your Company which drives sustainability across all its corporate and operational units, and we are happy to present you our 10th GRI based, Independently assured Group Sustainability Report for FY'19. We assure you our relentless engagement, though Dear Stakeholders, strategic thinking, anticipating trends and planning as well as eﬀective implementation of ideas absorbed from the ever-evolving tenets of sustainability, for creating more meaningful and deeper outcomes going ahead. We also welcome your feedback and valuable suggestions In today's world of cutting-edge technologies and towards environmental, social and economic sustainability competitive business models one thing is very clear; no of your company. technology or business model can survive if it doesn't take Sincerely, into consideration its impacts, both negative and positive, on the environment and communities around it. Making pro t is still very important for a business but it cannot Sanjay Kishore Shrivastava ensure necessary sustenance for a business if it fails to Group General Manager address the needs of environment and communities. Chief-Carbon Management and Sustainability Group Your company being a fully integrated energy major with ONGC strong presence across all verticals of hydrocarbon value chain is ever conscious of the adverse impacts of fossil fuel on our eco system. Our saga for sustainability is a decade old now and over the years brought out a large sustainability portfolio for your Company. We stand committed to the Paris Agreement, the UN Sustainable 14 About the Report ONGC Group is pleased to present its tenth sustainability report of ONGC and sixth sustainability report of ONGC group of companies comprising of ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL, OPaL and OTPC. We view reporting on nonnancial parameters as a means of communicating with our stakeholders and providing an insight into the Group's governance, strategy, performance and prospects. This report covers the sustainability performance for the period FY'19. In our growth journey, we have always placed the strongest emphasis on value creation for our valued stakeholders. This report covers sustainability performance of ONGC; its three subsidiaries ONGC Videsh, Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) and ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL); and two JVs ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) and ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC). For ONGC Videsh, the boundary covers key material aspects across its global operations(through subsidiaries) across the following entities: Imperial Energy (Russia), Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd. (Colombia), Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company (Sudan), San Cristobal Project (Venezuela) Carabobo (Venezuela) and Block CPO 5 (Colombia). Throughout the report, ONGC Group refers to ONGC, three subsidiaries and the two JVs. This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS), which is applicable to ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL, OTPC and OPaL. The reporting criteria of this report is 'In Accordance – Core' and the reporting period is FY'19 (1stApril 2018 to 31st March 2019). We engaged an independent external assurance organisation, TUV India Private Limited, to provide assurance in line with AA1000 Assurance Standard, and the assurance statement is provided at the end of the report. The GRI content index provided in the report at Page No. 121 provides a quick reference to all GRI Standards indicators and standard disclosures. Through this report, we aim to provide our valued stakeholders with a holistic snapshot of ONGC Group's approach to sustainability, the progress we have made over the years and our future plans. To complement this report, we communicate sustainable development performance highlights and case studies throughout the year on our website. We publish our sustainability report every year and all our reports can be accessed on ONGC's website: www.ongcindia.com We welcome all feedback from the readers either on the contents of this report as well as the approach we are taking. For any further details on Sustainability Report FY'19, please contact: Chief-Carbon Management and Sustainability Group (CM&SG), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Tower A, 4th Floor, Deendayal Urja Bhawan, 5, Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi – 110070, Phone Number: 011-26754003; Fax: 011-26129091; E-mail: chief_cmsg@ongc.co.in Key P 17 Highlights 1 P 18-23 ONGCA Pioneer in Energy Sector 16 Key Highlights INR Pillars of Sustainability for ONGC 1. ONGCA Pioneer in Energy Sector ONGC is the largest crude oil and natural gas company in The vision of ONGC Group is to be a global leader in India. It is also the only fully–integrated oil and gas integrated energy business through sustainable growth, company in India, operating along the entire hydrocarbon knowledge excellence and exemplary governance value chain, contributing to around 75 percent of India's practices. ONGC Group has taken structured integration total domestic production of crude oil and natural gas. It is initiatives towards projects that are value-multipliers such one of the most valued and largest E&P company in the as Re nery, LNG, Petrochemicals, Power, and SEZ, to have world, and one of the highest pro t-making and dividendpresence in the entire hydrocarbon value-chain. True to paying enterprise. Through consistent and remarkable the Group's commitment to become an integrated energy performance in the industry, ONGC jumped 37 notches to provider by expanding its operations and building secure the 160th position at the 2019 Fortune Global 500 forward linkages and downstream value additions list in FY'19 from its previous ranking of 197. ONGC beyond Exploration & Production, ONGC has expanded maintained its rst position globally in the industry and further strengthened its downstream portfolio over category “Oil and Gas Exploration and Production” and the years. achieved overall ranking of 21st position in the Platts Top ONGC strives to be a future-ready organization with a 250 Global Energy Company Rankings-2018 among strategic roadmap that envisions a few crucial pillars to global energy majors based on assets, revenues, pro ts predict its growth. Those pillars, as identi ed by ONGC, are and return on invested capital. The leading international consolidation of the core upstream business; expansion business journal Forbes has moved ONGC up to 220th into value accreting adjacencies in the oil and gas value position from its previous 246th position worldwide based chain and diversi cation into renewables and select new on ONGC's sales, pro t, assets and market value. frontier plays through dedicated venture fund. Expansion Core into Pillars of upstream value accreting Diversi cation ONGC Group’s business adjacencies in the oil into Growth (Domestic & and gas value chain renewables International) (dowstream and petrochemicals) Pillars of ONGC Group's Growth Power 49.98% Organizational pro le of ONGC Group 18 ONGCVidesh ONGC Videsh, our overseas arm, is a wholly owned Products and Services subsidiary of ONGC and has 41 projects across 20 countries Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, OMPL ONGC & Iraq, Israel, Iran, Kazakhstan, Libya, Mozambique, ONGC Videsh Myanmar, Namibia, Russia, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, Paraxylene United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Vietnam and New MRPL Crude Oil Benzene Zealand. Of these 41 projects, ONGC Videsh is Operator Natural Gas LPG LPG in 14 projects; Joint Operator in 7 projects and and in remaining 20 projects it is non-operator. With a total oil LPG Naphtha Fuel Gas and gas reserves (2P) of about 675.72 MMtoe, ONGC Naphtha Gasoline Hydrogen Videsh maintains a balanced portfolio of 15 producing, C2-C3 HSD Paraﬃnic4 discovered, 18 exploration and 4 pipeline projects. Raﬃnate Fuel Oil ONGC Videsh is the rst and the most prominent Indian E&P company to have international presence and has, Poly Propylene over the years, expanded its global presence Mixed Xylene signi cantly. OVL has also strategically aligned its business with the energy transition underway globally. Products of entities ONGC Videsh Geo-scientists at work at a hydrocarbon exploration site in Myanmar Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) The other subsidiary, MRPL, is a Miniratna and has about octane, respectively. The re nery has got a versatile 7% of India's total re ning capacity, with a state-of-the-art design with complex secondary processing units and a 15 Million metric tonne re nery, with two units of high exibility to process Crudes of various API, delivering Hydrocracking & Catalytic Conversions, Petro Fluidised a variety of quality products. MRPL commissioned a new Catalytic Cracking (PFCC) and Delayed Coker Unit (DCU) to retail outlet during FY'19, bringing the total number of produce premium diesel and unleaded petrol of high operated outlets for the re ner to 7. ONGC's downstream subsidiary MRPL 20 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) OMPL is a green eld petrochemicals subsidiary company of land in Mangalore Special Economic Zone (MSEZ) and of ONGC. ONGC holds 49% of equity share capital of OMPL has an annual production capacity of 914 KTPA of Parawhile MRPL holds 51%. The company was incorporated in xylene and 283 KTPA of Benzene at 100% operational load, December 2006, with a registered oﬃce in Mangalore, in Mangalore Special Economic Zone as value chain India. OMPL's Aromatic Complex is spread over 442 acres integration project. The verdant green surroundings in the Petrochem complex at ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd (OMPL) are a visual treat In addition to three subsidiaries, this report covers two joint ventures of ONGC ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) and ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC). ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) OPaL is a JV company incorporated in 2006. ONGC, GAIL synergizes with the strengths of its promoters ONGC, and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) have a GAIL (India) Limited and Gujarat State Petroleum stake of 49.36%, 49.21% and1.43% respectively in OPaL. Corporation Limited (GSPC). With adequate indigenous Established Dahej SEZ for utilizing in-house production of feedstock supplies, skilled manpower, and ready C2-C3 and Naphtha from the nearby unit of the Companydomestic and international markets, the company has the in the PCPIR/SEZ region, OPaL is poised to become a key potential to become one of the best performing operators player in the polymer industry. To utilize the advantage of in the global petrochemical industry. this highly competitive and dynamic market, OPaL Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi interacts with employees in the Central Control Room of ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL), in Dahej, Gujarat, while dedicating the plant to the nation OPaL Products and Services Ÿ High Density Polyethylene Ÿ Butadiene Ÿ Linear Low Density Polyethylene Ÿ Pyrolysis Gasoline Pygas Ÿ Polypropylene Ÿ Carbon Black Feedstock Ÿ Benzene 22 ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC) OTPC is a JV company of ONGC, IL&FS Group, India largest central sector gas-based power plant in the Infrastructure Fund-II and the Government of Tripura. country in terms of generation. The rst block (363.3 MW) OTPC's service is that of power generation and it has been of the power plant has been commercially operational pivotal in transforming the power supply scenario of the since January 2014, and the second block (363.3 MW) has entire north-eastern region of India. With 5 years of been operational since March 2015. The power consistent operations, OTPC has positioned itself well for generation project combined with linked transmission future and gained reputation of a credible power project and upstream gas supply project has brought in generator in the region. OTPC has been a key catalyst in its investments of about INR 100 Billion in the region. rapid economic development and has emerged as the The aspects of organizational pro le of ONGC Group, such as products and services, location of oﬃce and markets, and ownership structure are provided below: ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Oil and Natural Gas ONGC Videsh Limited Mangalore Reﬁnery and ONGC Mangalore ONGC Petro additions Limited ONGC Tripura Power Location of Corporation Limited 5, Nelson Mandela Petrochemicals Limited Petrochemicals Limited 4th Floor, 35, Nutan Bharat Company Limited 5, Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj, Kuthethoor P.O., Mangalore SEZ, Co-operative Housing Society Udaipur-Kakraban Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi 110070, Via Katipalla, Mangaluru, Permude Village, Limited, R.C. Dutt Road, Road, Palatana P.O., New Delhi 110070, India Karnatka-575030, Mangaluru, Karnataka Alkapuri,Vadodara, District Gomati, India India 574509, India Gujarat390007, India Tripura 799105, India Ownership and legal A Miniratna A Schedule A petrochemicals A JV company incorporated by A JV company of A Maharatna Public Schedule A CPSE of 'A' Miniratna CPSE subsidiary company ONGC and Gujarat State ONGC, IL&FS Group, Sector Undertaking the Government of under the Ministry of promoted by ONGC Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) India Infrastructure (PSU) of the India Petroleum and and MRPL under the with 49.36% and 1.43% Fund-II and Government of India Wholly owned Natural Gas Ministry of stakes, respectively, and coGovt. of Tripura form subsidiary and Petroleum and promoted by GAIL under the overseas arm of Natural Gas Ministry of Petroleum and ONGC Natural Gas Summary of organizational pro le of ONGC Group The ONGC Tripura Power Company with 726.6 MW power generation capacity is one of the world's biggest CDM project of ONGC 2 P 25 28 Corporate Governance 3 P 29 31 Reporting the Essential Stakeholder Engagement 4 P 32 33 Materiality Assessment 24 2. Corporate Governance ONGC Group embeds highest standards of governance in all its operations, striving to manage its aﬀairs in a rational and transparent manner to create long-term value for all stakeholders. Introduction ONGC's vision is to be a global leader in integrated energy when required, and ensuring independence of the business through sustainable growth, knowledge decisions made by the Board. The Code of Conduct excellence and exemplary governance practices. ONGC encourages and promotes exemplary governance Group is committed to conduct business in an ethical and practices, and is essential for promoting stakeholder transparent manner while observing highest standards of con dence in the organization. Intense engagement with corporate governance for increasing accountability and our shareholders through our Board meetings, Annual maintaining long-lasting relationships with stakeholders. General Meeting, Trainings of executive and non-executive Our stringent corporate governance framework ensures Board members, regular investor meetings have sharpened that we make timely disclosures and share accurate our focus on our core priorities and strategic vision. information regarding our economic, environmental and social performance, as well as disclosures related to the Size and composition of the Board leadership of ONGC Group. ONGC has been continuously At ONGC, we strive to ensure an appropriate mix of rated 'Outstanding' grade Categorization of Central Public executive and independent directors on the Board to Sector Enterprises (CPSE) as per Department of Public maintain its independence and separate its functions of Enterprises (DPE) guidelines on corporate governance. governance and management. As on 31st March, 2019, We believe that an active, well-informed and independent ONGC Board comprised of 17 Directors on the Board, Board is necessary to ensure the highest standards of comprising of 7 Functional Directors including CMD, corporate governance. At ONGC Group, the Board of 2 Government Nominee Directors and 8 Independent Directors ('The Board') is at the core of our corporate Directors appointed by the Government of India, as per governance practices. The Board oversees Management's the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the functions, Executive Committees and protects the longListing Regulations. One woman member has also been term interests of our stakeholders. Our Board of Directors appointed as a Board member during this reporting year. is highly engaged and dedicated to creating long term, sustainable value based on strong principles of governance. Our corporate governance framework is Composition of Board carefully constructed, and continually evaluated and updated, to ensure that it promotes accountability and supports our strategy to foster long term value and sustainable growth for the bene t of all shareholders. ONGC Group strongly believes in complying with all 47% Board of Directors Executive Committees 41% Functional Directors chaired by CMD Governance Structure applicable rules and regulations. In the interest of our 12% stakeholders, the Group has established suitable policies at the Board level to ensure an ethical and transparent environment in the organization. The Board has de ned a Code of Conduct to help ful l our corporate responsibility towards our stakeholders. This Code of Conduct ensures Functional Directors that the Board will have the necessary authority and Government Nominee Directors processes to review and evaluate our operations as and Independent directors ONGC Group is governed under the leadership of its committees have been formed under the Board across respective Board members. Under the leadership of the ONGC Group and JVs such as Audit Committee, Board, respective strategies, policies and procedures are Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Human established. The Board is assisted by several functionResource Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility speci c committees. The Company Secretary acts as the Committee. The Committees are required to have Secretary to all the Board Level Committee(s). To meetings at pre-de ned intervals to discuss and resolve streamline the eﬀectiveness of governance across ONGC any persistent issues speci c to their domain. The speci c Group, an 'Executive Committee' is in place that directly roles, requirements, and modus operandi for Board reports to the Board of Directors. The key roles and Members and Committee members of these committees responsibilities of the Executive Committees include can be found in ONGC's Code of Conduct for Board reviewing and implementing risk management Members and Senior Management Personnel. Integrity procedures and promoting company strategy. The and transparency are regarded as core values in every Independent Directors are provided with the relevant business activity of ONGC Group. There is a strong information to ensure that stakeholders' interests are commitment to act in compliance with the applicable protected. To ensure a strong focus on speci c issues and laws and regulations without compromising honesty and expedient resolution of various matters, a number of integrity in every aspect of the business. Policies of ONGC been uploaded on the company website. In addition, ONGC has a fulledged Vigilance Department headed by ONGC has formulated and uploaded policies/codes on its Chief Vigilance Oﬃcer (CVO), who holds the rank of a website in line with the Companies Act, 2013 and the Functional Director of the company. With a view to Listing Regulations e.g. Code of Conduct for Board maintain his independence, the CVO reports to the Chief Members and Senior Management Personnel, Material Vigilance Commissioner of the Government of India. Subsidiary Policy, Policy of Training of Directors, CSR and [Refer ONGC Annual Report for more details]. Sustainability Policy, Risk Management Policy, to list a few. The Board not only institutionalises, and reviews polices, In cognizance of the strong corporate governance but also focuses on overall organizational practices, practices, ONGC has received three awards at the Indian awareness creation and monitoring associated with each Chamber of Commerce (ICC) PSE Excellence Awards 2017 of these policies and its impact on organizational culture. in 'Operational Performance Excellence', 'Contribution of A complete list of policies can be referred through the Women in PSEs' and 'Corporate Governance' categories. ONGC Annual Report FY'19. We believe that high standards of governance are critical For ensuring transparency across the organization, ONGC to delivering on our strategy, creating long-term value Group has a strong and eﬀective Whistle Blower and maintaining our social license to operate. Our Board mechanism, which was implemented in December 2009. of Directors, committed employees and the communities The system ensures that a genuine Whistle Blower is that we work with, ensure that we stay focused on our granted due protection from any victimization. vision, mission and objectives. It is applicable to all employees of the company and has Transparency Accountability Integrity Leadership Commitment Ethics Trust Values of ONGC Group 26 Turning risks into opportunities rolled out a comprehensive Enterprise-wide Risk ONGC's Risk Management Policy Management (ERM) Policy throughout the organization. The Audit & Ethics Committee periodically reviews the “ONGC shall identify the possible risks associated with its identi ed risks and the management options for these business and commits itself to put in place a Risk Management risks. In ONGC, a dedicated Risk Management Cell is also Framework to address the risk involved on an ongoing basis to functional with speci c roles and responsibilities. ensure achievement of the business objective without any interruptions. The risk management covers three broad types of risks: ONGC shall optimize the risks involved by managing their a) Financial risk management through CSA exposure and bringing them in line with the acceptable risk module in SAP appetite of the Company.” b) Strategic risk management (This is dealt with separately under the domain of Corporate The oil and gas industry, particularly in emerging markets, Strategy and Planning Department) is highly susceptible to various critical risks. With worker c) Process risk management for the business units safety concerns representing only a portion of the across the enterprise challenges, increasingly strict regulations, reliance on An eﬀec tive ERM System was established and technology, inconsistent demand for raw materials and implemented by ONGC Videsh as per ISO 31000:2009 to high commodity prices are concerns that every oil and gas manage risks and seize opportunities related to the company has grappled with including ONGC. We, at achievement of its objectives. Subsequently ERM system ONGC Group, are striving to mitigate these risks with has been revised and implemented for identi cation and eﬀective risk management system in place. management of risks as per guidelines of ISO 31000:2018. ONGC Group recognises the importance of timely ERM provides a framework for risk management, which identi cation of risks and opportunities for our consistent involves identifying particular events or circumstances organizational growth. The Board of Directors have relevant to ONGC Videsh's objectives (risks and constituted a Board Level Risk Management Committee, opportunities), assessing them in terms of likelihood and which has conducted four meetings till date for magnitude of impact, determining a response strategy, reorganizing ONGC's risk management strategy. and monitoring process. Risk registers for mapping the Currently, ONGC Group has an Enterprise-wide Risk identi ed risks, with their drivers and mitigating factors Management (ERM) framework in line with the have been mapped as part of the ERM Framework. For requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure acquisition of overseas projects, a detailed 'Zero Based Requirements) Regulations, 2015. ONGC Group has also Risk Review (ZBRR)' is prepared consisting of all types of ONGC in association with Indian Institute of Corporate Aﬀairs (IICA) Manesar organised a two day workshop on Fraud Prevention, Detection and Investigation in August 2018 risks, which helps the management to take an informed commercial etc. aspects, which are carried out at diﬀerent decision considering the risk pro le of each project. ONGC levels and sometime through joint teams with international Videsh has developed and implemented SAP GRC-Risk partners and through expert third parties and Government module for optimal decision making and automated audits. Risk Management Committee meets once in six compliance. This module is extensively used to map Risk months or earlier to review the ERM System and framework, Monthly Report based on risk events and quarterly signi cant risks and emerging risks. compliance of risk mitigation factors in the SAP system ONGC Videsh has bagged 'Golden Peacock Award for Risk through work ow by risk coordinators and approved by Management' in December 2018 for its outstanding risk owners. performance in the sphere of risk management. ONGC For decision making by top management, risk dashboards Videsh has also received 'The India Risk Management have been developed and rolled out, which shows projects Award' constituted by ICICI Lombard & CNBC-TV18 on a global map with their risk scores, signi cant risks of in the category Best Risk Management Framework and projects on global map, risk heat maps and status of Sy s t e m s – P S U. T h e s e aw a rd s re c o g n i s e t h o s e quarterly compliance. Internal and external audits are also organisations and teams that have signi cantly added to conducted covering ERM, HSE, nancial, operational, the understanding and practice of risk management. Policy/System Weblink Code of Conduct for Boards Members and Senior https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Management Personnel CSR and Sustainability Policy https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/csr/csr-and-sustainability-policy/ ONGC Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Policy on Related Party Transactions https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Material Subsidiary Policy https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ ONGC Policies under Prohibition of Insider https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Trading Regulations Policy on Preservation of Documents https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Risk Management Policy https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Dividend Distribution Policy https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ Fraud Prevention Policy https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/en/investors/policies/ 28 3. Reporting the Essential Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with our Stakeholders ONGC Group is committed to active and eﬀective essential input to our annual materiality assessment. Thus, engagement with its diverse group of stakeholders to engaging with stakeholder makes business sense as it gain a fresh perspective on material issues and an helps the Group remain competitive by being futureopportunity to create maximum value for society ready against risks. ONGC Group has identi ed and utilised various Consistent dialogue with stakeholders is fundamental for communication channels to engage with various business success because the engagement process stakeholder groups. These channels are collaborative reveals what issues are material to the stakeholders. Our platforms such as, community interactions, customer stakeholder engagement strategy enables us to identify grievance mechanisms, customer and vendor engagement, internal and external stakeholders who are impacted by periodic meetings as well as employee feedback our business operations and also aﬀect our business. Such mechanisms. stakeholder identi cation ensures stakeholder inclusive decision-making. Moreover, communicating and partnering with our stakeholders is relevant at every stage of our value chain and is critical in ensuring that we secure and maintain our license to operate. Engagement with “ ONGC Group's strategic planning process incorporates the social, environmental, economic, and governance material issues internal and external stakeholders also helps us identify relevant for the long-term growth and success new sources of material issues that in turn creates a of the Company unique risk pro le for the business. Risks identi ed through this process help us provide ” Engaging with our Stakeholders ONGC Group employs a comprehensive stakeholder engagement process by utilizing formal and informal platforms to understand and address their concerns through various channels to focus on building strong, engaging and bene cial partnerships with them. The key stakeholders for the Group are identi ed from the complete list of stakeholders. The following gure illustrates the process ONGC Group uses to identify its key stakeholders. Identi cation Prioritization Validation Review Meet Manage their Closely Needs On the basis of Principles On the basis of Principles of On the basis of Principles On the basis of Principles of of Sustainability context Materiality and Stakeholder of Completeness and Sustainability context and and Stakeholder inclusiveness: Stakeholder inclusiveness: Stakeholder inclusiveness: Keep inclusiveness identify: Ÿ Narrow down the selection of Ÿ Final consultation Ÿ Collect feedback from Keep into • Wide range of stakeholder stakeholders identi ed with internal stakeholders Informed groups & representatives Ÿ Select stakeholders that help stakeholders and Account • Topics that interest, the organization prioritize decision makers aﬀect or involve the the identi ed topics stakeholders Ÿ Map typical stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Process interest vs In uence of stakeholders We follow a robust process for identifying our key stakeholders. During this process, the stakeholders are mapped based on their level of interest in issues and the level of in uence they exert on it. Based on this mapping exercise, we determine the level and mode of engagement to be adopted for each stakeholder group. All the identi ed stakeholders are signi cant to the Group since they impact our operations directly or indirectly, to varying degrees. To ensure eﬀective engagement, the stakeholders are classi ed into two broad categories: internal and external, based on the whether the ONGC Group has direct or indirect control over the stakeholder group. Modes of Stakeholder Engagement ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Cover of Engagement for ONGC Group’s Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement events during the year Shri Shashi Shanker, CMD ONGC and Chairman ONGC Group of companies addressing shareholders at the 26th AGM of ONGC 30 ONGC Group has identi ed critical stakeholders through an intensive stakeholder mapping exercise and it continues to engage with its stakeholders through diﬀerent engagement tools and methods throughout the year as illustrated below. Key Key topics and concerns Basis of identi cation of Area of Channels of Expectations of Stakeholder discussed with stakeholders Consultation Communications stakeholders Groups stakeholders Shareholders • The economic value of ONGC • Shareholding • Investor & Analyst Meet, • Business growth • Financial performance & investors creates and distributes Annual General Meeting, and stability • Risk management wealth for its shareholders. Investor Conferences, • Better quarterly • Entry into new markets (External) • Expectations of investors can Group meetings reports • Optimising operational in uence the nancial • Corporate website and • Corporate costs strategy. press releases/press reputation • Corporate governance and conference and external • Transparency in anti-corruption stakeholder meet corporate governance • Customers are the source of • Direct buyers of • Structured engagement • Ethical and fair • Resolution of customer Customers wealth creation. products through Crude Oil Sales marketing complaints (External) • Client satisfaction is essential produced by the Agreement (COSA) & Gas • Product quality • Quality of products for ONGC for its long-term organization Sale Agreement (GSA) • Pricing of products success. • Regular/periodic meetings with B2B partners and external stakeholder meet Suppliers, • Suppliers are important • Functional • Pre-bid conference • Fair and • Pricing, quality and safety contractors & business partners for supply chain • Vendors' meet accountable of services ensuring sustainable growth. • Delivery of • Contract agreement transactions • Issues related to human vendors materials • Transparency in rights • Training and awareness (External) programmes tendering • Vendors Meet process Employee/ • The capabilities and well• Day-to-day • Open House, Vichar • Career • Career growth prospects contract being of our employees operations Manthan, Vichar-Dhara, development • Learning and development in uence our operational Vichar-Vishlesan, • Performance programmes workers performance. mantrana, Employee web feedback • Trainings (Internal) • Employees leave a signi cant portal and internal • Fair evaluation • Rewards and recognition footprint in the stakeholders meet. and • Occupational health and organisational work culture. • Regular bilateral compensation safety meetings with employees • A comfortable • Work environment and • Unions and Associations organisational policies • Safety trainings culture • Grievance redressal • SAHAYOG Scheme mechanism • Ethics, transparency and accountability Local • Strong and healthy • Community • Participating in • Minimum • Social concerns in the community relationships with the local engagement collaborative activities environmental region communities is essential in activities with NGOs impact on the • Minimising negative &NGOs identifying needs. • Acquiring and • Roundtable conferences communities cultural impact (External) • A good environmental and maintaining with local residents • Recruitment of social performance license to • Inviting local the people from strengthens the relationship operate communities to ONGC's the community with employees. events • Supporting the local economy Regulatory • Stakeholders have the • Shareholding • Structured engagement • Compliance with • Regulatory compliance Authority capability to in uence the through meetings with relevant • Operational eﬃciency regulatory authority with administrative Ministry regulations • Development of (External) regard to the deployment of MoP&NG, DPE, HI & PE, • Compliance with communities new legislations or updating DGH, DGMS, OISD, OIDB, national and • Management of existing legislations. etc. and also through regional policies environmental impact external stakeholder meet. Joint Venture • The economic value of ONGC • Incorporating • Newsletter • Business growth • Financial and operational Partners Group creates and distributes sustainability • Magazines and stability performance wealth for its shareholders. strategies • Meetings organized at • Better quarterly • Risk management (Internal) • Expectations of investors can regular interval reports • Entry into new markets in uence the nancial • Corporate • Corporate governance and strategy. reputation corruption Stakeholder engagement methods at ONGC Group 4. Materiality Assessment Materiality assessment identi es the most important issues for the Group's stakeholders and business, therby indetifying strategic intervention areas to improve its Materiality Considerations sustainability performance. Importance to Importance to At ONGC Group, we understand the importance of our Stakeholders ONGC Group stakeholders' expectations and consider it a critical factor in the Group's long-term success. Therefore, it is critical to De ned based on De ned based on identify the issues that are important to our key stakeholders and focus our eﬀorts towards improving our Perception of Perception of stakeholder interaction stakeholder interaction performance in those areas to improve our overall and feedback in the and feedback business sustainability. In line with this approach, we form of ranking conducted a detailed materiality assessment exercise in provided during the Peer review of FY'19 by engaging our key stakeholders for identi cation workshop sustainability reports of and prioritization of material issues pertaining to other E&P companies economic, environmental, social and governance aspects. The materiality assessment process helps the Group identify the issues that require our attention and eﬀorts. Our approach to materiality assessment is depicted below: Arrive at the material issues Identify Prioritize Validate that de ne our sustainability Ÿ Identify a list of Ÿ Engage with Ÿ Validate the material issues stakeholders to identi ed and through industry narrow down the prioritized issues research and list of material by senior peer review topics management Ÿ Utilizing Ÿ Prioritize the Ÿ Prepare resources such as material issues as materiality matrix GRI sustainability high, medium and topics low Materiality Assessment Process of ONGC Group The signi cant economic, social, environmental and stakeholders. The materiality determination process governance issues identi ed are mapped based on their resulted in identi cation of 18 material issues that are importance to stakeholders and to business. The material plotted on the matrix that represents a twofold perspective topics are categorized into 'high', 'medium' and 'low', importance to the stakeholders and importance to based on their signi cance to the organization and the business. 32 High • Energy security and reserve accretion • Community • Climate change and energy Engagement • Water management • Human Rights • Economic performance Importance to stakeholders • Environmental protection • Business ethics Medium and transparency • HSE & security • Supplier engagement • Biodiversity • Workforce competency • Product quality & engagement • Geopolitics • Plant and system eﬃciency • Material consumption • Technology upgradation • Public policy Low Low Medium High Importance to ONGC Group Figure 1: ONGC Group's materiality matrix The materiality determination process was concluded highly material determine the focus areas for sustainwith the identi cation of 18 issues identi ed as material, ability journey of the Group. These issues re ect the focus ten were identi ed as high material issues, ve were areas for ONGC Group, which would help us in setting our identi ed as medium material issues, and three were goals and objectives for future strategic planning. identi ed as low material issues. The issues identi ed as Low Medium High • Plant and system eﬃciency • Business ethics and transparency • Energy security and reserve accretion • Material consumption • Supplier management • Climate change and energy • Public policy • Biodiversity • Water management • Product quality • Economic performance • Geopolitics • Environmental protection • HSE and security • Workforce competency and engagement • Technology upgradation • Community engagement • Human rights Environmental Social Economic Categorization of material topics 5 P 35-37 Economic 18-23 Performance 34 5. Economic Performance Being India's largest oil and gas exploration and around USD 50 due to geopolitical tension around the production company, ONGC Group is committed to world in the reporting year. ONGC, being a Maharatna continued steady economic growth through National Oil Company and India's largest crude oil and resilience and responsiveness in energy landscape. natural gas company, responds to these changing times with awareness that its decisions and actions during this period will be highly consequential for the country's ONGC Group's economic performance has observed future energy landscape. FY’19 was an year of growth for consistent growth due to its agile response to the ONGC Group. constantly changing business environment that is shaped by global challenges. The Group maintained growth in its Key highlights of ONGC Group's economic performace economic performance despite constant global changes and uncertainties that are inherent to oil and gas industry. 80% Good economic performance is one of the pillars of 70% 75% sustainable development and ONGC Group has strengthened it through constantly enhancing its 60% % increase in Revenue economic growth over the years. This is demonstrated by consistent increase in turnover across all its group 50% 50% companies. Most notably, ONGC and ONGC Videsh 40% observed 34% and 71% increase in Pro t After Tax (PAT) respectively in FY'19 as compared to that in FY'18. ONGC 30% 40% also generated its highest ever revenue of INR 1,096,546 29% 20% Million in FY'19. As the issue of climate change is driving the need for 10% 15% 14% energy transition in already complex oil and gas industry, 0% operations around the globe are impacted. Uncertainty ONGC OVL MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC remains a key feature of the industry marked by crude oil prices that swayed between a high of USD 80 a barrel and Figure 2 : Economic performance of ONGC Group FY’19 Economic Performance across ONGC Group Economic Performance FY’19 ONGC OVL MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Direct economic value generated (A) 2018-19 (INR Million) Revenues — net sales, revenue 1,171,735.58 178,963.77 724,703.76 85,683.02 97,854.01 14,611.82 from investments and sale of assets Economic value distributed (B) 2018-19 (INR Million) Operating costs 226,448 41,515.33 607,049.11 78,708.17 85,415.24 9,790.79 Employee wages and bene ts 121,130.33 2,779.58 4,286.56 521.54 1,228.89 216.34 Payments to providers of capital a) Dividend 95,951.80 3,000 5,257.80 1,620.26 b) Finance Cost 7,942 19,868.06 4,717.49 5,711.45 19,983.09 1,725.35 Payments to government 518,713 19,477.36 102,529.74 20,614.94 598.82 (Contribution to Exchequer) Community investments 6,146.44 95.39 313.21 3.37 14.53 Economic Value Retained = (A B) 195,404.01 92,228.05 549.85 741.86 -29,391.52 645.73 Table 1 : Economic performance of ONGC Group FY’19 ONGC During FY'19, ONGC generated a revenue of INR 1,096,546 Million from operations, as compared to INR 850,041 Million in FY‘18, a 29% increase in revenue generation from operations. ONGC’s net pro t observed signi cant increase of 34% to INR 267,158 Million in FY'19 as compared to INR 199,453 Million in FY’18. A big positive of ONGC’s exploratory eﬀorts were the rst-time discoveries in Bengal Basin (Well Asokenagar-1) and Vindhyan Basin (Well Hatta-2). ONGC made a total of 13 Oil and Gas Production of ONGC 24.75 25 24 23.48 23 22.25 22.09 22.31 22 21.11 21 20 19 FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Oil Production in MMT Gas Production in BCM Figure 3 : Oil and Gas Production of ONGC discoveries during the year, of which 8 were on-land and 5 in oﬀshore areas. Notably, 5 of those discoveries were monetized during the year itself. Dividend to shareholders for FY’19 remained healthy with a total payout of INR 88,062 Million which again was the highest ever with impressive payout ratio (including Dividend Distribution Tax) of 39.7%. ONGC Videsh high plant availability, MRPL processed 16.43 MMT of ONGC Videsh has achieved a stellar landmark by Crude in FY’19 against 16.31 MMT during FY'18. This was achieving its highest-ever production of 14.833 MMToe the highest ever crude processing achieved by the for the year. This constitutes 23% of ONGC Group's company. MRPL also achieved LPG production of 969.82 production for the year, demonstrating the signi cance of TMT during FY’19 against 876.8 TMT achieved during the the overseas operations to the Group. A revenue of INR FY’18. 146,320 Million was generated from operations as Due to its commitment to align its operations to India's compared to INR 104,176 Million, demonstrating 40% support for the global vision of sustainable development, increase. The net pro t of ONGC Videsh increased in FY'19 MRPL sincerely focuses on energy eﬃciency and was able to INR 16,823 Million against that of INR 9,815 Million in to achieve lowest energy intensity. FY'18a signi cant increase of 71%. OPaL MRPL OPaL has run at an average plant capacity of 70%; it is In the downstream business, MRPL achieved a turnover of expected to reach 100% operating capacity in the current INR 723,151 Million during FY’19 against a turnover of INR nancial year. OPaL has sold more than 1 MMT of polymers 630,836 Million during FY’18. MRPL achieved a net pro t and has grossed INR 97,854 Million as revenues. of INR 3,320 Million in FY'19. Through adherence to operational discipline, high equipment reliability and 36 OMPL OTPC ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL), one of The Company registered total revenue of INR 1,4611.8 ONGC's petrochemical units, continues to be one of the Million during FY’19 as compared to INR 12,852.9 Million leading producers of Paraxylene and Benzene in the during FY’18, thereby, recording an increase of 13.68% country with an impressive track record of its quantity and over previous year. The Net Pro t for the FY’19 has been quality commitments. During FY’19, OMPL achieved a increased by 63.20% to INR 2,042.10 Million as compared turnover of INR 83,624 Million as compared to INR 55,613 INR 1,251.3 Million during FY’18. During the year, Credit Million, and a Pro t After Tax of INR. 229 Million, mainly on Analysis & Research Ltd (CARE) has aﬃrmed the rating of the account of higher margins and availability of Company to 'Care AA (-)' in respect of the long term bank feedstock. loan facilities, further CRISIL has upgraded long term nance rating of OTPC to “CRISIL AA/Stable” from “CRISIL AA-/Positive” . Awards and Recognitions Year (Non-Manufacturing)'. The awards were published in ONGC has been ranked 160th in the coveted Fortune the agship issue of DSIJ PSU Award, which, over the years, Global 500 list for its sound nancial performance. The has served as an exclusive platform to recognize the Company has been ranked fth globally in the 'Mining eﬀorts and achievements of PSUs in India. and Crude Oil Production' Industry category. In the 2018 Platt’s 250 list, ONGC maintained its rst The Company received three awards at the Indian position globally in the category “OIL and Gas Exploration Chamber of Commerce (ICC) PSE Excellence Awards 2017 and Production”. It also secured overall ranking of 21st in in 'Operational Performance Excellence', 'Contribution of the Platt’s 250 Global Companies ranking in 2018. Women in PSEs' and 'Corporate Governance' categories. The Company has been conferred with INFRA Icon Award The leading international business journal Forbes has in the “Global Energy” category at the mid-day INFRA moved ONGC upto 220th position from its previous 246th Icons Awards 2018. INFRA Icon is an initiative by mid-day, position worldwide based on ONGC’s sales, pro t, assets designed to bring to the forefront the change makers and and market value. trend setters associated with the infrastructure of India. The Company has been recognized in the Dalal Street The award recognizes the exemplary performance in the Investment Journal's Roll of Honor list of India's Best corporate world and felicitates the top companies across Public Sector Undertakings 2017 as the 'Maharatna of the various sectors. India’s Flagship Energy Major No.1 Ranked 160 Ranked 220 %%% E&P Company Fortune Global Forbes Global Platt’s top 250 500 2000 6 P 39-50 Climate Change and Energy 7Energy Security P 51-52 Contributing to India's 8 P 53-57 Water and Waste Management 6. Climate Change and Energy To tackle the issue of climate change at the Group level, we primarily focus on reducing the energy intensity of our Global action to address climate change remains a critical operations. We are determined to bring about signi cant priority for companies across the world. As a pioneer in the reductions to the energy intensity of our operations, oil & gas industry, we have an important role to play in thereby, reducing our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in contributing to eﬀorts directed towards mitigation of the next few years. For a systematic approach towards climate change and enhancing resilience against illmanaging our carbon emissions from examining our eﬀects of climate change. In line with this vision, we value chain from carbon emissions perspective to acknowledge the changing global climate and remain building sustainable solutions we have formed the fully supportive of the outcomes of the Paris Agreement. Carbon Management & Sustainability Group (CM&SG) At a national level, we acknowledge the Nationally Department. Determined Contributions (NDC) by the Government of The Department steers the Group's eﬀorts in this sphere India and will contribute towards achievement of India's to ensure maximum outcome. The Department aims to targets through our initiatives in CSR and energy support ONGC in becoming a leading organization in the conservation. The issues of climate change and energy sphere of sustainable development and to voluntarily has also been identi ed as a highly material issue by our take up carbon management initiatives and reduce the stakeholders. Group's overall carbon emissions. Energy Performance ONGC is conscious of its responsibility towards environment and takes regular measures for minimising the footprint. With our consistent eﬀorts, we have managed to harness renewable energy wherever possible and continue to look for avenues of utilizing renewable energy in our business operations wherever feasible. Energy Summary of ONGC OPaL energy consumption ONGC energy consumption 38,895.31 TJ 164,584.55 TJ MRPL energy intensity OVL energy consumption 10,922.73 TJ 74.27 MBN OMPL energy consumption OTPC energy consumption 16,506.39 TJ 35,833.35 TJ The details of energy consumption in the last three years for ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OPaL, OMPL and OTPC are given below: ONGC FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Consumption (TJ) 162,542.381 156,033.71 164,584.55 ONGC Videsh FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Consumption (TJ) 12,912 9,419.36 10,922.73 MRPL FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Intensity (MBN) 79.61 77.05 74.27 OPaL FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Consumption (TJ) Energy Summary 17,400.31of ONGC 37,736.66 38,895.31 1 There is a small change in the energy consumption data of last two years for ONGC, as ONGC has reorganized its energy data by including renewable energy sources in use. OMPL FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Consumption (TJ) 15,568.05 16,097.63 16,506.39 OTPC FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Energy Intensity (TJ/MU) 6.46 6.56 6.40 Table 2 : Energy Summary of ONGC Group ONGC's energy intensity was 3,588.85 TJ/MMT in FY’19 and OMPL's energy intensity was noted to be 433.12 MTOE. ONGC Group understands the importance of renewable energy as a signi cant alternative to conventional sources of energy, and as a measure towards carbon emission reduction. Therefore, the Group continuously promotes usage of renewable energy by aiming to increase the share of renewable energy in our operations. The details of renewable energy consumption are given below2: Energy Summary of ONGC FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Direct energy consumption (in TJ) 160,856.25 154,336.2 162,579.59 Indirect energy consumption from purchased electricity (in TJ) 1,686.13 1,697.51 2,004.96 Total energy consumption (in TJ) 162,542.38 156,033.71 164,584.55 Energy consumption from wind and solar power (in TJ) 304.25 288.20 434.34 Share of renewable energy (in %) 0.19 0.18 0.27 Table 3 : Energy Summary of ONGC Details of energy consumption from renewable sources (TJ) 450 400 350 300 250 358.3 200 150 298.4 273.5 100 50 5.84 14.69 76.03 0 FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Figure : 4 Share of Renewable Energy in ONGC’s energy mix Solar Wind GHG Emissions Emissions constitute a signi cant part of ONGC Group's technologies. environmental impacts because of the very nature of the At ONGC, we continue to employ the use of latest activities comprising our business operations. ONGC technologies that foster energy conservation. ONGC is Group recognizes, acknowledges it and manages it committed to disclosing its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) proactively. At ONGC Group, monitoring of emissions is inventory including its Scope 1 (process emissions and carried out on a regular basis. In FY’19, the Group recorded other direct emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased total emissions of 25.31 MMT of CO₂e. The Group is electricity) emissions, as de ned under the World determined to reduce its emissions and is continuously Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) evaluating opportunities to reduce them across our value and World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol and chain. The Group also evaluates the possibilities of applied sector-speci c guidance provided in the harnessing and utilizing renewable energy and Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimations upgrading its operations with energy eﬃciency measures Methodologies for Oil and Gas Industry developed by the wherever feasible. We are committed to reducing our American Petroleum Institute (API). carbon footprint by optimising our energy consumption, diversifying our energy portfolio and investment in newer 2 Energy outputs for plants with capacities < 1.0 MW are theoretically calculated with 18% cuf. For others the outputs were actually measured. 40 GHG Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO₂e) 10.23 9.76 10.25 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO₂e) 0.38 0.39 0.46 Table 4 : Direct and Indirect Emissions for ONGC Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO₂e) 1.98 1.38 1.45 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO₂e) 0.10 0.12 0.14 Table 5 : Direct and Indirect Emissions for ONGC Videsh Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO₂e) 4.23 4.2 4.15 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO₂e) 0.01 0.01 0.003 Table 6 : Direct and Indirect Emissions for MRPL Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO2e) 3.49 8.58 8.73 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO₂e) 0.05 0.01 0.12 3 Table 7 : Direct and Indirect Emissions for OPaL Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO2e) 1.05 1.07 1.08 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO₂e) 0.02 0.02 4 Table 8 : Direct and Indirect Emissions for OMPL Emission type FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO₂e) 1.44 1.42 1.61 Table 9 : Direct Emissions for OTPC Direct GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO2e) (MMT of CO 2e) 23.59 24.57 30 20.17 1.5 20 1 0.74 0.54 0.55 10 0.5 0 0 Direct GHG emissions (MMT of CO2e) Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (MMT of CO2e) FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Figure 5 : Direct GHG emissions of Figure 6 : Indirect GHG emissions of ONGC Group (MMT of CO2e) ONGC Group (MMT of CO2e) 3 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, emissions data is being reported only for FY’17 and FY’18. 4 Since this is the Third sustainability report of OMPL, the data is being reported only for FY’18 and FY’19. Energy conservation measures undertaken during the reporting year Dual Fuel Technology Continuous monitoring of our energy consumption and emissions helps us in identifying the areas where we can Renewable Gas create maximum positive impact in our operations. Based Energy Flaring on this information, ONGC Group has implemented Reduction various measures to achieve energy eﬃciency. Energy Conservation Measures Energy Energy Eﬃcient Audits Lighting Mitigation of emission through 'Dynamic Gas Blending'A case study Energy For an upstream oil & gas company, drilling wells with Management target depth often in the range of several thousand metres is an important domain of work. Drilling is System performed using rigs, which are shifted to new drilling Energy Conservation Measures locations after completion of wells in one location. Due to its portable nature, rigs are powered by multiple observed during installation and commissioning of this diesel generators that emit a lot of greenhouse gas (GHG). Dynamic Gas Blending (DGB) is an eﬀective project. technology to reduce the GHG emission substantially. In During operation substitution started at load of around DGB, natural gas is used simultaneously with High 18% and substitution observed was in the range of 25Speed Diesel/ High Flash High Speed Diesel in suitably modi ed Diesel generators. This technology reduces 65% at various engine load conditions. After completion the consumption of diesel substantially. Use of natural of well #DJAU & #GNDFR, average substitution of 45.95% gas, a cleaner fuel than diesel, caused reduction in GHG was observed and net HSD Saving of 268,879.53 litres emissions. worth INR 16.9 Million was found. The cost of the project is Taking advantage of neighbouring production INR 42.9 Million with anticipated payback period of 1 year installation and gas lift lines from where natural gas was 2 months. However, with the actual results, net payback made available, ONGC used DGB technology for the rst time in India in Rig EV 2000-II at its Ankleshwar Asset. period becomes about 1 Year 19 Days. DGB system used in EV 2000-II can be divided into two Presently, 19 Caterpillar 3512B engines are present in 5 following parts: Drilling Rigs of Ankleshwar Asset. Annual consumption of a) Gas Conditioning System (Skid) to handle gas upto a High Speed Diesel in these engine is more than 7,500 KL. maximum pressure of 110 kg/cm2: By introducing DGB system in these engines, ONGC may This system is equipped with Knockout Drum, Filters, expect to reduce HSD consumption to the tune of INR Gas Heater, Pressure Reduction Valves and three stage Gas Filtration System; 141.5 Million. (b) DGB kit installed at 4 Caterpillar 3512 B Engines at EV2000-II Drilling Rig 300 295.33 295.33 Consumption of HSD per MWh DGB System is also equipped with various safety 250 systems like In Cylinder Pressure Sensor to prevent 200 159.88 162.41 150 knocking/detonation, Flame Arrester to prevent back 100 re, Gas Detection to alarm in case of gas leakage in 50 engine canopy and Remote Operated Shut oﬀ Valve to 0 shutdown gas supply to engines in case of any #DJAU #GNDFR emergency. Kit was installed and commissioned in just DGB Location 41 days after receipt at site on all 4 engines. Complete Before DGB After DGB pilot project has been executed in well planned and Figure 7 : HSD Consumption before and after DGB coordinated manner. No operational shut down was 42 Environmental Impact While running engine on DGB, SO2 and NOx Commissioning of DGB system has a greater emissions have been reduced by 49.37% and impact on environment. By running the Engines 27.78% respectively. Hydrocarbon (CH4) and CO on Dual Fuel mode or DGB mode, we have emissions have also been reduced by 46.88% and achieved signi cant reduction in various stack 20.41% respectively. While installation of DGB emission parameters. It is found that Particulate system, on one side provides huge direct Matter (PM mg/Nm3) has reduced by 78.18% nancial saving, on the other side it contribute to during DGB mode. a greener and cleaner environment. 80 70 60 Before DGB 50 40 After DGB 30 20 10 0 PM SO2 NOx HC as (CH4) CO Figure 8 : Emissions before and after DGB Energy-eﬃcient lighting : To promote energy eﬃciency, Renewable Energy: ONGC is committed to contribute ONGC has initiated a programme for implementation of for climate change issues. Therefore, it has set up LED lighting across its diﬀerent work centers. As part of numerous installations to utilize renewable energy. ONGC the programme, ONGC has installed 207,000 energy has made capital investment of INR 634.60 Million on eﬃcient LED lights across various work centres till date. energy conservation equipments. It is for solar-based This would result in monetary savings of around INR 290 power plants of capacity 12.89 MW commissioned during Million per annum on electricity consumption for lighting. FY’19. At present, ONGC has a total installed solar power generation capacity of 23 MW. The details of the project Energy Management System: During the year, ONGC commissioned during FY’19 are as follows: has implemented ISO 50001 across various work centres in a systematic manner. ISO 50001 is an energy Ÿ Ground mounted solar power plant of capacity 1 MW management standard which enable organizations to was commissioned in August 2018 at IPSHEM Goa, integrate energy management into their overall eﬀorts to with a total investment of INR 71.60 Million. improve quality and environmental management. Till Ÿ Ground mounted solar power plant of capacity 5 MW date, seven sites i.e. Uran plant, IDT, GCP, GGS-1 Kalol, at Ankleshwar Asset having an investment of INR Central Workshop Vadodara, Desalter Plant-Nawagam, 357.60 Million. Ahmedabad and C2-C3 plant Dahej have been covered Ÿ A cumulative capacity of 6.89 MW of roof-top solar under this certi cation. power plant across various buildings/installations of Energy Audits: The energy audit identi es overall energy the company in Dehradun, Gujarat, Assam & Tripura. consumption and conservation. It also provides energy Total investment made for these projects was INR utilization analysis and allows evaluation of energy 205.40 Million. conservation measures. At ONGC, periodic energy audits Additionally, ONGC has also installed wind power plants have been carried out through competent in-house of capacity 153 MW. energy auditors. In FY’19, a total of 141 energy audits were carried out across various work centres. Use of Micro-Turbines to reduce Gas Flaring – A case study emergence of micro-turbines is a game changer in Across the world, aring of low pressure natural gas in utilising low pressure gas for power generation. By remote oil and gas elds is common due to noninstalling a 65 KW capacity micro-turbine in Linch viability of creating costly infrastructure for marketing Group Gathering Station (GGS) of Mehsana Asset on the gas produced. Latest satellite data indicates that 15.10.2018, ONGC has made another technological around 3.5% of natural gas supply is wastefully burned leap in reducing gas aring from its remote elds. This across oil and gas elds of the world. noble initiative resulted into the utilisation of about 20,000 SCMD of natural gas produced by the GGS for Science and technology has given us large gas producing electric power. turbines for power generation from natural gas. The The typical power outputs of micro-turbines range The machine can run in standalone or grid connected from 25 KW to 500 KW. The 65 KW unit installed at Linch mode as per requirement. GGS was supplied by Capstone USA, the world leader The project was executed at a cost of INR 13 Million and in Micro-Turbines. They are single shaft machines resulted in reducing the gas aring from the GGS as running at very high speed in the range of about one well as generating about 1,400 units of electric power Lakh RPM and utilises state of the art technologies like every day. This saves about INR 2.88 Million every year air bearing, single shaft, inbuilt synchronisation & from the electricity bills. Additionally, the notional remote sensing, control and fault recti cation facility. value of gas saved per year is INR 80 Million. They require no lubrication and have minimum maintenance. These machines are also capable of The project activity involves recovery of the natural using fuels of varying compositions – Natural Gas, LPG, gas which was otherwise being ared, and utilising the Bio-gas, Land ll gases, etc. High frequency output of recovered gas for power generation. This help in generator is converted to 415V 50Hz output by means minimising environmental pollution and protection of of power electronic module. biodiversity around the plant area. The initiative is also in line with the aim of World Bank to end routine gas aring at oil production sites around the world by 2030. In the absence of the project, the power supply for the installation would have been met through grid electricity or through diesel generator sets during power shutdowns. Use of Micro-Turbines will be a game changer in terms of providing captive power to remote installations or unmanned platforms. The project is presently being taken up in a remote installation of Assam Asset and Mumbai High oﬀshore Asset for implementation. 44 ONGC and Indian Oil join hands to reduce carbon emissions ONGC signed an MoU with IOCL for CO 2 based mission of carbon neutrality. Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) injecting CO2 captured In order to replicate global success story of CO2-EOR from IOCL's Koyali re nery. The MOU signed in July 2019 from anthropogenic sources in India,the Institute of will serve in its fruition the two-pronged purpose of Reservoir Studies (IRS), ONGC has carried out reducing India's carbon emission targets as set forth in laboratory and numerical simulation studies for COP21, while enhancing production from domestic Gandhar eld. Technical feasibility of CO2-EOR has elds. been established, and is indicative of incremental oil It is a landmark event in the history of Indian recovery of approximately10 %. Hydrocarbon Industry, with two of its largest The success of CCUS in India will not only increase conglomerates agreeing to jointly work on Carbon domestic oil production, but also cater to address Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS). CCUS is known India's Nationally Determined Contributions of to be a very eﬀective method of EOR globally and is reducing the emission intensity of GDP by 33-35 % by playing an increasingly important role in achieving the 2030 as per Paris agreement. Teams ONGC and IOC for the landmark event ONGC Videsh Electric Vehicle Pilot Project air pollution. This project was implemented as a pilot ONGC Group promotes the use of clean fuel in its project by M/s. EESLjoint venture of PSUs of Ministry of operations as well as in transportation. In the month of Power, to supply ve numbers of Mahindra e-Verito March 2019, CMD Mr. Shashi Shanker agged oﬀ the rst electrical vehicles for four years wet lease, as a pilot project. batch of ve electric vehicles for the oﬃcers of ONGC Under this project, M/s EESL will provide electric vehicles Videsh in Delhi under a pilot project. This would not only along with chauﬀeurs for four years including installation reduce the dependency on fossil fuel but also reduces the of chargers as well as maintaining statutory compliance. Electric VehicleNeed of the hour Advantages of using Electric Vehicles Ÿ Clean fuel Ÿ Driving cost relatively much cheaper than conventional fuel vehicles Ÿ Easier and cheaper maintenance Ÿ Health bene ts as it reduces harmful emissions ONGC Group Chairman Shri Shashi Shanker agging oﬀ the Electric Vehicle Pilot Project at the ONGC Corporate oﬃce Ÿ Reduced noise pollution 5.25 KW Solar Power Plant in Al Dubasi , Sudan To further enhance contribution towards the usage and promotion of clean energy, ONGC Videsh has installed a 5.25 KW of solar power system in the Al Dubasi Village Hospital (190 km north of Khartoum) in Al Gataina area, Sudan. The solar system consists of a Hybrid Solar Inverter and batteries which have a storage capacity of 18 hours. Hence, it would provide un-interrupted power supply to the hospital during the day time. MRPL MRPL recognizes the importance of energy conservation Ÿ De-staging the boiler water feed pump from 13 stages and regularly undertakes strategic initiatives such as to 12 stages to reduce the boiler feed water header continuous monitoring of system & processes, energy pressure audits, technology, innovation, and replacement of Ÿ Installation of energy eﬃcient lighting xtures and energy eﬃcient equipment, amongst others. MRPL removal of old lighting xtures from non shop oor continuously encourages the use of innovative technologies area that results in energy conservation. These measures also Ÿ HPMV and HPSV lights have been replaced with prove nancially bene cial to the company. energy eﬃcient xtures in plant area In FY’19, nearly INR 122 Million worth fuel has been saved Ÿ Reduction of Vacuum column top pressure CDU I and through the energy conservation initiatives undertaken optimization of stripping steam has been done by by MRPL. Some of these initiatives are: stopping the stripping steam in LGO & HGO strippers Ÿ Implementation of Diesel Pump in Hydrocracker -II Ÿ In CDU II, stripping steam of heavy gas oil has been Recycle Splitter Column and Heat Recovery from stopped Hydrocracker-2. Unconverted Oil by Cold demineralized Water in HCU II Shell PFI Ÿ Recovery of are gas by installing Flare Gas Recovery System for Phase-3 Hydrocarbon Flare system: This Ÿ Enrichment of O₂ for Sulphur Recovery Unit-2 (SRU), are gas is then used as a fuel along with Re nery Fuel which helps in increasing the steam generation. Gas and thus reduction in consumption of Re nery Ÿ Replacement of motor with high capacity motor in Fuel Gas Crude Distillation Unit Phase I Ÿ Upgradation of dual frequency of existing two stage Ÿ Replacement of existing motor with a higher capacity bi-electric desalters at Crude Distillation Unit – 2 motor for handling higher Reduced Crude Oil (RCO) Ÿ Installation of FCC Gasoline Treater which has been from 280m/hr to 360m/hr which also reduced the imported from France, in order to comply with BS-VI power consumption MS Sulphur Speci cation Ÿ Excess Air Reduction in CPP 3 Utility Boilers Ÿ Installation of Chlorosorb Process technology for CCR Ÿ Reduction of ue gas outlet temperature at outlet of Unit, which helps in absorbing HCI from regeneration HRSG 1 and 2 gases before venting to the atmosphere ONGC has taken key measures to keep people and planet as focus in its pursuit to provide energy to over a billion Indians 46 OPaL The initiatives undertaken during FY’19 at OPaL for energy saving and process improvement are as follows: S.No. Plant Name Energy saving /Process improvement measure implemented Estimated savings 1. Polypropylene In between December 2018 and March 2019, there has been a reduction in steam Saving INR. 5.63 Million Unit consumption by approximately 60 Kg/Ton of PP product. The reduction was noted due during this period to the following steps taken: steam trap replacement with inverted bucket type steam traps, maintenance of passing valves and with increase of steam condensate recovery. 2. Captive Power Implementation of condensate recovery system which reused the water and Annual saving of INR Plant (CPP) sensible heat contained in the discharged condensate 0.12 Million 3. Captive Power Conducted performance optimization for Makeup Water Heater Pump (Multistage Annual saving of approx. Plant (CPP) Horizontal pump-1) INR 0.36 Million 4. Captive Power Discontinuation of intermittent air requirement serviced with complex network and Annual saving of Plant (CPP) 450 KWh CPP plant air compressor. approx. INR 0.95 Million 5. Dual Feed Cracker Reduced usage of fresh DM water in furnace de coking activity by recycling process Annual saving of INR Unit (DFCU) condensate. 0.52 Million 6. Oﬀsite Area In order to have better reliability and life cycle, HPMV lights have been retro tted with Energy saving of 80 watt LED light. per xture. 7. Utilities area Replacement of ineﬃcient fan blade of cooling tower with eﬃciently designed and Annual saving of approx. improved aero-dynamics blades. INR 3.88 Million 8. Polypropylene With process improvement, hydrocarbon aring during ICP grade production has Annual saving of approx. Unit been eliminated. INR 30.8 Million 9. PE Swing Discontinuation of one nitrogen compressor and carried out process optimization to Annual saving of approx. achieve annual saving of approx. 335 KW INR 12.43 Million 10. PE Swing Process improvement study implemented with change of lter back ush purging Annual saving of approx. gas from Nitrogen to recycling Process gas (hydrocarbon) saved approx. 72 Nm /hr. INR 2.10 Million nitrogen going to are 11. Butene-I Modi cation in operating procedure saved 24 MT of N₂ & 35 process hours Annual saving of approx. INR 1.45 Million 12. ECTS Modi cation in backwash water collection of Ultra ltration (UF) unit has resulted in Annual saving of approx. annual saving of approx. INR 0.282 Million. INR 0.28 Million Table 10 : Energy saving process improvement measures implemented by OPaL OTPC OMPL OTPC is aware of the environmental impacts of its OMPL is committed to addressing climate change by operations. As part of its environmentally conscious adopting innovative technologies in energy management, approach, it has taken the following energy conservation as well as by using eﬃcient production and utility systems. measures in FY'19. Within the design stage of the plant, various conservation Ÿ Plant internal lighting total 560 numbers of Highmeasures were taken and are now implemented Pressure Sodium Vapour (HPSV) lamps replaced with eﬀectively. The process heaters and gas turbines at OMPL LED lighting system. are already designed to handle environment friendly LNG Ÿ The Low Pressure Boiler Feed Pump (BFP) motor fuel, as and when available. replacement by Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) is in progress. In line with its commitment towards optimal use of Ÿ A passing drain valve replaced and all the drain valves energy, OMPL successfully carried out in-house lapping done in steam turbine-1 & 2 for arresting heat development & execution of Dynamic Alarm Limits for loss by passing. Dual Fired Heaters, as directed by CPCB to all re neries in Ÿ Energy management system software procurement India. Other energy conservation measures under and Multi-Function Meter (MFM) procurement is in consideration are: progress. Ÿ Two man-days of training provided to O&M team for implementation of Energy management system as per Ÿ Condensate Recovery System to minimize the water ISO 50001:2018 system. Thirteen numbers of internal usage. auditors were certi ed by M/s DNVGL. Ÿ Recovery of boiler blow down and using it as a makeup Ÿ Roof top solar (Admin building) system battery to cooling tower. capacity increased from 48 Amph to 60 Amph. Ÿ Installation of timers in all plant lighting systems for Ÿ Total six numbers of 150 W LED lamps included in Solar automatic switch on and oﬀ. System Load. Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) As an integrated energy company with processing units, re ning facilities and petrochemical units situated across the country, ONGC has adopted strategies to address climate change challenges. ONGC has been an active participant in the Clean Development Mechanism, facilitated by UNFCCC, since 2006. ONGC has so far registered 15 CDM projects with UNFCCC as stated below: S. Project Estimated No. CER/Annum 1. Waste heat recovery from Process Gas Compressors (PGCs), 5,320 Mumbai High south (oﬀshore platform) 2. Upgradation of Gas Turbine 1 (GT 1) and Gas Turbine 2 (GT 2) at 7,802 co-generation plant of Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC) 3. Flare gas recovery project at Uran plant 97,740 4. Flare gas recovery project at Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC), 8,793 Hazira plant 5. Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Eﬃciency at Hazira Plant 4,043 6. 51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 85,762 7. Energy-eﬃcient green building at Mumbai 544 8. Energy-eﬃcient green building at Dehradun 735 9. Gas aring reduction at Neelam and Heera Asset 65,811 10. OTPC natural gas-based combined cycle 1,612,506 power plant in Tripura, India 11. Energy-eﬃcient green building in Kolkata 1,881 12. Energy-eﬃcient green building in Delhi 5,944 13. Gas are reduction at GGS Chariali, Assam Asset 15,172 14. Replacement of MOL pumps at Neelam and Heera Asset 10,539 15. 102 MW wind power project at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan 180,177 Total 2,102,769 Table 11 : CDM Projects of ONGC Group During FY'19, the following developments have taken with national and international climate change forums to place with regard to the CDM portfolio of ONGC Group: ensure that ONGC Group stays updated with global Ÿ The process for renewal of credit period of 51 MW wind climate change negotiations and especially with India's power project at Surajbari, Gujarat has been initiated. commitments towards this global challenge. In line with During the month of Feb 2019, nal validation report this approach, ONGC Group tied up with United States was submitted to UNFCCC for revalidation and Environmental Protection Agency for Global Methane renewal of the project. Initiative (GMI)⁵ in August 2007,then known as Methane to Market projects. ONGC also formed a dedicated inŸ For issuance of CERs, the veri cation of ve CDM house team to carry out gas leak surveys to arrest fugitive projects has been taken up during the year. The methane emission in ONGC. During FY'19, the team projects include 51 MW Wind Power Project, carried out gas leak surveys to detect fugitive emission of Surajbadi; GFR Neelam & Heera; GT-1 & GT-2 at Hazira; methane at 10 production installations of Ankleshwar GFR – Uran, Amine Circulation Pumps, Hazira; and 102 Asset, and C2-C3, Dahej plant. The Gas Leak Survey MW Wind Power Plant at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. Reports were subsequently submitted to Ankleshwar ONGC recognizes the importance of establishing partnerships Asset and C2 –C3 Plant for taking up remedial measures. for tackling the global agenda of climate change. The management has been regular and active in engaging 5 The Global Methane Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented initiative from USEPA to reduce global fugitive methane emissions to enhance economic growth, promote energy security, improve the environment, and reduce greenhouse gas emission. GMI facilitates cooperative mitigation activities that result in bringing more gas to markets through the Identi cation, Quanti cation, and Reduction (IQR) path. 48 Awards and Recognitions During FY'19, ONGC Group was honoured and recognised by several Institutions for its performance in the eld of energy and environment. Some of these awards and accolades are: ONGC Ÿ The Golden Peacock Global Award for Sustainability 2019, was conferred to ONGC by the Institute of Directors (IOD), New Delhi. The award was presented during an award ceremony held in London. Sustainability of the corporates were assessed on their Social, Environmental, Economic and Corporate Governance performance. The award was conferred after assessment at three levels by independent assessors and the Grand Jury acknowledged and acclaimed ONGC's contributions towards Sustainable Growth of the nation. ONGC conferred with the Golden Peacock Global Award for Sustainability 2019 Ÿ “Energy and Environment Foundation Global Environment Award 2018” to IPSHEM, Goa under the Platinum category during the 9th World Renewable Energy Technology Congress and Expo-2018. Ÿ ONGC was conferred with FICCI award for Corporate Social Responsibility undertaken by it in Baramulla and Uri of Jammu & Kashmir. ONGC undertook CSR projects in the eld of skill development, education, rehabilitation work on the frontiers and contribution to nation building in association with the Indian Army and NGO REACHA. ONGC Director (HR) Dr. Alka Mittal (right) receiving the FICCI award from Hon’ble Union Minister Dr. Suresh Prabhu Ÿ Received honour “Environmental Sustainability – Company of the year” by Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI). ONGC conferred with the Environmental Sustainability – Company of the year by FIPI OPaL OPaL received three prestigious awards during FY’19 Conservation and Pollution Control” during FY‘18 by related to safety and environment the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and th Ÿ OPaL received the 17 Annual Greentech Safety Award Industry (SGCCI). 2017-18 (in Platinum category) in Petro-chemical Ÿ A pioneer in instituting National Awards, Indian Chemical Sector for successful commissioning of the OPaL Council oﬀers prestigious annual National Awards to complex without any set back. encourage excellence of achievements of companies. Ÿ OPaL was conferred with the prestigious Golden ICC-2018 Certi cate of Merit was presented to OPaL for Jubilee Memorial Trust Award named as “Shri. Nimish Excellence in Management of Environment in Vashi Award for Outstanding in Environment September 2019. ICC-2018 Certi cate of Merit awarded to OPaL for Excellence in Management of Environment OTPC Ÿ OTPC received the 'Greentech Environment Gold Award' in 'gas-based sector', for its outstanding achievements in 'Environment Management' in FY’19 by Green Tech Foundation. The felicitation ceremony was conducted in the month of June 2018 at New Delhi. 50 7. Contributing to India's Energy Security According to the Sustainable Development scenario set hydrocarbons) from Category III (basins with just having forth by the International Energy Agency (IEA), oil and gas hydrocarbon shows). sector is set to continue playing a pivotal role in meeting This has been the fourth year in succession that gas output the world's energy needs, accounting for nearly half of the has increased, and production outlook remains positive primary energy mix in 2040. As the largest oil and gas for the next few years. We produced 45.86 MMtoe in FY'19 operator in India, we aim to provide aﬀordable, consistent and clean energy. In an industry with an ever-growing against 45.79 MMtoe in the preceding scal. The higher number of constraints, we are harnessing our expertise output was driven by pickup in gas output, which grew and innovation capabilities to prepare the future of 5.4% year-on-year. energy for our country and planet as a whole. To respond to the challenges and opportunities of this period as well as to deliver our mandate as an NOC, we The need for reforms is eminent in a fast-growing country have come up with the growth blueprint for our future – like India especially when reliance on imports has ONGC Energy Strategy 2040. The strategic roadmap become an uncomfortable yet inevitable facet of the envisions a future ready organization whose growth is country's development agenda. Domestic hydrocarbon predicated on a few important planks: consolidation of resource remains the primary objective to strengthen our core upstream business (domestic and international); India's energy position in the global ecosystem. ONGC expansion into value accreting adjacencies in the O&G Group has a mandate of securing the nation's energy value chain (downstream and petrochemicals) and security by pursuing E&P activities in India and overseas, diversi cation into renewables (oﬀshore wind). enabled by the best-in-class technologies and collaboration with strategic partners. Our primary goals in FY’19 were to ONGC Videsh keep up the healthy pace of project execution, improve ONGC Videsh, a wholly owned subsidiary and overseas productivity and optimise operating costs, thereby arm of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC). improving India's energy performance. ONGC Videsh has stake in 41 oil and gas projects in 20 During FY’19, ONGC Group contributed signi cantly to Countries. improving the country's energy security by expanding ONGC Videsh adopts a balanced portfolio approach and production and exploration volumes. Some of the major maintains a combination of producing, discovered, achievements of ONGC Group companies are described exploration and pipeline assets. Currently, ONGC Videsh below. has oil and gas production from 15 Assets, 4 Assets where hydrocarbons have been discovered and are at various ONGC stages of development, 18 Assets are under various stages During the year, Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group, of Exploration and 4 projects are pipeline projects. including PSC-JVs and from overseas Assets has been In FY'19, ONGC Videsh has produced approx. 284,296.8 64.89 MMtoe (against 64.21 MMtoe during FY'18). ONGCbarrels of oil and oil equivalent gas per day and has total operated domestic elds accounted for bulk of the oil and oil and gas (2P) reserves of about 675.721 MMtoe at the gas production – 61% and 81% respectively. end of the year, constituting 36% of ONGC Group's We made a total of 13 discoveries in FY'19, out of which 8 reserves. During FY'19, a signi cant increase was noted in were onland and 5 in oﬀshore areas. Taking the projects oil and gas production by 4.7% (Oil 8.0% and Gas -1.6%) as forward, we also monetized 5 of those discoveries during compared to previous scal year FY’18. the year itself. Reserve accretion for the year touched The company pursued many opportunities for acquisition 63.02 MMtoe on 2P basis and a Reserve replacement ratio of oil & gas assets. Out of these, 5 opportunities were of 1.41 means that we replenished more than the total advanced to nal stages and approved by Board. quantum of hydrocarbon produced during the period. Although, no new acquisitions were nalised during the Another achievement to align Companies targets to year, the company was successful in strengthening the country's energy security targets, rst time discoveries existing relationships with countries like Sudan and were made in Bengal Basin (Well Asokenagar-1) and Columbia. Vindhyan Basin (Well Hatta-2). With this exploratory To further expand overseas operations, ONGC Videsh has success, these basins have now been upgraded to undertaken following initiatives during the year: CategoryII (basins with known accumulation of Greater Pioneer Operating Company (GPOC), South Sudan project of ONGC Videsh, has resumed during the ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited year after prolonged shutdown since December 2013, (OMPL) and presently the block is owing crude oil at ~38,000 bopd. OMPL has set-up Aromatic Complex with an annual capacity 914 KTPA of Para-xylene and 283 KTPA of Ÿ CPO-5, Colombia: In FY'19, ONGC Videsh also achieved Benzene in Mangalore Special Economic Zone as value its second consecutive exploratory drilling success in chain integration project. OMPL operated at capacity Block CPO-5, Colombia. utilization of ~100% in FY'19. Total revenue in FY'19 was Ÿ Lower Zakum Concession, UAE: The rst equity cargo INR 83,624 Million and net pro t was INR 229 Million. This of Das Blend crude produced from Lower Zakum was a maiden pro t year for OMPL. Concession, ADNOC Oﬀshore, UAE arrived at New Mangalore port on 08.06.2018. This equity crude of ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) ONGC Videsh was re ned at MRPL and is another step ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC), is the Power JV of towards ensuring India's energy security needs. ONGC. It has been one of the most cost eﬀective & eﬃcient Ÿ Rovuma Area-1 Project, Mozambique: The jointly power producers in India having reliable fuel supply owned marketing entity of ONGC Videsh and joint arrangements. During FY'19, OTPC catered to about 29% venture partners of Mozambique Rovuma Oﬀshore of the total electricity requirement of the North Eastern Area 1 project incorporated at Singapore, has entered region. With 5 years of consistent operations, OTPC has into long-term LNG Sale and Purchase Agreement positioned itself well and gained reputation of a credible (SPA) with Tokyo Gas Co. Ltd. (Tokyo Gas) and Centrica power producer in the region. LNG Company Ltd., a subsidiary of Centrica, PLC OTPC has set up a 726.6 MW gas based Combined Cycle (Centrica) Power Plant at Palatana, Tripura at a project cost of INR 40,470 Million. The basic objective of the project is to Ÿ Block 06.1, Vietnam: Memorandum of Understanding monetize idle gas assets of the Company in landlocked (MoU) was signed in April 2018 amongst ONGC Videsh, Tripura State and to boost exploratory eﬀorts in the Rosneft, Vietnam BV (Operator) and PetroVietnam region. Power evacuation for both the units is done relating to further exploration activities in Block 06.1, through 663 KM long 400 KV double circuit transmission for exploration in deeper Clastic prospect. network by NorthEast Transmission Company Limited (NETC), a joint venture of Power Grid Corporation, OTPC Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals and Governments of the North-Eastern states. OTPC's Limited (MRPL) both power units of 363.3 MW each are fully operational. Average Plant Load Factor (PLF) for FY’19 was about 73%. During the year, MRPL achieved the highest-ever crude OTPC is playing a noteworthy role in facilitating energy oil processing of 16.23 MMT and lowest ever energy security for the country by meeting a major part of the consumption of 74.27 MBN. It also recorded the highestenergy requirements of the North-Eastern region of India. ever high value Polypropylene production of 388 KT. It became the rst dividend-paying standalone gas-based Ÿ MRPL registered highest ever throughput at 16.43 power generation company in India in 2017. The power MMT in FY'19. At INR 723,151 Million, the company also supply from OTPC is tied up through Power Purchase recorded a 14.6% growth in its turnover while posting Agreements (PPA) with states of Assam, Tripura, Nagaland, a net pro t of INR 3,320 Million. Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. Ÿ A new retail outlet was also commissioned during the ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) year, bringing the total number of operated outlets for OPaL has started its production in 2016-17 and has been the re ner to 7. ramping up its production in phases. OPaL has Ÿ MRPL continued to include newer crude grades in the established itself in domestic/export market with sale of processing basket with an aim to diversify crude prime grade products. OPaL operated at average 70% sourcing. Qarun Blend from Egypt and Southern Green capacity in FY'19; and aggregated more than one Million Canyon from United States were processed in the Tonne of polymer sales. Total income of OPaL during the re nery for the rst time. year FY'19 has been INR 97,854 Million. Polymers produced by OPaL has been adjudged as the Best Polymer Brand of 2019 by Economic Times. 52 8. Water and Waste Management Water is at the core of sustainable development and is critical for healthy ecosystems, socio-economic development and for human survival itself. ONGC recognizes the importance of managing water eﬀectively and maintaining business continuity as well as preserving the license to operate. At all its locations, water use, and discharges are managed carefully. The facilities are designed and operated to help reduce freshwater use, and tailor the use of fresh water to local conditions because water constraints aﬀect people at the local or regional level. The shared nature of this resource calls for all stakeholders to use it responsibly and ONGC has taken several measures to reduce its consumption of water throughout the life cycle of oil & gas exploration and production activities. Water Management Our strategy for water management encompasses As a policy decision, we have made it mandatory to multiple considerations including site-speci c risks and implement rain water harvesting in all our future projects impacts, such as security of water supply and managing including the residential complexes across the country. the quality of water returned to the environment. We To increase the eﬀectiveness of our water management utilized recycled water wherever possible in our program, extensive monitoring & evaluation of water operations to minimize the consumption of fresh water. resources and periodic compliance checks as per local The Group ful lls its water requirement by sourcing it from laws and regulations are also carried out. We continue to various sources including ground water, municipal water strengthen our water governance and planning processes and surface water. to improve water management across the business. At ONGC, we have adopted a multi-pronged approach to manage water resources across our sites. Minimizing the use of water in Increasing the use of recycled Developing rain water our operations water harvesting systems to replenish ground water resources Multi-pronged approach for Water Management For FY’19, ONGC Group's performance in water management sphere can be seen through the following indicators: 14 12.92 12 10 9.24 9.24 8 6 5.08 4.39 5.33 4.74 4 3.34 3.01 2 0.43 0.95 0 0 Ground water (in Billion Litres) Municipal water (in Billion Litres) Surface water (in Billion Litres) Other Sources (in Billion Litres) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Figure 9 : Sources of Water : ONGC At ONGC, we use fresh water for our E&P operations at oﬀshore and onshore facilities. The geographic spread of our operations results in unique water challenges for each of our assets, plants and installations. Our North Eastern assets have an abundance of water, whereas our assets in Gujarat and Rajasthan and Uran Plant face shortage of fresh water. Our oﬀshore installations face an entirely diﬀerent set of challenges, where we have to use sea water desalination plants to meet our demand for fresh water. 8 30 4.79 4.76 6.105 15.15 19.22 16.92 6 20 3.53 5.09 10 3.33 4 0 2 Municipal treated sewage Water Surface Water (in Billion Litres) (in Billion Litres) 0 Ground Water (in Billion Litres) FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Figure 10 : Sources of Water: MRPL Figure 11 : Sources of Water: ONGC Videsh 2.4 2.32 4.9 4.86 2.17 4.85 2.2 1.98 4.8 4.78 2 4.75 1.8 4.7 Surface Water (in Billion Litres) Surface Water (in Billion Litres) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 FY'18 FY'19 Figure 12 : Sources of Water: OMPL Figure 13 : Sources of Water: OTPC 14 9.58 13.06 12.57 Produced water is water trapped in underground 12 formations that is brought to the surface during oil and 10 8 gas exploration and production. When the oil and gas 6 reservoirs are depleted, water content may be as much as 4 98% of the total uids being produced. As a result, the 2 handling and treatment of produced water up to the 0 required quality levels becomes critical in the total Life Surface Water (in Billion Litres) Cycle Cost of an operated asset. ONGC has recycled 40% FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 of produced water during FY’19. Figure 14 : Sources of Water: OPaL 80 58.97 60.96 72.4 25 20.8 60 20 14.53 15 10.23 40 10 20 5 0 0 Volume of Produced Water (Billion Litres) Volume of Produced Water (Billion Litres) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 Figure 15 : Volume of Produced Water: ONGC Figure 16 : Volume of Produced Water: ONGC Videsh 54 7 6.193 6.199 6 5.2 5 4 3.75 3.92 3 2 0.88 0.4237 0.789 0.58 1 0.369 0.367 0.43 0 ONGC MRPL OPaL OMPL OTPC FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Figure 17 : Volume of Waste Water (Billion Litres) : ONGC Group Drilling operation generates waste water in the form of aims inclusion of operation speci c sustainable water wash water due to washing of equipment, string etc. This management plans, location speci c processes for water waste water along with spill over mud gets diverted to recycling, and reuse targets as appropriate in the medium waste water mud pit whose bottom is lined with HDPE and long term. sheet so as to avoid percolation of water contaminants in This strategy promotes the concept of reduce-reusethe soil. During drilling operation, approximately 25m recharge-replenish philosophy. Our approach to water per day of waste water is discharged in HDPE lined stewardship includes a commitment to adopt innovative evaporation pit. The domestic sewage generated from the techniques including those for fresh water usage, drill site operations is treated in a septic tank–soak pit handling produced water, treatment of waste water, and system. The septic tank is adequately sized to cater to a conservation of water through rainwater harvesting. We volumetric capacity of 4–5m per day. are also committed to promote awareness and communicate our water conservations measures to our employees and stakeholders. Various initiatives such as Recycling waste water to reduce water footprint water footprint studies, installation of Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), rainwater harvesting systems, setting 60% up of seawater desalination plants have already been ONGC undertaken to encourage the sustainable water management at ONGC. 78% The water produced during the release from subsurface MRPL OMPL 47.01% multi phase reservoir uids which are separated at diﬀerent stages during hydrocarbon extraction and processing., is the major eﬄuent for ONGC as part of its 68% production activities. The produced water is separated 20% OPaL OTPC and sent to Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (ETPs) for further treatment. For Oﬀshore eﬄuent treatment, Produced Water Conditioners (PWCs) have been installed at process Figure 18 : Water recycling across Group platforms. Some of the waste water is used for drilling uid ONGC is working on company-wide “Sustainable Water preparation and other uses through mobile ETPs. At its Management Strategy” that aims reduction in speci c Cambay Asset, ONGC has adopted a special chemical fresh water consumption and reporting on the water treatmentAdvanced Nano Oxidation Processes (ANOP)footprint using internationally recognised standards and at Cambay Asset. This process removes organic, inorganic practices. The strategy includes systematic approach to and heavy metal contaminants in the wastewater by conduct baseline assessment of water use, capacity application of oxidation thereby ensuring environmental building for reporting in the short term. The strategy also protection through safer disposal of wastewater. ONGC monitors the usage of waste water and quality of Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 eﬄuent discharged by meeting statutory requirements Hazardous Waste (in MT) 4,800 3,240 6,386 for discharge of treated eﬄuent at surface or subsurface Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 1,299 2,164 6,053 through ETPs. Identifying that it is most eﬃcient to Table 14 : Waste generation at MRPL segregate waste at source, the Company is in the process of developing a comprehensive corporate waste Signi cant increase was noted in both hazardous and management policy that guides systematic quanti cation non-hazardous waste quantity generated in FY’19 as and segregation of waste at the source for better planning compared to FY’18. This is due to higher amount of PFCC and management. Non-hazardous waste disposal is Catalyst dust generation(characterized as hazardous) & minimized by rst routing them through possibilities of turnarounds/shutdowns of many process units (waste reusing and recycling. generated from shutdowns, classi ed as non-hazardous). To minimize the consumption of freshwater and tackle potential disruption due to unavailability of the same, ONGC has conducted feasibility study for three sea water Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 desalination plantsMori, Kesanapallli and Malleswaram Hazardous Waste (in MT) 2.98 3.9 6.157 of Rajahmundry Asset. Another sea water desalination Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 7.5 11.19 0.69 plant of 10 MLD capacity scalable to 20 MLD is being taken Table 15 : Waste generation at OTPC up at Uran plant of ONGC. Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Waste Management Hazardous Waste (in MT) 24.8 180.5 336.86 Resource conservation is an essential part of waste Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 10.06 7.8 19.8 management at ONGC. The Group has a waste Table 16 : Waste generation at OMPL management system that solves two-fold purposeminimizing the waste disposal and reducing the release of Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 waste into the environment. Signi cant sources of Hazardous Waste (in MT) 202.0 hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are drill cuttings, Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 1,280.0 drilling uid and oily sludge from cleaning of storage Table 17 : Waste generation at OPaL tanks. The tank bottom sludge and oily waste are identi ed as hazardous waste and is disposed-oﬀ according to local statutory guidelines. Hazardous waste 80,000 is treated before disposal to ensure that the hazardous 57,469.3 eﬀects of the waste is safely contained. One such 60,000 treatment is that of oily sludge. Oily sludge removed 40,000 33,369.6 periodically is treated by environmentally sound 30,818.7 bioremediation techniques using a consortium of 20,000 bacteria known as Oil Zappers. 0 At ONGC, waste is eﬀectively managed through Hazardous Waste(in MT) systematic handling, treatment and disposal of waste. ONGC complies with all the applicable rules & regulation FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 stringently and is working towards a development of a Figure 19 : Hazardous Waste (in MT)ONGC Group waste management policy to implement robust waste management. The amount of waste generated across ONGC Group is given below: 150,000 127,706.02 100,000 49,627.59 50,000 26,279.26 Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Hazardous Waste (in MT) 25,220 54,012 23,681 0 Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 24,157 46,818 120,127.86 Non Hazardous Waste(in MT) Table 12 : Waste generation at ONGC FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Figure 20 : Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT)ONGC Group Source FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Hazardous Waste (in MT) 337.8 332.9 206.69 Managing waste is a crucial aspect to consider while an Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 805.7 626.6 224.73 organisation considers reducing its environmental Table 13 : Waste generation at ONGC Videsh footprint. Additionally, continuously changing regulatory 6 Due to increased exploratory activities 7 Hazardous waste generated in the plant is used oil i.e. Lubricant oil, Hydraulic Oil, Transformer Oil & other oil because of replacement of existing oil for technical reason during various machine overhauling and maintenance. 56 landscape also requires that organizations build forward Prevention ( WDP) and Microbial Enhanced Oil looking waste management system. ONGC recognizes Recovery. this and also that it is not sustainable disposing valuable Ÿ Carried out detailed waste management audits at resources, which is why, it manages its waste to minimize selected installations of Ahmedabad & Ankleshwar disposal and meet regulatory obligations and targets assets to check the level of compliance of these adopted by it. speci c installations with applicable legal needs as per Drilling waste is the most common waste generated available waste management rules & regulations e.g. during the exploration and extraction of oil and gas. This Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016; e-Waste comprises of drilling uids and drill solid cutting. Drilling (Management) Rules 2016 etc. uids consist of remnants of drill mud. Drilling cuttings materials consists of the crushed rock cuttings (complex mixtures of clays and chemicals) from borehole, which are returned to the surface with the drilling uid. Other common hazardous wastes generated during exploration and production operations are Chemical Sludge and Tank Godavari Clean-up Programme Bottom Sludge or Oily Waste. These wastes are disposed according to local statutory guidelines or laws. Commemorating the World Environment Day Apart from aforementioned wastes, other waste like ethematized as Beat Plastic Pollution, ONGC waste, plastic waste, inert waste and metal waste are also Rajahmundry Asset in collaboration with the generated at site, which are disposed-oﬀ as per the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation applicable regulations. ONGC has a dedicated e-waste policy to manage and handle e-waste such as, old (RMC) has undertaken a project for cleaning of batteries, computers and monitors. For disposal of eghats, with special focus on plastic on the waste, limited tender from the rms that are registered banks of River Godavari. ONGC launched this with Central Pollution Control Board are invited. The items campaign to clean the Godavari ghats from of e-waste are sold only to them to ensure safe disposal of Kotilingalarevu to the ISKON temple. Besides, the items. The Company has an e-waste policy to manage e-waste. it would be drafting a Burrakatha team to create awareness on the ill-eﬀects of plastic ONGC strives to maximize resource eﬃciency and minimize generation of waste throughout its business on the river eco-system. activities. For the very rst time a comprehensive waste management audit was carried out at selected installations ONGC team has drafted its specialised of Ahmedabad & Ankleswar Assets during FY'19 to check Regional Crisis Management Team equipped compliance with applicable legal waste management with high-powered pumps to clean the ghats. requirements. ONGC outlines a strategy for safe and responsible management of waste at the outset of any The pumps with a capacity of jetting out 2,500 project it undertakes. This included entire lifecycle of gallons of water per minute were mounted on products including, site clearance, construction, mobilization, a barge oating on the waters. The bio-wastes, operation and decommissioning. Such all-encompassing algae and plastics would be ushed close to and proactive approach has been instilled in ONGC's the ghat structures. The ushed waste will be waste management and its implementation. loaded manually on the trucks placed 40 In FY’19, the following initiatives have been undertaken metres above the waters. Later, the waste will by ONGC related to waste management : be dumped at the municipal dumping site. Ÿ To dispose the oily waste in an environmentally safe manner, ONGC has a joint venture company ONGC TERI Biotech Limited (OTBL). OTBL developed a Around 100 personnel of the SPF and 100 RMC specialized patented technology for bio remediation sanitation staﬀ were involved in the cleaning of oily sludge/oil contaminated soil. This technology exercise for ve days. Around 150 tonnes of uses a consortium of bacteria that degrade hydrowaste was collec ted as result of this carbon by reducing the Total Petroleum Hydrocarbon intervention. (TPH) levels in waste/soil to less than 1%. Around 23,681 MT of oily sludge/oil contaminated waste was bio-remediated in FY'19. Other technologies developed by OTBL for the similar purpose include Paraﬃn Degrading Bacteria (PDB), Wax Deposition 9 10 P 59-60 Biodiversity P 61-73 Our Human Capital 9. Biodiversity Green Hub Project ONGC Group recognizes biodiversity as vital part of ecosystem and is cognizant of its pivotal contribution to the well-being of environmental, social and long-term economic health of the country. Introduction At ONGC Group, the success is not measured through mere nancial performance, but is inclusive of the Group's social and environmental performance. Poor social and environmental performance can potentially cause reputation damage and loss of Social License to Operate. To ensure that we maintain the all-inclusive growth, numerous initiatives for biodiversity conservation have This unique initiative by ONGC aims at skilling the youth been undertaken across the ONGC Group pan India. at videography and documenting wildlife. 20 youth are ONGC Group endeavours to prioritize prevention of any trained every year in wildlife videography and documentation. Youth that trainned through this adverse impact of its operations on biodiversity in regions program in the past were gainfully engaged and the Group operates in and ensures that biodiversity needs successfully working in the eld of wildlife and are integrated with business needs. The leadership of environment conservation. Some of the students ONGC Group includes biodiversity element during Group trained under this program have even worn level decision making. The Group's Environmental international awards. The Green Hub center is also the Management System (EMS) is systematic, inclusive of all recipient of Manthan award for its best use of signi cant environmental attributes of the organization technology for preservation and conservation of wildlife and is based on precautionary principles. It incessantly and biodiversity. strives to mitigate the environmental impact that may arise from its business activities by investing in state-ofthe-art technologies, eﬄuent & solid waste management, globally recognized environmental management system environment monitoring and reporting, bio-diversity like ISO 14001 at all its operational work centres. conservation eﬀorts and up-gradation and sustenance of At ONGC Group, conservation of ora and fauna is an environment management systems. ONGC implemented ongoing process and it is achieved through various integrated HSE management system (QHSE) based on ISO initiatives that the group has identi ed and developed. 9001, ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 in all installations and The Group has and continues to go beyond the regulatory facilities. ONGC was the rst PSU in India by any industry in compliance requirements when it comes to caring for any sector to achieve QHSE certi cation for all its biodiversity that surrounds its operations. It follows installations. inclusive set of actions including mitigation, compensation Interventions and investment towards conservation of biodiversity. The ONGC maps the environmental footprint of its projects Group also understands the signi cance of consistent during the project planning phase, before initiating them, eﬀorts and strives to nd avenues to enhance its based on this impact assessment, remedial measures are biodiversity conservation performance. In addition to the planned and implemented during the operational phase. direct conservation eﬀorts, the Group has also taken Post September 2006, Environmental Clearance from numerous initiatives to provide indirect support to Ministry of Environment & Forests is mandatory for all the strengthen various institutions that are involved in new and expansion projects of ONGC. This clearance has ecosystem improvement and wellbeing. to be obtained from the Expert Appraisal Committee ONGC, its group companies and joint ventures regularly (EAC) of MoEFCC (Ministry of Environment, Forest and carry out tree plantation initiatives pan India around their Climate Change) before initiation of operational activities. project sites. Green belts are developed and maintained The process of obtaining environmental clearance around the operational areas to retain the biodiversity of comprises of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the surrounding areas, after ensuring compliance with including identi cation of potential environmental risks various regulations. Tree plantation is carried out using and preparation of environmental management plans. native varieties of the ora to ensure that they are not During FY'19, seven such environmental clearances were invasive in the region they are being planted and the bioissued by MoEF&CC for exploration, development and geo-climatic conditions are suitable for the species to production activities. ONGC has also implemented have a desirable rate of survival. Tree Plantation Initiative Green Belt Development Intiative of OMPL OMPL’s Green Belt Plantation and subsequent maintenance activity are underway since 2016 through Karnataka Forest Department, Government of Karnataka. Around 13,050 saplings planted. Water conservation techniques such as gravity ow and drip irrigation are adopted. 70 diﬀerent species, comprising of Neem, Banyan, Peepal which are eﬀective for dust and heat emissions control, Krishnachura and Radhachura which are eﬀective for benzene, hydrocarbons and CO emissions control and species like Tamarind which is eﬀective for oxides of nitrogen and Sulphur emission control, are also planted at site. MRPL has launched a comprehensive programme to develop a Green Belt around the entire re nery. The belt consist of plant species that have been specially selected OMPL's Green Belt Development through Karnataka Forest to blend with the local ora. Some of the species are Department, Government of Karnataka. expected to act as bio-indicators. MRPL conducted compensatory aﬀorestation in 30 acres The goal of this aﬀorestation eﬀort was to at Dr. Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisarga Dhama. establish a biodiversity park at MRPL premises which would be an ex-situ development process Under this aﬀorestation initiative, plantation of 2,000 wherein native species of plants from diﬀerent saplings were carried out in the month of July, 2018 localities of Western Ghats and those from the coastal Karnataka will be established in the park. Environmental protection same, we have adopted various practices to ensure consistent timely monitoring and reporting of the ONGC strives for eﬀective management of its environambient and pollution loads data. ONGC's management mental impacts in its processes and products across the adopts innovative approaches towards cleaner production value chain, starting from research, development and techniques that are further reinforced by its environmental production up to sales and end use. Environmental management system with environmental improvement protection is a vital part of sustainable development at its core. In its eﬀort to create positive impact and practices for ONGC and it is at the centre of the wellbringing its value to communities that are beyond the rounded approach. ONGC follows to develop and Group, ONGC enters into negotiated agreements and implement operational strategies in a cognitive and government-industry partnerships for achieving de ned responsible manner, while intervening with corrective environmental goals. actions when necessary. We con rm with stringent compliance with environmental laws and regulations ONGC received one show cause notice from CPCB and across all areas of our operations. paid a penalty of INR 12,000. ONGC also paid INR 45,130 to other statutory authorities during FY’19 as penalties. ONGC has always been proactive when it comes to industrial environmental compliance and to foster the 60 10. Our Human Capital Our human capital is our most important asset to help us take the next giant leap of growth and innovation. Workforce Workforce Human Diversity Competency Rights GENDER DECENT WORK REDUCED EQUALITY & ECONOMIC INEQUALITIES GROWTH Key material issues and SDGs associated to Human Resources Our workforce is the foundation of our business. Providing place for employees, workmen and contract workforce. our people with a safe and healthy working environment Our objective is to empower and inspire our employees by is our top priority and we are con dent that our peopleproviding them with continued learning and development centric policies enable our long-term growth. We provide opportunities, periodic incentives and bene ts, and equal opportunities of growth to all our employees and constant knowledge creation. have eﬀective learning and development programmes in Awarded with Best Innovative More than 189,343 Less than 0.6% Golden Peacock Practices Award for person-days of attrition rate at Award for HR Women at trainings ONGC Excellence in Workplace at the imparted FY’19 2nd Gender Equality Summit Figure 21 : Key Highlights in FY’19 Preparing for the future human resource management principles into ONGC's business strategy. We understand that an organization's Human resources management at ONGC Group goes human capital is its strongest pillar in creating and beyond the boundaries of talent acquisition, compensation, maintaining the economic value of the organization. We performance reviews etc. We look at employee's wellhire competent personnel with promising growth being holistically. We partner with our employees to potential, and support them to achieve their maximum ensure timely interventions that help build a career that is capabilities by providing appropriate incentives and long lasting. We nurture people by putting great opportunities for advancement. We continuously work emphasis on learning & development, career progression towards building and sustaining a good and safe working and employee welfare. environment to ensure optimum employee performance We encourage participative communication and and obtain maximum contribution from employees collaboration within the workforce. Our management by providing stable employment and equal remuneration drives innovation as well as agility to keep pace with the commensurate with industry standards. changing environment. The management places tremendous importance towards integration of eﬀective Organization Integration System Enhancement Process Improvement Competency Development Performance Evaluation Knowledge Management Pillars of Human Capital Management ONGC has a well-structured human resource department and eﬀective HR policies in place to retain talent and promote human capital development. The HR Manual and Code of Conduct de ne organization-level policies which our employees need to comply with. Our Human Resource Manual states all the important policies on human resources in our organization and is considered an important reference document for both management and employees. The details of our current human capital are provided below. ONGC Group : Workforce Headcount Trend Workforce Headcount FY’17 FY’18 FY'19 ONGC + ONGC Videsh 33,660 32,265 31,065 MRPL 1,917 1,916 1,943 OMPL 457 476 465 OPaL 774 951 941 OTPC 66 74 74 Table 18 : Workforce Headcount at ONGC Group 62 Inclusion and diversity Our systems, processes and practices empower fair treatment. At ONGC Group, we believe that all our people should have the opportunity to ful l their potential and thrive in As a global business, our ability to understand, embrace an inclusive and diverse workplace. Inclusion and and operate in a diverse world-both in the marketplace diversity promote safety, productivity and wellbeing and in the workplace is critical to our long-term sustainability within ONGC. We employ, develop and promote people and to conduct business the right way. We rmly believe based on merit and have zero tolerance for any form of that a workforce consisting of diﬀerent strengths, skills, discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation, passion, interests, ideas and cultural background is a disability, age, race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, prerequisite for success of any company. Hence, we family status, or any other personal characteristics that are consider 'Diversity and Inclusion' as an integral part of our protected by law. We adopt an employee assessment strategy and approach towards human resource system solely based on competence, experience, skills, management. quali cations and performance. Employee Category according to indicators of diversity as on 31st March 2019 Employee Total Strength Gender Age Group Minorities Category as on Male Female < 30 30-50 >50 31-03-2019 yrs yrs yrs Executives 20,259 18,746 1,513 3,426 5,541 11,292 1,760 Non-Executives 10,806 10,139 667 1,784 5,744 3,278 943 Grand Total 31,065 28,885 2,180 5,210 11,285 14,570 2,703 93% 7% 17% 36% 47% 9% Table 19 : Total Workforce by indicators of diversity of ONGC + ONGC Videsh Total Workforce by Employment type, Employment Contract, Region and Gender SECTOR Gender Workforce Strength as on 31st March 2019 Regular Tenure Term Deputation In Male 3,060 2 13 1 01Headquarters Female 506 1 Total 3,566 2 14 1 Male 6,728 72 1 1 02Mumbai Sector Female 617 3 Total 7,345 75 1 1 Male 8,810 51 03Western Sector Female 422 Total 9,232 51 Male 5,199 15 04Eastern Sector Female 300 1 Total 5,499 16 Male 3,621 472 9 05Southern Sector Female 247 8 1 Total 3,868 480 10 Male 1,467 7 2 06Central Sector Female 88 Total 1,555 7 2 Grand Total 31,065 631 15 14 Table 20 : Total Workforce by Employment type, Employment Contract, Region and Gender of ONGC + ONGC Videsh To promote a healthy organizational culture, we strive to maintain diversity in our workforce across age groups, gender, and region of employees, which is re ected in our hiring practices. Our objective is to imbibe the values of 14,570 Grand Total 11,285 embracing change and diversity in our organizational 5,210 3,278 policies and practices, which is re ected in our workforce. Non Executives 5,744 The details on the breakup of current workforce by age 1,784 group, gender and region across ONGC Group is provided 11,292 Executives 5,541 below. 3,426 Total number and rate of employee turnover by 0 5000 10,000 15,000 Age Group, Gender, Region and Number of <30 yrs 31 -50 yrs 51 -60 yrs New Hires FY’19 Figure 23 : Employee categoriesONGC and ONGC Videsh Parameters Employee Turnover FY’19 Total Separations New Hires < 40 183 1,184 MRPL 40-45 1 4 Age Group Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, 45-50 8 2 Gender, Region and Number of New Hires in FY’19 50-55 28 0 Parameters Employee Turnover FY’19 55-60 2,171 0 Total Separations New Hires Total 2,391 1,190 < 40 1 62 Male 2,267 1,069 41-45 0 0 Gender Age Group Female 124 121 46-50 0 0 Total 2,391 1,190 51-55 2 0 Headquarter 284 65 56-60 17 0 Mumbai Sector 521 365 Total 20* 62 Region Western Sector 678 300 (*includes death & superannuation but does not include resignation) Eastern Sector 458 117 Southern Sector 290 289 Male 19 62 Gender Central Sector 160 54 Female 1 0 Total 2,391 1,190 Total 20 62 Table 21 : Total number and rate of employee turnoverONGC and ONGC Videsh Mangalore 20 61 Region Bangalore 0 1 Attrition =% Mumbai 0 0 (Resignations/ Delhi 0 0 Average Manpower) Total 20 62 0.6% Table 22 : Employee Turnover – MRPL Employee Attrition =% Turnover Average (Resignations/ (Total Separations/ Manpower Average Average during the year Manpower) Manpower) = 31,599 0.009% 7.6 % Figure 22 : Total number and rate of employee turnoverONGC and ONGC Videsh Employee Turnover Average We believe in workforce that comprises of a good mix of Manpower (Total Separations/ both seasoned and youthful employees. From young Average during the professionals to experienced employees, members of Manpower) year = 1,943 0.010 % diﬀerent generations are helping us further build our business. Following is the age wise break up of our employees working in executives and non-executive Figure 24 : Total number and rate of employee turnover MRPL positions. 64 OMPL Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender, Region and Number of New Hires in FY'19 Attrition =% (Resignations/ Parameters Employee Turnover FY’19 Average Total Separations New Hires Manpower) 2.99% < 40 13 5 40-45 1 Age Group 45-50 Employee Turnover Average 50-55 (Total Separations/ Manpower 55-60 1 Average during the Manpower) year = 469 Total 15 5 3.20 % Male 14 4 Gender Figure 25 : Total number and rate of employee turnover OMPL Female 1 1 Total 15 5 Headquarters 15 5 OPaL Mumbai Sector Total number and rate of employee turnover by Western Sector Age Group, Gender, Region and Number of New Region Eastern Sector Hires in FY'19 Southern Sector Parameters Employee Turnover FY‘19 Central Sector Total Separations New Hires Total 15 5 < 40 years 93 65 41-45 years 3 2 Age Group Table 23 : Employee turnover OMPL 46-50 3 2 OTPC 51-55 0 0 Total number and rate of employee turnover by 56-60 0 0 Age Group, Gender, Region and Number of New Hires in FY’198 Total 99 69 Male 96 67 Gender Parameters Employee Turnover FY’19 Total Separations New Hires Female 3 2 < 40 0 0 Total 99 69 40-45 0 0 Table 25 : Employee turnover OPaL Age Group 45-50 0 0 50-55 0 0 55-60 0 0 Attrition =% (Resignations/ Total 0 0 Average Manpower) Male 0 0 Gender 10.94 % Female 0 0 Total 0 0 Headquarters 0 0 Employee Turnover Average Mumbai Sector (Total Separations/ Manpower Western Sector Average during the Manpower) year = 941 Region Eastern Sector 0 0 10.52 % Southern Sector Figure 26 : Total number and rate of employee turnover OPaL Central Sector Total 0 0 Table 24 : Employee turnover OTPC 8 The data is such because OTPC had no new hires during FY'19. Workforce Competency and Engagement We consider learning as a continuous process which is Group through our eﬀective systems and processes for quintessential for the growth of our employees. We training and development. As a responsible corporate promote a culture of learning and development by citizen, ONGC is imparting Apprenticeship training to organizing trainings and learning-based events to expand about 3,500 persons per year in diverse trades across its 23 the knowledge base of our employees. Our continuous work centers under the “National Apprenticeship training programs are developed to build skills across Promotion Scheme” of the Govt. of India. Although as per various domains such as business processes, technology, the Apprenticeship act, 1961 and its subsequent leadership, management and ethics, and are designed to amendments, it is compulsory to impart Apprenticeship strengthen the competencies of our experienced training by an organization to atleast 2.5% of its total employees in line with current environment. Our manpower, ONGC has gone out of the way and is technology driven trainings are equipped to meet the imparting Apprenticeship training to about 10% of its challenges of Hydrocarbon Sector in the highly total manpower, thus contributing signi cantly to the competitive business enviornment. We are striving to nation’s Skill development mission build a knowledge sharing eco-syststem across ONGC Develop Improving new communication skills in the in personal Boosting performance and con dence in of professional their abilities responsibilities life Building trust Eﬃciency and sense of and Increased belongingess eﬀectiveness motivation to ONGC in work Bene ts of training for employees Based on identi cation of training needs, Annual Training & responsibilities & training helps them to accomplish Calendars (ATC) are designed by various training institutes these roles & responsibilities and prepare them for the and Skill Development Centers. Apart from the prefuture responsibilities as well. These programs not only decided ones, Need Based training programs are also helped the employees to remain up-to-date with the new conducted in consultation with various user departments, developments in the sector, but also helped them in with the help of Internal and External Faculty. building a lifelong career trajectory at ONGC Group. These In line with this approach, we continuously increase our trainings are conducted by training institutions ONGC training budgets to retain and get quality output from the Academy, IPSHEM, IOGPT, SDCs, IDT and others. employees. Employees are delegated with diﬀerent roles During the year, 925 training programmes including 34 66 foreign faculty programmes were organized by ONGC leadership competencies. Structured training programmes with the best of faculties from India and abroad. These have been developed to impart required skills to people in trainings were conducted to strengthen understanding of identi ed critical areas. Along with trainings, work employees on business fundamentals, global business associations were also established with industry leaders in environment and leadership skills. ONGC Executives of E-5 diﬀerent areas of business to gain wider perspective. To level and above were provided with an opportunity to impart intelligence pertaining to technologies, products, participate in trainings through Centers of Excellence viz. and processes, along with strategic insights in oil and gas IITs, IIMs, NITs, ICAI etc. All E4/E5 level executives also industry, training programmes were conducted through underwent an Online Development Centre (ODC) program foreign faculty, through which 103 participants were for identi cation, assessment and development of bene tted. 174,455 executive person-days spent on training 14,889 non-executive person-days spent on training 19,108 total professionals trained Figure 27 : Training Highlights FY’19 (ONGC and ONGC Videsh) ONGC Total number of training programmes and training person days during FY’19 Non-Executives Executives Sl. Name of No. of No. of NonNonSC ST OBC Female No. of Executive SC ST OBC Female Total personNo. Institute Programmes Executives Executives Executives person-days days organized persondays 1 ONGC 208 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,945 141,575 772 350 958 746 141,575 Academy 2 SDC 33 338 747 48 15 122 43 423 861 77 37 84 63 1,608 Mumbai 3 SDC 49 470 1,919 103 10 262 70 706 1,693 145 27 185 170 3,612 Chennai 4 SDC 25 429 1,817 26 66 209 3 197 324 22 25 29 110 2,141 Sivasagar 5 SDC 75 792 2,839 93 125 245 59 822 1,790 112 77 142 103 4,629 Vadodara 6 IOGPT 13 1 4 0 0 0 0 248 4,242 21 13 72 28 4,246 Panvel 7 IPSHEM 220 1,739 4,173 199 220 598 56 3,483 9,774 426 245 602 91 13,947 Goa 8 SMP 147 431 1,801 51 65 151 5 1,032 5,665 136 72 179 31 7,466 Vadodara 9 IDT 155 422 1,589 41 75 178 6 1,630 8,531 235 141 379 26 10,120 Dehra Dun Total 925 4,622 14,889 561 576 1,765 242 14,486 174,455 1,946 987 2,630 1,368 189,343 Table 26 : Training person-days at ONGC Foreign Training during FY’19 for ONGC and ONGC Videsh Sl. Name of Institute No. of No. of Executive SC ST OBC Female Programmes Executives person-days organized 1 ONGC Academy 12 103 1,128 15 5 3 2 Table 27 : International trainings – ONGC and ONGC Videsh To keep the workforce engaged and the workplace lively, During FY’19, MRPL devoted 4,446 person-days for we also conducted 'Business Games' for our employees. training, development and learning, which amounts to 2.9 These games are an eﬀective way to develop teamwork as person-days per employee for management staﬀ and 1.8 they re ect real on-the-job challenges. These are used in person-days per employee for non-management staﬀ. tandem with business quizzes, business simulations, caseOPaL devoted 3,960 man-hours on training of employees study presentations and assessments to practice business during FY’19. skills through gami cation. During FY'19, a total of 248 OMPL devoted 1,333 training person-days on training of teams and 961 executives participated in the event. employees during the nancial year with an average Similarly, 'Fun Team Games' (FTG) were organized for training person-day of 2.87. OMPL is continuously striving employees to inculcate Multi-Disciplinary Team concept towards providing eﬀective trainings to all its employees. and spirit of belongingness to the organization. 178 Teams At ONGC Group, we understand the importance of and 712 employees participated in FTG during the FY'19. employee bene t in motivating our employees and The winners of Business Games and Fun Team Games were demonstrating our commitment to their present as well as felicitated during Republic Day Celebrations-2019. future development. Our employee bene ts policies have 68 helped us in attracting and retaining talent and also in pay, allowances, perks, social security and employee increasing their overall productivity. ONGC extends welfare. Some of the welfare bene ts for full time various welfare bene ts to its employees and their employees of ONGC Group are shown below. Other than families in the form of comprehensive medical care, these, bene ts like Gratuity Fund Trust, Provident Fund, education, housing and social security. Other than the employee Pension Scheme, Performance linked incentive, bene ts provided to the full-time employees, more than education loans are also provided to the employees. 34% of ONGC and ONGC Videsh employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. Through these agreements, interests of the employees are collectively presented by representatives covering matters related to Disability/ Personal Accident Childcare/ Policy Parental/ Maternity Leave Group Term Life Employee Deposit Asha Kiran Insurance Linked Insurance Scheme The Post Medical Bene t The Composite Superannuation Retirement Scheme for the Social Security Fund Bene t Scheme Regular Employee Scheme Employee bene ts ONGC and ONGC Videsh ONGC Group has been persistent in promoting gender policies for new mothers, creche facility, are in place. diversity in its workforce and promoting women More than 2,000 senior-level employees across ONGC empowerment within the organization. As of March 2019, underwent online gender sensitization module. ONGC out of 31,065 regular employees, 2,180 are there women actively supported and nominated its women employees employees which is 7% of total manpower. We are for programmes organized by reputed agencies. continuously putting eﬀorts in improving the gender In line with the requirements of the sexual Harassment of balance of our workforce by putting in place womenWomen at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & centric HR policies and promoting an inclusive work Redressal) Act, 2013, ONGC Group has an Anti-Sexual culture. With this objective, various programmes on Harassment Policy. The Internal Complaint Committees women empowerment and development, including (ICC) of both ONGC and ONGC Videsh have received one women speci c leadership development, supportive complaint each on sexual harassment. Reports of ICC have been submitted for both cases. There were no cases led pursuant to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Employee Bene ts Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 in OMPL, MRPL, OTPC and OPaL. Ÿ Provision of crèche facility at all At ONGC Group, we strongly believe that a good work-life work centres balance for employees can improve staﬀ motivation, increase staﬀ retention rates, reduce absence, attract new Ÿ EL, HPL, CL etc talent, and reduce employee stress. We recognize the Ÿ Clubs and Sports activity importance of helping our employees to achieve this Ÿ Recreation facilities balance. There are several ways in which we encourage a work life balance for our employees. We ensure that the Ÿ Paid maternity leave and managers actively encourage employees to take extended maternity leave advantage of these policies. We oﬀer various bene ts Ÿ Paternity leave which helps employees to design their work pattern to t Ÿ Child care leave their personal commitments, ultimately reducing con ict between work and personal responsibilities. Some Ÿ Adoption leave important bene ts provided to support the work-life Ÿ Leave for Higher Education balance of our employees are: ONGC and ONGC Videsh Number of employees entitled to Number of employees took parental Number of employees returned to work parental leave in FY'19 leave in FY'19 after parental leave in FY'19 Male Female Male Female Male Female 362 128 362 128 361 123 OMPL Number of employees entitled to Number of employees took parental Number of employees returned to work parental leave in FY'19 leave in FY'19 after parental leave in FY'19 Male Female Male Female Male Female 20 9 20 9 20 9 MRPL Number of employees entitled to Number of employees took parental Number of employees returned to work parental leave in FY'19 leave in FY'19 after parental leave in FY'19 Male Female Male Female Male Female 121 12 121 12 117 10 OTPC Number of employees entitled to Number of employees took parental Number of employees returned to work parental leave in FY'19 leave in FY'19 after parental leave in FY'19 Male Female Male Female Male Female 68 6 7 0 7 0 OPaL Number of employees entitled to Number of employees took parental Number of employees returned to work parental leave in FY'19 leave in FY'19 after parental leave in FY'19 Male Female Male Female Male Female 825 21 67 2 67 2 Table 28 : Parental leave – ONGC Group 70 Grievance Redressal Mechanism ONGC Group is committed to maintaining transparency in ONGC's Grievance Management System for employees our operations. As part of this commitment, we have provides a three-tier channel for grievance redressal with established a strong set of arrangements that enable local an Independent Appeals Committee at the corporate communities, employees and other aﬀected stakeholders level, which is chaired by an external professional to to raise grievances and seek redressal, when they perceive ensure transparency and justice. The Appeals Committee a negative impact arising from our activities. We consider situated at corporate oﬃce can also be accessed for it as our responsibility to mitigate, manage and resolve settlement of grievances in case the channels at the potential or realized negative impacts as well as ful l respective locations are not eﬀective in resolving the obligations under international human rights law and grievance. Further, provision for representation through contribute to positive relations with communities, Chief Liaison Oﬃcers of SC/ST/OBC in the Appeals employees and other stakeholders. Committee has also been in-built to protect the interest of A structured and a robust employee grievance redressal reserved category employees. Since 2015, ONGC has also mechanism is in place for employees and the CDA implemented an eﬀective online response mechanism (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal) rules have been outlined (https://grievance.ongc.co.in) to enable all stakeholders along with the procedures to support employees to including employees, to register and get online redressal communicate their grievances to the management. to their grievances related to any operational wing. Employee Engagement We believe in creating an engaging vibrant workplace at ONGC Group. The senior management engages with our employees not just during the annual performance review, but on multiple levels at various occasions. Few of the key activities undertaken during the year for engaging with our employees: Recognizing the need for inclusivity in all spheres, ONGC has been organizing Para Games for specially-abled employees of all oil PSUs 1. ONGC Para-Games : As part of providing a healthy and inclusive workplace through sports activities, ONGC facilitated a three-day long 2nd edition of Para Games. Players from diﬀerent regions actively participated to showcase their sports talent. Around 148 employees participated in athletics, badminton and table tennis. ONGC is the only PSU to steer such an initiative. 2. SHENERGY (She is energy): ONGC is fully committed to empowerment of women. ONGC is continuously striving to take various progressive and meaningful steps to create conducive and safe working environment for women. ONGC also supported the conference on 'Women in Energy Sector' organized by FIPI on 31st October 2018. 'SHENERGY' booth, a maiden initiative held at Delhi NCR, bagged special prize for most innovative concept and display at Petrotech 2019 exhibition. ONGC supports SHENERGY Initiative 3. ONGC Saksham: ONGC has devised various awareness programmes to popularize its energy awareness campaign amongst the employees, their families and the local populace in its area of operations. This year, ONGC supported PCRA for Saksham Cyclothon which is India's Premier Cyclothon. It aims to propagate the importance of fuel conservation and eﬃcient energy utilization, amongst the citizens of our nation. In the month of January 2019, Saksham Cycle Day was organized in Kolkata, Vadodara, Dehradun, Surat and Agartala. Young cyclists celebrate Cycle Day for a healthier life at Surat 72 4. Promoting Yoga: Yoga is an invaluable gift of India's ancient tradition. This tradition is 5,000 years old and is a holistic approach to health and well-being. In our endeavour to promote healthy work life balance, this year we celebrated the International Yoga Day on 21st June 2018 with great zeal and enthusiasm. Yoga not only increases employee productivity, decreases stress and anxiety in the workplace but it also reduces absenteeism and employee turnover. It improves employee's overall health and wellbeing. Employees showed exceptional vigour during the celebration. Out of all the participants, six were awarded for their outstanding performance during the yoga sessions. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon'ble Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas launched Mumbai's First Yoga Garden An ONGC CSR initiative at Bandra Reclamation Sea-link OMPL Women employees of OMPL participated in the 29th Annual day celebration of Women in Public sector forum on the theme “Think Smart Innovate for Change” held on February 12, 2019 at SCOPE Convention Centre, New Delhi. This is being organised under the aegis of SCOPE. Laurels have been brought to the OMPL family by securing First Prize in Non-Executive Category by Ms. Mamatha, Assistant (Process) and Third Prize in Executive Category by Ms. Akshatha A. K., Senior Engineer (Electrical). Awards and Accolades Ÿ Governance Now AwardThe Governance Now Ÿ Award for Best Innovative Practices for Women at Awards recognizes the eﬀorts of Public Sector WorkplaceONGC was awarded the Best Innovative Undertakings (PSUs) that have been key to the country's Practices Award for Women at Workplace at the 2nd growth. ONGC was awarded Governance Now Award Gender Equality Summit organized by Global for its “HR Excellence” and “Communication Outreach” at Compact Network India on the theme “Preparing the 6th PSU Awards held at New Delhi for its robust Women for the Future of Work”, on 1st March 2019 at communication strategy and approach. New Delhi. Award jury lauded the eﬀorts of ONGC Ÿ Golden Peacock AwardThe Company won the towards achieving Goal No. 5Gender equalityof UN Golden Peacock Award for HR Excellence in a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). ceremony organized by Institute of Directors (IOD) at Mumbai for its commitment to healthy employee relations, growth and development, while ensuring work satisfaction. 11 P 75-76 Respecting Human Rights 12 13 P 77-86 Safety and Security P 87-89 Supply Chain Management 14 P 90-91 Product Quality 11. Respecting Human Rights The global nature of our operations and the inherent risks Our ongoing work is to embed human rights considerations associated with it have made us highly conscious about in all relevant business decisions. This commitment our responsibility towards ensuring human rights for applies to all our operations, our products and services stakeholders in and around our operations at a much and our business relationships. We stipulate conditions greater level. We recognize that we may positively or requiring compliance of applicable labour statutes on our negatively aﬀect the human rights of a variety of suppliers, contractors and vendors through formal stakeholders including community members, our written agreements. Across ONGC Group, we maintain our employees and contractors. We respect and support all systems and processes in a manner that minimizes human internationally recognized human rights consistent with rights violations in our operations as well as our supply the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We place chain. We ensure that regular due diligence is undertaken utmost importance on human rights issues relating to to prevent exposure to risk arising out of human rights security, land access and resettlement, Indigenous violations. people's rights, environmental protection, cultural heritage, labour rights and in-migration-related impacts on local communities. No Child Labour Respecting Diversity and Inclusion No Bonded Labour Fair Wages, Working Hours and Bene ts Continuous Feedback from Employees Workplace Security Grievance Redressal Healthy and Mechanism Safe Working Space As India’s largest PSU, we ensure that all our contractors recognized hazards that cause or are likely to cause and suppliers are required to comply with all legal serious physical injury or death, and to maintain working requirements pertaining to not utilizing any child labour conditions that are safe and healthy for our employees. in the operations. We have stringent policies and Each worker associated with ONGC Group has a right to procedures that prohibit the employment of underage seek compensation for a regular work week that is workers and ensures protection of young workers. We suﬃcient to meet the worker’s basic needs and provide have robust age-veri cation mechanisms as part of the some discretionary income. Our labour contractors, recruitment process to prevent child labour in any form. manufactures, suppliers are paying at least the minimum At ONGC Group, we prohibit using any form of forced, wage or the appropriate prevailing wages, whichever is involuntary or bonded labour in our operations as well as higher in order to comply with all legal requirements on for our associated contractors and suppliers. Any form of wages, and provide any fringe bene ts required by law or threats, mental & physical coercion, slavery and human contract. traﬃcking practices, both internally and within our supply We encourage our employees to report any instances of chains or other external business relationships, is violations of the human rights. Compliance is ensured prohibited. with all applicable regulations related to human rights We ensure fairness in the process of hiring and such as Payment of Wages Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, performance development through our strong and 1948; Equal Remuneration Act, 1976; Industrial Dispute ethical HR practices. We and our associated contractors Act, 1947; ESI Act, 1948; Employees Provident fund and cannot apply any type of discriminatory practice in hiring, Miscellaneous Act, 1952; CLRA, 1970; Child Labour compensation, access to training, promotion, termination (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. As a responsible or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, principal employer, ONGC Group ensures that contractual religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual labour is treated fairly and immediate corrective actions orientation, union membership or political aﬃliation. Our are taken in response to any complaints or disputes. Conduct Discipline and Appeal Rules describes our Various in-house policies of ONGC Group such as service commitment towards non-discrimination and procedures rules, leave rules, gratuity rules, CPF rules, and other for prohibiting discrimination. To avoid precarious employee welfare measures like house building advance, employment, we issue employment agreements or conveyance advance, medical facilities, and education contracts to all the workers. We properly document all the loans also conforms to Human Right values. ONGC Group employment decisions such as to hire or not hire, transfer, is also fully committed to the principles of United Nations promote or termination of employees. Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights and subscribed to the international agreements/conventions such as At ONGC Group, we treat our employees with dignity and Kyoto protocol, within the framework of Government of respect. Under no circumstances, physical punishment, India directives and ensures adherence to these sexual or racial harassment, verbal or power abuse or any principles, in all its operations. Further, we continuously other form of harassment or intimidation is permitted. We engage with investors, civil society and community have a well-established grievance redressal mechanism in members on various human rights matters including land place. As part of this records for all the grievances and their access, cultural heritage, environmental issues and labour root cause analysis along with the action taken are rights issues. maintained. Across ONGC Group, our associated contractors and suppliers have a legal and professional responsibility to At ONGC group, implementation and provide workers with a work environment that is free from monitoring of aforesaid Human Rights policies and Code of Conduct lies on the Chief HR. Chief HR oversees the No incident of implementation of the human rights There were no forced or policies and takes responsibility of cases of child compulsory labour resolving any violations. ONGC has labour reported reported within Whistle Blower Policy and a dedicated within the the organization Ombudsman oﬃce for addressing organization during FY’19. employee grievances in neutral and during FY’19. unbiased manner. 76 12. Safety and Security Occupational Safety ONGC Group's motto is to ensure safe and secure Safety is a pivotal aspect for all operational activities at operations and provide healthy work environment to our ONGC Group. We are determined to drive the culture of employees and related stakeholders. safety in our organization and undertake regular initiatives to inculcate this culture in our employees. All our employees, including top management, functional Safety and well-being of our employees is a key priority heads, supervisors, and contractors, among others, are and a core value across ONGC Group. It forms an integral committed to exercising safe practices in everyday work part of our decision making and is given signi cant and also in operational planning and development attention in all initiatives that we undertake. We believe activities. ONGC Group has identi ed key areas to further that with partnerships across teams and contractors, we strengthen its safety and security domain. The key can raise our year-on-year performance and promote components of this domain are safety management wellbeing. For this, it is imperative for us to maintain our system, pollution control, conservation of biodiversity, plants and equipment in a manner that these are safe, HSE Audits and training and awareness programs. reliable, secure and eﬃcient. Being a high-risk industry, oil and gas operations are generally susceptible to For ONGC Group, safe and healthy work environment is a catastrophic hazards owing to the slightest neglect. prerequisite for ensuring employee well-being and Proper implementation of well-coordinated plans with adopting best practices in occupational health & safety appropriate managerial control to ensure plant integrity, bears a direct impact on the Group's overall performance. equipment reliability, security of installations and safety Our leaders establish the vision, communicate the core of all associated stakeholders is crucial. At ONGC Group, all values of safety, provide the tools and resources, engage aspects of operations pertinent to security and the workforce, monitor progress, adapt to change and occupational safety have been comprehensively recognize accomplishments. Strict compliance with all designed, constructed, tested, operated, inspected and statutory, and other applicable requirements related to maintained in a sustainable and systematic manner, thus occupational health and safety is ensured across ensuring safety of plants, equipment and employees. operations. Follow Safety Regular machine Stringent PPE Industry Top down, bottom up programmes to maintenance Compliance Guidelines communication unite workers Ensure familiarity Collaboration with with worksites In-Vehicle Local Emergency Active and vigilant (new workers) Monitoring System Response monitoring Community Figure 28 : Weaving safety in our culture ONGC has a comprehensive organizational structure for and the public in general. To ensure that our employees managing HSE issues at corporate and work-center levels and contractual workers are aware of and are abiding by with designated Safety Oﬃcers at installations and rigs. these safety rules, we have formulated a user-friendly Further, to strengthen our safety culture, we believe that manual which is available in several regional languages in everyone needs to feel responsible for safety and be a addition to English and Hindi. ONGC Group has undertaken safety champion in their own way. To inculcate this value, proactive measures to ensure holistic implementation of all employees are provided with regular communication these rules across operations, by working progressively on preventing injury to themselves, their fellow workers with concerned stakeholders. Chairman & Managing Director Board Sub-Committee on HSE Dir.(On) Dir. (Oﬀ) Dir. (Exp.) Dir. (T&FS) As I/ C of HSE Chief HSE Asset Manager Plant Manager Asset Manager Basin Manager CDS (Oﬀ.) CWS Head Oﬀshore HDS HWS Safety Head Head Head Head HDS/ SM/ Head Head Surface Head Drilling Safety Envt. OH HSE HWS HSE HSE Manager Safety I/c SHSE Area Manager I/c HSE I/c HSEWS Installation Manager OIM Installation Manager HSE Manager Safety Oﬃcer Safety Oﬃcer Figure 29 : HSE Structure in ONGC HSE Management System is implemented across all work centres. This system is designed to assist employees in understanding the hazards in oil and gas eld operations, HSE Health, Safety and to comply with the best safety, health, and and Environment environmental practices. All ONGC work centres are ISO OIM Oﬀshore Installation Manager 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 complied. MRPL is also SM Surface Manager OHSAS 18001:2007 certi ed. Corporate guidelines on online incident reporting, investigation and compliance HDS Head Drilling Services monitoring of various rules and regulations have been HWS Head Well Services developed and implemented for maintaining uniformity T&FS Technology and Field Services throughout the organization in line with international practices. 78 1. Standard Operating 2. Internal and External 4. Emergency Response 3. Risk Assessments Procedures Audits and Compliance Plan 5. Training Program and 6. Safety Inspection 7. Disaster Management 8. Experienced HSE Team Documentation System Checklists Plan 9. Measurable 10. Regular Meetings and 11. Regular Management 12. Safety Rules Performance Metrics Communications Strategy Review 13. Incident Monitoring 14. Incentives and Rewards and Reporting System for Safety Culture Figure 30 : Components of QHSE Management System During FY’19, a new HSE Index was introduced and carries out periodic inspections of ONGC onshore facilities. implemented across all work centers for benchmarking As on 31st March 2019, status of compliance of DGMS installations on various parameters like detection and recommendations is 97.51%. suppression system, environmental parameters, evacuation One of the key initiatives taken during the year was systems, and equipment integrity. introduction of Safety Alert, which is a brief guidance Eﬃcient implementation of HSE Management and no material that highlights an incident or unsafe practice and accident leading to insurance claim resulted in outlines the required action to prevent their occurrence. appreciable decrease in Insurance premium for Oﬀshore The guidance helps in disseminating information to the Installation (USD 16.6 Million for the year 2018-19 for relevant stakeholders for evaluation which enables them Asset Value of USD 40.0 Billion against USD 18.6 Million for to take appropriate action for ensuring safe practices. Asset Value of USD 36.0 Billion for the FY’18). Corporate HSE has made it a practice to upload Safety At ONGC, audits are the primary mechanism used to Alerts on ONGC's internal portal ongcreports.net for wider measure changes over a period of time and they help us in circulation and awareness. Safety Advisories are also ful lment of our legal and moral obligations. To check the issued on the portal for generic audit observations and conformity and alignment of activities to prevalent their compliances to support improvement of the regulations, guidelines, standards and rules, ONGC has performance during audits by external agencies. instated an all-inclusive audit routine comprising of During the year, ONGC also initiated an Online Safety internal as well as external audits. Internal Safety Audits Pledge, a unique initiative launched through in-house (ISA) are conducted at regular intervals based on the risk portal of “ONGC Reports” to further strengthen the matrix of the functional units to comply with QHSE commitment of ONGC employees towards safety. The Management System. The following types of External pledge is followed by automatic generation of Certi cate Safety Audits (ESAs) were conducted at ONGC: with signatures of DirectorI/c HSE. This initiative has been Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) audits: OISD is a designed to take Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) technical directorate under the Ministry of Petroleum and movement across all our work centres. Natural Gas which conducts External Safety Audits on To inculcate the safety aspects in mine workings, regular basis, In FY’19, 56 Safety Audits/ Surprise Safety vocational trainings are crucial. According to Mines Audits and 2 Pre-Commissioning Audits were conducted Vocational Training (MVT) Rules, 1966, vocational training by OISD. As on 31st March 2019, status of compliance of is required to be given to all workers employed in mines, OISD recommendations is 91.48%. along with front line supervisors including foreman, mate, Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS): DGMS is a workmen inspectors and electrical & mechanical supervisors. regulatory authority under the Ministry of Labour and In compliance with the requirements, trainings on MVT Employment, Government of India in matters pertaining were imparted to both ONGC employees and contract to occupational safety, health and welfare of persons personnel during the year through 10 in-house training employed in mines (Coal, Metalliferous and Oil mines). It centres. In our endeavour to ensure success of mission “Zero Fatality”, ONGC launched Ten Safety Rules Awareness programme during the year. These safety rules are fast becoming the cornerstone of our organization's value system. Under Ten Safety Rules Awareness Programme, around 13,214 personnel (both ONGC and contractual personnel) in FY'19 and 41,711 personnel have been apprised since the inception of the programme. It continues to be a permanent feature of the Safety Campaign. Protect yourself by using PPE 1 2 Work with a Valid Permit when Required Ensure Safe System of Work 3 4 Obtain Authorization Prior to Bypassing ‘Safety Critical Equipment’ No Smoking, Use of Illegal Drugs, Consumption of Alcohol 5 6 Safe Working at Height Safe Handling of Loads 7 8 Do not use Mobile Phones in Operational Areas Keep Your Workplace & Environment Clean 9 10 Drive Safely Figure 31 : Ten Safety Rules The table below indicates the safety performance of the organization during the year: Parameter ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' FY' 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 Fatality 6 8 9 4 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil LTIF9 0.402 0.47 0.527 0.53 0.13 0.27 0.34 0.14 0.3 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.17 TRIR10 0.92 0.82 0.926 1.49 0.52 0.48 3.8 2.3 2.0 0.103 0.233 0.336 Nil Nil 0.93 Nil Nil 1.17 Recordable 755 631 593 59 19 18 44 31 27 4 5 6 3 2 9 Nil Nil 1 incidents Lost-days 747 1,761.9 2,543 220 55 142 394 51 129 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 52 Near-miss 7,153 8,822 9,329 15,732 14,260 2,188 11 32 69 889 116 221 284 109 161 476 204 323 376 Table 29 : Incidents Data ONGC Group 9 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF): The number of lost time injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases) per Million hours worked. 10 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR): The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted work day cases+ medical treatment cases) per Million hours worked. 11 ONGC Videsh includes reporting of unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, along with near miss incidents. 80 The gure below illustrate the Incidents Data of ONGC: 800 100 719 700 608 570 80 600 483 Major and Fatal 500 60 Minor 400 340 40 298 300 27 30 200 23 21 19 15 20 100 8 (9) 6 (6) 3 (3) 3 (3) 2 (8) 4 (9) 0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 0 Minor Major Fatal Figure 32 : Incident Data of ONGC We value lives and thus we have taken 'Zero harm' as our to impact family, colleagues and their local communities. non-negotiable safety ideology across all our operations ONGC provided immediate support and counselling at ONGC and are determined to bring about a clear and services and continues to do so. We share the learnings measurable improvement in our safety records and are across ONGC to prevent incidents like these being ramping up a range of actions to achieve this. However, repeated. These incidents reinforce our commitment we are yet to achieve our goal of zero fatalities and an towards strengthening compliance and accountability; incident-free year. We are deeply saddened to inform that instilling a new culture of care in the eld; and ensuring 9 fatalities had taken place in FY'19. These fatal incidents transparent reporting of incidents, near-misses and high took place at 4 diﬀerent assets. These tragedies continue impact potential incidents. Contractor Safety ONGC has established an inclusive and systematic contractor safety management program to ensure well-being and occupational safety of all partners, contractors, and ONGC employees. It is targeted towards reducing the number of occupational safety related incidents and the damage to ONGC's facilities and contractors. Monitoring while work in progress Pre Job Veri cation Veri cation of pre-requisite Contractor Selection Program Mandatory Training Safety Management Plan Inbuilt HSE clauses in Bid Package Work Evaluation Safety Orientation of Contractual Workforce Figure 33 : Pillars of ONGC Contractor Safety Management Program Safety Training Employees and contractors engaged in ONGC's Development Centers (SDC) for delivery of training operations encounter a wide spectrum of safety risks. In programmes to its employees. Upon identi cation of order to ensure that tasks are carried out in a secure training needs, both ONGC Academy and IPSHEM publish manner and risks are minimized, it is imperative to equip yearly training calendar. Work center management the personnel with adequate set of skills. ONGC has assesses the suitability of training from this calendar for invested heavily into ensuring safety of all employees personnel working under their control, and the HR using a combination of proactive and reactive measures. It department nominates the identi ed employees for has also worked progressively towards capacity building respective trainings. of employees in the domain of occupational safety by Instructor-led classroom safety training sessions (practical providing requisite means of information, instruction, and vocational) are conducted by industrial experts from training and supervision. The primary objective of these external agencies as well as in-house faculty comprising initiatives is to enable employees to eﬀectively identify of functional heads, department heads, and line hazardous situations, report incidents, injuries and managers, among others. Additionally, other initiatives illnesses, and understand their responsibilities if targeted towards capacity building and awareness of confronted with a potentially dangerous situation at work. employees have been initiated by ONGC, which include At ONGC, a training needs assessment is carried out awareness and wellness programmes, safety committee centrally by the ONGC Academy, Dehradun and Institute meetings, toolbox talks, and a variety of other of Petroleum Safety, Health and Environment Management engagement activities involving various stakeholders (IPSHEM), Goa which serve as the organization's critical to operations. specialized training arms. ONGC also has its own Skill Some of the HSE trainings conducted during FY'19 are as follows: Global Maritime Distress and Mines Vocational Safety SystemTraining (MVT) GMDSS (Certi cation ) Working at Happiness Heights, Fire Fighting Workshop Con ned Space First Aid Training Techniques and Entry & Awareness Scaﬀolding Stress Management Health in your Way to live a Workmen Safety in through SMET (SelfHSE Training for hands through Healthy Life for Inspectors Material Management of Field Personnel Naturopathy and Women Training Handling Excessive Tension) Yoga Employees Figure 34 : HSE Trainings Under Mines Vocational Training (MVT) Rules (1966), employees have been imparted with trainings on safety trainings are provided to full time employees as well as during FY’19. A total of 340 ONGC personnel 1,496 contractual workers involved in working in mines on the contractual personnel have been imparted MVT in FY’19. surface or in opencast, with a view to make them aware of OPaL devoted 23,018 person-hours on health and safety the dangers of working in mines so that they can work trainings for its employees and contractual workers. safely. A total of 12,107 ONGC and ONGC Videsh 82 The average training person-days spent on safety for ONGC Group is indicated in the table below: Name of Entity FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 ONGC and ONGC Videsh 12,107 12,847 13,947 MRPL 1,447 1,465 1,393 OPaL 234 495 295 OTPC 49 123 124 Table 30 : Average training person-days spent on safety ONGC Group inclusion of safety management system in the Bid National Safety Week Campaign 2019 Evaluation Criteria of all contracts and adherence to these The National Safety Day/Safety Week Campaign is being during the operations, identi cation of workers based on spearheaded by ONGC from the past many years. Over the the competence and expertise, mitigation of untoward years, it has signi cantly contributed to increased incidents during operations and building a safe awareness in the organization about importance of safety, ecosystem for interest of all stakeholders. thus, leading to a reduction in the rate of industrial accidents in our work centers. This year, the campaign was ONGC Videsh focused on the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) ONGC Videsh received ISO 45001 : 2018 certi cation – new movement. The objective was to promote the use of standard on Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) in participative approach to involve employees in HSE FY'19. This has enabled ONGC Videsh to provide safe and activities. healthy workplaces by preventing work related injury and Through a successful celebration of Safety Week, we could ill health, as well as proactively improving in OH&S promote development of norms for need-based activities, performance. ONGC Videsh is not only ful lling the legal self-compliance with statutory requirements and professional requirements of OH&S but working towards continual HSE management systems at all our work centers. This improvement of OH&S performance. celebration also acted as a reminder for our employees and others concerned of their responsibility in making the OMPL workplace safer. Ÿ OMPL is awarded the rst prize in 'Industrial Boiler Safety' category in recognition of outstanding National Workshop on Safe Practice performance in best safety practices during the year National Workshop on the Safe Practice in Onshore Work 2018 Over and Well Testing operations was held at Ahmedabad Ÿ Mr. Steevan Nary Concesso is awarded the second on 29 June 2019. Through this workshop, the keynote prize in the best worker competition (oil industry speakers emphasized on the importance of safety in oil category) for his outstanding performance in the eld and gas sector. Discussions were conducted around of safety during the year 2018 ONGC regularly conducts mock drills at various work-centres periodically to be prepared for any eventuality Security At ONGC Group, we believe that providing ample security centre depends on the sensitivity and threat perception to our workforce is of paramount importance, and we analysis, which is carried out and reviewed periodically. strive to maintain world class standards for security in our The overall responsibility of securing the oﬀshore work centres. The security architecture of ONGC Work installations of ONGC lies with Indian Navy / Indian Coast Centres has been designed keeping in mind the Guard and is coordinated by Flag Oﬃcer Oﬀshore Defense contemporary threat perception and inputs received Advisory Group (FODAG), situated at Mumbai. Seamless from the Intelligence agencies of State Governments Surveillance of Oﬀshore Development Areas is done concerned and central government and is being reviewed through Vessel and Air Traﬃc Management System as and when the need arises. (VATMS), installed at both the East Coast (Kakinada) and ONGC has a detailed Security Policy at the corporate level, West Coast (Mumbai). Besides, an area extending up to which guides the management to ensure fool-proof 500 meters around ONGC oﬀshore structures/ platforms is physical security for installations and workers across all identi ed as 'noti ed' or 'designated' area and any work centres. This Policy assesses present threats and unauthorized access to oﬀshore structures / platforms in vulnerabilities and ensures foolproof security for installations this zone is liable for prosecution. On-board security is the and workers across all work centres. The Group's Security responsibility of ONGC and Marine Security Supervisors Policy also covers various aspects of cyber security as (MSS), who are ex-naval sailors, have been deployed for mandated in the ISMS policy. It is used to guide the ensuring the same. Furthermore, modern security organization's development and direction in these areas gadgets like CCTVs, Flap barriers etc. are also in various in a manner that is consistent with the company's overall stages of installation. business plan. Given the global nature of operations at ONGC Videsh, it is ONGC Security Personnel are selected from para-military / imperative to ensure the adoption of comprehensive CPO's background. Apart from 450 strong force of security practices to safeguard its employees at all times. Departmental security personnel, government security ONGC Videsh holds contract with world renowned agencies like CISF, State Armed Police, Home Guards, security services provider International SOS, who along Special Police Oﬃcers (SPOs), Village Defence Personnel with consortium partner Control Risk, provides (VDP) etc. as well as Private Security Guards and DGR 'Comprehensive membership for medical and security (ex-servicemen) personnel are protecting ONGC’s emergencies for ONGC Videsh expats and travelers' along installations and oﬃces day and night. with travel tracker. As part of this contract, ISOS had tied up with ONGC Videsh's travel desk. At any given point of The onshore assets of ONGC are protected by various time, the company management can track precise Government Security Forces like Assam Armed Police Bn. locations of employees, which is vital in the event of (Assam), CISF (Assam, Gujarat, Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh, emergencies and other operational predicaments. ISOS and Dehradun), SRPF (Gujarat), APSPF (Andhra Pradesh), sends travel advisory to each individual based on ticket TSR (Tripura) etc., who work under the overall supervision booking. Apart from this, the employees can get latest of ONGC’s Departmental Security. Additionally, at some updates through ISOS app on mobiles or contacting their locations, contractual security guards / ex-servicemen are call centres worldwide. In case of any security or medical deployed for the security of ONGC’s Work Centres. The emergency, ISOS is obliged to provide services at cost to choice of the force for guarding a particular ONGC work company. ONGC salvage cyclone-hit semi-submersible rig 'Olinda Star' The rig Olinda Star, a semi-submersible drilling rig, was deployed for ONGC operations oﬀ the east coast for operating in the deeper water of the east coast for its ongoing projects. In the aftermath of cyclone Pethai which hit coastal Andhra Pradesh in the month of December 2018, the rig had tilted at an angle. After meteorological department's cyclone warning, 111 crew members working on the rig were evacuated on December 14 and 15 by the ONGC Security Team in coordination with Indian Navy and Coast Guard. Our security team made elaborate and quick arrangements for evacuating people and deployed helicopters and boats. The security team also coordinated for salvaging the rig with the help of Indian Navy and Coast Guard. After continuous eﬀorts, the Olinda Star Rig was nally salvaged on 22 December 2018. A major oil spill and pollution scenario was averted apart from salvaging the rig. 84 Other key initiatives taken by ONGC for improvement of operational security are as below: Ÿ Besides periodic reviews on security matters at corporate level and implementation of OSCC's decision, Annual Security Conference followed by a Review Meeting of Security executives is conducted every six months to deliberate upon various issues for improving security provisions and to curb theft / pilferage of crude oil / other material in the aﬀected areas and arrests of culprits thereof, monitoring trials in the Courts, incidents of sabotage, if any. Ÿ The Oil Sector Infrastructure Protection Plan (OSIPP) approved by MoP&NG is already under implementation. This would help in further strengthening the Access Control and monitoring the incidents of theft & pilferage as well as sabotage. Community Sensitization Event Ÿ In view of the continuous threats to Oﬀshore / Oil eld Development Areas (ODAs) and gaps identi ed by the Ÿ Regular training programmes on security management Security & Intelligence Agencies, the Comprehensive are being imparted by in-house and outside Security Solution (CSS) for the oﬀshore assets has been specialized agencies like CPOs, IB etc. ONGC resource prepared after getting inputs and presentation from M/s. BEL, ECIL and other reputed private security personnel impart training to the Police personnel of companies on the matter. Board approval has been various ranks about provisions of PMP Act and its accorded to the proposal and necessary action is being applications in oil theft / pilferage cases by visiting taken as per the decision of the Board. their Training Academies / Centres. Ÿ Sensitizations of the coastal population, especially Ÿ Enterprise Wide Access Control System (EACS), is shermen, is being conducted with the help of under implementation to help in strengthening the security agencies on regular basis by ONGC on Coastal Access Control and monitoring the incidents of theft & and Oﬀshore Security, including theft from unmanned pilferage as well as sabotage. platforms, as it can result in serious collateral damages for the nearby communities. A short sensitization lm Ÿ Benchmarking of 28 security gadgets for all work for shermen community has been translated (subcentres & installations of ONGC and their procurement titles) in six languages viz., Marathi, Gujarati, Tamil, has been approved, as a part of the implementation of Telugu, English and Hindi for making it useful in all the Oil Sector Infrastructure Protection Plan. ONGC operational areas spread across India. The lm is screened during civic action/community programmes Ÿ Oil tankers are equipped with Global Positioning to create awareness. System (GPS) at Ahmedabad, Ankleshwar, Mehsana Asset & Hazira Plant. Similarly, Rajahmundry and Ÿ Special sensitization programmes were organized for Assam Asset are also initiating case to install GPS on oil villagers residing around the oil elds in Gujarat, tankers. Ahmedabad and Mehsana Assets have Assam and Karaikal with the help of Police and local already introduced GPS system to monitor the administration. These programmes also engaged movement of Line walkers on our Trunk Pipelines. scrap-dealers and brick kiln workers for their sensitization against possible dangers from theft and Ÿ In order to evaluate the response of various in-house pilferages of crude/ metal parts from ONGC oil wells / establishments. The villagers are also being sensitized departments and outside agencies at the time of to various stringent provisions of Petroleum & Mineral disaster, ONGC security conducts mock drill at regular Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of use in Land) intervals. 281 mock drills were conducted at various Amendment Act, 2011 and PNGRB Act 2006, regarding work-centres by ONGC Security during 2018-19. theft, pilferage, tampering and other damages caused to oil and gas pipelines. Ÿ Periodic security audits are performed by the Industrial Security Inspection team of Intelligence Ÿ New chemical containers equipped with digital lock Bureau, and internal security audits are frequently and VTS supported GPS have been introduced to conducted by the senior oﬃcers of ONGC Group to transport chemicals in Assam Asset since September identify gaps and areas of improvements across 2018. This has resulted in improved safety and security installations. of chemical transportation. Awards and Recognitions Ÿ Hazira Processing Plant bagged the coveted Apex Ÿ Mehsana Asset of ONGC was awarded with the India Occupational Health & Safety Excellence Award prestigious Greentech Safety Gold Award in recognition 2017 in a ceremony held at New Delhi. of its outstanding achievement in maintaining Safety Ÿ ONGC is bestowed with the Global Safety Award by the Standards in Energy Sector. The award was given to the Energy and Environment Foundation in FY'19. Global Rig UPET Romanian 50 -V Work Over Rig during the Safety Awards organised by the Energy And 17thAnnual Greentech Safety Awards held at Guwahati. Environment Foundation recognises outstanding Ÿ A culture of Behavioral Based Safety (BBS) focuses an organisations that are taking responsibility for employee's attention and actions on daily safety de ning a commercial future by adding value through behavior. BBS helps an organization observe and excellence in re, safety, health and security measure the attitudes and behaviors that increase risk management for corporate citizenship, transparent and provide feedback to encourage change. Uran accountability, life cycle stewardship, strategic Processing Plant of the Company was awarded the sustainability and conducting fair business in a reputed BBS Award in Petrochemical category at the disciplined manner that delivers a shared future for all 3rd Annual National Conference2019 in New Delhi. stakeholders through commitment, dedication with a goal of zero injuries thereby creating an environment of safety rst before beginning any action. At ONGC, Security and Safety in all areas of operations is top priority; Above picture taken during Oﬀshore Safety and Security Drill conducted in coordination with Indian Coast Guard at Mumbai Oﬀshore 86 13. Supply Chain Management Introduction To establish ONGC Group as a responsible organization geographic spread and coverage of its operations. taking cognizance of our vast impact and outreach in the ONGC's domestic exploration and production operations country, we understand the signi cance of conducting (Assets and Basins), processing plants and institutes are a business in a fair and transparent manner, whether it is part of ONGC Group's reporting boundary. For the through our direct operations or through our partner reporting year, ONGC engaged with 8,603 new suppliers network of suppliers and contractors. ONGC Group's and the amount of business transactions with suppliers diverse supply chain consists of multiple tiers of suppliers, amounted to over INR 9,119 Million. contractors, and JVs/partners due to the diverse NEW SUPPLIERS Description Indian Overseas Total ONGC No. of New Suppliers Created 8,467 136 8,603 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 8,881.0 238.0 9,119.0 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) ONGC Videsh No. of New Suppliers Created 158 24 182 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 52.92 231.15 284.07 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) MRPL No. of New Suppliers Created 1,122 89 1,211 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 1,282.34 363.53 1,645.87 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) OMPL No. of New Suppliers Created 611 20 631 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 3.38 74.69 78.07 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) Description Indian Overseas Total OPaL No. of New Suppliers Created 849 50 899 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 8,302.94 296.13 8,599.07 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) OTPC No. of New Suppliers Created 66 Nil 66 during FY'19 (Goods & Services) Total value of orders placed on the above 16.33 Nil 16.33 suppliers during FY'19 (in INR Million) Table 31 : New Suppliers added in FY'19 across ONGC Group Green Supply Chain Advocating Transparency We expect our suppliers to maintain Our Code of conduct outlines our Fair and eﬀective policies and procedures to transparent business practices. We expect manage their environmental impact our suppliers to work in tandem with it Environment Human Fair Business Rights Practices Local Health Community & Commitment towards Making Safety a norm Development Safety Human Rights We expect our suppliers We expect our suppliers to adopt robust health to develop and and safety systems in best implement policies and interest of their procedures to ensure all employees and human rights in the community business Walking alongside Community We expect our suppliers to contribute in social, economic and institutional development of the local community Figure 35 : Building Blocks of Responsible Procurement 88 ONGC Group is highly committed to ensuring that all of Conduct provides guidance on business aspects as well as our vendors and suppliers operate in a healthy and safe ethical aspects of operations and for reporting any kind of working environment while maintaining the quality of violations. services. A systematic approach is deployed to ensure compliance with applicable labour practice regulations Grievance Cell follows established mechanisms to receive including child labour and human rights aspects, across and manage grievances from interested parties at a unit our supply chain. Compliance to applicable legal and HSE level as well as corporate level. We have a robust erequirements are incorporated in all of our service grievance handling mechanism for quick redressal of contract agreements with suppliers and is ensured during grievances from all stakeholders including suppliers. The execution. We encourage our suppliers to maintain vendors and suppliers of ONGC Group also have the eﬀective policies, processes and procedures to manage facility of approaching Independent External Monitors to their environmental impact. A dedicated Supplier Code of redress their grievance. Engagement with Suppliers We are engaging with our suppliers to sensitize them on issues of environmental impact, social impact and ethical conduct of the business which can pose a threat to their business continuity and brand dilution. Our wide network of supplier base is periodically rationalized on the basis of performance & market requirements. We engage with our supply chain on a range of issues through various Business Partners' and Supplier's Meet from time to time. We proactively sensitize our supply chain on our code of conduct and policies and also on all the upcoming regulations and internal policies. These engagement with suppliers enhances the Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) performance of suppliers, thereby reducing the risk of labour unrest in supply chain and ensures continued goods and service supplies from our local suppliers. ONGC regularly interacts with its Business Partners and Vendors to sensitize them regarding procurement process and transparent policies as part of its Corporate Governance outreach 14. Product Quality the product stewardship drives improved productivity, Product stewardship and customer satisfaction is enhanced quality, increased customer satisfaction, fundamental to business at ONGC Group and we ensure it reduced costs and increased competitive advantage in by ful lling national and global standards for product quality. the industry. ONGC Group has implemented globally recognized QHSE ONGC Group recognizes both the impacts and bene ts of Management System conforming to the requirements of its products across their life cycles and strives to improve QHSE Certi cations ISO 9001:2005 for Quality Management its understanding of the same. Understanding the Systems, showcasing its commitment to consistently responsibility towards continuously improving the provide products and services that meet customer quality of products and processes to achieve customer requirements and applicable statutory requirements, and satisfaction, ONGC consistently follows an integrated to overall enhance customer satisfaction. The Group has management philosophy embedded in its systems and also implemented ISO 14001 and ISO 18001 (OHSAS) and processes, which includes customer focus, leadership is certi ed by reputed agencies at all its operational units. commitment, continual improvement, employee growth and supplier support towards continuous and sustainable ONGC Group places tremendous importance on upgrading improvement of products, processes and services. Such our product quality according to evolving global and well-rounded approach ensures incessant progress in national standards. ONGC has updated its Material achieving one of the most important objectives of the Management Manual to ensure procurement of materials Group customer satisfaction through quality products and services that are of high quality. All Value Added and services. Products (VAPs) are supplied with batch-wise test reports and standard handling procedures to be followed in line The three key products of ONGC are Crude Oil, Natural Gas with Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) and other & Lique ed Petroleum Gas. All the products of ONGC statutory standards. Relevant BIS speci cations and Group strictly follow the respective product-makingquality certi cates with parameters are issued while procedures, laws, statutes and standards governing their dispatching. Product labelling related to storage production in respective regions. The exploration and procedures and safety precautions are clearly indicated at production (E&P) business activities at ONGC are pursued all the installations holding the Value Added product. The and aligned in a way that ensures that E&P of resources is Crude Oil Sale Agreement (COSA)/ Gas Sale Agreement done in a sustainable manner across their life cycle. For (GSA) incorporates suitable provisions with regard to the crude oil sale, batch-wise certi cates are issued, which quality and quantity of the product being supplied by includes various quality parameters including the BS&W. ONGC. The COSA/GSA of ONGC Group have been arrived Product labelling related to storage procedures and safety at in consultation with OMCs and Gas marketing precautions is clearly indicated at ONGC installations companies on mutually agreed principles. The speci cations holding the crude. All natural gas supplied by ONGC to of quality and measurement in COSA/ GSA are in various customers conforms to the agreed contractual accordance with International standards. Moreover, speci cations. ONGC also ensures that policies followed are as per guidelines of the Government of India. The agreements The Group has designed appropriate policies for also have an in-built mechanism for stakeholder’s determining and maintaining product quality across all of grievance redressal. ONGC Group has a structured our product categories. For proper implementation of the and dedicated marketing department to oversee policies, the Group has also formulated guidelines. The implementation of relevant policies in this regard. guidelines are essentially aimed at ensuring satisfaction of customers internal and external, and the business Aligning its commitment to that of the Group's, MRPL associates through maintaining continual excellence in enhanced its re nery's capacity while also accomplishing quality of products and processes. Such commitment to low cost revamping. MRPL is also an ISO 9001:2015 90 certi ed company. MRPL has taken a step further by products, OPaL earned the best brand award by Economic attaining ISO 17025 to get its competence of testing and Times Polymer Awards 2019. calibration laboratories certi ed. At OPaL, Quality Policy and objectives encompassed in the policy have been Customer satisfaction is crucial for ONGC Group. The approved by the president, OPaL and are displayed at Group interacts on regular basis with its B2B customers prominent places in laboratory as a communication with respect to product quality and pricing. Such measure to inform the employees. Quality labs at OPaL interaction with our partners ensures customer have Service Level Agreements (SLA) for inspection and satisfaction. Any concerns related to the product by any of testing of product quality as per applicable testing our consumers are addressed immediately. This constant protocols such as ASTM, BIS, APHA, UOP, Licensors interaction and feedback through meetings demonstrate Methods and laboratory validated methods to meets best business practices and is a win-win proposition for all customers' expectations. OPaL has also implemented parties doing business with ONGC Group in line with 'Quality Manual' in line with ISO 17025:2005, 'General mutually agreed upon business principles and Requirements for Testing and Calibration Laboratories'. deliverables. For its strategic eﬀorts into delivering high quality Signing of Agreement between ONGC and IOCL for Propane sales exC2-C3 Dahej Plant 15 P 93-114 CSR Journey of ONGC Group 15. CSR Journey of ONGC Group all its stakeholders, we have a Corporate Social Responsibility ONGC's Corporate Social Responsibility imparts social (CSR) & Sustainable Development (SD) policy that is in line value creation by creating a positive impact on society, with the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (CSR Policy) shared value for business and communities and Rules, 2014. This policy guides our approach and ensure involving maximum Stakeholder participation. that our CSR eﬀorts are strategic and maximize the positive contribution to the triple bottom line. ONGC, while exploring oil and gas resources, is continuously ONGC Group identi es the CSR activities that are aligned interfacing remote rural areas that are inhabited by with the needs of the community and implements the underprivileged local communities which brings the initiatives in project mode as per the focus areas de ned enhanced understanding of the community and its needs. under Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, This results in heightened sense of responsibility towards ONGC identi es speci c and measurable objectives that the communities that forms the basis of ONGC's are aligned with goals in respective geographies. Regular Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. monitoring of the projects is conducted and leadership is Corporate Social Responsibility is a crucial part of the meaningfully involved in robust periodic review of the value system in ONGC Group. Not only do our CSR same. In FY'19, ONGC spent INR 6,146 Million for its initiatives connect us to the communities that surround various CSR programs mainly in areas of Healthcare, our operations for successful functioning but they also Education, Environment, Women Empowerment and bring the opportunities for ONGC Group to create positive Heritage preservation. impact in the society beyond business. To systematically perform this responsibility and ful ll the expectations of CSR Objectives Adopt Environmentally Sustainable business practices to gradually reduce Envision, execute and manage long environmental footprint through enduring projects with larger social innovation and conservation impact focusing on inclusive growth of Create adequately empowered marginalized sections of the society organizational structure and a system of management oversight, review and control CSR Committee at ONGC CSR at ONGC is led by CSR committee consisting of a team Presuade business partners for adopting similar practices for CSR of independent directors and full time functional and Sustainable Development directors. The composition of CSR committee at ONGC as of 31.03.2019 is as follows: Ÿ Shri Ajai Malhotra, Independent Director –Chairman Ÿ Dr. Santrupt B Misra, Independent Director –Member Ÿ Shri A. K. Dwivedi, DirectorONGC – Member Ÿ Shri Subhash Kumar, Director-ONGC– Member Meaningful stakeholder engagement to develop impact oriented projects Ÿ Dr. Alka Mittal, Director (HR)-ONGC – Member Thematic Areas of ONGC’s CSR Projects 8.5 99.5 954.2 Health care and sanitation Women empowerment and 0.3 reducing inequality 119.8 Environmental sustainability Education 2,365.2 697.3 Promotion of sports Protection of national heritage, art and culture Slum area development Bene t of armed forces veterans 215.9 Rural development projects 1,685.7 Figure 36 : Theme wise CSR expenditure (in INR Million) ONGC's CSR across India As a leading Indian corporate, ONGC is committed to bringing positive value to its stakeholders by Jammu & Ladakh bringing positive change in communities through Kashmir its CSR initiatives pan India. 23.6 Chandigarh Himachal 2.7 Pradesh Arunachal Punjab 47 Uttarakhand Pradesh 3.4 291.8 33.4 Haryana 35.2 Delhi 479.3 Rajasthan Assam Uttar Pradesh Nagaland 30.4 1,049.8 269.1 Bihar 4.2 294.8 Meghalaya Manipur 10.8 3.6 Gujarat Madhya Pradesh Jharkhand West 1,769.4 21.8 100.9 Bengal Tripura 81.1 323.9 Mizoram 0.7 Orissa 280.7 Maharashtra Chhattisgarh 218.8 6.5 Telangana 26.8 Karnataka Goa Andhra Pradesh 84.3 5 460.9 Pondicherry 5 Tamil Nadu Kerala 13.3 167.8 Andaman and Nicobar Islands 0.4 Figure 37 : CSR Expenditure of ONGC across India (in INR Million) 94 Ÿ Modern library at GHS Pahari Village in NO QUALITY POVERTY EDUCATION Gurugram, Haryana Ÿ Petroleum sector skill initiative 1 4 Ÿ Funding support for construction of a B. Ed. Ÿ Skill development in plastic technology, College at Nirjuli & a girls’ hostel at welding & gas cutting 1 Naharlagun Ÿ 8,293 youth were trained in various skills 17 2 Ÿ Ekal Vidyalayas Ÿ Project Green Hub 16 Ÿ Scholarship to meritorious students Ÿ An engineering entrance coaching institute 3 Ÿ Sanskrit language promotion 15 Ÿ A 300 bed MultiGOOD HEALTH Climate & Energy Ÿ Scholarship to SC/ST meritorious Specialty hospital at 3 & WELL-BEING 4 students for pursuing higher Sivasagar, Assam for 14 professional courses the underprivileged Ÿ Skill development initiative for Ÿ Cancer Institute at Rede ning youth Nagpur Value Ÿ Door Step Medical Treatment for the 13 5 REDUCED Elderly 10 INEQUALITITES Ÿ ONGC – MRPL Lady Goschen Hospital Cities Food & Land Ÿ Eye screening camps to reduce blindness Ÿ Upgrading Medical Infrastructure facilities 12 6 in Kerala Ÿ Open Defecation Free (ODF) initiative 11 7 Ÿ Construction of IHHLs and school toilets Ÿ Construction of 412 school toilets and Ÿ Solar roof top systems in schools & public area 43 community toilets CLEAN WATER 10 8 SUSTAINABLE Ÿ Clean Himalayas Initiative AND 9 CITIES AND 6 SANITATION 11 COMMUNITIES Ÿ River Saraswati revival Ÿ Project Sakhi to promote menstrual hygiene Ÿ Bio-CNG Plant at Haridwar SDG Mapping for ONGC’s CSR activity ONGC’s CSR Key Highlights Expenditure worth INR 2,019.60 Million Investment of incurred towards improved INR 954.20 Million sanitation and access to was made in initiatives drinking water as part targeting rural of Swachh Bharat development Abhiyan initiatives 1,000 scholarships each Opened 300 bedded multi Project worth INR 4,050.90 worth INR 48,000/per annum Million implemented specialty hospital at to meritorious economically Rajabari, Sivsagar, Assam towards healthcare and backward general and supported setting up education and OBC students of National Cancer Institute, a 455 bedded quaternary care oncology centre in Nagpur Figure 38 : ONGC's CSR Key Highlights CSR Journey of ONGC Budget (INR Million) ONGC has been implementing CSR projects since its inception and has a history of earmarking 0.75% PAT for 6,146 CSR in 2003 with well documented Corporate Citizenship 5,260 5,034 Policy. The allocation of CSR budget was revised in 2009 and increased to 2% of PAT. The company was the rst to issue separate CSR Guidelines in 2009 which prepared base for Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) Guidelines 2010. After DPE guidelines for CSR were implemented and FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 the Companies Act, 2013 was enacted, ONGC's CSR Figure 39 : CSR Expenditure of ONGC approach has been streamlined. ONGC as a leading Maharatna of the nation has set a benchmark for the second time in succession by achieving 100% utilization of the Company ensures that the CSR SOPs have been CSR budget of over INR. 5,000 Million each year. standardized across various work centres. ONGC carries out its CSR through an approach based on During FY'19 ONGC spent INR 6,146 Million for CSR project-mode. During FY'19, ONGC spent INR. 6,146 initiatives against its CSR expenditure in FY’18 which was Million on CSR initiatives taken up in the areas of INR 5,034 Million. In FY’19 alone, ONGC has undertaken education, healthcare, rural development, skill development, more than 4,000 projects to cover parts of India as promotion of sports and other themes covered under extensively as possible. Further, 65.90% of the projects in section VII of the Companies Act. This re ects ONGC's the last three years were implemented in the focus areas commitment as a responsible Corporate Citizen of giving of education and health care. back to the society in equal measure. The CSR manual of 96 Development of Aspirational Districts ONGC has conducted In FY'19, ONGC signi cantly focused on development of Projects for digital education Aspirational Districts. In line with directives of Niti Aayog, in 532 schools ONGC has given special priority for development of Aspirational districts a programme that focuses on Construction of 19 check dams prompt improvement of socio-economic status of 117 districts across 28 states. 5 Community Tube Wells Aiming to synergise the eﬀorts by the government to improve these districts, ONGC has identi ed 20 Aspirational Districts for undertaking its CSR projects across the 5 Community Wells country. One of the rst initiative for development of Aspirational District was conducted at Dahod, Gujarat. 50 Anganwadis The total expenditure towards Aspirational Districts is INR 409.9 Million so far. 120 Anganwadi Toilets Some of the proud achievements that have created a signi cant positive impact in the society are in the areas of 430 Individual Household Latrines Swachh Bharat, Health Care, Education, Skill Development (IHHLs) in 8 villages and Rural Development. Swachh Bharat and Environment Preservation Initiative ONGC's leadership has ensured that as per the Government's mandate, 33% of the CSR budget is spent on Swachh Bharat projects which included those for clean drinking water, Open Defecation Free (ODF) scheme, clean energy and solid waste management. The Company spent INR 2,019 Million on implementing these projects, highlights of which are as illustrated under: Providing Clean Himalayas Drinking water and Sanitation Restoring Solid Waste public places Swachh Bharat Management & Heritage Structure & Environment Sustainable Street Preservation Awareness Lighting in Initiatives Campaigns on Remote Villages Menstrual Hygiene Setting up Reviving River Bio CNG cum Fertilizer & Saraswati Bottling Plant Drinking Water and Sanitation In India, only a quarter of the total population has invested INR 980.30 Million in drinking water and drinking water on their premise and only 39% sanitation initiatives. population in rural India has access to improved ONGC has undertaken an initiative for making villages sanitation facilities. Being a Maharatna corporate of India, ONGC recognizes its responsibility in tackling near its area of operation Open Defecation Free (ODF). this growing challenge. Aligned with this scenario, Under ODF scheme, the Company has built 412 school ONGC has identi ed the need of improved sanitation toilets and 43 community toilets across the country with and access to clean drinking water and focused its CSR a goal to facilitate declaration of Open Defecation Free eﬀorts to tackle these challenges. In FY'19 ONGC India. Ÿ ONGC has installed 2,309 tube wells and hand pumps, and 121 water ROs to improve access to clean drinking water. Ÿ As part of Open Defecation Free (ODF) Initiative the Company has also built 412 school toilets and 43 community toilets across the country with a goal to facilitate declaration of Open Defecation Free village. Clean Himalayas Initiative ONGC is a leading company to spearhead the Swachhta initiative in the high mountain peak of Himalayas. It has partnered with the project the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) for project implementation. Ÿ It has undertaken nine cleaning initiatives/ expeditions in FY'19 Ÿ Successfully brought down 130 tons of garbage for its responsible disposal 98 Project Saraswati River Saraswati has been known since the Indus Valley water of river Saraswati by locating paleo-channels Civilization in India. It runs through the state of Punjab, existing underground in the northern part of indoHaryana and even ows through Rajasthan indicating the gangetic plains. ONGC signed an agreement with Water existence of the mighty Saraswati River . When ONGC was and Power Consultancy Services Limited for drilling 10 approached by Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development wells. Accordingly, drilling of 10 deep water tube wells was Board (HSHDB) to explore the possibility of reviving the completed in FY’19. This project has ensured drinking ancient river, ONGC conducted a survey with the help of a water and irrigation facilities in 10 villages of Haryana team of experts to explore the possibilities of tapping the state. Restoration of Public Places and Heritage Structures ONGC has consistently taken thorough steps to revive the vivacity of the city of Varanasi. It took the responsibility of cleaning and beauti cation of four ancient Kunds of Varanasi namely Durga Kund, Lakshmi Kund, Lat Bhairav Kund and Karim Kund by partnering with National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) Limited. This initiative is supporting Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan driven by the Government of India. ONGC also adopted the upkeep and beauti cation of Sidi Saeed Mosque in Ahmedabad for the period of one year. Renovated Durga Kund at Varanasi Cleaning of Sabarmati River Bank Ÿ ONGC, with support from Dristi Foundation, Irrigation Department and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, cleaned 5km stretch of Sabarmati River by collecting 579 tons of garbage. Ÿ Plantation of 50,000 saplings is also planned for a complete restoration of the area. Sustainable Street Lighting in Remote Green Sole Villages This is a unique initiative adopted by ONGC for providing ONGC successfully installed 36,597 nos. solar street lights footwear to school going students from underprivileged in remote villages of India where there is no access to families. This project was implemented in partnership with electricity from the grid. Kandhamal Zilla Sabuja Vaidya Sangathan & Greensole Foundation. Through this initiative, ONGC employees and Project Sakhi – Promoting Menstrual others donate used shoes which are then remoulded and Hygiene through Sanitary Pad Vending transformed into new footwear for school going students from underprivileged families. The project has bene tted Machine 22,101 underprivileged children from Daringbadi ONGC, in partnership with District Administration, (Odisha), Lallitpur (Uttar Pradesh) and Nizamabad Sivasagar and UNICEF, implemented 'Project Sakhia ray (Telangana) districts in India. of hope'a Swachh Bharat Initiative implemented at Sivasagar towards ensuring safe menstruation hygiene for Smoke-free VillageLunej the girl child. The initiative aims to foster better and Cambay Asset adopted Lunej Village where ONGC scienti c Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) for girl inaugurated the gas pipe connections that were provided students. It is implemented across 13 Government Girls to 170 families in Lunej village. Before the pipe gas High Schools of Sivasagar District, Sivasagar Girls College connections were installed, the villagers used to use and 4 Co-ed Institutions and will bene t 7,000 students. rewood to prepare food. This used to adversely aﬀect Another similar project was implemented at Hazira, which their health through heart diseases, eye irritations and provided eco-friendly Ashudhhinashaks (Incinerators) to even lung cancer. 118 schools. Bio-CNG Plant at Haridwar In its attempt to make clean energy and environment available to local population, ONGC carried out a unique initiative in Haridwar to convert cow dung to useful fuel and value added products by setting up Bio-CNG cum Fertilizer & Bottling Plant. The plant is run by Uttarakhand's largest Gaushala and is helping hygienic waste management in the Gaushala premises. At the same time, the initiative is also protecting 2,200 draught cows while generating revenues from the project as well as organic solid and liquid fertilizers that are distributed among the local farmers thereby promoting organic farming. 100 Green Rameswaram Project – Turning Waste into Resources This is a Solid Waste Management project initially wards of Rameswaram. This collected wastes was implemented by 'Hand In Hand' in four municipal wards of segregated at a centralized solid waste management Rameswaram, located around 25 km from ONGC Ramnad centre where the organic waste was processed for GCS. Being close to ONGC's operational area and generating manure and the plastic waste are utilized for considering the positive impact of the project on recycling. The execution of pilot project enabled in community, ONGC has taken active participation in the collection and recycling of 339 tons of waste and in project. During the pilot project, garbage was collected production of 11.1 tons of the compost, which was from door to door from each household in four Municipal distributed free of cost to the neighboring farmers Green Rameshwaram Project creating tremendous goodwill for ONGC among the local door waste collection, developing and putting in place population. Based on the success of the pilot project and systems and human resources for ensuring cleaning of large turnout of local residents to participate in the roads, drains, collection of garbage and waste, initiative, in FY’19, ONGC kick started the second phase of segregation of waste into recyclable and biodegradable the project in Thangachimadam village. The project categories and processing of the waste in both the activities include setting up of robust infrastructure for categories in a sustainable manner. solid waste management, providing vehicles for door to Health Care Initiatives Health care has always been a priority for ONGC. In FY'19, Key highlights of the multi-specialty hospital in projects worth INR 1,087.90 Million have been implemented Sivasagar, Assam to address health care issues in areas ranging from Ÿ 300 beded multi-specialty hospital coming up in three supporting to existing medical infrastructure by phases strengthening it to building a multispecialty hospital for the underprivileged segment of the society and a door Ÿ The services of 1st phase of the hospital with 50 beds step service for the elderly. commenced from 1st March, 2019 One of the major highlights in the health care sector is the Ÿ Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Vaidakiya Pratisthan, inauguration of the rst phase of the Multi-Specialty Aurangabad, a Charitable organization who has more Hospital at Sivasagar, which is expected to bene t over than 28 years of experience in health care sector, one lakh patient in a year. Some of the major health care primarily through charitable aspects, is the Construction initiatives are as follows: Management & Operating partner of the hospital. A 300 bed Multi-Specialty hospital for the Ÿ The Outpatient Department (OPD) and Inpatient Department (IPD) charges will be much lesser than the underprivileged market rates and further additional discounts would ONGC has undertaken a mega CSR initiative to address be extended to BPL families. the health care concerns of people in the Northeast by Ÿ Presently, there are two Operation theatres, four setting up a Multi-Specialty Hospital well-equipped with modern medical instruments in Sivasagar, Assam. The General wards, ve private VIP Rooms, one Dialysis services of the rst Phase of the 300-bed hospital has been unit with four beds, Dental OPD, Pharmacy, Ultrasound, opened for public in the rst week of March 2019 which is X-Ray, etc. currently operating with 50 beds. The hospital is to be completed in three phases at a cost of INR 3,130 Million and is expected to bene t more than one lakh patients in a year. Cancer Institute at Nagpur At Nagpur, ONGC supported setting up of National Cancer Institute, a 455 bedded quaternary care oncology centre. The institute will provide world-class oncology treatment facility at aﬀordable rates to the general public. ONGC funded the state-of-theart radio diagnostic equipment and construction of the rst oor and ground oor of the institute. More than 10,000 patients have availed the facility through this project up to April 2019 since launch of its 1st phase in August 2017. 102 Doorstep Medical Treatment for the Strengthening Trimurti Hospital Elderly Trimurti Hospital Bavla located 30 kilometers from ONGC is taking up free medical treatment to the doorstep Ahmedabad has been supported by ONGC with medical for the elderly in the remotest villages of our operational equipment and infrastructure for a 10 bedded ICU and areas where medical services are often diﬃcult or time state-of-the-art operation theatre to deal with complex consuming to access. medical conditions and trauma patients with serious Varishthajan Swastha Sewa Abhiyan injuries. The hospital caters to patients suﬀering from heart diseases, serious lung disease, cancer, and road Ÿ 31 Mobile Medical Units (MMUs) have been engaged accident victims, extending its services to 100 km radius in 9 states where the population is mostly of lower socio-economic Ÿ Caters to the needs of 371 villages strata of the society. Ÿ 17,260 patients/bene ciaries Ÿ 592,301 treatments ONGC – MRPL Lady Goschen Hospital The Lady Goschen Hospital established in 1849, at the heart of Mangalore City is the only hospital in entire Konkon region which provides exclusive pre-natal and post-natal care. On an average 500 women are admitted and treated for pre / post-natal care every month. The hospital building was 167 years old and in a rundown condition. Due to increased in ow of patients there was an urgent need for additional facilities and upgradation of the existing facilities. When District Administration of Mangalore approached MRPL/ONGC for nancial support to start a new wing in the hospital campus, ONGC Upgradation of Health Care Facilities at Trimurti Hospital extended nancial support of INR 127.8 Million towards construction of new 'ONGC-MRPL Wing' for Government Lady Goschen Hospital, Mangalore. The new hospital Upgrading Medical Infrastructure building has been inaugurated and has been fully facilities in Kerala functioning from February 2019. ONGC funded a project for refurbishing and renovating Sree Sudheendra Medical Mission hospital located in Eye screening camps to reduce blindness Ernakulam, Kerala. The hospital is equipped with ICU and ONGC's well-rounded CSR eﬀorts in the healthcare area CCU, four operation theatres and six rooms which were include 62 eye screening camps that were organized completed with support from ONGC. Additionally, ONGC across India. also supported renovation of 43 rooms. The hospital Eye screening camps caters to 300 Out Patients per day and 150 minor and major operations in a month. Ÿ 17,522 patients were treated by expert doctors Ÿ 2,579 cataract operations were performed by expert Cardiac Center, Cambay doctors ONGC contributed INR 9.44 Million to Cardiac Center Ÿ 11,313 spectacles were distributed in 20 districts Cambay that assisted in purchase of 32 Slices (20 mm across the country through a specialized agency in Detector) CT Scan machine. FY’19 Promoting Education Quality education is crucial for growth of an individual and the Financial support country. ONGC recognizes that imparting quality education through is crucial to uplift socially backward or underprivileged Scholarship sections of society. It is transforming lives by reaching out to these segments of society and providing quality education. Expenditure of INR 1,685.7 Million have been spent to Imparting Building ONGC ‘s promote education across the country in supporting approach Education/ the FY’19. These projects include those related to infrastructure development, Infrastructure for Promoting Coaching providing an informal school with a teacherEducation Ekal Vidyalayas, and scholarship to welldeserving students who are from economically weaker families. ONGC’s approach for Education Ekal Vidyalayas ONGC Super 30 ONGC supported 900 Ekal Vidyalayasinformal schools “ONGC Super 30” initiative at Sivasagar, Assam is set up to with a single teacher in each of them, in diﬀerent parts of assist 30 students from economically weaker families by the country with an objective to provide informal training them to get admission in premier engineering education to 27,000 children of 6 to14 years age who education institutes of the country. Being able to pursue could not avail formal education due to various reasons. higher education would enable them to improve their This initiative implemented through Bharat Lok Shiksha standard of life while contributing to the economy of the Parishad and Uttan Nyas, contributes immensely towards country. 115 students have bene ted through this improving access to education in segments that have initiative in the last four years. been deprived of it. ONGC supported Ekal Vidyalaya Students at Super 30 Development of School Infrastructure in Northeast School education is one of the main focus area for ONGC in Northeast. In many schools in Assam and Tripura the enrollment of students has increased but there are not enough classrooms to accommodate the students. To address this challenge, and to achieve even higher number of student enrollments, ONGC supported infrastructure development in 22 schools located in remote locations of Assam and Tripura. 104 Development of Modern Library at Government High School Pahari (Gurugram, Haryana) A unique Modern Library had been developed at the Government High School Pahari of Block Pataudi (Gurugram, Haryana) with the support of CSR funds from ONGC, to cater to the needs of the residents of the surrounding cluster of villages. Indian Institute of Technology Delhi Alumni Association (IITDAA), was the implementing agency for setting up a modern library at the Government High School in Pahari village. The library was inaugurated by Professor V. Ramgopal Rao, Director of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and is equipped with ve computers, free internet connection and books to help students to prepare for various competitive exams including IIT-JEE, CAT and civil services. This will also provide an ambient atmosphere for learning to needy and deserving students of rural areas. Modern Library developed by ONGC CSR at Govt. High School, Pahari (Pataudi) Prof. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director-IIT Delhi and other dignitaries with students during inauguration of Modern Library, GHS Pahari Promoting Sanskrit Language Accommodation Facilities for Sanskrit is an ancient and dying language. With an Economically Weaker Meritorious objective to revive this language, ONGC has partnered Students of Karnataka with Samskrit Promotion Foundation for developing ONGC, funded the project for construction of a hostel Sanskrit content for all classes of CBSE schools, translating building at Tapas P. U. College, Bangalore for accommodation and publishing text book of diﬀerent subject to Sanskrit, of students of Karnataka. Every year 100 meritorious developing online portal, organizing Sambadshala, students belonging to poor families get accommodation training of teachers and many more such initiatives. All in this hostel for pursuing higher education and coaching contents developed through this project are available in to get admission in engineering colleges. This project has www.samskritpromotion.in. been implemented through Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra. Skill Development Initiative ONGC has undertaken skill development initiative in multiple trades from plastic technology to hospitality. 8,293 youths were trained in various skills in FY’19 out of which 5,021 were gainfully employed. An amount of INR 138.9 Million have been spent for these initiatives. Plastic Welding & Technology Gas cutting Fashion Hospitality Designing Wildlife & Retail Sales Environmental Conservation ONGC’s Skill Development Initiatives 106 Petroleum Sector Skill Initiative Petroleum sector skill Skill Development Institute at Ahmedabad has been started as part of Petroleum Sector Skill Initiative. This Ÿ Youths are being trained in 9 diﬀerent trades initiative is aimed at training youth. Once the training is Ÿ 780 youth are currently undergoing training complete all these youth are expected to be gainfully Ÿ Earlier, all 90 youths trained under this program employed. ADS Foundation is the implementing partner were gainfully employed for this skill development initiative. Empowering the Youths of Jammu & Kashmir ONGC has undertaken skill development in the city of In a similar project in Assam and Uttarakhand, job Baramulla, Jammu & Kashmir, with active support from oriented training in hospitality was organized in which 40 Indian Army. 300 boys were trained in retail sales and individuals were selected to undergo a specialized hospitality through these skill development initiatives residential training program at Delhi with 100% job and 60 girls were trained in fashion designing and cutting guarantee. After successful training, these youth were & sewing. ONGC has partnered with REACHA, a Delhi absorbed in the hotel industry by various employers. based NGO for implementation of this project. Skill Development for Women of Baramulla district Project Green Hub Skilling in Welding and Gas Cutting This unique initiative is for training 20 youth every year in 120 youth from Assam were trained in welding and gas wildlife videography and documentation. In the last three cutting through Welding Institute of India at Sivasagar. years 60 youth that trained under this program were Majority of the trainees are gainfully employed in reputed gainfully engaged and successfully working in the eld of companies after completion of the course while the wildlife and environmental conservation. remaining were engaged in local industry. Some of the students have even won international awards. The Green Hub centre is also the recipient of Manthan awardrst-of-its-kind initiative to discover and recognise the best use of technology for developmental purposes, and in this case, for preservation and conservation of wildlife and biodiversity. Skill Development in Plastic Technology 300 youths from socially and economically weaker sections of the society from Tripura, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan and Delhi were trained through CIPET in plastic technology. 95% employment was ensured for the youth underwent this training program. Skill Development in Plastic Technology Rural Development ONGC has taken up multiple projects which ranges from empowerment of women to development of community infrastructure in rural areas around our operational areas. ONGC has gone beyond its operational areas where there is genuine requirement of development, mainly in interior villages of Arunachal Pradesh. Projects worth INR 510.80 Million have been implemented for rural development. ONGC's Initiatives for Rural Development Solar Mordern Library at Education, Health care Documentation Organic Farming Electri cation of GHS Pahari Village and Community Centre at Roing in Training Centre Rural Household in Gurugram, Development Arunachal Pradesh Haryana interventions in Arunachal Pradesh 108 ONGC's CSR Footprints in Villages of Arunachal Pradesh For developing the rural infrastructure of Arunachal Pradesh, ONGC has taken up interventions in the eld of education, health care and community development. Ÿ Funding support was provided for construction of a B. Ed. College at Nirjuli and a girls' hostel at Naharlagun. Ÿ Financial assistance was provided for Ambulances and XRay machine for upgrading the Healthcare infrastructure of two rural community health centres in Papum Pare district. Ÿ At Upper Subansiri, 115 Solar Street Lights were installed and support extended for construction of 10 community centres. Ÿ At the newly formed Lower Siang District, two Ambulances were provided in two remote blocks. Medical Equipment at Ziro Hospital Ÿ At West Siang District, ONGC supported installation of X-Ray Machine, Ultra Sound Machine, Dental XRay Machine, Ambulances and other equipment for up gradation of Aalo Government Hospital and Basar CHC, in addition to providing funds for construction of school building, toilets, teacher quarters and 10 community centres. Ÿ In Ziro, funding was provided for Ultra Sound Machine, X-Ray Machine and Ambulance for Ziro Government Hospital and construction of a school building. Girls Hostel at Likabali, Arunachal Pradesh An Organic Farming Training Centre women have set up the entire solar electri cation of every house in the village. Henceforth, the entire village will This project was formulated to promote organic farming have solar powered electricity with all the repair and through training and capacity building at Tandur Mandal maintenance done by the two women. of Vikarabad District of Telangana. ONGC funded the setup of its entire infrastructure facilities. The project will Documentation Centre at Roing in bene t about 3,500 farmers, 200 students and consumers Arunachal Pradesh in general, by way of promoting organic farming. The state of Arunachal Pradesh has abundance of natural Solar Electri cation of Rural Households resources and biodiversity. Over the years, the local tribal population has developed various traditional ways of The residents of Narayanpur Rail Basti Village in Silchar cultivation, handicraft, cooking recipes, etc. which are District of Cachar District (Assam) were facing hardship for unique and precious, and is essentially culmination of decades because of unavailability of electricity. Through traditional knowledge. With a vision to preserve this rich solar electri cation project by ONGC, two village women heritage of the tribal lifestyle of the state, ONGC has were trained for six months on all components of solar funded the project for setting up a documentation centre electri cation at Barefoot College, Ajmer (Rajasthan). at Roing, in Lower Dibang Valley of Arunachal Pradesh. Upon completion of their training program these two Impact Assessment of CSR initiatives project on construction of a new academic block at the campus of University of Lucknow that was built through ONGC continuously evaluates its CSR initiatives and funding from ONGC. With the support of Construction their eﬀectiveness in bringing positive change in the Industries Development Council, an impact assessment community. The impact assessment of the CSR initiatives was carried out for the project on construction of 16,000 also guides ONGC in preparing the future initiatives to IHHLs across 6 states Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar ensure informed decisions are made to maximize the Pradesh, Tamilnadu, Gujarat and Assam). Similarly, impact outcome of investments in community. Impact assessment was carried out for Information Education & assessment is carried by reputed institutes. Communication (IEC) activities that were implemented in In FY'19, ONGC conducted an impact assessment for 5,592 school across 10 states, in partnership with Auroville numerous CSR initiatives. With the support of Delhi Foundation, as well as for the Ekal Vidyalaya Abhiyan in University, the impact assessment was conducted for a 420 single teacher schools. Recognition of ONGC's CSR Performance ONGC has been recognized on numerous occasions for its consistent commitment and outstanding performance in community well-being. Ÿ ONGC has been crowned with the most coveted S&P Platts Global Energy Award 2019 in the category Corporate Social Responsibility Diversi ed Program. ONGC is the only Indian company to bag honors from Platts across all categories. Ÿ ONGC received 4 awards in prestigious Maharatna category of which two were for its CSR Initiatives and Swachh Bharat Initiatives at the Dun & Bradstreet PSU Awards 2019. Ÿ ONGC’s Green Rameswaram Project was awarded winner under the 'Sanitation Category' at the 2nd Innovative Practices Awards for Sustainable Development Goals at Bengaluru in June 2018. Ÿ ONGC has been a recipient of FICCI award for its CSR projects undertaken in Baramulla and Uri of Jammu & Kashmir. ONGC carried out projects in the eld of skill development, education, rehabilitation work on the frontiers and contribution to nation building in partnership with the Indian Army and NGO REACHA. FICCI award aims to identify and recognize the eﬀorts of companies in integrating CSR. Ÿ ONGC was presented with the 'Toilet Titan' award at the fourth edition of the India Today Safaigiri Summit & Awards 2018 for its noteworthy eﬀorts in improving sanitation across India. Ÿ ONGC received top honours at the Swachhta Pakhwada Awards for its exemplary work undertaken during Swachhta Pakhwada fortnight in July 2018. ONGC receiving the prestigious S&P Platts Global Energy Awards 2019 for CSR 110 Mangalore Re nery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) MRPL is committed to operate its business in an initiatives and allocation of funds for the CSR initiatives. economically, socially and environmentally responsible The implementation methodology for its CSR initiatives manner, while recognizing the interests of all its was also revised and so was delegation of powers. The CSR stakeholders and bringing them maximum value. & SD Committee continues to evaluate the existing CSR Consequentially, MRPL's social welfare and community strategy and bring about necessary changes in its development initiatives revolve around the key areas of implementation methods. education, Healthcare & sanitation and overall development The CSR budget of MRPL for FY'19 was INR 670.6 Million. of basic infrastructure in and around its operational area The amount that MRPL committed to various CSR which is South Kannada & Udupi District in Karnataka initiatives in FY'19 was 780.6 Million. MRPL has identi ed State. These projects are largely aligned with Schedule VII education, healthcare, infrastructure and environment as of the Companies Act, 2013. thematic areas for its CSR engagement for uplifting The company has Corporate Social Responsibility and marginalized population. The result of these initiatives is Sustainable Development Policy that guides its CSR not only a positive change in the community but also an initiatives. The policy was amended in FY'19 and the image of the Company as a responsible organization. noteworthy changes are inclusion of Swachh Bharat Culture Healthcare Education MRPL's Focus Areas Infrastructure Environment MRPL's Focus Areas for its CSR activities The overview of the amount spent by MRPL on each thematic area is as below: Focus areas Amount outlay (INR Million) 1. Swachh Bharath Projects 297.37 2. Shiksha SamrakshanEducation 230.96 3. Arogya SamrakshanHealthcare 131.23 4. Bahujan SamrakshanInfrastructure 99.74 5. Prakrithi SamrakshanEnvironment 17.70 6. Sanskrithi SamrakshanCulture 3.58 Total 780.59 Table 32 : CSR expenditure of MRPL Swachh Bharat Projects MRPL is strongly supporting the Swachh Bharat Mission preventive care. Emphasizing the menstrual hygiene, by Government of India. Under this initiative, MRPL has MRPL has also distributed Sanitary Napkin Burners to constructed Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) for educational neighbouring schools in association with JCI Ganeshpura. institute at Vivekananda College in Puttur, Karnataka. Another prong of the Swachh Bharath project is access to Understanding the importance of sanitation facility in clean drinking water as part of which it has partnered with Swachh Bharat Mission, MRPL has undertaken numerous local government to restoration of existing lakes and toilet construction projects in schools and colleges of development of new ones. MRPL has also taken initiative various talukas in Karnataka. In the same focus area, MRPL to organize a smoke-free village by Providing Free LPG Kit has undertaken Swacha Bharath Abhiyaan Phase IV in for families that are Below Poverty Line. association with Ramakrishna Mission to promote Projects worth INR 297.37 Million have been implemented under this focus area Swacchata Hi Seva initiative organized by MRPL Arogya Samrakshan Under this initiative, MRPL is promoting health care Under this initiative MRPL distributed scholarships and through Primary Health Centres (PHC) in rural areas. MRPL nancial aid to meritorious students, students from has various initiatives ranging from eye donation economically backward families andSC/ST students. MRPL awareness camps to providing X-Ray and Ultra Sound has constructed Toilets, Class Room buildings and Science Machines. In Chellairu Rehabilitation Colony MRPL is Laboratories in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chikkamagalur running a free PHC. The company is also providing Districts in the State of Karnataka. MRPL has also provided equipment for physically handicapped/ spastic person in mid-day meals in government and government aided association with District Health Oﬃce Mangalore. It also schools in Dakshina Kannada District through Akshaya organized Arti cial Limb Camp in D.K. District, Karnataka, Patra Foundation and infrastructural assistance to which provided hearing aid and wheel chairs and related government aided schools such as provision of aids to the physically disabled persons. computers, projectors and related items, furniture, sports MRPL has invested INR 131.23 Million in FY'19 for projects materials, science modules etc. under this initiative. MRPL has undertaken a project for installation of Napkin Dispensing Machines and Incinerators in 329 Govt. and Shiksha Samrakshan Aided Schools / Colleges in the Aspirational Districts of This initiative is aimed at promoting education, especially Raichur and Yadgir in Karnataka State. through Government and Government aided schools and Anganawadis. An investment of INR 230.96 Million has been made towards this focus area. 112 Bahujan Samrakshan Companies Act, 2013 but goes beyond it by investing more than what is required by the regulation ensuring the Under this initiative, MRPL aims to assist vulnerable maximum positive value to its stakeholders and the population such as women, orphans, and physically and communities that surrounds its operations. In FY’19, mentally handicapped people. MRPL supported Aim for OTPC invested INR 17.10 Million towards community Sewa an orphanage hostel in Udupi by bearing its development initiatives. expenses and maintenance. Another similar project undertaken by MRPL is infrastructural development for OTPC has a CSR policy in place and the community engagement is led by a dedicated team. The CSR policy SC/ST community by collaborating with concerned guides OTPC's CSR eﬀorts and has identi ed the following government department. It also procured furniture for areas as its thrust areas: Asha KiranaHIV aﬀected children care center. Ÿ Health and sanitation MRPL has spent INR 99.74 Million in FY'19 for carrying out Ÿ Education various initiatives under this initiative. Ÿ Community Development Prakrithi Samrakshan In FY'19, OTPC took initiatives towards: Realizing the importance of environmental conservation, 1. Menstrual hygiene management awareness session MRPL has made it as one of the focus areas for its CSR for women and girls initiatives. In FY'19, MRPL developed a public park near 2. Coaching classes for poor students Karkala Taluk Oﬃce in Karkala, Udupi District. This initiative 3. Construction of Mid-day meal platform in various is worth INR 17.7 Million. schools Sanskrithi Samrakshan ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) Under this focus area, MRPL has taken initiatives to OPaL invested 4.47 Million in its corporate social conserve cultural elements of the society it operates in. responsibility initiatives during FY’19. These initiatives MRPL provided chairs and furniture to “Gilivindu”, include those forAnand Ashram, Kanya Kelvani Nidhi Fund Rashtrakavi M. Govinda Pai Memorial Site at Manjeshwara, and Kerala Relief Fund among others. Kasaragodu in Kerala. It also promoted local folk cultural art Yakshagana through All India Radio Programme titled ONGC Videsh Yakshantharanga and Gamapan Tirgata in Karnataka. ONGC Videsh, ONGC's fully owned subsidiary operating Projects worth INR 3.581 Million were spent for initiatives overseas, is committed to its responsibility toward the in this focus area. communities and economies of the countries it operates. ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited ONGC Videsh, aware of its social responsibility, focuses its eﬀorts on creating stability and elevating the living (OMPL) standards of the communities in its operational areas. OVL OMPL is committed to ensuring equitable and sustainable accomplishes this by creating positive and lasting social growth of society in the area it operates in and the areas impact by building successful partnerships based on surrounding its operations as well. OMPL goes beyond mutual trust and respect. mere compliance and delivers on its social responsibility. The CSR initiatives are in line with Companies Act, 2013 Velásquez con Más Futuro and are implemented in project mode. OVL developed an initiative in partnership with the Since there was no average net pro t during the Chamber of Commerce of Puerto Boyacá, named immediately preceding three nancial years, OMPL has 'Velásquez con Más Futuro'. The aim of the initiative is to not made any provision for CSR activities during the FY’19. promote and encourage social, productive and sustainable growth in the areas of in uence of Mansarovar ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) Energy. OVL provided training sessions to 70 people from OTPC takes responsibility of managing its impacts on local the areas of its in uence. The training was provided to communities. It assesses its actual and potential impacts achieve a business model for the development of their and plans to maximize the positive impacts on local area. The initiative empowered micro-enterprises that communities through strong community engagement. As were legally constituted that wish to strengthen and for the expenditure for its community engagement innovate their business models. initiatives, OTPC not only complies with Section 135 of the The program received a total investment of nearly 100 Million pesos by the organizing companies. The Argos support. A total investment of more than 160 submitted projects went through a selection and award Million pesos was made to improve more than 190 meters phase that recognized the presented ideas and the of road. The objective of paving this road was two-foldto environmental and sustainable impact they would have improve the living conditions of the residents of the area, on the community. and to motivate other companies in the region to complete pending works in diﬀerent sectors of the Puerto Serviez with better roads Municipality. OVL led an initiativeimprovements in the Puerto Serviez road along with the local authority with the Cementos Solar Power System in Al Dubasi Village Hospital, Sudan Another initiative undertaken by OVL was implemented attend the patients in critical conditions. When by ONGC Nile Ganga BV (ONGBV ). Under this Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals, Government of community development project, ONGC Nile Ganga Sudan requested ONGBV to contribute in improving BV (ONGBV), installed a Solar Power System in the Al power supply system for the Al Dubasi village hospital, Dubasi Village Hospital in Al Gataina area, Sudan. The Hospital, located about 190 km north of Khartoum, has ONGBV team assessed the hospital and grasped grave a small operation theatre, pharmacy and small ward diﬃculties faced by the poor patients from and around and caters to the health requirements of a large the Al Dubasi village. To improve the situation, ONGBV number of residents of the nearby villages. decided to install solar power system with a total The hospital did not have a consistent supply of electric capacity of 5.25 kW a Hybrid Solar Inverter and power and a small diesel power generation set was batteries with storage capacity of 18 hours. The project utilized to meet the critical requirement of power was diligently planned and executed on 21st Nov, 2018. supply, which was also not always operational. Because The initiative created immense social impact on of this, often candle light was utilized to examine and underprivileged communities. Inauguration of 5.25 KW Solar Power Plant in AI Dubasi Village Hospital by Country Manager, ONGBV, Sudan Project Mr. V Vidyasagar in presence of eminent dignitaries of Government of Sudan 114 Summary of Performance Parameter Entity Unit FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Business Performance Crude Oil Production A MMT 22.25 22.31 21.11 B MMT 8.43 9.35 10.10 Natural Gas Production A BCM 22.09 23.48 24.75 B BCM 4.37 4.81 4.74 Oil and Gas Reserves (Proved) A MMtoe 696.47 683.46 625.52 B MMtoe 271.23 287.13 345.78 Environmental Performance Total Energy Consumption A TJ 160,552 156,033.71 164,584.55 Total Energy Consumption B TJ 12,912 9,419.36 10,922.73 Energy Intensity C MBN 79.61 77.06 74.27 Total Energy Consumption D TJ 17,400.31 37,736.66 38,895.31 Total Energy Consumption E TJ 15,568.05 16,097.63 16,506.39 Energy Intensity F TJ/MU 6.46 6.56 6.40 Fossil Fuel Direct Emissions A MMTCO₂e 10.23 9.76 10.25 B MMTCO₂e 1.98 1.38 1.45 C MMTCO₂e 4.23 4.2 4.15 D MMTCO₂e 3.49 8.58 8.73 E MMTCO₂e 1.05 1.45 1.08 F MMTCO₂e 1.73 1.42 1.61 Electricity Indirect Emissions A MMTCO₂e 0.38 0.39 0.46 B MMTCO₂e 0.10 0.12 0.14 C MMTCO₂e 0.01 0.01 0.003 D MMTCO₂e 0.05 0.01 0.12 E MMTCO₂e 0.02 0.02 F MMTCO₂e Total GHG Emissions A MMTCO₂e 10.61 10.15 10.71 B MMTCO₂e 2.08 1.77 1.59 C MMTCO₂e 4.24 4.21 4.15 D MMTCO₂e 3.53 8.59 8.85 E MMTCO₂e 1.05 1.47 1.1 F MMTCO₂e 1.73 2.84 1.61 Legend A: ONGC B: ONGC Videsh C: MRPL D: OPaL E: OMPL F: OTPC Parameter Entity Unit FY’17 FY’18 FY’19 Total Water Usage A Billion Litres 17.66 19.32 21.69 B Billion Litres 5.01 4.76 6.16 C Billion Litres 18.86 23.13 22.38 D Billion Litres 9.58 13.06 12.57 E Billion Litres 1.98 2.17 2.32 F Billion Litres 5.17 4.78 4.86 People Performance A+B Number of employees 33,660 32,265 31,065 C Number of employees 1,833 1,916 1,943 D Number of employees 774 951 941 E Number of employees 461 476 465 F Number of employees 66 74 74 Attrition Rate A+B % 0.3 0.4 0.6 C % 0.44 0.31 0.009 D % 4.73 10.94 E % 1.73 2.57 2.99 F % 11.76 2.7 LTIF A Factor 0.40 0.47 0.52 B Factor 0.53 0.13 0.27 C Factor 0.34 0.14 0.30 D Factor 0 0 0 E Factor 0 0 0 F Factor 0 0 1.17 Fatality A Nos 6 8 9 B Nos 4 0 0 C Nos 0 0 0 D Nos 0 0 0 E Nos 0 0 0 F Nos 0 0 0 Community Investments A INR Million 5,260 5,034 6,146 B INR Million 40 41.11 95.39 C INR Million 32 103 780.60 D INR Million 0.06 4.1 4.47 E INR Million F INR Million 3.7 11.7 17.10 Legend A: ONGC B: ONGC Videsh C: MRPL D: OPaL E: OMPL F: OTPC 116 118 120 Content Index Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. GRI 102: Organizational Pro le 102-1 Name of the organization About the report 15-16 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About the report 15-16 102-3 Location of headquarters About the report 15-16 102-4 Location of operations ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 102-5 Ownership and legal form ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 102-6 Markets served ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 102-7 Scale of the organization About the report 15-16 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our Human Capital 61-74 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Management 87-89 102-10 Signi cant changes to the organization and its supply chain Supply Chain Management 87-89 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 102-12 External initiatives ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 102-13 Membership of associations ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 18-24 GRI 102: Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement from the Management 2-14 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Corporate Governance 25-28 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance 25-28 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Governance 25-28 GRI 102: Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 25-28 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance 25-28 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance 25-28 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Materiality Assessment 25-28 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance 25-28 governance body and its Committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 25-28 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance 25-28 102-25 Con icts of interest Corporate Governance 25-28 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Corporate Governance 25-28 values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance 25-28 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance 25-28 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Materiality Assessment 32-34 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Eﬀectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance 25-28 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Materiality Assessment 32-34 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Corporate Governance 25-28 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance 25-28 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Materiality Assessment 32-34 102-35 Remuneration policies Our Human Capital 61-74 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Our Human Capital 61-74 GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 29-31 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our Human Capital 61-74 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 32-34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 32-34 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement 32-34 GRI 102: Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated nancial statements About the report 15-16 102-46 De ning report content and topic boundaries About the report 15-16 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Assessment 32-33 102-48 Restatements of information About the report 15-16 102-49 Changes in reporting About the report 15-16 102-50 Reporting period About the report 15-16 102-51 Date of most recent report About the report 15-16 102-52 Reporting cycle About the report 15-16 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the report 15-16 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About the report 15-16 102-56 External assurance About the report 15-16 GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Economic Performance 35-38 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance 61-74 201-3 De ned bene t plan obligations and other retirement plans Our Human Capital 61-74 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Performance 35-38 122 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference No. GRI 302: Energy GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Climate change and energy 39-50 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate change and energy 39-50 302-3 Energy intensity Climate change and energy 39-50 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate change and energy 39-50 GRI 303: Water GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Water & Waste Management 53-58 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water & Waste Management 53-58 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water & Waste Management 53-58 GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Biodiversity 59-60 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Biodiversity 59-60 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Signi cant impacts of activities, products, Biodiversity 59-60 and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity 59-60 GRI 305: Emissions GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Climate change and energy 39-50 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate change and energy 39-50 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate change and energy 39-50 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate change and energy 39-50 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate change and energy 39-50 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate change and energy 39-50 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Climate change and energy 39-50 GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Water & Waste Management 53-58 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water & Waste Management 53-58 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Water & Waste Management 53-58 306-3 Signi cant spills Water & Waste Management 53-58 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Water & Waste Management 53-58 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Biodiversity 59-60 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Biodiversity 59-60 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference No. GRI 401: Employment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Our Human Capital 61-74 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Our Human Capital 61-74 401-2 Bene ts provided to full-time employees Our Human Capital 61-74 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Our Human Capital 61-74 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Our Human Capital 61-74 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Safety and Security 77-86 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– Safety and Security 77-86 worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Safety and Security 77-86 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Safety and Security 77-86 formal agreements with trade unions GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Our Human Capital 61-74 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Our Human Capital 61-74 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Our Human Capital 61-74 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Our Human Capital 61-74 performance and career development reviews GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Human Rights 75-76 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Human Rights 75-76 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant Human Rights 75-76 risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for Human Rights 75-76 incidents of forced or compulsory labor 124 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. GRI 410: Security Practices GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Safety and Security 77-86 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Safety and Security 77-86 policies or procedures GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Human Rights 75-76 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Human Rights 75-76 412-3 Signi cant investment agreements and contracts that include Human Rights 75-76 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 103 Management approach disclosure CSR Journey of ONGC Group 93-114 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact CSR Journey of ONGC Group 93-114 assessments, and development programs GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Supply Chain 87-89 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain 87-89 GRI 419: Socio-economic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Corporate Governance 25-28 in the social and economic area Water and Waste Management 53-58 Biodiversity 59-60 Safety and Security 77-86 Acronyms List of Acronyms API American Petroleum Institute GGS Group Gathering Station ASTM American Society for Testing and GHG Greenhouse Gas Materials GMI Global Methane Initiative ATC Annual Training Calendar GNPOC Greater Nile Petroleum Operating C02e Carbon Di-oxide equivalent Company CDM Clean Development Mechanism GOHDS Gas Oil Hydro-De –Sulphurising CER Certiﬁed Emission Reduction GRC Governance Risk and Compliance CIPET Central Institute of Plastics GRI Global Reporting Initiative Engineering & Technology GSA Gas Sale Agreement CISF Central Industrial Security Force HPDE High Density Polyethylene COD Committee of Directors HPMV High Pressure Mercury Vapour COSA Crude Oil Sales Agreement HPSV High Pressure Sodium Vapour CPCB Central Pollution Control Board HSE Health, Safety and Environment CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise IDT Institute of Drilling Technology CSR Corporate Social Responsibility IEA International Energy Agency CVO Chief Vigilance Oﬃcer IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem DFCU Dual Feed Cracker Unit INR Indian Rupee DGB Dynamic Gas Blending IOD Institute of Directors DGH Directorate General of Hydrocarbons IOGPT Institute of Oil and Gas Production DGMS Directorate General of Mines Safety Technology DPE Department of Public Enterprises IPPAI Independent Power Producers EAC Expert Appraisal Committee Association of India EIA Environment Impact Assessment IPSHEM Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health and Environment Management EMS Environment Management System ISO International Organisation for EPR Extended Producer Responsibility Standardisation ERM Enterprise-wide Risk Management JV Joint Venture ETCS Eﬄuent Treatment and Collection KDMIPE Keshav Dev Malviya Institute of System Petroleum Exploration ETP Eﬄuent Treatment Plant KTPA Kilo Tonnes Per Annum FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of KW Kilo Watt Commerce and Industry MBN Million British Thermal Unit per FIPI Federation of Indian Petroleum Thousand barrels per Energy Factor Industries MCA Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs FY Financial Year MECL Mansarovar Energy Columbia Ltd. GCNI Global Compact Network India MJ Mega Joule GCP Gas Compression Plant MMSCM Million Metric Standard Cubic Meters GCS Gas Collecting Station MMT Million Metric Tonnes GFR Gas Flaring Reduction 126 List of Acronyms MMtoe Million Metric Tonnes of Oil and Oil PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research Equivalent Association MMTPA Million Metric Tonnes Per Annum PLF Plant Load Factor MoEF&CC Ministry of Environment, Forest and PM Particulate Matter Climate Change PMHBL Petronet MHB Limited MoPNG Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas PSC Production Sharing Contract MRPL Mangalore Reﬁnery and PWC Produced Water Conditioner Petrochemicals Limited PX Para-Xylene MSEZ Mangalore Special Economic Zone RPM Revolutions Per Minute MW Mega Watt SAP Systems, Applications and Products in NABL National Accreditation Board for Data Processing Testing and Calibration Laboratories SCMD Standard Cubic Meter per Day NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy SCOPE Standing Conference on Public NOC National Oil Company Enterprises O&M Operation and Maintenance SDC Skill Development Centre O+OEG Oil and Oil Equivalent of Gas SDG Sustainable Development Goal OGSS Oil and Gas Sector Supplement SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India OHS Occupational Health and Safety SLA Service Level Agreement OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety SPCB State Pollution Control Board Assessment Series STP Sewage Treatment Plant OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate TJ Tera Joule OMPL ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited UNGC United Nations Global Compact ONGC Group Refers to ONGC group of companies UNISDR United Nations International Strategy ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL & for Disaster Reduction Joint VenturesOPaL and OTPC USD US Dollar OPaL ONGC Petro additions Limited VAP Value Added Products OSCC Oﬀshore Security Co-ordination WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Committee Development OTBL ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. WRI World Resource Institute OTPC ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited ZBRR Zero Based Risk Review OVVL ONGC Videsh Varkorneft Pte. Limited
