Communication on Progress Participant Outsource Experts Ltd. Published 2020/03/12 Time period March 2020 – March 2021 Format Stand-alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level This COP Qualifies for the Global Compact Active Level Self-assessment ✓​ Includes a CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles ✓​ Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights ✓​ Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour ✓​ Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment ✓​ Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption ✓​ Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. March 12, 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Outsource Experts Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Md Atiqur Rahman Molla Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Relevant policies regarding Human Rights have been developed taking Bangladesh Labour Law 2006 (Last amended in 2018), International Bill of Human Rights and the core International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions into consideration. The following key areas have been emphasized and established to uphold Human Rights: Maintain a safe and healthy working environment by providing effective safety equipment and actions. Maintain proactive actions to refrain from environmental disaster. Promote employees’ engagement in decision making. Maintain discrimination-free work environment. Discourage all kinds of forced labour. Discourage child labour. Maintain minimum wage level considering employees social life development. Maintain equal remuneration based on the level of work. Maintain equal opportunity considering gender, religion, race, disabilities etc. Provide practical and skill-based training to unemployed young generations in order to remove unemployment and improve the economic growth of the society. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Following actions have been taken: we have a committee to receive complaints/suggestions from internal/external stakeholders. Besides, they are also engaged to address the reason for infringement of Human Rights in the organization. In case of suggestion, the committee sorts out the findings and forward to the CEO for his consideration. If any allegation or dispute arises from employees, we hand it over to the investigation team. They serve a report to the designated person or CEO for resolution. Open dialogue with stakeholders including civil society organizations is arranged as and when required. We conduct orientation sessions routinely to let the employees know their rights as part of an awareness development program. We maintain and share policies with employees to ensure Human Rights are guided by OEL Human Capital Policies and Procedures. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The existence of a healthy working environment has been sustained. Positive responses have been observed from our employees to the changes being made by us as part of the implementation of 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Periodic review of training modules and materials helped improve the overall outcome of training and development activities. Unemployment percentage has been reduced by providing practical and skill-based training. The sources of income have increased in the local communities. Our effective internal training and development plan is helping employees to improve their hard and soft skills quite significantly. Periodic review of the implementation of different policies is helping refin policies & procedures and ultimately helping to improve the workplace environment and take the company towards achieving its goals. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Outsource Experts Ltd. (OEL) is always concerned about employees’ benefits and developments. Sufficient policies and procedures in respect to the following issues have been developed as per local and international rules and regulations related to Human Rights and Labour Relations. Following aspects have been considered to align with local and international Labour Relations. We are ensuring and maintaining direct and frequent communication in the workplace between management and employees through the Participatory Committee. We have ensured that recruitment of child labour is strictly prohibited at OEL. OEL Human Capital Policies and Procedures do not allow any type of forced labour. We ensured equal opportunity in employment is being maintained, no discrimination in respect of employment and occupation is allowed at OEL. Everyone is being treated equally from recruitment to retirement. We have ensured adequate health and safety instructions and instruments are at the proper place within and around office premises. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. We are addressing any issues arising related to infringing Human Rights and Labour Relations (if any) and taking necessary actions to resolve them. We have identified and resolved discrimination, implemented advance grievance procedures to address complaints, handle appeals and provide the remedy for employees through efficient designated official. We have implemented a positive workplace culture to develop employee relations. Our priority has been set to Qualifications, Skill and Experience in selecting suitable candidates. Our depth Orientation Program about Policies and Procedures helps our employees to understand their rights properly. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Relationships between all staff and management are very healthy, and if any issue or concern raises, we resolve it with care according to policies and procedures. Employees are well aware of their rights and all procedures. As adequate steps have been taken for health and safety, no incident has occurred in the office premises recently or in the last one year. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. The policies and principles that we have developed to minimize the risk of the environment are followed by local and international standards. Sufficient precautions have been taken to resolve any risks arising in our company or facing environmental risks by our company or any kind of risk that affect the environment by our company Code of conducts have been developed to care for the health and the environment. Environmental friendly technologies are being used for our business operations. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We have assigned designated officials to ensure the practice of all policies, procedures and code of conducts. Employees have been made aware of relevant risks. We provide regular orientation to employees for improving their awareness regarding environmental issues. Motivate employees' participation in developing a positive work environment and culture for both inside and outside of the office. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. An environment-friendly workplace is in place. Not using any technology that causes environmental pollution. Infrastructures are in good condition for employee safety. Maintain 90% paperless business operation process. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Our assessment of the risk of corruption and bribery in the company tell us that the chance of corruption and bribery in the company is very low. That is because of the nature of our business, the modern structure of the organisation, the management team along with all its up-to-date policies. However, Outsource Experts Ltd. is still always aware of any kind of corruption that may take place at any corner of the business, and immediately takes the action of anything suspicious found, no matter what size or scale. The protocol given to staff and their accountability makes it possible to keep our organisation very healthy when it comes to Anti-Corruption. For reference, we have also developed a detailed Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy, and our employees are instructed through different orientation programmes periodically. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We have developed and implemented a detailed Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy. We are providing orientations regularly to improve employee awareness regarding Anti-Bribery and Corruption. The employees have been instructed to report to the appropriate authority if they notice anything suspicious, and authority will take necessary action according to policy. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There were no major issues or concerning areas within the company regarding corruption, however, the implementation of the ABC policy and orientation programme made the employees more aware. Therefore, we are hoping to see an even better environment in the company and significantly low risk of any kind of corruption.
