More fit for the future SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 NILORN table Contents of MICROPLASTIC The wrong things are entering our food chains. Researchers have made us realise that microplastic, shed from packaging, carpeting, clothing and other plastic-based items risk finding their way into marine and fresh water species. This of course puts a challenge on all businesses using plastic materials, even 3 Words from our CEO those that are recycled. Read more about our work with sustainable materials on page 16. 5 About Nilorn 6 Sustainability at Nilorn 8 Sustainable Development Goals WATER 10 German Design Award Closely linked to the issue of climate change, is the increasingly pressing issue of water scarcity. 12 Key focus areas A lot of water can be saved through improved 14 Clients water management. Read more about our cooperation with Cotton Made in Africa on page 38. 16 Reduce Recycle Rethink 18 Security and Anti-Counterfeit 20 Production and energy EVERYONE’S LIFE GOALS 22 Supply chain Through the UN, countries around the world have united in formulating goals for a better future. 24 Logistics and transportation The 17 goals have successfully started to spread on a global scale, being adapted by authorities, 24 Waste and water management ­businesses, other organisations and individuals. At 25 Responsible use of chemicals Nilorn we have mapped both our impacts and opportunities related to the goals and the targets. Read 26 Insight: Packaging more about how we address the goals on page 8. 28 Employees 32 Villa Nilorn, Belgium ABOUT THIS REPORT 34 Traceability for sustainability This is Nilorn’s statutory sustainability report for 38 Social engagement 2018, prepared in accordance with the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. It covers all of the 40 Stakeholders and initiatives Nilorn operations, unless otherwise stated, in relation to the reporting of specific indicators from our sites. 43 Sustainability risks The report has been submitted by the Board of Directors, together with the Annual Report. The Annual 44 Our way forward Report can be found at our corporate website. 46 Data summary We strive to live up to our stakeholders’ expectations. Comments, suggestions and critiques on our sustainability practices and reporting are welcome. Please contact us at csr@nilorn.com 2 Passion for all that we deliver All work and all achievements at Nilorn are a collective effort, based on our passion for what we do. We work hard to take care of each other and ensure that our workplaces enable people to grow, in their knowledge, skills and as people. We are equally passionate in our contribution to a more sustainable supply chain for our clients. In the last year we have seen many great examples of where that passion can take us. We have intensified our product development, introducing woven labels in Tencel, and we have also seen an increased use of recycled materials in our products such as recycled polyester. To know what type of materials are the most sustainable is of course a challenge as we learn more things about the life cycle of materials and as new m ­ aterials are developed and refined. Therefore, in 2018 we joined MinShed, a project aimed at ­increasing the awareness around textile materials and specifically around the issue of synthetic fibres and microplastics. We continue to focus on responsible production and supply chain including visits, audits and certifications of our production sites, as environmental and social labels help us build trust. Our newest site in Dhaka has increased its production in 2018 and is now both OEKO-TEX and FSC certified. 2018 was the year where climate change was higher than ever before on our clients and other stakeholders’ agendas. To understand and address the impacts along the life cycle of varied materials is, of course, a bit of a puzzle that we need to solve together with our clients and suppliers. Every piece of that puzzle matters. We now have a new d ­ istribution centre in Germany, serving the majority of our distribution in ­Europe, enabling us to work more efficiently with transport. In 2019 we will ­focus on identifying transport impacts, increase our focus on ­alternative ways to meet to minimise business travel and we are investing in solar panels to supply our site in Portugal with renewable energy. What we do, how we behave, matters more than ever. Claes af Wetterstedt CEO Nilörngruppen AB 3 4 VISION: To be the best label and branding company worldwide 2 LEG STRAIGHT LOW WAIST 2 About Nilorn Nilorn is an international company, established in 1977, which is focused on adding value to its clients’ products by presenting branding and design in the form of labels, packaging, trims and accessories. We offer complete, creative and tailor-made concepts in the areas of branding, design, product development and logistic solutions. Nilorn’s head office is located in Borås, Sweden, and our clients are principally from the ready-to-wear fashion sector. We have a production network of both own units and external partners. BUSINESS CONCEPT Nilorn’s mission is to design, manufacture and sell labels and label programmes in order to assist clients in the fashion and textile industry to strengthen their brand presence in international markets. Nilorn’s mission can be summarised as “Adding value to your brand”. 5 O U R C O M M I T M E NT Governance As a globally operating company we Sustainability at Nilorn ­recognise our responsibility to respect international standards and practices. We have developed a number of internal policies to support our vision and values. For the past 30 years, we have been supplying our ­clients with customised high-quality designed labels and other brand-strengthening products and services. ­Attention HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY to sustainability aspects is part of our standards and We seek to play an active role in the promotion of ­policies, and applies to our products, our production and Human Rights and to work proactively to respect the rights that all people are entitled to basic rights ­supply chain and in our interaction with each o­ ther and and freedoms, regardless of nationality, gender, our ­stakeholders. We acknowledge our clients’ ­challenge ­religion, race or any other status. Nilorn aims to to secure a supply chain that both avoids and addresses the ­avoid causing or contributing to adverse human potential negative impacts on people and the ­environment. rights impacts in areas which we can directly i­nfluence, through our management control and We want to strengthen our client’s image and their addressing such impacts if they occur. Wherever ­products via sustainable solutions in labels, packaging possible, we also strive to identify, prevent or mitiand accessories. gate adverse indirect human rights impacts that may be linked to our operations, products and services through business relationships. Sustainability at Nilorn means working towards meeting Nilorn’s approach to human rights is based on the needs of people and society without compromising UN Guiding Principles on Businesses and Human the needs of future generations – acting in the long-term Rights and the “Protect, Respect and Remedy” ­interests of many people all in line with the UN ­Sustainable framework. The Human Rights policy applies ­Development Goals. It means adapting to the l­imitations to all Nilorn employees. It also applies, as far of the planet and protecting the environment. It means as ­reasonably achievable, to our upstream and ­promoting a strong, healthy, inclusive and fair society where downstream supply chain through suppliers and people can prosper and fulfil their potential. Nilorn believes business partners. in taking a holistic approach including the entire design, manufacturing and supply chain. Nilorn’s CSR and Sustainability Advisory Team (CSAT) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY was established in 2018. The aim of the group is to further AND SUSTAINABILITY POLICY ­integrate CSR and sustainability in the daily operations of Based on our commitment to sustainability this the organisation, to spread knowledge and share ­experience. policy aims to set the base for how we work with The team consists of staff from different Nilorn offices, social, environmental and ethical responsibility and ­representing the design department, product development, covers all Nilorn employees. production, purchasing, sales and CSR. The Sustainability Manager is located at our Head Office and in Nilorn East Asia we have our Supply, Sourcing and CODE OF ETHICS AND CSR Manager, which enables us to have a closer ­relationship to suppliers in that region. Together with local staff in our BUSINESS CONDUCT ­sourcing countries we coordinate Nilorn’s sustainability work. This code provides a guide to the values, behaviours and ways of working for all Nilorn employees, it shall guide our daily work and cover areas such as compliance with law, respect in the workplace, protection of company property, professionalism, corruption, job duties, teamwork and communication. 6 GLOBAL COMPACT CODE OF CONDUCT Since January 2017, Nilorn is signatory to the UN Global Our Supplier Code of Conduct serves as a Compact corporate responsibility initiative. As a signatory, we common foundation for us and our suppliers in voluntarily agree to align our operations and strategies with terms of a­ cting in a responsible manner, including UNGC 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of hufocusing on social responsibility and good working man rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, as part conditions. Companies applying this code are of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. also e ­ xpected to comply with national and other ­applicable law and not be involved in any act of ­corruption, extortion or embezzlement, nor in any form of bribery. Read more about our work to ­implement the Code of Conduct on page 22. ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY Our Anti-corruption Policy contains the organisation’s mandatory rules and restrictions regarding gifts and other kind of appreciations. It also describes the procedures for employees to raise any ethical questions or to report any breaches or suspected breaches of the company’s code of conduct. Read more about our work to implement business ethics on page 30. HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY Our Human Resource Policy regulates what the company expects of its employees and what employees expect of the company. The HR policy mainly regulates: management responsibility for developing its staff, information supplied to all employees, annual performance reviews, payments and IT usage. The overall objective is that work on gender equality should be a natural and integral part of all our activities and it applies to all staff and levels. Read more about our work to implement business ethics on page 30. ANIMAL WELFARE POLICY As a supplier of labels and branding products made from materials sometimes derived from animal origin, we recognise our responsibility to protect animal welfare. Nilorn works to secure materials from responsible sources and with respect for animal welfare. All suppliers or companies subscribing to this policy must follow national and international legislation regarding animal welfare. Animal-based materials are only obtained as a by-product and not the sole purpose of the slaughter of an animal and never from vulnerable or endangered species. 7 The UN Sustainable Development Goals We deliver our products to more than 65 countries around the world and are thus part of far reaching value chains. We feel that such a global presence calls for global responsible actions. Since 2017, Nilorn have been signatories to the UN Global Compact. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact defines the foundation on which our business must stand. At the initiative of the UN, the international community partnership and co-operation is needed to ­achieve the goals. ­formulated and adopted 17 global Sustainable ­Development Nilorn is a small global organisation and in our sustainability Goals (SDGs) in 2015, aiming to eradicate poverty and work we must co-operate and rely on the ­effort of many other ­malnutrition and to ensure a truly sustainable development organisations, including labels and ­certifications. Example of across the social, environmental and economic dimensions. co-operations are FSC (read more on page 37), ­Cotton made in We are committed to minimising the way our business could, Africa and the Swerea Chemical group. in any way, slow the transition towards the future envisioned in those goals. Our updated sustainability strategy aims to In 2017, we carried out analysis where we looked into the support the UN Goals and focus even further on those areas challenges and opportunities the fashion industry is facing in where we can contribute positively. ­relation to the sustainable development goals and their targets. We have researched how brands have ­investigated and comWith the launch of the SDGs, businesses are explicitly c­ alled to municated their most material challenges and o ­ pportunities. contribute to the global sustainability agenda. The ­achievement Based on that and following a mapping of the issues of utmost of the goals depends upon the collaboration of many different priority for our own business, we have found that five of the actors, including our business. A stronger c­ ommitment to goals and their sub-targets are of p ­ articular relevance. 8 GOALS WHERE WE DIRECTLY, TO A LARGE EXTENT, IMPACT: Clean water and sanitation Decent work and ENSURE AVAILABILITY AND S ­ USTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION FOR ALL economic growth PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINAOne target under this development goal is to i­mprove BLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, FULL AND PRODUCTIVE ­water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating ­dumping EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL and minimising release of hazardous ­ chemicals and ­materials. In our supply chain we can work with w ­ ater We commit ourselves to implement social standards, such ­issues directly by being more efficient in the ­processes that as living wages and decent working conditions in our require water and ensuring proper waste water ­treatment. supply chain. There is a screening of new suppliers and we We also engage indirectly in projects aiming at improving encourage our suppliers to adopt quality, ­environmental the conditions further upstream, such as through our and occupational health and safety management s­ ystems, ­engagement with MinShed and Cotton made in Africa. certifications and include certification schemes used by suppliers in our criteria for choice of suppliers. Responsible consumption and production ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION PATTERNS One target for this development goal is to substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, Climate action recycling and re-use. At Nilorn we have adopted ­policies to choose more environmentally friendly materials, TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT ­increasing the use of recycled materials and acting for a CLIMATE CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS sound management of chemicals. Nilorn has joined the bluesign® system to put the whole production chain in Climate change is one of the most pressing environmental focus and strive to protect health and the environment issues of our time and it is a global challenge that does across the entire chain of production. not respect national borders. Here the issues are clearly linked to more circular use of materials and this we see an increased interest in from both clients and the s­ upply chain. We measure the impact of business travel and ­energy consumption and will increase our use of energy Partnerships for from renewable sources. We must also be aware of the risk of climate change affecting our supply chain located in the goals areas likely to be affected and see how we can be involved STRENGTHEN THE MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION AND in adaptation. REVITALIZE THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The achievement of the global SDGs depends upon the ­collaboration of many different actors, including ­businesses. As a small but global player Nilorn has to c­ o-operate with others and participate in business ­initiatives for example MinShed and The Hong Kong Business-School Partnership Programme (read more on page 40). 9 German Design Award It may only be a small jeans patch, but it has just been ­companies and designers. The Jury stated: ‘Not only does the ­honoured with a great award. The product from Nilorn’s felt and ­imitation leather both look like the real thing – they ­sustainable denim concept ‘Genes’ has been awarded with the also feel astonishingly authentic to the touch.’ This ­prize is a German Design Award Special Mention 2019 by the ­German big ­honour for Nilorn as it recognises the high d ­ esign quality Design Council. The patch is primarily made of r­ ecycled PET of Nilorn’s concept collections. felt combined with a small part in grained Jacron – a rather unusual material choice for branding a pair of jeans. CHRISTINA WALTER, DESIGNER NILORN GERMANY The German Design Awards, launched in 2012, are among the most prestigious design competitions worldwide and “I have high hopes for the future. have an excellent reputation far beyond specialist circles. I believe in a circular economy based The competition sets the highest standards for selecting the prize winners: thanks to the unique nomination process, on the cradle to cradle concept where only those products and communication design projects safe materials natural or synthetic that d­ emonstrably exemplify outstanding design quality are ­eligible to participate. are intelligently cycled and manu‘Special Mention’ awards are given to works with ­designs factured in ways that positively that feature particularly successful partial aspects or ­solutions – these prizes acknowledge the commitment of impact people and planet” 10 TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Ensuring that the ambitions of the client and our own knowledge, result in products that have as low environmental impact as possible, Making more detailed decisions on choice of to be resource-efficient. Product development materials to which factories to place orders etc. is present locally, close to production. Access We have an important role in giving our clients to our own manufacturing creates advantages options to choose more sustainable solutions for product development and sampling. and consider end-of-life options. This is an area where we as a company have a really large impact. Nilorn has design teams in several countries, to work closely with the clients and to make the right choices early in the process. The conditions under which the products are made, in terms of environmental performance of the factory, occupational health and safety and other labour ­conditions for the workers. As we have own production units together with production at external suppliers globally, implementing Code’s of Conduct and ­connected policies aim to improve standards for the supplier, the workers and their families. Discussing choice of materials and its ­implications on sustainability with our client. It is important to already highlight at this first stage the sustainability focus. By working close to our client’s ­production s­ ites, we can minimise distances and t­ herefore transport emissions. As ­transportation is often decided by the client, we have less influence. We are focusing on degree of fill rate and joint loading to create cost-efficient transportation solutions. Our products are a part of other products, so our key role in this area of the chain is to deliver a ­correct Design for less waste and with more possibilities product promptly, in order to not cause delays, for re-use and recycling of the products. Also which in turn could have negative consequences focusing on responsible waste handling in both from an environmental and worker p ­ erspective. ­production, encouraging recycling of materials. The manufacturing of the clients’ products is an area where we at Nilorn have less impact. We can help our clients to reach out to the consumer with messages concerning labelling of products and, in general, help increase the transparency and traceability of products. This can also help the consumers to make more conscious choices. 11 11 Key focus areas U P DATE D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y S T R AT E GY 1 CLIENTS We want to develop sustainable products in close co-operation with our clients and together reduce their environmental impact. The earlier issues are considered, the better the outcome. KEY ISSUES HERE ARE: • Product development • Encourage and direct clients towards more sustainable materials and products • Communication 2 PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN We will take responsibility for manufacturing ­products, in our own production as well as with external suppliers. We believe in close co-operation with our business partners. KEY ISSUES HERE ARE: • Working environment and human rights • Chemical management • Waste • Energy • Transportation • Water 3 EMPLOYEES Our most important asset is our employees and we want to attract, retain and further develop those working within Nilorn. KEY ISSUES HERE ARE: • Working environment • Competence • Ethics • Travel • Community engagement 12 13 1 F O C US AR E A C LI E N TS Clients Right track The client, and end consumer, should feel secure in the use Engaging with clients and gathering opinof Nilorn’s whole product range. Through close collaboration ions about our company and our offer gives and knowledge-sharing we continually improve, both our us valuable information. own and our client’s activities. Sustainable products, for us, implies finding better materials and once chosen and used, OTTO GRUP those materials should be kept in a recycling loop for as long Our client Otto Group in Hamburg, Germany, as possible. For us it is important to work to be genuinely performed a survey in 2018 to evaluate the ­ better all round, not only from the product perspective. ­performance of the nominated OTTO label makers in the markets. The assessment covered areas such as quality of products, problem solving, payment To be able to accompany our clients on their journey, we terms, collaboration and lead times. We were very are committed to reducing the environmental impact of proud to find out that, overall, Nilorn showed the best ­everything we do designing a product, choosing ­production ­performance, having the best score in five ­categories. processes, choosing a supplier, planning the logistics etc. One topic highlighted was the increasing need of short ­delivery times. These assessments are a very Both materials and mode of transportation are almost always good tool for us in our continuous ­improvement of decided by the client. Our role in guiding the client in finding our offer of products and services. It also gives us the better alternatives is becoming more and more important evidence that our hard work is clearly linked with our and we see an increased interest from our clients in using business performance. either certified or recycled materials. We need to co-operate to be able to progress making the business more sustainable. VAUDE In June 2018 German brand Vaude arranged their first global vendor meeting at the Vaude ­headquarters in TettnangObereisenbach. Close partnership was a theme and proves the importance of cooperation in the business to reach the high targets that the company has set. For Nilorn to be invited, it gave DESIGNERS CHECKLIST us a confirmation that our focus on sustainability is This checklist has been prepared by the Nilorn necessary to be part of these brand’s supply chains. design department. To be used as a tool in new product developments. • Does this product serve its purpose? Is it functional? RESPEKT • Could we use certified materials? ‘Respekt’ is a highlight of our work to develop • Is the material suitable for this product? ­products with lower environmental impact. It shows • Will it last long enough? the ongoing process towards a more sustainable • Can it be recycled? ­offer, from design to delivery. The RESPEKT c ­ oncept ­ f eatures, environmental finishings and various • It is able to have a second use? ­materials such as bamboo, vegetable tanned l­eather • Will it age with beauty? and FSC paper, along with recycled m ­ aterials. All • Could it be reduced/minimalised/simplified? ­articles comply with REACH regulations or meet • Can the design be optimised to reduce product waste? higher environmental standards. 14 15 1 F O C US AR E A C LI E N TS Reduce Recycle Rethink P RODUCT DEVE LOP M E NT W ITH AN E NVI RON M E NTAL P E R S P ECTIVE Today, many people strive for a more circular behaviour to reduce litter and climate footprint we also see this interest from many of our clients. To a greater extent using “more green” material is high on the agenda. Reducing waste and unnecessary use of materials are f­ocus was launched. The strategy presents key commitments for areas that have become more common in 2018. The consumer action, including the way plastics and plastic products are wants a well-thought-out packaging solution, in ­sustainable designed, produced, used and recycled. By 2030, all plastic materials that can be re-used. We see many ­ possibilities packaging placed on the EU market should be re-usable or to ­ integrate better solutions for the ­ environment in the recyclable. At Nilorn we develop products in both recycled ­products we deliver, but at the same time these ­options must LDPE and also using bio-based raw materials to reduce the be c­ arefully evaluated to make sure we are making sound use of ­fossil-based materials. decisions. The use of alternative materials is ­becoming increasingly important in terms of customers’ ­ ­ focus on Today, re-use and recycling of end-of-life plastics is very ­sustainable materials and our own work on taking responsilow, particularly in comparison with other materials such as bility. In 2018 we saw requests for recycled ­polyester, buttons ­paper, glass or metals. Plastic packaging is a priority area made of corozo and vegan leather, to name a few. when it comes to design for recyclability. We see an increase from clients regarding a products RECYCLING OF GARMENTS ­possibility to be recycled. One challenge is that for most Fashion businesses agree with the need to improve r­ ecycling brands and retailers, the market is global and there are to increase the supply of raw materials. There are s­everal many different options and recycling alternatives. There are initiatives focusing on recycling of used textiles and ­ national as well as regional differences it’s obvious that ­garments, one major challenge is that clothing often ­consists more standardised and effective practices across the EU are of diverse types of fibres and today requires mostly sorting needed to make recycling easier. manually, an expensive and time-consuming process. ­Testing of automatic sorting is ongoing and many believe Recycling reduces the amount of waste that ends up in that using RFID is a solution to the sorting problem and the landfill sites, while cutting down on the amount of material handling of textile materials could be more effective as the needed from the natural environment. More than 270 million information could easily be read. An RFID-system can be tonnes of waste are recycled across the world each year. adapted and allow sorting of textiles based on any g­ iven set of ­parameters. In the future this would also allow to store PLASTICS information about chemical content information that could Action on Plastics was identified as a priority in the be used by a material recycling company. Chemicals in used ­European Circular Economy Action Plan 2015 and in 2018 garments are a big challenge. We do not want to re-use an European Strategy for Plastics in a Circular Economy things when we do not know what it contains. 16 MICROPLASTICS In recent years there has been large focus on the micro-sized particles of plastics so called microplastics and the number of negative consequences for humans and the natural ­ environment they have. Protecting the ­marine environment from the potential impact of microplastics is a critical issue. Our products are often made of synthetic fibres such as polyester and polypropylene. Synthetic fibres come off during washing and follow the water out of the washing machine. Most water treatment plants are not ­effectively filtering out these particles and they are passed on into our watercourses. We therefore joined the MinShed project to be able to contribute and learn. MinShed is a three-year research project. The goal of the project is to create knowledge and guidelines which will help the textile industry to design and create clothes made of synthetic fabrics which do not emit microplastics. The project will also investigate how washing machines are designed and whether or not they can be equipped with a filter that can reduce the emissions of microplastics. ”MinShed spreads knowledge which helps push the textile industry forward” 17 RFID – what is it? RFID is short for Radio Frequency Identification. The technology is based on wireless communication, using electromagnetic fields for the transfer of data that is electronically stored on tags attached to a product. The electronically-stored information can be accessed by a reader when it is ­ operated within the range of the tag. RFID also ­allows ­communication between a brand and the end-user by use of an NFC (Near Field ­Communication) enabled smartphone. In 2018, Stora Enso launched a new RFID tag ­technology called ECO™. The technology enables the RFID tags to be produced on a 100% ­fibre-based paper label, unlike traditional plastic tags, ­resulting in a lower carbon footprint. The ECO tag can be recycled in an environmentally-friendly way, ­together with paper and board materials. 18 1 FO C U S AR E A C LI E NTS Security and Anti-Counterfeit P RODUCT DEVE LOP M E NT W ITH S ECU R IT Y P E R S P ECTIVE Brands are proud of their product developments and, naturally, want to protect them. To support them, we produce and ­deliver a number of successful secure techniques. UV-yarn, UV-printed holographic yarn, holograms, sequential ­numbering, watermarks, QR-codes, Nilorn secure and radio frequencies are just some examples of methods that can be applied, to protect the clients’ products. At Nilorn we had already started looking into RFID in 2010. sales channels. RFID inlays and technologies can improve However, it turned out that although there was an interest, inventory management and product tracking solutions. the market was not yet ready to embrace the technology. In the last year we have seen a significant increase in client’s We help our clients evaluate the suitability for them to interested in evaluating the use of this technology. The fact that integrate RFID as an alternative or complement to their some global brands have now chosen to adopt RFID, articles current tag applications. The are many possibilities, ranging on the subject are increasingly appearing in different news from RFID on hang tags to sewn-in tags combined with a feeds and a greater understanding of the potential benefits traditional care label. RFID also allows communication of RFID, obviously contributes to the increased interest. Not between a brand and the end-user by use of an NFC (Near only can it be verified that the goods are brand originals, but Field Communication) enabled smartphone. We recommend RFID can give brands much better control of their flow of our clients to begin with a small pilot project, followed by a goods, which can increase sales as well as cut costs in their gradual roll-out to full scale. 19 2 F O C US AR E A P R O D U CTI O N A N D S U P P LY C HA I N Production and Supply Chain Nilorn is strategically located in major manufacturing countries around the world, enabling shorter delivery times, lower freight costs and reduced environmental impact. Most of our production is through external suppliers as it allows us to be flexible and adapt to our clients’ locations. Our own production is an important complement. With this combined approach, we can ensure timely deliveries and high quality. PRODUCTION NILORN HAS ITS OWN PRODUCTION SITES IN: Sourcing in Asia mainly comes from Hong Kong, China and • Bangladesh India. Most of our European sourcing is from Turkey and • England Italy. As a complement to the sourcing activity, Nilorn’s own • Germany production facilities represented approx. 20% of the group • Hong Kong turnover in 2018. • Portugal • Turkey Energy Our scope of commitment has grown, and we are aiming to This has been done at several of our Nilorn p ­ roduction units ­reduce the overall energy consumption of Nilorn’s o ­ perations, and will continue. LED lighting ensures a similar l­evel of with a particular focus on the reduced use of ­energy ­sourced light and a much longer life than standard ­lighting. Nilorn’s or derived from fossil fuels. In the E ­ uropean D­ istribution ­operations are located in several different countries and as ­Center in Germany, our Swedish office and the Nilorn ­there are differences in emissions between countries, ­especially ­Portugal factory we are now using energy from ­hydropower. diverse and wide-ranging for electricity c­ onsumption and Approximately 30% of our total ­energy ­consumption ­comes ­travel, we have used local emission factors where possibly from renewable sources, and we ­ continue to investigate (Defra/DECC). ­options to increase with the goal to reach 100% by 2021. • Energy consumption 1040 tonne CO2e One way to reduce environmental impact in our own ­production is to replace standard lighting with LED lighting. 20 Investing in renewable energy We work to enhance energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energy. The factory in Nilorn Portugal is since July 2018 using 100% renewable energy from hydro power and now taking further steps and installing solar panels. Logistics warehouses and production units are usually ­starching machine, resulting in a considerable reduction of well suited for the installation of solar panels, as they are energy ­consumption. Reducing energy use also helps us to ­equipped with large flat roofs upon which solar panels can save costs. easily be ­installed without imposing aesthetic damage to ELISABETH SAMPAIO, MANAGING DIRECTOR NILORN PORTUGAL ­ local ­ communities. Nilorn Portugal, the production unit within the Nilorn group that uses the most energy, will install “Reduction of our environmental foot460 solar panels at the beginning of 2019. print is important to Nilorn P ­ ortugal, we want to grow without harming Increasing the use of renewable energy is one of Nilorn’s actions to lower its environmental impact and reduce CO2 the environment, and the usage of emissions. Nilorn Portugal has also invested in a new ­renewable energy is important to us“ 21 2 F O C US AR E A P R O D U CTI O N A N D S U P P LY C HA I N Responsible supply chain management Companies today are getting called upon from stakeholders to take responsible action in various areas, especially in the supply chain. Nilorn is no exception. We conduct a variety of CSR-related activities and, through our supply chain, urge suppliers to do the same, with the goal of a fully compliant supply chain and achieving sustainability in society. Monitoring suppliers across a nationwide or global supply conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) chain can be difficult, but we aim to ensure that our ­suppliers and is an internationally recognised code of labour practice. protect human rights and provide safe workplaces. We have a ‘Nilorn New Vendor Guideline’ that shall be followed The ETI Base Code is built around nine Principles. when introducing new suppliers. • Employment is freely chosen • Freedom of association and the right to collective New suppliers to Nilorn are to be reviewed by the CSR bargaining are respected ­department. The first assessment includes looking at • Working conditions are safe and hygienic ­social audits that the factory may have been subjected to • Child labour shall not be used ­previously, as well as other areas such as their production • Living wages are paid capacity and quality of products. A supplier is preferably • Working hours are not excessive ­visited prior to production. Contractual agreements are • No discrimination is practiced made with ­suppliers including their commitment to abide • Regular employment is provided by Nilorn policies and guidelines, including: • No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed • Supplier Code of Conduct • Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability policy We do our own inspections in combination with relying • Animal welfare policy on third party audits, through BSCI, SEDEX and other • Environmental requirements for Nilorn suppliers ­initiatives. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 are also • Nilorn supplier handbook certification schemes used among suppliers, which we • Nilorn agreement to supply according to RSL take into ­consideration when choosing a supplier. Most ­importantly we focus on having a very close dialogue and NILORN SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT frequent meetings with all prioritised suppliers. In 2018 we Nilorn’s Supplier Code of Conduct requirements are based did not terminate any business relationship suppliers due to on the ETI Base Code. The ETI Base Code is founded on the non-compliances. Our strategy is to work closer with selected suppliers – ‘­reduce to increase’ is a focus area. It is important for us to continue reducing our supply chain for greater ­control, MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT Modern slavery is a term that captures a range of human rights issues, ­visibility, improved communication and buying power. including forced labour, bonded labour, human trafficking and child We seek to continue working with reliable, reputable, slavery. The complexity of supply chains increases the likelihood of ­ environmentally and socially conscious suppliers. Whilst modern slavery in the global industry. Since 2017, Nilorn publishes a ­reducing our supply chain we also build on the relationships statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, detailing the we hold with suppliers, some of which have been over 20 steps we are taking to mitigate the risk of modern slavery ­occurring in years. A stronger relationship equals a better partner. the supply chain and business operations. The statement is published on the Nilorn website. It reflects our zero tolerance approach to modern slavery in any form and the different forms of modern slavery are covered by the focus areas of our supply chain audits. 22 2 FO C U S AR EA P R O D U CT I O N AN D S U P P LY C H AI N SEDEX Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a not-forprofit membership organisation dedicated to driving TH E SE DEX G LOBAL PLATFOR M ­improvements in responsible and ethical business practices is an online database which allows members in global supply chains. to store, share and report information in four key areas: Sedex is an online database, used by more than 50,000 ­members in over 150 countries, which allows companies LABOUR STANDARDS HEALTH & SAFETY to store and view data on ethical and responsible business includes topics e.g. wages, includes topics e.g. working hours, children and management, training, practices. Members also have access to a range of resources young employees, freedom of emergency and fire safety and reports, including industry specific questionnaires and association, non-discrimination, and worker health forced labour and human rights market leading risk analysis tools, developed with global risk experts Maplecroft. Sedex does not set any standards or determine the policy of its members. Sedex provides a place ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS ETHICS to store any and all ethical audit reports, with a summary of includes topics e.g. environincludes topics e.g. mental management, waste, bribery and corruption non-compliances held in a common format. raw materials, water, energy and pollution Sedex has created the Sedex Members Ethical Trade ­Audit (SMETA) – a common audit methodology and report ­format AT NILORN, WE ARE AUDITED AGAINST aiming to drive consistency of data from the auditing SEDEX/SMETA IN OUR FACTORIES IN HONG ­process. SMETA is the world’s most commonly used ethical KONG, BANGLADESH AND TURKEY audit format. The audit checks specifically against the ETI base code and how it is spread to employees and the s­ upply chain, relevant local laws, environmental ­ performance, ­subcontractors/home workers, eligibility to work and ­understanding of the ETI base code. WHAT HAPPENS DURING A SMETA AUDIT? The normal process for a SMETA audit would follow these steps: For Nilorn, Sedex is a support in managing our complex 1. Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and Pre-Audit Site Profile supply chain and allows us to share data with clients. In 2. Audit preparation and quotation to the sire 2018, we extended our membership to an A/B-member 3. Actual site visit and audit (buyer/supplier), as we previously had memberships a. Opening meeting with senior management though our ­local production units. We believe that the Sedex b.Site tour ­participation will reduce the need for numerous audits, both c. Document review for our own and external production. As all social audits, d.Worker interviews such as BSCI, SA8000 and ICTI, can be uploaded onto the e. Closing meeting with senior management Sedex platform, this will also reduce administration. 4. Issuing of the the SMETA report and CAPR (Corrective Action Plan Report) 5. Loading up the SMETA / CAPR reports to the SEDEX data base 6. Follow up audits if required within 3-6 months time frames 23 2 F O C US AR E A P R O D U CTI O N A N D S U P P LY C HA I N Logistics and transportation The development of the fashion industry requires that and check/control the delivery. The web order system is ­Nilorn is represented in many parts of the world, through available in several languages and offers a ­comprehensive our own companies and a network of strategic partners. set of follow-up and report g ­ enerating ­options. We have The Nilorn Auto Order System provides control and aims to ­warehouses in Dhaka, Hilden, Hong Kong, Istanbul, save time for our clients. When a production order is sent to ­Karachi, Keighley, New Delhi, Recarei and ­Shanghai. the ­manufacturer, Nilorn simultaneously ­receives a ­request from the client’s system in a fully automated p ­ rocess and, In 2019, we will map and look how to measure our own ­depending on location and stock levels, most orders are ­transportation of goods. This will help us to identify the handled within 48 hours. The Nilorn Web ­Solution provides a ­impact of transportation. We will also put emphasis on complete overview of orders, warehousing and ­distribution, ­including ­environmental aspects in the criteria used for allowing both the client and manufacturer to order labels ­choosing transportation partners. Waste and water management Being waste efficient is part of our sustainability strategy. We for us to improve. We continue to promote waste minimisation, are working towards the goal of zero waste going to landfill re-use and recycling across our office and production locations. by 2021 – an ambitious goal considering the international ­environment we operate in and the different waste streams and In 2019 we will focus more on water we aim to measure handling today. In 2018 we achieved a reduction of waste sent ­water used in production and look at our global water usage. to landfill, but still today 50% (80% in 2017) of waste generated We are also including the water treatment plant at our Dhaka by Nilorn operations goes to landfill this is an ­important area factory in an environmental screening process. 24 2 FO C U S AR EA P R O D U CT I O N AN D S U P P LY C H AI N Responsible use of chemicals Nilorn produces a variety of products in many different materials, at our six production sites and through e­ xternal REACH production. We conduct internal audits which include REACH is a regulation of the European Union, adopted checking the handling and storage of chemicals used in to improve the protection of human health and the ­production. This is also a prioritised issue in the audits environment from the risks that can be ­posed by conducted at our suppliers’ sites. chemicals, while enhancing the competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry. It also promotes alternative methods for the hazard assessment of substances in Nilorn participates in the Chemicals Group at Swerea IVF. order to reduce the number of tests on animals. The Chemicals Group exists to disseminate the latest ­findings It is the responsibility of all manufacturers, importers related to chemicals and their potential impacts on the and users of substances within the EU to ensure that the ­environment and human health, to its member ­companies. substances they manufacture, import or use don’t pose The chemical guidance developed by the initiative helps the any risk to human health and ­environment. REACH members to avoid importing products containing unwanted affects all EU-actors that ­professionally manufacture, substances. Nilorn RSL is based on the Chemicals Guidance import, sell, buy, distribute or use chemicals as such provided by The Textile Importers’ Association in Sweden and in articles. If goods contain restricted chemicals, and Swerea IVF. Bureau Veritas Certification Hong Kong is it is mandatory that the manufacturers and importers our nominated partner for physical and chemical testing. are informed. Our operations must be compliant with all regulations ­relevant to our business. All Nilorn partners are required to sign an agreement stating that the REACH regulation and Restricted Substances List are complied with. This is a CALIFORNIA PROPOSITION 65 ­non-negotiable requirement. California Proposition 65 requires businesses to provide warnings to Californians about significant REGULATIONS exposures to chemicals that cause cancer, birth As many of our clients act on a global market, there are ­defects or other reproductive harm. These chemicals can be in the products that Californians purchase, in ­several regulations to consider in production. REACH and their homes or workplaces, or that are released into California Proposition being two of them. the environment. Businesses are required to provide a ‘clear and ­reasonable’ warning before knowingly and i­ntentionally exposing anyone to a listed chemical, unless the ­business can show that the anticipated exposure level will not pose a significant risk of cancer or is ­significantly below levels observed to cause birth defects or other reproductive harm. Currently, the ­California ­Proposition 65 list of chemicals has grown to more than 900 chemicals and will continue to expand as new chemicals are added. 25 3 F O C US AR E A E M P LOYE ES Packaging I N S IG HT: WOR K I NG W ITH P RODUCT G ROU P PACKAG I NG At Nilorn we see a growth in our packaging product range. In 2017, Isabel Ip joined us as Senior Product Development Executive, with a background in the packaging field. Later, in 2018, Peter Collins joined as the Group Packaging Manager. CHALLENGING PRODUCT GROUP With a total of 40 years of experience in the packaging ­industry the c­ hallenges. Packaging between them, both in design and production, they bring ­takes a ­longer time to ­study, very valuable knowledge and skills into our business. Peter’s case by case. It ­involves ­journey with us has so far focused both on ­external ­dialogue ­different ­components for with our clients and on internal dialogue and t­ raining for our one p ­ roduct, so we need sales teams. Isabel, based in Nilorn East Asia in Hong Kong, to spend a lot of time liaises and negotiates with different factories, clients and ­discussing with ­suppliers overseas salespersons to find the best co-operative ­solution about the f­easibility of in ­ product development, overcoming and solving any ­construction, finding the most ­workable and energy ­efficient ­problematic i­ ssues always with the clients’ needs in mind. way for p ­ roduction. So, p ­ eople-power, new materials ­innovation, quality assurance and supplier ­performance are “It is clear that the clients are interested in more sustainable the challenges at the moment. materials, not the least when it comes to plastics. But, at times, their expectations may come in conflict with what is ­available “Most importantly, we are not sitting around waiting. We are at a competitive price in the supply chain. So, l­ooking ahead, very pro-active, testing new concepts and offering samples Nilorn will focus more on establishing a supplier base that to clients, to at least initiate a dialogue on how we can move can better meet existing and future demands. We already ­together in a more sustainable direction” Peter adds. have good possibilities to meet consumer demands for ­paper-based material” says Peter. HIGH AMBITIONS It is clear that Isabel, Peter, product developers and our ­sales “There are success stories and there are challenges” account managers have high ambitions. “We would like to says I­sabel. “We recently helped a UK brand replace a think that our current and future clients would look to us ­conventional plastic bag with for all their specialist packaging needs. And that they would a more s­ ustainable ­material know that we have taken into account the current and future with ­ unique features. We impacts, the ability for them to be recycled and that it is a­ lways worked hard to ­encourage the best choice compared to an alternative packaging.” suppliers to fulfil our ­requirements, combining “We only have one planet. It is as simple as that” says Isabel. a more s­ustainable mateTo make a contribution to the developments of better products, rial, of high quality but we will continue to explore different suppliers and solutions still at a competitive price. to reduce use of non-recyclable plastics and facilitate r­ ecycling. With trials and ­ errors We will also ensure proper labelling to help consumers ­behind us, it became a ­dispose of waste in the right way. Continuing to pay attention ­ success!” This success to new technologies for developing sustainable ­materials and story also well describes ­packaging products will be the key to our success. 26 I N S I G HT: O U R PAC K AG I N G P R O D U CT R A N G E PETER COLLINS: “Clients are increasingly aware of their usage of packaging materials and the potential damage those may cause once they enter the waste streams. With the advent of greater environmental concerns from clients our challenge will be to offer more sustainable alternatives, reducing footprints, whilst maintaining an aesthetically and commercially pleasing solution” 27 3 F O C US AR E A E M P LOYE ES Our employees The success of Nilorn is directly linked to the ability to empower and invest in our employees to be ambassadors for our brand. Nilorn wants to continue to be an attractive employer in all is recognised as a strength and is to be a natural part of the countries where we have offices and production. We work Nilorn organisation. Attracting and retaining highly skilled with work environment, education and safety. We want our employees is a strong competitive advantage and to do that employees to enjoy a long career with Nilorn. we need to offer an excellent work ­environment. Capacity building and training is arranged locally in each Several i­nitiatives for a better work environment have country, for example First Aid and Occupational Health and been taken some examples are a renewed cooling system Safety training. Skills development is an area we want to ­focus in ­Portugal, energy efficient ­IT-equipment in Belgium and more on, as well as training in the CSR and ­sustainability field. ­adjustable sit-stand desks in Sweden. Some actions that were taken in 2018 ­include Nilorn East Asia ­providing ­contribution Our induction program shall ensure that new e­ mployees to local gym membership, the ­Belgium office ­introduced an ­receive a broad understanding of Nilorn and how we ­operate, exercise time on Fridays and several offices now provide it sets the tone for our collaboration. Part of the ­program is fresh fruit. We regularly seek employees’ ­opinions, to e­ nsure the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the practices a they are engaged and know that their work matters. All ­Nilorn employee should be guided by daily. In 2019, there ­employees are offered a­ nnual performance reviews. will be an updated and more detailed ­introduction to CSR and sustainability added to the program. EMPLOYEE ATTENDANCE* % Nilorn continues to grow and employee headcount i­ ncreased 2016 2017 2018 9% in 2018. This growth is due principally to recruitment in ­Bangladesh and Hong Kong. 97.8% 96.3% 96.1% Nilorn aims to be an employer of choice by offering a more * Absenteeism is tracked locally in accordance with regulations applicable in the different countries where Nilonr operates. The Company does not have a sustainable, caring and safe working environments. ­Diversity ­harmonised system for managing absenteeism throughout its subsidiaries. 28 3 FO C U S AR EA E M P LOY E E S GENDER DISTRIBUTION Number of employees: 482 ALL EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT BOARD WOMEN 44% MEN 56% WOMEN 15% MEN 85% WOMEN 50% MEN 50% Employees per country EMPLOYEES WOMEN MEN 100 80 60 40 20 0 COUNTRY BANGLADESH BELGIUM CHINA DENMARK ENGLAND GERMANY HONG KONG INDIA PAKISTAN PORTUGAL SWEDEN TURKEY 29 NILORN CORE VALUES • Passion • Innovation • Respect • Common Sense • Responsibility • Execute • Teamwork Business Conduct The core values are the practices a Nilorn employee should be guided by daily, in all work situations. They form a common platform and strengthen our teamwork. Together with our Code of Conduct and other ethical guidelines, they guide how we conduct our business and clearly show what we stand for as a company. BUSINESS ETHICS NILORN CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT Nilorn’s anti-corruption policy includes not accepting gifts This code provides a guide to the values, behaviours and or other benefits from our partners. If ever gifts are accepted, ways of working for all Nilorn employees, including areas it should take place with full transparency and in a manner such as: that follows the organisation’s policy. All employees, • Compliance with laws and regulations including new employees in 2018, have signed the anti• Respect in the workplace corruption policy. During the year, Nilorn had no reported • Protection of company property cases of corruption. • Professionalism 30 3 FO C U S AR EA E M P LOY E E S Travel Nilorn is operating in many parts of the world. Business travel is one of our largest sources of emissions, and air travel generates more emissions per kilometre travelled than any other mode of transport. In 2019 we will work more intensively to minimise the ­impacts • Staff travelling 495 tonne CO2e of our business travels. In 2018 we decided to ­compensate for the emissions caused by our yearly sales conference. TRAVE LLE D K K M We will remind our staff to focus on sustainable travel options and when possible, travel less and make use of our 2018 2017 smart IT-solutions with Skype for Business and TEAMS AIR 1751 1971 -11% online meetings facilities. New means of travelling also requires changes one example is the charging stations for CAR 1092 1151 -5% electrical cars installed in Nilorn Sweden. 31 3 F O C US AR E A E M P LOYE ES Villa Nilorn After 2010 when the main production units was centered to Hilden, Germany. The Belgian office, resulted in less ­employees and the need for a smaller workplace. Three years ago the team in Nilorn Belgium have found themselves a nice, homely office at ‘Villa Nilorn’. Until seven years ago, Nilorn Belgium still had a production quest for a new place. Taking into account the design aspect unit, as well as an office. Under Nilorn Nominette Ruga, of the company, Bart hoped to find something unique and the Belgian subsidiary produced woven and printed labels exciting. Within an hour, he stumbled upon a spacious, red locally and had stock holding facilities. From 2002 to 2010, all and white villa from the 1930s situated outside the city of production and stock were slowly scaled back, with looms Ghent, close to the main road, with good connections to and machines being moved to other Nilorn production units. Brussels and Antwerp exactly what Bart was looking for. From 2010 onwards, the main stock location for Europa was Hilden, Germany. In March 2011, the Belgian team could finally move into the newly renovated ‘Villa Nilorn’. With a large garden, Since then, Nilorn Belgium has evolved from being a purely homely kitchen and the former living and bedrooms used production-oriented company to a fully fledged service as offices, it was most definitely not just a standard office. company, offering a wide variety of products and services. The house warming party in December 2011 proved to be a This covers design, product development and production, but great success. With each room decorated in accordance with also the worldwide distribution of all types of branding items a new collection. such as woven and printed labels, wood, metal, packaging and accessories. That change in focus, and the omission of Consisting of 11 employees, two of whom work from home local production and stock at the Belgian office, resulted in in the Netherlands, Nilorn Belgium makes for a small but less employees and the need for a smaller workplace. At that diverse and enthusiastic team. Although the company may be time, the office environment was evolving and companies divided over two countries, Bart makes sure there are plenty started stepping away from traditional, rather impersonal of occasions for collective activities amongst the colleagues. offices, to warmer and more homely workplaces. There is the yearly Christmas dinner, the company trip to music festival Tomorrowland and the Nilorn summer party. With this in mind, Bart Van Trimpont, who had just been Fresh fruit in the office and lunch break walks on Fridays are assigned Managing Director of Nilorn Belgium, started his other initiatives. 32 BART VAN TRIMPONT, MANAGING DIRECTOR NILORN BELGIUM: “Not only do the new desks fit our old villa perfectly, but also we created a better working environment with less environmental impact” Sustainability in practice RE-USE IN NILORN BELGIUM In order to enhance working ergonomics and to encourage staff to be more agile, Nilorn Belgium decided to re-design their office desks. Instead of purchasing new desks, the existing desks were converted into a sit-stand desk just by re-designing them with an electrical frame. An additional advantage is that staff now have more meetings at a standing position instead of sitting which again improves activity and shortens the meetings at the same time. The leftover table legs from the existing desks will be re-used by a local carpenter and transformed into furniture for the office. 33 Traceability for sustainability Clients are giving more priority to sustainable practices and we see an increase in the use of different labels where clients want to communicate about their sustainability work. With labels and hang tags we can help our clients strengthen their brands and products. The products can also be an important part in enabling brands and consumers to trace their products back in the supply chain. Eco-labels and other certification schemes are a way in which It is becoming increasingly common for brands and our clients can communicate their focus on responsibility retailers to have their own labelling to communicate their along the production chain, making the consumer more sustainability work, for example, for a specific collection aware about their purchases. Consumers want to support or on all garments. It is important to be clear with what the brands that are doing good in the world, with 66 percent labeling means. There are also the established labels, with willing to pay more for sustainable goods and some 42 requirement specifications and control of third parties. At percent of millennials say they want to know what goes the same time as our labels are communicating a client’s into products and how they are made before they buy1. But message, they can also be a certified product in themselves. according to a study2 2 out of 3 Swedes find it difficult to At Nilorn we can certify our products, such as labels, buttons, know which eco-labels really guarantee that the clothes are accessories and other product groups, described below. In produced in an environmentally sound manner. 2018 we added GOTS to our range of certified products. OEKO-TEX® 100 (class 1) The STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® is an independent test and certification system for textile raw, intermediate and end products, at all stages of processing. Examples of products that can be certified are yarns, woven and knitted fabrics, accessories (such as buttons and labels) and ready-made articles. The OEKO-TEX® tests for harmful substances are carry out random checks of companies holding OEKO-TEX® ­ fundamentally based on the respective purpose of the certificates, in the form of unannounced inspections. ­textiles and materials and they cover: legally banned and controlled substances, chemicals known to be harmful to Nilorn holds an OEKO-TEX® certificate for textile ­production health (but not yet legally controlled) and other parameters and accessories, produced both in our factories and s­ uppliers’ for health p ­ rotection. Testing is geared towards how the factories. We hold certification for product class 1, the ­highest ­textile will ­actually be used, the more closely the product is level. Further to the Nilorn OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 Class 1 in contact with the skin, the stricter the requirements. Class in appendix 4, both Nilorn and some suppliers have ­upgraded 1 is the h ­ ighest level. to appendix 6 standard for ­certain products. The difference between the two appendices is l­imit values and inclusion of The OEKO-TEX® Association conducts annual control chemicals. The appendix 6 c­atalogue was created for those testing of certified products, at a rate of at least 25% of all who are either participating in the ­Detox campaign or worcertificates issued. It tests articles bearing the OEKO-TEX® king with clients who have this d ­ emand on their p ­ roducts and label that are available in retail shops and also samples of supply chain. Nilorn is c­ ontinually working to improve our materials from factories. In addition, independent auditors environmental impact and appendix 6 is one of those ways. 34 1 The State of Fashion 2019, The Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company 2 Miljömärkning Sverige, Gröna märkningar – en djungel? SYSTEM bluesign ® PARTNER The bluesign® system puts the whole production chain in focus. It has focus both on the product itself in terms of sound materials but also the chain of production from raw materials to finished products. — The certification covers: resource, productivity, consumer safety, water emissions, air emissions, occupational health and safety. As of 2013, the Nilorn group is a bluesign® system partner. of materials and processes. The additional steps required Our production facility in Portugal has been certified since by ­bluesign® are now part of our daily work in selection, 2012 and, in 2017, Nilorn East Asia in Hong Kong started the ­handling and wastage. screening process and received the bluesign® certificate for textile accessories and the article range ‘printed care labels’. We continually work with bluesign® to increase our ­portfolio of bluesign® approved product. ERICA WONG, PRODUCTION MANAGER NILORN EAST ASIA THE ASSESSMENT OF A FACTORY ENTAILS THE “The bluesign® system has increased ­F OLLOWING STEPS: our knowledge of our environmental ● An evaluation of the production site, focusing on the use of chemicals, the working conditions, environmental impact impact bringing to light factors we and water and energy consumption. had not considered but are now part ● Based on the detailed assessment, a report on the findings and an action plan with necessary measures are drawn up. of our every day” ● Once all necessary measures have been implemented, At Nilorn we find the increasing focus on bluesign® to be the products can be approved according to the bluesign® a very positive trend and we welcome more of our clients ­system. These measures could include: eliminating the use to join this initiative and choose bluesign® approved of hazardous chemicals, changes in operation, installation of ­products. The certification of bluesign® has improved our air and water cleaning systems, improvement of personnel ­overall ­environmental impact and procedure in the selection safety and an overall improvement in house-keeping. People Environment Resources bluesign® system C onsumer Safety W ater emissions Energy, water, chemicals, Risk minimization Occupational health A ir emissions raw materials Reduction of impacts and safety W aste Benchmark Protection of people an Soil the environment Resource productivity The bluesign® system focuses on resources, people and the environment. With its holistic approach based on Input Stream Management, the bluesign® system reduces the impact on people and the environment, ensures responsible use of resources and guarantees the highest level of consumer safety. The most stringent criteria and monitoring of on-site implementation encourage companies along the entire textile value chain to improve their sustainability performance. Read more at www.bluesign.com 35 ”Adding value to your brand” Recycled Claim Standard/Global Recycle Standard Products made of partly or fully recycled materials are increasing in the business of trims and accessories. We are investing more resources in searching for new, more sustainable materials for our products and recycled materials are an important part of our more sustainable offerings. Third party certification of claims of recycled content increases credibility in the market. Polyester is the most common synthetic fibre in ­textile At Nilorn we have decided to have recycled materials third manufacturing and the one we use most for Nilorn’s ­ party certified, in accordance with the Textile Exchange ­products. The disadvantage of polyester is that it is an ­Recycled Claim Standard (RCS) or Global Recycle Standard ­oil-based material, not from a renewable source. At the (GRS) standards for tracking and verifying the content of same time, the advantage of oil-based materials is that recycled materials in a final product. The RCS verifies the it is relatively easy to recycle them and today there is presence and amount of recycled material in a final product an ­increased focus on recycled materials to reduce both through input and chain-of-custody verification from a third ­landfill and littering of oceans. Polyester can also be party and the GRS is used to verify the recycled content of ­recycled many times. Most recycled polyester comes products and also includes responsible social, e­ nvironmental from PET b ­ ottles a clean, easy product to recycle. Using and chemical practices in the production. ­recycled materials can be a part of a product’s liability, but it is of course not only the choice of materials that affect it. We see an increasing interest from our clients to use such ­Design, production, waste and transport are all important materials and this is an important part in our aim to work aspects to c­ onsider. Providing recycled materials requires with transparency. Examples of recycled content in Nilorn traceability and ­origin. products are polyester, paper and plastics. 3636 GOTS The Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) is a ­ processing standard for textiles made from organic ­fibres. It defines high-level environmental criteria along the ­ entire organic textiles supply chain and requires ­compliance with social criteria as well. GOTS is the stringent voluntary global standard for the ­entire post-harvest processing (including spinning, ­knitting, weaving, dyeing and manufacturing) of apparel and home textiles made with certified organic fibre and includes both environmental and social criteria. Key provisions include a ban on the use of genetically modified organisms, ­highly ­hazardous chemicals, and child labour, while requiring strong social compliance management systems and strict waste water treatment practices. We are able to deliver GOTS certified printed cotton ribbons and labels. FSC FSC stands for ’Forest Stewardship Council’, an international non-profit organisation dedicated to ­ ­promoting responsible forestry. FSC certifies forests all over the world to ensure they meet the highest environmental and social standards. Products ­carrying the FSC label are independently certified to assure consumers that they come from forests that are managed to meet social, economic and ecological needs. Our FSC chain of custody certification provides a framework to promote ­responsible forest management. We see an increased interest from clients in using FSC ­certified paper. With our FSC certificate for Nilorn East Asia and Nilorn Shanghai we report the delivered ­quantities to the FSC Secretariat. There was a 30% increase in the amount of FSC labelled products sold in 2018 and FSC certified paper’s share of the paper product groups was 13%. We see the same trend in the production of FSC labelled ­products produced at external production units, but this statistic we are not able to follow with our current business system. TINA STRIDDE, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE AID BY TRADE FOUNDATION: “Every piece of textile that bears the CmiA label is a step in the right direction. Because every CmiAlabelled product protects the environment and supports millions of people in Africa in creating a new perspective for themselves in their home countries” CmiA FACTS 2018 CmiA smallholder farmers 999,425 thereof CmiA female farmers 16% CmiA ginnery workers 12,362 thereof permanent workers 18% CmiA production countries 9 CmiA acreage overall (in hectare) 1,780,000 Average hectareage per farmer (in hectar) 1,75 CmiA lint cotton production overall (in mt) 580,000 Eco-Footprint of CmiA 1 liter of water for CmiA in comparison to 2,120 liters of water to the global avarage. Up to 40% less greenhouse gas emissions1 CmiA retail partner and brands 46 CmiA labelled textiles (in million) 103 1 Data refer to one kilogram of cotton. Water usage: in comparison to the global average; greenhouse gas emissions: in comparison to conventional cotton (Source: PE INTERNATIONAL) 38 Social Engagement C OT TON MADE I N AF R ICA – H E LP I NG P EOP LE H E LP TH E M S E LVE S TH ROUG H TRADE Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) is an Aid by Trade Foundation initiative and an internationally recognised standard for sustainable cotton from Africa. Since its creation by Dr. Michael Otto in 2005, CmiA has set itself the goal to protect the environment and help Sub-Saharan African smallholder cotton farmers and ginnery workers, to improve their living and working conditions. To put this aim into practice, an alliance of international textile companies and brands built up by CmiA, purchase the CmiA certified sustainable cotton, integrate it into their respective textile value chains and pay a license fee to the foundation to use the seal. Today there are more than 40 brands and retailers to school instead of doing demanding work on the farm that ­ participating in CmiA. About one million smallholder is ­harmful for them. They learn that good schooling helps ­farmers and some 12,000 factory workers in the so-called the entire ­family in the long run. Additionally, female ­cotton cotton ginneries are currently part of the CmiA program. ­farmers are promoted through special programs which In 2018, about 580,000 tons of certified CmiA cotton was ­enable them to realise their own business ideas, earn money ­produced pursuant to the CmiA sustainability criteria. CmiA in a group and invest their group income for social ­welfare – is active in Cameroon, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Ivory e.g. to ­support elderly ­people or orphan children. Coast, Mozambique, Zambia, Tanzania and Uganda. In October 2018 Cotton made in Africa organised a visit to the CmiA has developed a standard based on social, environTurkish textile industry. On invitation of CmiA, a ­delegation mental and economic criteria and targets. The initiative of African cotton producers travelled to Turkey to learn has developed a set of criteria defining sustainable cotton more about the processing of their raw material. The aim of production at both farming and cotton gin level. The CmiA the trip was to promote the exchange between the ­different standard includes exclusion criteria (e.g. felling of primary stages of textile value creation, which usually have very forests, use of genetically modified seeds, child labour or the little or no contact with each other. The visit c­ ontributed to a use of dangerous pesticides) as well as development criteria better understanding of the needs of the textile industry on (e.g. proportion of women among farmers trained). C ­ otton the one hand and the challenges of cotton producers on the made in Africa supports the participating ­ smallholder other. Nilorn is a partner of CmiA, providing all ­standard ­farmers in continually improving their know-how when it CmiA hangtags and woven labels, and we participated in comes to cultivating sustainable cotton. The organisation the Regional Cotton Producer & Partner Meeting that took achieves this through organising training courses in which place during the visit, together with producers and retailers. the farmers learn efficient and environmentally ­sustainable cultivation techniques. In the so-called farmer business schools’, participants learn a great deal about efficient The red CmiA label on the product shows and sustainable farming methods. Through this diverse the consumer that with his purchase he ­training program, farmers can increase yields and thereby has done something particularly good for income. The C ­ miA-training not only conveys knowledge the people in the producing countries about how to manage a cotton farm more economically and more e­ nvironmentally friendly, but also raises awareness and the environment. In 2018 about among the rural population for topics such as child labour 103 million CmiA labelled textiles or ­gender equality. The participating smallholder farmers were put on the market, an increase gain an ­understanding about why their children should go of 14% compared with 2017. 39 Hong Kong Business-School SwedCham Hong Kong Partnership Programme The Swedish Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong was ­established in 1986. The ­objectives for the Chamber are: The Business-School Partnership Programme (BSPP) was to promote, study, ­extend, advance and protect ­business first launched in 2005. The aim of BSPP is to promote ­better ­relations, ­investments and interests of Swedish and ­other co-operation and closer alliances between the b ­usiness ­o rganisations in Hong Kong. SwedCham participates ­sector and schools. It leads students out of the classroom ­ actively in IBC, the I­nternational Business Committee, to gain a wider perspective of the world so that they can which provides a s­ ounding board and forum for lobbying get ­prepared for life in society. With the a­rrangement and d ­ iscussion for international business representatives by Hong Kong ­General Chamber Council, Nilorn East with the Government on matters of interest for Chamber Asia p ­articipated in the “Business School Partnership ­members. Nilorn East Asia has been a member since 2017. ­Programme” 2018 and partnered with 12 students from Heep Yunn Secondary School. The programme included 3 days of meetings and gave the students an idea of what it was like working in the dynamic and competitive business The Australian of Nilorn. The students got the opportunity to test several departments and task assignments such as quality control, packaging and ­warehouse. As a final project, the students Fashion Council presented new and innovative product development ideas The AFC is a not-for-profit membership organisation and focusing on recycled materials. ­exists to promote the growth of the textile & fashion industry in Australia. Nilorn became a member in 2018. One student, Yung was fascinated to learn about the ­Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme at ­Nilorn. “I had learnt about CSR from textbooks, but it was not until I listened to the staff that I really understood what it means. Noting that CSR is a key part of Nilorns operating The Swedish Textile ­philosophy, I hope to work at a company which values CSR when I graduate”. Importers Association APPLE CHAN, MARKETING MANAGER NILORN EAST ASIA: The Swedish Textile Importers Association provides “We were impressed by the work ­importers of ­textiles and related businesses with industryspecific ­service, ­helping us to keep track of important by the students and the ideas they ­regulations and i­nformation, such as customs duties, rules presented. We look forward to be of origin, free trade agreements and CSR. Nilorn has been a member ­since 2004 and our Sustainability Manager has been involved in this project again” a board m­ ember since 2017. 40 Teko UK Fashion and TEKO is the Swedish trade and employers’ association for companies working in the textile and fashion industry, ­approximately 200 member companies. They represent the Textile Association sector, both nationally and internationally, in all questions of common interest and inform clients, suppliers, media, UK Fashion and Textile Association (UKFT) is a British the public and the government about the Swedish textile ­network for fashion and textile companies, bringing ­together and clothing industry, its companies and its products. An designers, manufacturers, agents and retailers to promote important task is to supply information and service to the business and industry in the UK and throughout the world. member companies. TEKO is also the national member for UKFT has a unique position, representing ­businesses from Sweden to GINETEX – the international association for care spinning, weaving and knitting, right through to catwalk labelling. Sustainability is one of TEKO’s focus areas and is and aftercare. UKFT is the UK representative of ­GINETEX, high on the agenda. The work has been conducted in TEKO’s the international association for textile care labelling. Over Environmental and Energy Group since the ­early 1970s, the 2,500 companies hold a membership and by being a ­member group includes member companies but also a­ uthorities, and we at Nilorn get access to industry-specific b ­ usiness Nilorn participates in this group. ­information, export advice and networking. Stakeholders We take part in many stakeholder groups in a variety of settings across the Nilorn organisation. Commitment to ongoing stakeholder engagement is a core component in our sustainability strategy. We aim to have an open communication, to listen and to learn from others and it is necessary to allow all groups to co-operate for a more sustainable industry. We want to provide stakeholders with relevant and comprehensive sustainability reports. MEANS TO COMMUNICATE STAKEHOLDER GROUP PRIORITISED AREAS ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY Dialogue, meetings, e-mails, magazine IT-solutions, Code of Conduct and audits, CLIENTS sustainable materials EMPLOYEES Meetings, trainings, Intranet Product materials, training, health Business ethics, implementation of INVESTORS Reporting, meetings policies, risk management SUPPLIERS Meetings, e-mails, fairs and events Business relationship, sustainable materials NGOS Initiatives, conferences Raw material, labour, wages INDUSTRY Memberships, working groups Chemicals, trade, recycling 41 GOAL: To exceed our clients’ expectations in all aspects of our global operations 42 Sustainability risks Nilorn’s risk management approach follows our decentralised structure and the same applies to our sustainability risks. All managers at Nilorn with operational responsibilities are expected to ensure that risks associated with their operations are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed. RISK CATEGORY RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CONSEQUENCES RISK MITIGATION COMPLIANCE Risks that legal and regulatory Negative reputaional and/or Nilorn has a group governance requirements are not met Risk financial impact. framwork and compliance include of corruption, especially in anti-bribery and corruption high-risk countries. policy. Establish appropriate procedures, monotoring and reporting to prevent violation of laws, corruption or handling of personal data. 3rd party social audit at own p­ roduction units. Training of staff. HEALTH & Injuries or workrelated sickness Fatal accidents, serious injuries 3rd party social audit at own SAFETY at Nilorn own production sites or or long-term absenteeism at production units. Continue to at supplier sites. production sites. Risk of legal and build a common H&S culture and financial conseqences if OHS has effective management systems. been managed poorly. Risk that employees find the work environment unsatisfactory, resulting in difficulties to retain and recruit. Reputational risk if poor safety conditions exist in the company,resulting in damage to our brand. ENVIRONMENT Managing increased demand of Risk of loosing clients. Not Focus on improved efficiency to more environmentally conscious being able to meet clients’ minimize environmental impact in products by our clients. Increased ­expectations on our operations our own operations and in supply demand to understand climate and/or ­products with regards to chain, bluesign certification change effect on both internal ­environmental performance and being one method. Keep high and external operations. Use of new materials. Risk of problems awareness of new regulations chemicals in production process. with supply due to climate and market demands. Apply related incidents. Risk of soil and framework for handling chemicals water contamination. adapted to EU legislation Reach and apply Nilorn Restricted Substance list. SUPPLY CHAIN Risk of suppliers not ­complying Negative reputation and risk Continue to build strong with the Supplier Code of that we do not live up to the supplier relationships. Increase ­Conduct and not following ­requirements of our clients. awareness of Code of Conduct, ­national laws and regulations. Delays in delivery and environmental requirements increased costs. and other policies. Own and 3rd party audits of suppliers. ­Consolidate and focus on ­preferred suppliers. 43 OUR WAY FORWARD “During 2018, the range and the importance of the ­sustainability issues at Nilorn became clear to me. Not the least how connected these ­issues are to our c­ urrent and f­ uture success. It is e­ xciting to be involved in everything from searching for new m ­ aterials to d ­ iscussions about e­ nd-of-life ­alternatives, from ­performing supply chain a­ udits to collecting e­ nvironmental data from our sites. But it is, of course, also challenging. We have to make daily choices to act with r­ esponsibility and we have to ­support our ­clients’ in their journey as well. The f­ocus is to s­ trengthen my colleagues in making s­ustainability an ­ integral part of everything that we do, today and going forward.” Anna-Karin Wårfors, Sustainability Manager. “Working in Nilorn East Asia and based in Hong Kong ­enables me to establish a close r­ elationship with ­suppliers as the majority of the supply base is in Asia. In 2018 we did over 70 visits to ­production units, and our focus for 2019 is to ­undergo SMETA audit in all Nilorn own p ­ roduction ­facilities and at the same time benefit from the advantage of ­being a SEDEX A/B-member.” Cheryl Hall, Supply, Sourcing and CSR Manager FOCUS IN 2019: • Transportation – mapping and measuring transportation • Enlarged product offer in recycled materials • Skills development of employees, training in CSR and Sustainability • Further integrate Sedex in the supply chain 44 Data Summary 2018 2017 CLIENTS Number of clients >1400 Users of web order system 9400 FSC certified paper share of paper product groups in 13% 11% Nilorn East Asia and Nilorn Shanghai* PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN Number of suppliers 180 220 Number of delisted suppliers due to non-compliances 0 0 Internal inspections >70 – Purchase volume % from external suppliers with 72 – 3rd party social audit NILORN OFFICES AND PRODUCTION UNITS: Energy Kwh/m2 131 127 Renewable electricity/m2 30 3 Energy consumtion tonne CO2e 1040 1220 Waste (tonnes) 91 100 Waste sent to reuse or recycling 50% 22% Water consumption Nilorn production units m3 5354 – EMPLOYEES Total number of employees 482 444 whereof women 210 208 whereof men 272 236 New employees 101 – Employee attendance % 96,1 96,3 Employees signed anti-corruption policy 100% – Cases of suspected or confirmed breaches of anti-corruption polic 0 0 Number of work related injuries (no fatalities) 4 5 Training hours/employee 9 – Air travel inter-continental km/employee 2739 3522 Air travel continental km/employee 894 918 Staff travelling tonne CO2e 495 540 * With our FSC certificate for Nilorn East Asia and Nilorn Shanghai we report the delivered quantities to the FSC Secretariat. We see the same trend in the production of FSC labelled products produced at external production units, but this statistic we are not able to follow with our current business system. 45 Headquarters NILÖRNGRUPPEN AB Wieslanders väg 3 Box 499 501 13 Borås SWE DE N Tel. +46 33 700 88 88 info@nilorn.com www.nilorn.com Subsidiaries & partners NILÖRN AB NILORN GERMANY GMBH NILORN SHANGHAI LIMITED Wieslanders väg 3 Itterpark 7 Rm 701, 288, Box 499 40724 Hilden Chengjiaqiao Road. 501 13 Borås G E R MANY Minhang District, SWE DE N Tel:. +49 2103 908 16 0 Shanghai, CH I NA Tel: +46 33 700 88 00 Fax: +49 2103 908 16 99 Poastal Code 201103 info@nilorn.com info@de.nilorn.com Tel: +86 21 345 512 90 info@sh.nilorn.com BALLY LABELS AG NILORN INDIA PVT. LTD Schachenstrasse 24 Plot no. 9c, Sector – 3 NILORN TURKEY CH-5012 Schönenwerd Parwanoo – 173220 (H P) Baglar Manhallesi 49 ģ SWITZ E R LAN D I N DIA Sokak No:50 Tel: +41 62 855 27 50 Tel. +91 1792 235232 Kat:3 Fax: +41 62 855 27 59 Fax +91 1792 233176 Bagcilar/ Istanbul info@bally.nilorn.com info@in.nilorn.com TU R KEY Tel: +90 212 657 76 76 (pbx). NILORN BANGLADESH LTD. NILORN ITALY Fax: +90 212 657 75 10 Plot 1361, 5th and 6th fl. Via del Bramante 34 info@tr.nilorn.com Avenue 10 41012 Carpi (MO) Mirpur DOHS ITALY NILORN UK LTD Dhaka -1216 Tel: +39 3381611351 1A Acre Park BANG LADESH info@it.nilorn.com Dalton Lane Tel: +88 02 8835912 Keighley Fax: +88 02 8835913 NILORN PAKISTAN (PVT) LTD West Yorkshire info@bd.nilorn.com 2nd Floor, Yasir Chambers B D21 4J H Gulshan –E-Iqbal, Block 13A U N ITE D KI NG DOM NILORN BELGIUM NV Main University Road Tel: +44 1535 673 500 Brusselsesteenweg 525 P.O. Box 75300 info@uk.nilorn.com 9090 Melle Karachi B E LG I U M PAKISTAN NILORN USA LLC Tel: +32 9 210 40 90 Tel: +92 21 349 92151 3499 Meier Street info@be.nilorn.com Fax:+92 21 349 92153 Los Angeles, CA 90066 info@pk.nilorn.com U N ITE D STATES NILORN DENMARK A/S Tel: +1 888 315 1875 Kongensgade 31B NILORN PORTUGAL – info@us.nilorn.com 5000 Odense C INDÚSTRIA DE ETIQUETAS, LDA DE N MAR K Rua Central de Barrosas, 304 Tel: +45 70 23 16 23 4585 902 Recarei – Paredes info@dk.nilorn.com PORTUGAL Tel: +351 22 411 95 80 NILORN EAST ASIA LTD Fax: +351 22 411 95 99 Unit 1701, 17/ F, Westley Square info@pt.nilorn.com 48 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong Kowloon HONG KONG Tel: +852 2 371 2218 Fax: +852 2 371 2629 info@hk.nilorn.com 46 Cover photo: By Sulkifli Yunus Unsplash Production: Nilorngruppen in cooperation with TomorrowToday Paper: Edixion Printing: Stema 47 48
