WET Consultant Engineers Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact Period covered by this COP: April 2019 to April 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 29 March 2020 To our stakeholders: I am proud to confirm that WET Consultant Engineers is reaffirming its support of the UN Global Compact’s corporate sustainability initiative, by committing to respecting the Ten Principles outlined by the Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually uphold our responsibilities to people and the planet and to integrate the ten principles mentioned above into our daily activities and company culture. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication as we strongly believe in the importance of transparency to build lasting trust. Sincerely yours, Naji Corban CEO of WET Consultant Engineers 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights WET Consultant Engineers is committed to respecting and promoting the human rights of all employees and workers. The following measures are in place: • We strictly enforce health and safety procedures on all construction sites, in compliance with the safety standards of the CDR (Council for Development and Reconstruction) and are in compliance with ISO 9001:2015. • We ensure all our workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. In the context of the global public health emergency presented by Covid-19 (ongoing at the time of writing), we are ensuring staff are able to work from home and we are complying with all national and regional safety measures to protect employees. • We take measures to protect workers from workplace harassment in all its forms, including providing channels for complaints and suggestions, using open plan offices, and encouraging a culture of mutual trust and respect amongst all staff. Labour WET Consultant Engineers recognizes the importance of complying with labour laws and eliminating discrimination and harassment. As such we have put in place the following: • We comply with national minimum wage standards, with all of our employees earning at least 25% above minimum wage • We enforce a policy whereby no employee works more than their contracted hours • We give working parents flexibility around hours and working patterns, and provide paid maternity leave • We enforce equal opportunities by ensuring all employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria • We celebrate diversity, and recognize that our industry has a history of being maledominated, and we therefore actively work to recruit more women, with 4 new women hired in this period • We provide employees with a work environment free of discrimination and harassment, whether in the office, online or on construction sites • We strictly follow all national labour laws, and we ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Environment WET Consultant Engineers is committed to environmental responsibility and the protection of natural resources. We have therefore put the following measures into place: • We provide plastic and paper recycling bins in the office • We encourage staff members to reduce printing to the bare minimum • We have reduced the use of single-use plastic including dishes, cutlery and plastic cups • To limit the use of single-use plastic bottles in the office, we provide employees with a water cooler with reusable jugs of water, sourced from an environmentally conscious company • We regularly work with an external environmental consultant to help us identify key areas for improvement and practical steps to take to reduce our environmental impact both in the office and on construction sites • We prioritize environmentally friendly companies for our supplies whenever possible • On all construction sites, we impose on our contractors strict environmental protection measures, including regular maintenance of all engines (to prevent the emanation of noxious gases), spraying the ground in and around a construction site with water (to prevent dust emanation which endangers workers and local populations), and planting trees to replace any they have cut down • We started conducting EIAs (Environmental Impact Assessments) and ESIAs (Environmental and Social Impact Assessments) for our projects in 2012, and have gradually increased the number of projects for which we conduct a full ESIA (45%). This serves to identify any threats to the environment (e.g. harmful infiltrations to the aquifers), to make sure we do not affect the flora or fauna of the region, and to help introduce mitigation measures to reduce the impact on local population and environment. Anti-Corruption WET Consultant Engineers fully adheres to the principle that businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The following measures are in place to uphold this principle: • Employees all adhere to our policy of mutual trust and respect, which includes a strict ban on all forms of kickbacks, bribery, and corruption, whether in the office or on construction sites. • We conduct regular financial auditing by different actors to identify any irregularities or suspicious payments. • We assess the risks of corruption and bribery when doing business with any new clients or partners and always mention our commitment to ethical behaviour. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The following are some of the measurable outcomes that have resulted from the practical actions and policies listed in section 2. • Our push to diversify our workforce has resulted in four new women being hired during the period covered by this COP. • We have conducted full ESIAs (Environmental and Social Impact Assessments) for 45% of our new projects in the period covered by this COP. • Our strict adherence to health and safety protocols on sites has allowed the rate of workplace and on-site injuries to remain at 0%.
