CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION 04 Tipico is ranked as one of the top ten most influential online gambling providers worldwide. With a market share of more than 50 %, we are the number one in Germany. Discover how we got here and what role football plays at Tipico in the section Who We Are. How do we live up to being a responsible company? Find out about our standards and what topics we focus on in the Corporate Responsibility section. EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET 14 Our employees are a key factor for our success and show high engagement in cultural values. How do we live our values? What does Uniqueness mean for us? How do we organise Training and Development to foster Leadership? In this section you further find out about the role Sports and Well-being is playing within the company and how we let our Staff Shaping Culture. PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS 29 More than 80 % of our customers are greatly satisfied with our offers. They trust us. How do we run our business to reach this high level of Customer Satisfaction? How are we fostering Clean Sports via sports integrity partnerships? How are we using technology to increase the Player Protection and Protection of Minors? How do we exclude minors? And how are we monitoring the effectiveness of protection? In this section we offer all the answers concerning our Product Quality. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: 43 OUR APPROACH Business integrity is required for sustainable success. How is our governance structure set up? How do we dynamically adapt to a market in which change is the only constant? How do we keep our data safe and minimise risks? Answers can be found in the section Compliance and Risk Management. How do we prevent money laundering? In the description of our approach you can read about our Business Ethics and how we protect our business and our customers from criminal activity. 2 BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS: HOW WE 56 ENGAGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES In 2019, more than € 300,000 was donated in the field of healthcare, prevention research and social development as part of our community involvement. What do Our Communities look like and how do we support them by providing employment and taxes? In the section How Our Employees Engage you will find further information on how we are combining charity with sporting events, what opportunities are offered to our employees to get involved and how many hours were spent on community work. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE 64 Following the motto “less is more”, we are focusing on reducing Our Impact. How are we reducing negative impact? And what are our focus areas? Information on carbon emissions resulting from Business Travel are further described in this section. SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS 73 PARTNERS 97 % of our supplied goods and services were purchased from EU Member States. How do we thereby positively support human rights matters? And how do we make sure to get a precise picture of all our business partners? Find out more about Our Supply. WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND 78 APPENDIX 79 IMPRINT AND CONTACT 90 3 INTRODUCTION Dear Readers, We are publishing this report as people around the and sustainable business practices. It is not just the globe are fighting the COVID-19 pandemic which result of a few people’s work, but is influenced by brings with its uncertainties and changes for everthe actions of each and every employee in the Tipiyone. While it is still too early to describe the longco Group as well as our external collaborative partterm outcomes of the crisis, something has beconers. Internally, our employees bring our values to me evident: In the framework of the pandemic a life and support Tipico in continuously improving multitude of positive initiatives have been set up, our performance. In 2019, we therefore focused on illustrating that sustainable transformations are increasing training for employees by offering an possible in all areas. extensive leadership programme and by ensuring that employees participate in all compliance traiThe same goes for Tipico. For us, corporate responning sessions. We trust all our employees to follow sibility means successfully operating our business the highest ethical standards and we are proud in a sustainable manner. Therefore, we are proud that over the last year so many of us got actively to present our corporate responsibility report 2019, involved in shaping our company through voluntawhich discloses extensive information on our efry culture work streams. At the same time, external forts to be a trusted and responsible corporate citicollaboration helps us reach our goals. Since 2018, zen. The report highlights a number of projects and we have been part of the UN Global Compact, the key indicators that demonstrate how we integrate largest sustainability initiative worldwide which sustainable business decisions in all our actions, enables us to align and take actions with the supdelivering better outcomes for all our stakeholders port of the United Nations. We are committed to and communities. It increases transparency and the principles of the initiative and will keep working helps all stakeholders understand our values and towards our common goals. commitment. After a successful year, we are now excited to preIn 2019, both the trust in our brand and satisfacsent you with our results. tion with our product increased among customers. We have more than 280,000 active online users on a Bundesliga match day and we have been ranked The Tipico Board the 6th most influential online gambling provider Joachim Baca (CEO), Stefan Eck (CFO), Marlon van der Goes (CCO) worldwide. All this is the result of our trustworthy and Karin Klein (CRO) 4 5 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION: WHO WE ARE more than 6,000 people work for our entire Group From a single betting shop to the market leader: We and the associated franchise network, which conare the home for sports betting in Germany, and in sists of around 1,270 retail shops. We are known for 2019 we ranked 6th among the most influential onour sports entertainment products, and our custoline gambling providers worldwide.1 mers’ bets are in safe hands with us. As a reliable partner of sport, we are committed to integrity, the Our success story begins in a small betting shop in highest standards of data security, and the protecKarlsruhe. What started as a tiny business of three tion of minors and vulnerable players. Our compastudents quickly evolved into a flourishing comny can look back with pride on an incredible year in pany with a strong digital-driven business model. 2019, with many highlights such as numerous exciSoon, we became one of the leading European betting Bundesliga matches, a powerful FIFA Women’s ting providers with online and land-based operaWorld Cup and the Basketball World Cup. tions. Since 2004, the company’s headquarter has been in St. Julian’s, Malta. We not only hold licences During the year we registered many new records for sports betting and our online casino, but also and were able to keep the gratifyingly high level employ around 330 people from more than 30 naof customer activity stable even after the tournations on the Mediterranean island, being one of the ments ended. most popular employers there. We are licensed by the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA) to conduct betIn 2019, we strengthened our market share of over ting businesses and operate casino offers. We also 50 % in Germany, making us one of the largest prohave a sports betting and online casino licence in viders in the digital gaming business on an internaSchleswig-Holstein, Germany. tional level. Our strong performance was confirmed by the leading industry magazine eGaming Review, Furthermore, we operate branches in Germany, which ranked us among the top ten. Compared to Austria, Croatia, Colombia and Gibraltar. Currently, 2018 (7th place), we received an even better ranking, more than 750 people work for the Tipico Group. making us the 6th most influential online gambling Including staff in our own retail shops, that numprovider worldwide. ber increases to around 1,550 employees. In total, 1EGR (2019) Retrieved from: https://egr.global/intel/egr-power-50/egr-power-50-2019-tipico-06/ 6 BEHIND THE SCENES: LEADING TO SUCCESS From left to right: Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Stefan Eck, who joined in 2017, our Chief Regulatory Officer (CRO) Karin Klein, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Joachim Baca and our Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Marlon van der Goes have been part of the management board since 2016. Our board does not only share a passion for sports but also possesses many years of experience in the gaming industry. Just like our employees, all members of the board bring our company values to life and thereby push the success of the business. We TRUST that every member of our organization does the right thing to contribute to the overall success of the business. We take the trust placed in us by our customers and other stakeholders as an incentive to continuously maintain a safe environment, integrity and trusted relationships. PROGRESS describes our constant quest for improvement. We put this into action through the training and further education of our employees as well as the constant innovation and further development of our services. Due to our PASSION for sports, we enjoy our work. This also connects us closely to our customers, because we share a common commitment: We never settle for second. 7 INTRODUCTION WE ARE A SPORTS BETTING COMPANY: IT’S ALL ABOUT FOOTBALL We Are We Are aa Sports Sports Betting Company: It’s Betting Company: It’s All All about about Football Football SPORTS COVERAGE SPORTS COVERAGE Sports Sports Coverage Coverage BY EVENTS Sports Sports Coverage Coverage BY TURNOVER By By Events Events By By Turnover Turnover 2% 2% 1%1% 2% 2% 3% 3% Football Football 16% 16% Football Football 6% 6% Basketball Basketball Tennis Tennis 3% 3% 7% 7% Tennis Tennis 43% 43% Basketball Basketball 4% 4% Ice Ice hockey hockey Volleyball Volleyball 5% 5% Volleyball Volleyball Ice Ice hockey hockey Handball Handball 6% 6% Handball Handball Esports Esports Other Sports Other Sports 80% 80% 11% 11% 12% 12% Even Even though offers include our offers though our include hundreds hundreds ofof different different sports sports events events every every single single day, day, around around 90%Even though our offers include hundreds of different sports events every single day, around 90 % of of all all placed bets are placed bets are related related to to football football games. of all placed bets are related to football games. games. TOP TOP33FOOTBALL COMPETITIONS2019 FOOTBALL COMPETITIONS 2019 TURNOVER BY TURNOVER ! We ! have the We have the #1 sports betting #1 sports betting app app in the German in the German AppleApple AppApp Store Store ! We ! We hold hold more more than 2 50% of than 50% of the the market1 share in market share the German in the sports betting German sports betting market market 3 ! On ! average, On average, Champions handle handle more weLeague we more than than 55 million million bets Bundesliga per bets per day day League Premier 8 We have the #1 sports betting app in the German Apple App Store. We hold more than 50 % of the market share in the German sports betting market. On average, we handle more than 5 million bets per day. AVERAGE NUMBER OF BETS PER DAY 6,000,000 Number of Sports Offered – Overall 30 + 5,000,000 Average Sport Events Offered per Day 4,000,000 – Overall 730 3,000,000 Unique Active Online Users up to 2,000,000 284,000 on a football match day 1,000,000 2017 2018 2019 TOP 3 FOOTBALL EVENTS 2019 BY TURNOVER TOP 3 FOOTBALL EVENTS 2019 BY TURNOVER 2 1 3 Bayern München Tottenham Ajax vs. vs. vs. Liverpool FC Liverpool FC Tottenham 13/03/19 01/06/19 08/05/19 9 INTRODUCTION OUR PARTNERS We are a highly trusted partner in the sports world. In Germany we are the Official Partner of the Bundesliga and 2. Bundesliga, Official Platinum Partner of the FC Bayern München as well as the Platinum Partner of the FC Bayern Basketball. In Austria, we are the Official Betting Provider of the Austrian Bundesliga. 10 ACCESSIBLE EVERYWHERE: ONLINE AND RETAIL We are the home of sports betting. Our online offers are always available. In 2019 digital revenues accounted for almost 70 % of total revenues – and that number is rising. In addition to our position as a digital pioneer, we can build on our successful multi-channel strategy with a strong retail presence in Germany and Austria. Our large network consists of our own shops, as well as franchise shops throughout Germany and Austria. In 2019, we increased the network of shops operated by our own Group companies to around 230 in both countries (grey dots). Together with the extensive franchise network (white dots) we offer our services in more than 1,270 outlets. GERMANY SHOPS TOTAL 2019 more than + 70 new Tipico-owned shops (compared to 2018) AUSTRIA SHOPS TOTAL 2019 Tipico Franchise 11 79% BOARD Consultation and monitoring Direct reporting on CR topics implementation of guidelines INTERNAL GROUP CR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT STAKEHOLDERS Dialogue with Dialogue with internal stakeholders external stakeholders Consultation and support for Direct reporting on CR topics implementing local CR initatives LOCAL CR Active support of employeeAMBASSADORS driven initiatives and implementation IN GROUP ENTITIES of internal stakeholders CR POLICY In all our entities, local staff members have volunteered to act as CR ambassadors. They have better insight into their local communities and are therefore well-positioned to identify potential economic, environmental and social impacts in their specific locations. In 2019, the main group consisted of around ten employees. These ambassadors help our central CR to connect with local communities, raise awareness in their regions, and support approved employee-driven charitable activities and practical execution of local volunteering projects. Through this framework, we can assure that all CR impacts of our Group entities are taken into consideration and coordinated centrally within the Tipico Group. As collaboration can effect powerful changes in markets and societies, we participated in the UN Global Compact (UNGC) for the second consecutive year. The Compact is signed by companies that promote certain social and environmental standards which are set out in ten main principles. It is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. The UN Global Compact enables companies to align strategies and operations with the universal principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and takes action in these areas – all with the knowledge and experience of the United Nations. In the course of this participation, we signed a statement in which we committed to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact – one of the first participants within our sector to do so. In 2019, the suggestions provided by the UNGC were used for defining the content of the first Tipico CR report. Employees further actively participated in training offered by the UNGC Academy. Thereby, employees’ overall understanding of sustainable business practices was increased. 13 MATERIALITY MATERIALITY RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE RELEVANCE INTERNALINTERNAL EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET Compliance Consumer Compliance Protection Consumer Business Protection Ethics Training andTraining and Diversity and Business Diversity and Equal Opportunities Ethics DevelopmentDevelopment Equal Opportunities Community Human Supply Environmental Community Human Supply Environmental Involvement Rights Chain Impacts Involvement Rights Chain Impacts WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: • respecting applicable labour laws and applying • more than 100 employees in leading positions fair labour practices (80 %) participated in an extensive leadership • providing development opportunities, which development programme are aligned with individual and organisational • 86 % of our employees participated in the needs and focus on growing knowledge, skills, employee satisfaction survey; 85 % believe interpersonal communication and leadership Tipico is a trustworthy and responsible operator • encouraging the lifelong education of employees • the positions of all employees were reviewed through appropriate training budgets distributed as part of the job levelling project across sites • we commenced culture work streams and set • supporting regular feedback sessions between up a new sports committee employees, managers and peer groups • we promoted diversity by engaging in the • providing the necessary tools and resources to Diversity Day of the Diversity Charta enable employees to execute their account• the percentage of women within the company abilities increased to 25 % (+ 3 % compared to 2018) • supporting the health of employees by providing benefits such as health days or subsidising sports activities 14 UNIQUENESS: ONE TEAM, COMMON VALUES, DIFFERENT MINDSETS As the most important resource of the company, and thus a key factor for success, employees are at the core of Tipico. That is why we not only offer a unique international working environment, but also an extensive range of training courses and promotion of sports activities and health benefits. This allows each employee to succeed and gives us a head start to find the best talent. With a wide range of expertise, qualifications and years of experience in the field, we have formed a team that combines a passion for sports and strong identification with our Tipico brand. As part of this identity, we believe that a free, fair, non-prejudiced and ethnically-vibrant employee base helps bring together many voices, multiple talent pools, and a plethora of capabilities – creating a unique roadmap for our success and growth. In 2019, we employed people of more than 40 different nationalities. NATIONALITIES OF TIPICO EMPLOYEES IN 2019 Our strategy leading to such diverse teams is a simple, uncompromising meritocracy without any prejudice: always hire the best candidates. By focusing on qualifications, values and motivation, we have absolute clarity on the values that new employees bring to the company. We benefit from the expertise and unique perspective of each and every one of them. On senior levels (executives, directors and heads of departments) the blend of nationalities is also diverse, with approximately 40 % coming from the local communities in which we operate. In 2019, no incidents of discrimination were reported. In 2018, Tipico signed the Diversity Charta, a corporate initiative to promote diversity in companies and institutions under the auspices of the German Federal Chancellor Dr Angela Merkel. The charter aims at promoting recognition, appreciation, inclusion and diversity in the workplace and in everyday life in Germany. We were one of the first companies in the gambling industry to become part of this initiative. In the framework of the Diversity Day 2019, Tipico organised events for employees across all locations. Even though internationality is a strength, other dimensions of diversity are of equal importance to us. Therefore, we set working patterns to minimise barriers for employees with special needs and track gender and age ratios of employees. Nevertheless, more men than women are still interested in the industry. This becomes apparent when comparing data about our employees to the gender balance of our customers, in both cases the majority are male. Another reason might be that Tipico employs several professional groups which are statistically more male-dominated, such as software developers.2 2 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/167555/umfrage/frauenanteil-in-verschiedenen-berufsgruppen-in-deutschland/ 15 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET At Tipico around 25 % of employees are female. We attempt to address and mitigate this whenever vacant positions in the critical group are available. GENDER RELATIONS GENDER RELATIONS GENDER RELATIONS IN CORE BUSINESS AREAS OF NEWLY HIRED PEOPLE OF VISITORS ON IN CORE BUSINESS AREAS CAREER WEBSITE 25% 32% 31% 75% 68% 69% Female Male Female Male Female Male In 2019, we managed to reach our goal of minimising the difference between the percentages of women who are interested in working for Tipico and our actual workforce. While in 2018 the average amount of women at Tipico was around 22 % of the workforce, in 2019 we succeeded in increasing that amount to more than 25 %. Among newly hired employees we even reached an average of around 32 %. This number mirrors the percentage of women interested in working for Tipico (31 %). At the most senior levels, 90 % of our leadership is male, and this is something we are seeking to address whenever we have vacant positions within this critical group. To simplify the working routine for employees with families, we offer a kindergarten-type childcare service for children of employees at our headquarters. 16 EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUPS AGE GROUPS OF CANDIDATES IN CORE BUSINESS AREAS3 APPLYING IN 2019 50 % 50 % 40 % 40 % 30 % 30 % 20 % 20 % 10 % 10 % 0 % 0 % 18-27 28-37 38-47 48-57 58-67 18-27 28-37 38-47 48-57 58-67 2018 2019 In terms of age, we have a relatively young workforce with an average age of 34. The current workforce thereby partly mirrors the people interested in jobs at Tipico. The majority of prospective employees are in the age groups of 18–27 and 28–37. This again reflects our customer base of young adults. EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 95 % of employees in core business Along with the steadily growing market presence and increased product offers, our team is continuareas are employed full time. ously growing. The number of employees in core 93 % of employees in core business business areas by the end of each year grew by around 12 % from 2017 to 2018 and 8 % from 2018 areas are permanently employed. to 2019. As in the previous year, around 93 % are permanently employed. 95 % of all our employees in core locations are working full time. When including our retail businesses, these numbers decrease due to the high number of student workers in the EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF THE YEAR Tipico shops. IN CORE BUSINESS AREAS 800 600 400 20 0 0% 2017 2018 2019 3 Core business areas are calculated without on-site retail businesses 17 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET 18 In 2019, the annual staff turnover discernibly decreased to 14 % compared to 18 % in 2017 and 2018. Because our goal is to maintain the best talent, attractive career development opportunities for our employees are essential. For instance, in Malta 29 employees were promoted or advanced internally to higher positions. This number equals around 16 % of all newly filled positions. This applies especially to the customer support team, which is often seen as a stepping stone to understanding the company and progressing from there on. Having an outside perspective as a starting point en– ables us to focus on our customers and their experience throughout a Tipico career. -4 % STAFF TURNOVER compared to 2018 19 RESPONSI BLEGAMI NG GETT OKNOW OURBUSI NESS BUSI NESSI NTEL LIGENC E PEERF EEDBAC K AML L EADERSHI P SOFTSKI LLS C OAC HING PERFORMANCEMANAGEMENT C I OMPUT L NGSKILS OY EMPL EEWELL NG BEI The programme also involves a variety of tailortrainer skills and knowledge and 94 % for training made training options specifically designed to content, confirming the successful delivery of such complement Tipico’s culture with the aim of builtopics, providing us with a glimpse into the level of ding momentum and achieving a unified viewpoint engagement of participants with the programme. on leadership behaviours. Topics include areas aimed at improving professional skills such as facilitating meetings, leading conversations, delivering presentations and storytelling and also managerial skills such as coaching employees, solving conflicts 94 % of participating leaders confirmed and stress management. Feedback from the sessithat training content was helpful ons showed an average favourable score of 97 % for EMPLOYEE TRAINING demand that employees push and challenge themIn 2019, each employee within the main business selves to improve their professional and personal areas received on average more than 19 hours (2.4 skills. Around 58 % of employees further receive redays) of dedicated training supplemented by varigular performance and development reviews. We ous further informal training possibilities such as offer a variety of online, face-to-face and integraTipico Talks, “Outside the Box” sessions, quarterly ted training options in order to reach and appeal to updates and “Good Morning Malta” sessions, provias many employees as possible. The opportunities ded by experts within the organisation. The numare endless. ber is almost five times as high as in the previous year. This is not only due to the increased tracking accuracy but to the increased focus on training as well. Knowledge, qualifications and the commitMore than 2.4 DAYS of training ment of employees is a differentiator amongst the per employee competition for talent. As part of our culture, we 21 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET THE INDUCTION PROGRAMME Learning about how Tipico functions as an organisation, the responsibilities of each entity within the Tipico Group and how departments collaborate on projects and initiatives is a vital part of an employee’s introduction to the company. The Induction Programme focuses on educating new employees about Tipico’s structure, values, products and culture. It allows employees to better understand where they fit into the business and how they can contribute to the company’s goals. The programme also includes various sessions that are delivered by experts from key areas of the business, with the aim of offering a more detailed introduction and overview of their department to deepen their understanding of the business. Introduction to Introduction to Introduction to Introduction to HR Acquisition and CRM Gaming Bookmarking MANDATORY TRAINING An important aspect of training within the company is not only to help employees extend their skills but to make sure everyone understands the principles of integrity and follows regulations, standards and applicable best practices. We therefore provide extensive mandatory training to all employees. Office and shop employees are trained regularly to treat data confidentially, to be aware of information security processes and to minimise the risk of money laundering. We ensure that customer-facing employees are trained on responsible gaming (RG) topics and that all shop employees receive regular accredited training specific to their roles. By using customised offers, Tipico ensures that the training is valuable and progress on all compliance training is tracked accurately. Anti-Money GDPR Responsible Gaming Information Security Laundering UPSKILLING COURSES Tipico employees use learning opportunities to share knowledge, overcome challenges, progress themselves and their teams, build trust and share passions. During discussions with their line managers, employees identify their key developmental needs. Employees are encouraged to work on finding opportunities for their own development. With the development of technical skills, language skills, people skills and managerial skills, Tipico ensures efficiency when working on projects and initiatives in a collaborative manner. Training, development initiatives vary from one entity to the next in order to address unique cultures, business needs and priorities. Professional Skills and Language Skills People and Soft Skills Managerial Skills Knowledge 22 COLLABORATIVE LEARNING In the past five years, we have offered employees the opportunity to participate in the One Tipico Xchange Programme. This allows employees to travel to other offices in order to increase collaboration between departments. Participants have a chance to take part in on-the-job learning, or to attend informative meetings with colleagues from other teams. This allows them to build strong partnerships, improve individual and team communication and further develop their interpersonal skills. The programme is well integrated within the culture. In 2019, 12 participants travelled within the programme. In total, over 65 employees have participated in the Xchange programme. Xchange Programme Tipico Talks is an initiative that is delivered within a format that includes short get-togethers with the intention of discussing various topics. This provides an opportunity to the speaker to practice their presentation and public speaking skills, whilst sharing their passions, current or upcoming projects or an innovative movement in the industry with the audience. Some discussions are open for all employees throughout the Group to learn and to share knowledge. Initiatives by the Learning Community also form part of the “Tipico Talks” umbrella. Initiatives such as “Good Morning Malta” and the “4 O’Clock Tea” aim to share information related to programmes and projects, while “Tech Talks” cover industry trends and innovations in a brief but effective manner. “Outside the Box” sessions offer employees the opportunity to learn about topics that are not related to work, such as photography and sports. In Karlsruhe, a buddy programme was also successfully introduced in 2019. Tipico Talks Teams across Tipico are encouraged to dedicate time to spend with other departments with the purpose of learning about their processes, roles and responsibilities, as long as this is in line with business priorities and provides value to the organisation. This greatly improves collaboration between departments on more efficient procedures, allows stakeholders to be involved in projects at an early stage and ensures that there is constant progress and productivity. This cross-departmental exchange was launched within Marketing Teams and between Customer Services and the Gaming department at Tipico, among other departments. Cross-department Exchange 23 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET SPORTS AND WELL-BEING Following the motto “Winning isn’t everything; it’s the only thing” (Henry Russell) we organised sports and health days at our offices in Croatia, Germany and Malta supplemented by many further sport events such as runs and tournaments at all Tipico sites. Why? Sport is fun, the base of our business model – and the health of employees is important to us. That’s why we don’t stop at offering sports days but further support our employees by providing gym membership benefits, subsidies for private health insurance and fruit baskets in most offices. We also have site-specific recreational activities such as football and table tennis to offer sporting activities during breaks. These measures together with flexible work times pay off. Our employees appear not only to be happy but healthy as well. As in 2018, the average sick days of the Group rewell-being (i.e. stress reduction) in the workplace. mained constantly below five days per year in Employees may contact the foundation at any time 2019. All locations where public data is available for an appointment, without the need for approval are considerably below their respective national by or disclosure to their line manager. averages (Germany 20184; Croatia and Malta 20175), with Croatia at an average of 3.6 days, Germany at ANNUAL SICK LEAVE OF TIPICO an average of 6.2 days and Malta at an average of EMPLOYEES COMPARED 3.0 days. Further data is available for employees in TO NATIONAL AVERAGES Colombia at an average of 1.6 days and Gibraltar at an average of 3.8 sick days per year. 100 % Some locations additionally have health and safety representatives, safety officers or employee re80 % presentatives. For instance, in Malta an employee representative is elected every third year. Further– 60 % more, around 20 employees in Malta were trained as fire wardens and another 20 as first aiders in 40 % 2019. Employees additionally benefit from free mental health services and preventative advice on 20 % mental health symptoms via a partner organisation 0 % (Richmond Foundation) which promotes mental Croatia Germany Malta 4 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/13441/umfrage/entwicklung-der-jaehrlichen-anzahl-krankheitsbedingterfehltage-je-arbeitnehmer/ 5 World Health Organization (2019) Retrieved from: https://gateway.euro.who.int/en/indicators/hfa_411-2700-absenteeism-from-work-due-to-illness-daysper-employee-per-year/ 24 BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES New job roles are also assessed by using the same In 2019, we managed to further extend our Tipico methodology and tools. sports betting brand position. The reason behind This aligns salaries throughout Tipico, safeguards this is our strong community and the committed fairness and further reduces the risk of discriminaemployees. The whole Group is working hard and tion in pay among employees. therefore earning a competitive salary. Employees While parental leave and minimum notice periods are not covered by collective bargaining agreeare for the most part handled based on national ments. Nevertheless, in order to contrast salaries laws, we offer our employees a range of additional of employees against the industry standard, we benefits. As for the salary structure, we are consobtain external assurance based on extensive data tantly working on defining a clear global strategy bases of comparable positions. based on total reward and on harmonising benefits For this reason, we introduced an alignment in the among Tipico Group entities. The goal of this harsalary structure of the whole Group and launched monisation project is to enhance the global “One a job levelling project in 2018. The job levelling proTipico” strategy, to identify and address gaps, deliject continued in 2019 and resulted in the successver improved alignment and to offer all employees ful review of all positions at Tipico. All roles have valuable benefits alongside their salary. Besides been analysed by taking into consideration industry German entities, benefits are provided to all emspecific and cross-country benchmarks. These ployees without differentiation between full-time multiple benchmarks were compared with the aim and part-time jobs, student workers or interns. of providing an accurate picture of the very specific industry in which Tipico operates. The result of this work is a powerful tool that has been used since x2 the project was completed to compare our interOn average, the minimum wages at Tipico nal compensation data with the external benchare twice as high as the respective local mark and guarantee competitive compensation minimum wages in all core business entities. packages and internal equity for all our existing roles. 25 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: STAFF SHAPING CULTURE At Tipico, we believe that the best way to continue success is by taking care of employees’ needs and giving them opportunities to grow by getting involved. Therefore, we regularly ask for feedback in the form of employee engagement surveys, offer developmental support on various topics and proactively enlist employee perspectives to continue delivery of relevant and inspiring employee initiatives. In 2019, 86 % of employees participated in the engagement survey, a 4 % increase compared to 2018, showing high engagement in cultural values. CULTURE AND INTERPERSONAL BEST IMPROVEMENTS COMPARED HIGHLIGHTS OF 2019: TO 2018: 86 % of employees participated, showing +17 % believe Tipico operates as One Team high engagement in cultural values +15 % agree that we have a progressive 85 % of these consider us a responsible and mindset at Tipico: We are always looking trustworthy operator to do more, challenging ourselves and 87 % of employees think they have guilooking to learn dance from their managers on how to be successful in their roles 86 % are aware of how their work directly contributes to the goals of Tipico 76 % are proud to work for Tipico In-house workshops were organised across the Group to create a set of action plans, further improving the engagement of our employees and guiding their progress. One of the focus areas identified was the improvement in collaboration across the organisation. As a result of feedback gathered in 2018 and 2019, our leadership team continues to communicate frequently about its organisational strategy and goals. The overall results confirm another step towards our “One Tipico” mindset, working more efficiently together as one team for our product, contributing towards our success. Maximise Positive Impact Employees from all areas are actively driving working groups from our culture programme on a voluntary basis to share and explore their ideas for further improvements. With the creation of culture workgroups, Tipico expanded the possibilities for employee-driven initiatives, emphasising social and environmental topics, collaborative working, knowledge-sharing, networking and development opportunities. The groups are as follows: The corporate social responsibility (CSR) work stream organises events and activities for good causes such as charity races and breast cancer awareness days. Furthermore, location-specific Corporate Responsibilities (CR) activities comprised charitable auctions and CR Days across the Group. The Learning Community work stream creates opportunities within the company to encourage knowledgesharing initiatives such as those under the “Tipico Talks” umbrella, namely “Good Morning Malta” and “4 O’clock Tea”. 26 The Building Bridges work stream aims to increase collaboration by building stronger relationships between locations and departments. The recognition team also finds new ways of showing appreciation to employees for their efforts and contributions. Other work streams, for example the Events work stream and the Sports Committee, provide opportunities for employees to meet and to network through internal events such as the end-of-year events and sporting activities such as the sports day events in each location. The Culture group works together on various initiatives with the aim of learning, collaborating and networking, which in turn will contribute towards shaping Tipico’s culture. 27 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: In 2019, a lot was achieved in terms of employment at Tipico. We focused on the leadership development programme, affecting not only employees in leading positions but their team members as well. Due to our steadily increasing business activities we further focused on recruitment and managed to create a joblevelling tool. We have been able to employ many new talents, expanding our diverse team to more than 750 employees in core business areas, including a higher share of women among our newly recruited employees. Some of the targets from 2019 will be ongoing, as these focus on continuous improvement. Therefore, the following targets have been set for 2020: continuation of the Leadership Development Programme for people managers at Tipico continuous work on the reward area: review of the benefits and incentives offered at Tipico to gain a better understanding of possible alignment and enhancements review of talent acquisition process & tools and introduction of enhancements aiming at quality of the talent recruited to join Tipico review of learning & development offers at Tipico and alignment across offices to ensure availability of most important training and development opportunities design and implementation of pilot career paths framework to create transparency for career progression and professional development implementation of a series of guidelines to keep people managers informed about how to take people decisions and support employees in various business situations implementation of aligned HR systems landscape for our retail colleagues in Germany building a set-up for people analytics and data quality design and implementation of the employer branding concept aiming at building a consistent and authentic picture of Tipico as a workplace 28 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: • creating the safest gambling environment – • 74 % of online and 83 % of our retail customers be it online or in the shops were greatly satisfied with our products and • protecting minors and vulnerable players services effectively • 97 % of our customers can be considered • continuously improving the player protection moderate gamblers, based on behavioural concept that governs our approach beyond monitoring regulatory requirements • we implemented stringent document verifica• maintaining the best international practices for tion: more than 620,000 documents have been responsible advertising checked and approved • supporting research conducted by leading • more than 2,800 tests and quality audits within researchers in the field of addiction prevention our retail network were carried out • supporting counselling providers in our core • more than 140 in-person RG training sessions markets resulting in more than 12,700 person-hours • following the highest standards for responsible were completed gaming (RG) as directed in the Tipico RG Policy • 98 % of customer-facing employees completed online RG training (+3 % compared to 2018) • we maintained our six major partnerships with a focus on sports integrity 29 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: PROVIDING A SAFE AND EXCITING EXPERIENCE 76% of online customers and Trust and safety are deciding factors for consumer choice. Therefore, Tipico is dedicated to offering 83% of retail customers customers trustworthy and safe products. The are greatly satisfied with our products forces of an open, regulated market are drivers and services for consumer protection. Only by providing highquality products, exciting the customer, while at 79% believe Tipico is a responsible operator the same time satisfying all safety concerns, we can gain the trust and loyalty of consumers. Our performance is reflected in the feedback of customers. Overall, our customers enjoy our In 2019, 79 % of customers further agreed that offers and services.6 Among online customers in Tipico is a responsible operator. Germany, satisfaction remained at 76 % of custoOverall, customer satisfaction with our services mers greatly satisfied with Tipico, with that number increased over 2019, with an average of 72.5 % even higher in retail at 83 % (+2 % compared to of customer service contacts rated as satisfying. 2018). Thereby, trustworthiness is one of the preThat is a plus of 8 % compared to the prior repordominant attributes associated with the company. ting period of 2018. CUSTOMERS RATING US GREATLY SATISFIED CUSTOMERS ESPECIALLY TRUSTWORTHY 80 % 80 % 60 % 60 % 40 % 40 % 20 % 20 % 0 % 0 % Online Retail Online Retail 2018 2019 2018 2019 Even though our customer base continued to grow in 2019, the number of complaints remained at the same level. Externally, we only received 10 complaints via eCommerce Online Gaming Regulation and Assurance (eCOGRA) and four complaints via Malta Gaming Authority (MGA). All were able to be resolved in mutual agreement without the help of further parties. To understand customer satisfaction even better, find our product quality highlights at a glance: PLAYER PROTECTION AND PROTECTION OF MINORS Effective player protection is a central requirement of regulated gambling services. It is also an issue of particular importance to us. Tipico therefore integrates player protection mechanisms into all its operations. Furthermore, we ban minors from participating in gaming under all circumstances. Both our retail stores and the online sector are strongly monitored and identity checks are carried out. 6Tipico (2019) Brand Tracking Report 30 INTEGRITY AND FAIRNESS As a licensed operator, we stand for fairness and integrity. Due to our gambling licences, we are subject to regulatory supervision and audits. Technical components of services, such as the random number generator, are tested and certified independently. Additionally, we support the integrity of sports by cooperating with sports associations and participating in early warning systems to prevent match fixing. SAFETY OF FUNDS AND PAYMENTS The safety of customer funds is pivotal to us. Customer funds are always kept in segregated accounts, separated from company funds. This process ensures the safety of funds and is regularly audited on behalf of licensing authorities. Similarly, the process of outgoing payments is precisely monitored to assure the fast and correct payment of winnings. DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY Secure and state-of-the-art encryption technologies are used to transmit data between the customer and internal operations. We therefore have an SSL certificate, an encryption protocol for secure data transmission. With the Information Security Management System (ISMS), which is certified by TÜV Rhineland, we ensure that the technical security of computer systems is reviewed and adapted as needed on an annual basis. This shows that we offer comprehensive protection in accordance with the international ISO 27001 standard. CUSTOMER FEEDBACK Improvement is only possible by being receptive to feedback from customers. Should a customer have a dissatisfying experience with the service, we offer a transparent complaint process that can ultimately lead to mediation conducted by a neutral arbitration board if necessary. All complaints are replied to within two weeks. As an independent, accredited arbitration body, eCOGRA, is responsible for these complaints. As part of this agreement, Tipico is 100 % committed to always adhering to the recommendations made by eCOGRA. Furthermore, customers are given the opportunity to contact the online gaming support of the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA). 31 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS CLEAN SPORTS: OUR COMMITMENT TO SPORTS INTEGRITY IS KEY FOR OUR BUSINESS MODEL Manipulation of sporting events not only tarnishes the reputation of sports. By manipulating the outcome of bets, it also strongly impacts the business model of betting operators and creates an unfair disadvantage for legitimate customers. Consequently, the goals of sports associations, consumer protection and betting operators are well aligned in combatting this form of crime. Aggregated data from betting operators can often be a most valuable source of data to track down potential incidents. Therefore, we support sports federations by participating in several early warning systems. A specially dedicated department painstakingly investigates any indication of potential criminal activities by working closely with relevant authorities and security organisations. We collaborate with the international football association FIFA on sports integrity. Associations and event organisers are contacted as soon as conspicuous betting behaviour is detected. Even though football is our main target area, we focus on all offered types of sports. Tipico collaborates with Sportradar’s integrity department, Betgenius and the International Olympics Committee. In addition, we work with the Tennis Integrity Unit of the International Tennis Federation. All of these organisations focus on sports integrity. 32 PLAYER PROTECTION AND PROTECTION OF MINORS: OUR RESOURCES Security and player protection are integral parts of the product promise. We accept the challenge of assuring an exciting gambling experience. However, this also includes the responsibility to detect and protect vulnerable customers and make sure no minors participate in our offers. That is why we have established guidelines in a binding player protection concept and outlined these on a player protection page for customers. Our endeavours to provide the safest betting environment are driven strategically by the Corporate Responsibility department (two full-time equivalent employees (FTEs)), which reports to the Chief Regulatory Officer (CRO). Operationally, they are supported by the RG team, which increased by two people in 2019 (seven FTEs). Shop controls and mystery shopping exercises are conducted by the quality team, which increased by four people to eight FTEs including trainers. HEAD OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBLE GAMING RESPONSIBLE TEAMLEAD QUALITY RESPONSIBILITY MANAGER (TSA) GAMING MANAGER AND TRAINING MANAGER 2 1 1 1 RESPONSIBLE QUALITY TEAM GAMING TEAM 2 4 External resources further help us reach our RG goals. These include TU Dresden’s “Spielerambulanz” and “Spielsuchthilfe”, multi-lingual online counselling provider “Gambling Therapy” (e.g. to be able to support migrants), as well as the association “Glücksfall e.V.”. We are working with leading German research institutions, the Chair of Addiction Research at TU Dresden, and the University of Lucerne, with the goal of continually improving player protection. Our approach, however, does not end with our online offers and our own shops. All franchisees of Tipico are required to adhere to the same high standards. Since 2019, all of our franchise partners have been obliged to appoint a player protection officer. It is this person’s task to implement the player protection measures and documentation requirements. Player protection officers take at least 16 hours a week in order to care for the correct implementation of measures and support other employees in doing so. 33 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS RG TRAINING In order to implement a stringent player protection strategy, knowledge and awareness among em– ployees is further crucial. Therefore, our employees receive several trainings on RG topics. In 2019, the following training sessions were carried out: In many member states, counselling providers for the prevention of gambling-related problems are not publicly funded. Therefore – as a general principle – we support counselling providers in our core markets. Tipico also supports research conducted by leading researchers in the field of addiction prevention. All findings of this research are sourced back into the public domain – to make betting safer for everyone. 34 ADULTS ONLY Both online and in our retail stores, we prohibit minors from participating in any gambling activities. Our product targets adults who participate in sports betting as entertainment only. Responsibility is taken very seriously, and employees are trained accordingly. In 2019, around 3,400 employees successfully completed an online training course on minor protection in addition to responsible gaming training (see page 34). Identity and age checks (online as well as in our shops) are carried out. All online accounts, as well as Tipico customer cards for the retail business, rely on age and identity verification based on database checks (e.g. SCHUFA) and checks of ID documents. The focus on the protection of minors also applies to our marketing. As part of Tipico’s advertising policy, we avoid any advertising that could have a specific appeal to people under the age of 18. In 2019: ONLINE: RETAIL: • we conducted almost 125,000 ID verifi– • we conducted more than 496,000 ID verifications due to our strict regulations cations • 4,043 minors were caught trying to access • more than 82,000 additional age checks the product offer, and expelled accordingly were conducted with customers entering the premises (+12,000 compared to 2018) • 10,508 minors were prevented from accessing premises ONLINE: MINORS IDENTIFIED RETAIL: MINORS INDENTIFIED 5000 12000 10000 4000 8000 3000 6000 2000 4000 1000 2000 0 0 2018 2019 2018 2019 35 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS PLAYER PROTECTION: INDIVIDUALISATION IS KEY Not all customers are the same. While most only require detailed information in order to play safely, others need more attention from the company. Therefore, our player protection aims at individualisation in order to give every customer the level of protection they need. Based on prevalence surveys, it is expected that approximately 1 % of the general adult population suffers from gambling-related problems. We therefore recognise that responsible gambling is always a shared responsibility between the provider and its customers. We support customers by providing agreements on financial and time limits, assuring that they cannot exceed the agreed limits, even if they try to. TIPICO RESPONSIBILITY INFORMED DECISION SUPPORTING CONTROL PROTECTION Responsible Brand Reality Checks Self-Exclusion Information Feedback Imposed Exclusion Awareness Limits Cooperation with Counselling Providers 90% 8% 2% UNIVERSAL PREVENTION SELECTIVE PREVENTION INDICATED PREVENTION CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY Studies show that around 80 % of the German adult population has participated in gambling, while 1 % suffer from gambling-related problems. • 90 % of customers need universal prevention. Tipico responds to that need by providing e.g. transparent information, awareness and responsible advertising • 8 % of customers need selective prevention. Tipico responds to that need e.g. by offering feedback, limits and reality checks • 2 % of customers need indicated prevention such as self-exclusion, imposed exclusion or cooperation with counselling providers. Tipico supports customers by offering various possibilities, making sure exclusions are enforced strictly and establishing contact to counselling providers Tipico has also implemented an extensive early detection system to monitor individual needs and carries out responsible gaming training for all employees in order to reach accurate implementation across the whole business. 36 Transparency and informed decisions are the fundamental principles of consumer protection. For this reason, it is important to us that our customers have a clear view of their gambling transactions. Our account statement makes this simple. On our website, we also provide accurate information regarding the probability of winning. Thus, each customer may easily understand the rules. LIMITS AND EXCLUSION As part of our prevention methods, we offer the possibility to set limits to exclude oneself from our offers. Limits are an agreement between a customer and us to restrict their gambling involvement (time and money) to a certain budget. They are binding and all bets that would exceed these limits are rejected. The increase or revocation of limits is only possible after a mandatory waiting period of seven days, whereas the reduction of a limit to a more restrictive level is processed with immediate effect. In 2019, we offered possibilities to set the following limits: 9% • deposit limits • loss limit OF ACTIVE • time limit CUSTOMERS • limits for maximum betting amounts HAVE SET • limits for the gaming offer LIMITS 37 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS USAGE OF LIMITS At Tipico, the usage of limits has slightly increased IN PERCENTAGES OF CUSTOMERS to around 9 % of customers setting limits within 2019. This might be due to the extended awareness measures for offering these possibilities. It 10 % also goes hand-in-hand with prevalence studies 5% stating that around 8 % of gamblers might require limits as additional safeguards. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 On top of that, we offer exclusion agreements where customers can request to be excluded from our offers voluntarily. As part of an exclusion, a customer will no longer be able to place bets with us online or in any Tipico shop. Per month, an average of 0.09 % of our active cusUSAGE OF EXCLUSION AGREEMENTS tomers requested an indefinite self-exclusion in IN PERCENTAGES OF CUSTOMERS 2019. Exclusion also leads to an exemption from all marketing. As an additional protection, an ex0.2 % clusion agreement is irrevocable for a minimum period of one year. Where legally possible, we 0.1 % synchronise exclusions with databases provided by authorities (e.g. OASIS in Germany). While by 0.0 % 2016 2017 2018 2019 the end of 2018 around 130,000 automated OASIS queries were carried out each month, by the end of 2019 this number had increased to more than 300,000 monthly queries, expanding the number of German states where we are permitted to use OASIS to four. The necessity for self-exclusion has been decreasing over the course of 2018 and 2019, with improvements to our player protection functionalities and processes being a key factor. Our player protection service is rounded off by support for questions and concerns regarding responsible betting. Customer service, the RG team, as well as external partners and linked counselling providers are available to help. Especially in the retail business, the accessibility of player protection features was dramatically increased in 2019. Instead of having to request a limit or a self-exclusion from the cashier in the shop, which for some can be a daunting and shameful experience, customers now have access to those player protection functions directly from every betting terminal. 38 39 PRODUCT QUALITY: IN SAFE HANDS MONITORING AND QUALITY CONTROL In order to tailor the player protection to each customer’s individual needs, we introduced an early-detection process on the online betting platform in 2018. Online gambling is account-based. Every gambling transaction is linked to an account which again is linked to an ID-verified customer. Therefore, behavioural data can be monitored and used for the early detection of gambling-related problems. In case risk behaviours are noticed, RG messages are sent to give the customer feedback: level 1 increased RG information level 2 interrupting the flow of gambling with RG messages level 3 investigation by the RG team If risk behaviour persists, the customer is confronted and a dialogue is initiated. As part of this dialogue, mitigating measures (limits, breaks, exclusions, etc.) are agreed upon with the customer. If no agreement is reached, we impose adequate mitigations for the protection of the customer (e.g. imposed limits or imposed exclusion). Online, all player protection functionalities are largely scalable. Once evaluated for their effectiveness, we rely on them to remain effective at least in the short and medium term. This differs in the retail offer, where the protection of the customers hinges on the ability and compliance of each single employee. Therefore, constant supervision is necessary. Our internal quality team is constantly travelling from shop to shop to foster strict adherence to regulatory requirements and internal policies. In addition to that, we work with external contractors to conduct mystery shopping exercises. In 2019, in the Retail network we conducted: more than 770 quality audits (-11 % compared to 2018) more than 750 mystery shopping visits7 on minor protection conducted by the Tipico quality team (+152 % compared to 2018) around 1,328 mystery shopping visits on minor protection, player protection and anti-money laundering (AML) conducted by external partners (+48 % compared to 2018) 7Test purchases in our retail business 40 RETAIL AUDITS 2019 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Quality Audits Mystery Shopping Mystery Shopping on Minor on Minor Protection Protection and AML (internally) (externally) 2018 2019 FINANCIAL IMPACT OF PROBLEM GAMBLERS AND MINORS A consistent approach towards the protection of minors and vulnerable players is only possible if we manage to minimise any dependencies on revenues derived out of these problem areas. Therefore, we track turnover that had been generated by potential problem gamblers before they were detected and excluded from our offers. FINANCIAL IMPACT OF PROBLEM GAMBLERS Compared to the baseline year of 2017, in 2018 IN PERCENTAGES OF TURNOVER and 2019 we were able to reduce the contribution of problem gamblers to our turnover to about half. This is due to improvements to the RG 4% functionalities on our platform and the introduc3% tion of algorithms for early detection of potential problem gamblers. It allows us to identify risk 2% behaviours early and assign adequate protective measures to those players. Nevertheless, we 1% still follow the goal of decreasing this number even further. As a basis to help customers make 0% responsible decisions, we provide comprehensive 2017 2018 2019 information on relevant topics such as game information, probability of winning and risk awareness on the company’s own RG website. Around 25,000 people visited the page in 2019, 65 % from German-speaking countries. Thereby simplicity is key in order to reach all customers. In 2019, around 72 % of customers rated our player protection materials as easy to understand. Additionally, thanks to the transparent account overview, our customers can view all relevant information on their bets as well as incoming and outgoing payments at any time. 41 REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: We successfully managed to improve player protection in our retail business. The roll-out of player protection functions to betting terminals made those functions more accessible for our retail customers. A notable increase in mystery shopping visits allowed us to assure that our partners live up to the high standards Tipico stands for. We did however not succeed to further decrease the financial impact of funds from players who would later decide to self-exclude. While the number of self-excluders did decrease, the funds they lost before excluding did not. We will focus on further improving our capabilities in the early detection of problems in order to recognise those at-risk players earlier. For 2020 the following targets have been set: further reduce the financial impact of problem gambling strengthen our capabilities for early detection of problem gambling further promote and increase the usage of early-intervention tools like limits launch an all-encompassing player protection concept based on German gambling regulations 42 MATERIALITY MATE RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE INTERNAL RELEVANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: Compliance Consumer ComplianceBusiness Protection Ethics ConsumerTraining and Busine Development Ethics Protection OUR APPROACH Community Human CommunitySupply Human EnvironmentalSupply Involvement Rights InvolvementChain Rights Impacts Chain WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: • continuously improving performance and meeting • 99 % of core employees successfully completed all applicable laws the mandatory General Data Protection Regula• working against corruption in all its forms, tion (GDPR) training including extortion and bribery • 97 % of employees participated in the Anti • continuously improving the framework for the Money Laudering (AML) training. prevention of money laundering • we implemented an extensive GDPR awareness • respecting the privacy of customers and using campaign around the Group modern and secure data protection technolo• we introduced new roles such as a new Internal gies Audit and Risk Manager, a Retail Compliance • reviewing policies and business practices Manager and a Deputy Money Laundering continually to encourage engagement with Reporting Officer business partners and to promote development • an extensive risk evaluation of the whole Group • operating in a way that safeguards against has been carried out unfair business practices • besides our existing licences another new licence • supporting and respecting the protection of application for Germany was prepared internationally proclaimed human rights • zero whistleblowing reports were registered to • following highest standards as directed in the the external independent ombudsman Tipico Ethics Code 43 COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Trustworthiness is not only rated as one of the most important attributes of a sports betting provider, but it is also one of the highest rated attributes of Tipico. Especially long-term customers evaluate us as particularly trustworthy.8 At the same time, an important goal is to be a trusted partner for regulatory authorities as well. At Tipico, we therefore focus on running our business in a transparent, fair and compliant way. Our offers and services are based on licences issued by the Malta Gaming Authority as well as a sports betting and online casino licence in Schleswig Holstein. 2019 was further characterised by extensive preparatory efforts for licensing. In addition to the developments in the German regulatory landscape and with the goal of obtaining another nationwide licence for Germany, a project focusing on the licence application was brought to life at the beginning of 2019. The preparation for the application was completed in December. The preparation for the application was completed in December. The tender for the licensing process was made public by the EU on the 31 December 2019 and Tipico filed its application in early 2020. We continue to actively advocate for the implementation of regulatory frameworks, which are associated with strict quality criteria, in all markets. We are a member of the German Sports Betting Association (DSWV), which was founded in 2014 by leading German and European betting providers as well as the Österreichischer Sportwettenverband (OSWV). The primary concern is to constructively advocate for the further development of sports betting regulations, which particularly include the aspects of player and youth protection as well as addiction prevention. A list of all associations can be found in Appendix 3. As a business framework unit, our compliance department is located in the headquarters of the Tipico Group. The compliance department manages licensing, compliance, anti-money laundering, responsible gambling and communication with regulatory authorities. It also analyses regulatory risks and consults all business areas concerning the implementation of reg– 8 Tipico (2019) Brand Tracking Report 44 ulatory requirements, providing relevant Group guidelines and training content. Employees can additionally direct their compliance-related questions and issues to the team. In the reporting year, new structures were created within our compliance organisation and its staff expanded. New roles implemented in 2019 have been another dedicated resource for retail compliance as well as a Deputy Money Laundering Reporting Officer. In order to manage our compliant operations internally, we have developed a compliance management framework based on tools already in use for agile software development processes. Our compliance management system is an integrated system comprised of written documents, functions, processes, controls and tools that help the organisation comply with legal requirements and minimise potential violations. It was built to be as transparent as possible about the organisation’s compliance efforts. It allows us to measure or track compliance projects, controls and deadlines with the opportunity to address the risks relevant to the organisation, while also meeting multiple requirements. 45 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH In 2019, we further improved our retail compliance management. The recruitment of another dedicated resource for retail compliance and the improvement of existing technical and operational capabilities has permitted us, on the one hand, to have an even clearer picture of the compliance level of our retail business and partners, and, on the other hand, and as a result of that, to reduce risks and enhance the general level of compliance. Our efforts are not only visible internally. In 2019, we did not receive any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance as described in the Global Reporting (GRI) requirements: GRI DESCRIPTION GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS In order to enable the business to focus on achieving its strategic objectives and sustainable long-term growth, the identification and active management of both existing and emerging financial and non-financial risks is paramount. Tipico recognises both the threats and opportunities arising from these risks. This drives a better understanding of risk appetite, tolerance and management across the Group’s entities and locations. To visualise our risk management approach, we use the 3 Lines of Defence Model. At Tipico, the first line of defence is provided by operational management. They have ownership, responsibility and accountability for directly evaluating, controlling and mitigating risks. Internal governance is further supported by departments with controlling functions such as Compliance or Data Governance. These departments have a risk minimising role in which they support the identification of risks and the implementation of effective risk management tools. Our Group Internal Audit and Risk Management team takes responsibility for the third line of defence. 46 BOARD SENI ORMANAGEMENT EXT ERNALAUDI T REGUL ATOR 1STL INEOFDEFENC E 2NDL INEOFDEFENC E 3RDL INEOFDEFENC E FI NANC IALC ONTROL S INTERNAL GROUPINT ERNALAUDIT MANAGEMENT CONTROL ANDRISKMANAGEMENT CONTROLS SEC URI TY MEASURES QUAL ITY C OMPL IANC E L EGAL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Group’s risks are managed through detailed processes that emphasise the importance of achievement of strategic objectives, regulatory and licence compliance, integrity, trustworthiness, public accountability, and operational excellence. Successful risk management is furthermore seen as an opportunity to set us apart from our competitors. Our Group’s risk management framework seeks to ensure that there is an effective process in place to manage risk across all of the Group’s entities and locations. Risk management is integral to all aspects of the Group’s activities and is the responsibility of all staff. Our top management has a responsibility to evaluate the risk environment, put in place appropriate controls and monitor the effectiveness of those controls. The risk management culture emphasises careful analysis and management of risk in all business processes, in order to make risk-informed decisions. In 2019, a comprehensive bottom-up review of risks was undertaken throughout the Group, supported by around 30 facilitated risk workshops with all functions within the Tipico Group. To ensure that all potentially material risks have been identified, owners agreed, and management/mitigation plans were established accordingly. The principal risks and uncertainties which are considered to have a potentially material impact on the Group’s long-term performance and achievement of strategy were set out. External and internal risk factors were considered. These have been agreed with the Corporate Risk Committee and will be reviewed on a quarterly basis going forward. Group Internal and Risk management will monitor management of these key risks. The process thereby followed the risk management process flow which may be described as followed: 48 IDENTIFY RISKS Risk identification exercises and methodology applied across the Group to identify key risks ASSESS & MEASURE Risks and controls in place are analysed to identify root cause and RISKS assessed in terms of impact (management effort, financial impact, reputation) and likelihood of occurrence using a 5x5 risk assessment methodology Risk categorisation; Strategic, Governance, Legal & Regulatory, Security, Financial, Commercial & Operational, People, Technology ESTABLISH RISK Risk owner allocation and determination of risk treatment plan – TREATMENT PLAN Accept, Reduce, Transfer, Terminate & MITIGATION Current risk mitigation measures are analysed, and improvements in MEASURES the risk mitigation measures and internal controls are determined IMPLEMENT RISK Management implements the risk mitigation measures and internal MITIGATION control improvements bringing the residual risk to an acceptable level MEASURES within Tipico’s risk tolerance thresholds RISK MONITORING Progress of the risk mitigation measures and internal control improve& RE-ASSESSMENT ments are tracked and monitored by management, aided by the Group Internal Audit & Risk Management’s evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the control and risk management procedures Principal risks are reported to the Corporate Risk Committee Risk management as a continuous process – risks are analysed and assessed for changes in impact and likelihood KEEPING YOUR DATA SAFE Data protection (GDPR) is all about taking care of our customers and employees. As numbers of both customers and employees are increasing steadily, it is therefore of high relevance to us to continuously improve our data security. While the Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) have extended measurements and guidance on how to comply even further during the reporting period of 2019, simultaneously we experienced high demand for information by our customers as well. In 2019, we therefore set up a data subject access request process along with an updated transparent privacy policy section where customers can exercise their data subject rights. As a result, more than 20,000 data subject access requests were handled in close collaboration with Customer Service and our Tipico Data Protection Officer (DPO) office. The latter was established in previous years to ensure continuous efforts towards our customer privacy compliance. As accountability is the backbone of the GDPR, in 2019 we further dissolved the GDPR project management structure and started the transition of the work streams into line organisation. 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH ACCOUNTABILITY AT THE CENTER OF EVERYTHING WE DO Our vision is to evolve to an enterprise data protection aware and comply culture Ownership Responsibility Evidence Privacy management activities are Privacy management activities have Documentation is produced as a result embedded throughout the organisation been implemented and are maintained of a privacy management activity that within each function or business unit that on an ongoing basis. can be used as evidence of processes personal data. accountability and compliance. Inject Data Protection in the DNA of the organization and enable a data protection aware and comply culture. In order to embed the topic even further within the company, various GDPR awareness actions and training sessions were also carried out in 2019: we successfully launched the mandatory GDPR refresher training. Around 99 % of Tipico Office employees and 91 % of Tipico Retail employees have completed the awareness training the new “10 Golden Rules of Data Protection and Security” for all Tipico employees were launched in 2019 including ten supporting awareness videos for our employees two article communications have further been dedicated to GDPR a Tipico Employee Privacy Statement for all Tipico employees was introduced in conjunction with the GDPR refresher training The Group Data Protection Policy has also been revised and now adheres even better to the purposes of the German market as well as reflecting recent guidelines from the European Data Protection Board. In 2019, our DPO Office was made aware of 28 (potential) data breaches. None of these cases of potential data breaches were reported to the Information and Data Protection Commissioner (IDPC) based on a thorough investigation of the potential impact on rights and freedom of the data subjects. POTENTIAL DATA BREACHES REPORTED 2018 2019 Observations reported to DPO (internal) 24 28 Incidents reported to IDPC by DPO 2 0 Within 72 hours (target 100%) 100 % N/A 50 Further to the above, we received one complaint from outside parties/regulatory bodies. Tipico confirmed full cooperation in this investigation and was requested to make its submissions on this case, which has been done in detail. Tipico was furthermore confronted with cyberattacks in 2019. Due to the existing technical and organisational measures, we were able to block these attacks and are confident for the future. In the cybersecurity domain, we collaborate with our industry leading partner Akamai and have protection solutions in place that prevent confidentiality breaches (bot protection), integrity breaches (web application firewall) and network level attacks (DDoS protection). Through diligent monitoring of our environment and analysis of the logged events, we are able on an uninterrupted basis to improve our measures and stay ahead of security threats. We have been able to successfully cope with all of the current cyberattacks at this moment, and will provide continuous efforts and resources in order to further improve our technical and organisational measures in the future in close collaboration with IT Security and Digital teams and thus be able to tackle future cyberattack attempts as well. In addition, our high standards were revived by licences and certification, including the certification for the international standard for information security management systems ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (certified by TÜV Rheinland CERT) for which we passed an audit again in 2019. GOVERNANCE We have flat hierarchies and consequently the management should not and does not strive to micromanage every single decision. Rather, our company builds on the competencies of all employees and therefore delegates authority for many business processes. That way, we achieve the greatest possible operational ability to act and ensure that the management can focus on the most important decisions. By using the expertise on all levels, the company can progressively and quickly adapt to a market in which change is the only constant. Therefore, we established a Delegation of Authority, which governs responsibilities and allowances. Whenever people work together, the structure and guidelines underlying this cooperation play a key part in success. For this reason, we have developed a set of corporate guidelines, which conform with international laws, ethics standards and our values. They meet the needs of an internationally operating company. Our Tipico Corporate Practice serves as a guide in our daily work. It includes the following topics: 51 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH BUSINESS ETHICS: OUR ETHICS CODE an appropriate solution for the employee and TipiSERVES AS A FOUNDATION FOR OUR co. To avoid conflicts of interest, any direct or indiAPPROACH rect use of the company’s own gaming and betting At Tipico, all employees and consultants are reoffers – except on designated employee accounts – quired to understand and comply with our ethics is forbidden for all our employees. Further, compastandards, which are reflected in our values as ny facilities may only be used in a manner that suits well. In 2017, we therefore developed our Tipico Etour values. For the same reason we do not make hics Code which intends to provide guidance to all any financial contributions to politicians, political employees with respect to their responsibilities at organisations or political parties. the company, with the particular target of creating To foster ethical business behaviour, we practise awareness about anti-corruption and anti-bribery the approach that every employee should report any laws in order to enable all employees to recognise perceived concerns, risks or misconduct without potential issues and deal with them appropriately. having to fear sanctions. As part of our WhistleOne of the core principles is that we do not tolerate blowing Policy, we have therefore instituted an any form of corruption. Therefore, we actively work external, independent ombudsman as a contact with stakeholders to avoid any situation that could for whistle-blowers. While in 2018 four reports were be construed as such. Employees and consultants registered across the Tipico Group via the whistleare not allowed to use their position at Tipico to reblower system, of which one could be substantiated, quest or accept anything of value or the promise in 2019 no report was registered. thereof beyond the scope of moderate and appropriate gifts. Every employee receiving gifts and hospitality exceeding the value of cumulatively € 150 within a year is required to declare all these to the central register of the compliance department. In 2019, ZERO whistleblowing reports The same applies to conflicts of interest. All potenwere filed to the external independent omtial cases must be reported in order to allow for a budsman. transparent discussion of the involved risks and for ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND COMBATING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM In 2019, we continued strengthening our internal anti-money laundering (AML) and combating the financing of terrorism (CFT) organisations, and teams were expanded in order to drive AML/CFT compliance. That was especially necessary as we are confronted on a daily basis with monetary transactions by customers which lead to a responsible handling by Tipico. The Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) is a Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS®) and TÜV-certified Money Laundering Reporting Officer. He is a Founding Member and Vice-Chair of the Board of the ACAMS® Malta Chapter and member of the Berufsverband der Compliance Manager in Germany. As visualised in the AML Organisation, the MLRO is further supported by several teams across the company. 52 Head of AML MLRO MLROs AML Compliance Manager Head of Retail Services Malta AML KYC Manager Tipico Shop Agencies Deputy MLRO Retail Risk Team AML KYC Team Retail and Online operations are monitored on a daily basis by the AML/KYC Team, the Retail Risk Team, and also by an external partner, the Kerberos Compliance-Managementsysteme GmbH, a regulatory compliance tech company with strong expertise in the field of money laundering prevention. Our entire Group follows an AML/CFT policy which creates awareness and explains what to do in case of suspicion of criminal activities. Several subordinated procedural guidelines advise the operational teams on how to carry out customer due diligence, investigate potential matches for politically exposed persons and sanctioned individuals and assess suspicious behaviour. In 2019, a constantly very high percentage of Tipico Over the last years, all suspicious transactions were Group employees were trained in AML/CFT (around reviewed internally and forwarded to authorities 97 %). Additional training was carried out on a reguin cases of corroborated suspicion. Becoming an lar basis for employees working in the Tipico shops. obliged entity under respective AML laws, in 2018, In 2019, a total of 1,598 retail employees attended we increased our focus even further. With the help on-site training in AML/CFT. of an extended team, systematic controls and even stricter criteria, the number of investigated cases and the number of suspicions reported to the au– thorities were further increased in 2019. AML TRAINING BY TIPICO GROUP SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS EMPLOYEES INVESTIGATED 1000 1000 800 800 600 600 400 400 200 200 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 SARs investigated SARs reported to authorities 53 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH In 2019, additional new tools were implemented to identify customer accounts which pose a higher risk than other customer accounts, but also to give employees the means to report suspicious observations more efficiently. Internal investigations were carried out by designated teams and the outcomes thereof documented. Suspicious transaction/activity reports (SAR) were submitted externally to the relevant authorities in Germany and Malta. Furthermore, all customer identification, customer due diligence (CDD), enhanced due diligence (EDD) and the company’s own risk management processes are under continuous review in order to comply with all legislations. For instance, more than 1,000,000 (+150,000 compared to 2018) politically exposed person (PEP) and more than 620,000 customer verifications were carried out. 54 REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: In 2019, all risks and uncertainties with an impact on the Group’s long-term performance and strategy achievement were collected and mitigation strategies established. In addition, the prevention of money laundering was strengthened, which becomes visible e.g. by the number of SARs and SARs reported as well as by the extended team and the high number of employees trained across the whole Group. In terms of data protection, we started the transition of the work streams into line organisation in order to increase accountability. Furthermore, an awareness campaign was implemented across Tipico entities and collaboration between the DPO and the Customer Service team was strengthened for the purpose of handling all data subject access requests. For the year 2020 the following targets have been set: monitoring of identified risks and implementation of mitigation strategies review and complete Tipico Register of Processing (GDPR Art 30) including all new processing activities all Tipico owned websites and landing pages should have the cookie consent management solution implemented further ensuring effective GDPR awareness, communication and training complete enterprise systems inventory by department review of the Tipico data retention matrix and implemented deletion practices continuous effort to further draft all required data protection impact assessments cybercrime and data breach notification optimisation via further alignment between different departments appropriate and licence-oriented shaping of the AML compliance including enhanced training and new AML organisational parts and colleagues considering the diverse Group business activities constantly more than 97 % completion rate of the AML training among Tipico employees 55 MATERIALITY BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS: RELEVANCE EXTERNAL HOW WE ENGAGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: • expressing our values through charitable giving • we published a CR policy, awarding employees and corporate projects various opportunities and responsibilities RELEVANCE INTERNAL • supporting active involvement in the commu• 14 options for participation in charitable spornities through volunteering initiatives were offered ting activitiesCompliance Consumer acrossBusiness Protection sites Training Ethics and Development Diversit Equal O • supporting employee driven activities • a website auctioning Community unique Human sportsSupply articles for Environmental • focussing on close cooperation with selected charitable purposes was launched Involvement Rights Chain Impacts partners to guarantee long-term success • we extended our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities across sites and carried out various events and projects for good causes • more than 1,000 hours of community work were carried out by employees • more than € 315,000 was donated in the field of healthcare, prevention research and social development 56 OUR COMMUNITIES: CONTRIBUTION THROUGH EMPLOYMENT AND TAXES In 2019, all our business activities increased continuously, resulting in even more contributions to the local economies of our operations. We contribute not only by providing products, but also through employment, taxes and social community involvement. As a leading provider of sports betting in the German market, we observe our duties and pay sports betting taxes in Germany as well as tax on our online casino offers. We furthermore pay sports betting taxes in Austria and Malta. Due to increased turnover over the last few years, taxes benefitting the economies increased as well. A stable regulatory environment, including experienced regulators like the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA), are key to running a successful sports betting company. Malta is offering both, and was the first EU Member State to enact comprehensive legislation in this field in 2004. Malta is thereby seen as one of the foremost tested jurisdictions in the world, following a consistent approach to regulation, while keeping requirements at a high standard. Over the years, it has developed itself into a hub of gaming excellence, providing an extensive network for gaming companies. For this reason, our headquarters are located in Malta, while our main market remains Germany. With a market share of over 50 % in Germany, the offer has a high availability around the country. As a result, the number of provided workplaces in these two countries are the highest. WORKPLACES OFFERED BY TIPICO IN 2019: GAMBLING TAXES PAID: Malta > 310 workplaces Sports betting taxes in Germany Germany > 250 workplaces Online casino taxes in Germany > 1000 including own shops Sport betting taxes in Austria Croatia > 140 workplaces Sport betting taxes in Malta Colombia > 20 workplaces Online casino taxes in Malta Austria > 18 including own shops Gibraltar > 7 workplaces As we are well integrated in all locations of operations, we support all local communities with a special focus on Germany and Malta. In 2019, Tipico further prepared for applying for a licence in Germany. 57 BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS: HOW WE ENGAGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES HOW OUR EMPLOYEES ENGAGE: SPORTS FOR CHARITY In our company culture, we share the belief that ability progresses through active involvement. Therefore, employees are given opportunities to get involved. In 2019, we organised several charitable sporting events, organised auctions of sports equipment and initiated three extensive CSR Days – two in Malta and one in Germany. Around 160 employees participated at least in one of the events, resulting in more than 1,000 hours of community work. In 2019, Tipico introduced a CR Policy including not only social and environmental commitments and guiding processes such as company donations but also benefits for employees and the whole community. The CR Policy states that each employee has several opportunities to get involved in charitable activities: CSR tournaments, Up to 2 days for volunSupport of people’s Matching of donations charity races & sports teering per employee own projects auctions SPORTS FOR CHARITY We are not only a partner of the German Football Bundesliga and FC Bayern Munich; our passion shines through in our voluntary work and responsible actions within society. That is why, beyond our sponsorship commitments, we also promote our own charitable sports events as well as the charity campaigns of partner associations non-profit organisations and foundations. In 2019, Tipico employees were able to participate among others in the following sporting events: CHARITY RUNS SPORT DAYS CHARITY TOURNAMENTS Sponsor of Solidarity and Sports Day Malta Charity football tournaFun Run Malta Sports Day Germany ment in Croatia Various charity walks and Sports Day Croatia Charity football tournaruns Several smaller events ment in the UK Wings for Life run were also planned and Charity football tournaRun for Life some ongoing running ment in Malta Alsterlauf Hamburg groups and football teams Charity Run Croatia trained throughout the year The tournaments covered include the Trophy Dinamo Cup, one of the biggest charitable football events in Croatia and the Blexr Cup. Over € 4,000 was raised for charity during that tournament and the Tipico team finally brought home the cup after a tough game. 58 For each Tipico employee participating in a charity race, € 30 was donated. During all other events donations were raised for charity or winning teams who were allowed to decide on charities which were supported by Tipico. AUCTIONS OF UNIQUE SPORTS EQUIPMENT FOR CHARITY 59 BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS: HOW WE ENGAGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES Whether auctions of unique sports paraphernalia such as jerseys or scarves, or balls signed by football stars – the proceeds from these events always benefit charitable projects in the area of sports and health. In 2019, Tipico set up its own platform for charitable auctions of sports equipment. All revenue from this platform was donated to a project which offers innovative sports-related aid projects for young adults with reduced access to education and training. The highlight of these auctions has always been VIP tickets for football games of our partner Bayern Munich. Tipico also collaborated with the following partners to support them in their own auctions for charity: United Charity Sporthilfe Austria In addition, internal auctions for Tipico employees were set up. Employees were able to auction products for charity. The collected donations were then doubled by Tipico and given to local organisations. VOLUNTARY ENGAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE-DRIVEN INITIATIVES Besides sporting activities for the good cause and charitable giving, the strategy focuses on supporting active involvement in the communities though volunteering days and employee-driven initiatives. In this context, progress is ensured by implementing everyone’s skills to play a part. In 2019, three major events were organised: Tipico CSR Day Malta Tipico CSR Day Karlsruhe Public CSR Day Malta In Malta around 120 employees committed themselves to charity at the CSR Day 2019. All projects we offered were either pursuing the community’s goal or supporting the environment. The CSR Day began with specialist presentations on topics such as the resource-saving use of water, effective waste separation and biodiversity projects in Malta. Subsequently, employees signed up for different groups. Among them was a group that, in cooperation with Ambjent Malta, started the planting of around 1,500 trees in Ta’ Qali National Park and another group that supports the Marsaxlokk nature reserve. Due to the high development of the island, ecological compensation areas and parks are of great importance. Other groups helped with maintenance work and gardening for Inspire Foundation or supported the Tomasina Cat Sanctuary with its daily tasks and helped with a book market in the MSPCA Charity Shop. A sixth group participated with the local organisation Zibel in a sand shifting and beach restoration campaign. The aim of this campaign is not only to upgrade the area, but also to set a good example at the same time. 60 in the end what they all had in common was that “The work is just very rewarding, and they went home completely exhausted, but very you know that you’ve done something satisfied. good” During another offered opportunity, the public CSR Day in Malta, Tipico employees decided on a beach Tatjana, 2019 clean-up in a Nature 2000 reserve in Pembroke in collaboration with Nature Trust. Being aware of the In Germany, employees could decide to support negative impacts of plastic waste on the oceans, either the Black Forest Nature Park or an animal our employees got involved in supporting the prowelfare project. The Group, which was active in ject. Nature Trust was more than happy that some the Black Forest Nature Park, removed more than Tipico employees and their friends and family spent 2,000 Tubex growth covers from the city forest near their time improving the quality of the reserve and Winterdorf and disposed of it professionally. The prevented the plastic from getting into the ocean. plastic growth covers were used after the hurricane “Lothar” to protect young plants and accelerate their growth. In December 1999, Lothar had drawn “We did something great for the environa path of devastation through Western and Central ment, spent a sunny day outside and Europe. In Baden-Württemberg, three times the had the possibility to work together as a annual harvest, 30 million cubic metres of trees, team. I especially liked the fact that we fell victim to the storm. At the animal sanctuary were such a mixed team and I got in Pfinztal, a subgroup took care of providing the to know people from different departanimals with freshly painted winter quarters, while ments” the rest of the Group devoted itself to fortifying Helena, 2019 the goat slope. Despite taking on different tasks, In a nutshell, at the CSR Days in 2019, our employees: got involved in planting 1,500 trees cared for around 2,000 further trees by removing growth covers increased the potential of a charity shop cleared two parks supported two animal care centres organised two beach clean-ups To get an insight into our work during the CSR Days, check out the videos on our Group page. Supporting employee-driven initiatives is seen as a way to offer incentives for employees to get engaged in charitable activities and to align closely with the Tipico corporate culture. Employees might request materials needed for planning their own initiatives, or Tipico might double the donations collected by employees. Projects range from ventures initiated and independently organised by employees to departmental and company events. Further employee driven initiatives supported in 2019: charitable get-together charity tournaments and charity races collecting food for the Foodbank packing packages for people in need internal charity auctions organizing a breast cancer awareness day 61 BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS: HOW WE ENGAGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES MONETARY SUPPORT In addition to the diverse projects and more than 1,000 hours of voluntary work, in 2019 we spent: more than € 115,000 of direct and indirect donations on supporting charitable projects in the local communities around € 200,000 on research to prevent gambling addictions and player counselling programmes within our main markets To guarantee long-term success, Tipico focuses on close cooperation with selected partners. Tipico follows strict internal guidelines and emphasises the support of projects that suit Tipico values and meet our own sustainability requirements. Thus, Tipico creates win-win situations and adds value to the whole community. Every project, organisation and association that has been supported pursues charitable purposes. Additionally, the type and scope of support that the company offers is regulated internally by the ethics code. As customer health and safety is of the highest priority to us, in 2019 around € 200,000 was spent on research to prevent gambling addiction and player counselling programmes within the main markets in Germany and Austria. In addition, we donated more than € 115,000 to charitable projects within the local communities of the Tipico Group entities. 62 REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: With the release of the CR policy, we managed to reach a Group-wide unified approach towards community involvement which offers employees various opportunities to engage. Furthermore, we were able to extend our community involvement by two additional CRS days and various sporting events for charity across the whole Tipico Group. For 2020 the following targets have been set: renew CR policy in order to integrated extended commitments and measures keep sporting initiatives and voluntary engagement at a high level increase integration of further business entities, especially Croatia 63 MATERIALI RELEVANCE EXTERNAL OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: RELEVANCE IN • measuring our environmental performance by • we reduced the emissions resulting from the use of Global Reporting Initiative standards usage of data centres by around Compliance 88 % Consumer Business Protection Ethics • evaluating environmental impacts of facilities • we reduced our carbon emissions resulting and operations with a focus on implementing from business travel by plane by around Community Involvement Human 26 % Rights Supply Chain a continuous improvement process • started tracking paper consumption and intro• using natural resources efficiently to minimise duced awareness campaigns waste • we organised three CSR Days, including the • using innovations and technologies to minimise planting of more than 1,500 trees atmospheric emissions • promoting awareness regarding environmental guidelines for employees and the public • considering environmental impacts in purchasing processes 64 OUR IMPACT: FROM ELECTRICITY TO WASTE MANAGEMENT We recognise our impact on the environment and therefore focus on reducing negative effects. Over the last two years, we have been able to reduce the impact from, for example, carbon emissions resulting from our data centres and flights, dramatically. We also managed to extend our focus areas and reduce inputs such as paper consumption. Even though environmental impacts are not considered a main risk, and we did not identify any non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations, we support a precautionary approach and integrate environmental responsibilities and considerations into daily operations and business decision-making processes. As a digital company, our focus lies on emissions resulting from the usage of data centres and the business travel of employees. Furthermore, environmental impacts from the consumption of water, energy and materials in company offices are constantly tracked with the goal of minimising waste. A voluntary work stream also met regularly in order to develop new projects and increase performance. CO2e Electricity Business travel Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 Company vehicles Data centres In 2019, we not only set up our own tracking system for environmental impacts but also transformed all information into internationally standardised measures such as CO2 equivalents (CO2e). We did not stop at focusing on impacts directly generated by the company but further included the data of external parties, which could be traced back to the business activities of Tipico. These included directly produced carbon emissions caused by company vehicles (Scope 1), Scope 2 emissions due to the consumption of electricity and Scope 3 emissions due to business travel (including flights, taxis and trains) and external data centres. 65 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE ELECTRICITY Consumption of electricity was tracked around our locations, resulting in around 296 metric tonnes of CO2e – that makes a plus of 7 % in total.9 However, the increase is mainly caused by the increase in our business activities. That becomes visible when comparing the electricity intensity by employees from 2018 to 2019 which results in a decrease of 7 %. EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION IN TONNES OF CO2E 200 150 100 50 0 Austria Colombia Croatia Germany Gibraltar Malta 2018 2019 Understandably, the consumption varied not only by the size and location of the entity, but by the number of employees as well. In this calculation Austria appears to be above average. That is due to the small number of employees working directly in the office. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE IN KWH 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 Austria Colombia Croatia Germany Gibraltar Malta 9 Due to adjusted calculation methods, the amount for 2018 was calculated as 275 metric tonnes. Adjustments result from newer carbon emission factors (e.g. by the Energy and Water Agency Malta). We also included common electricity usage for our offices in Malta. 66 Where no more recent country-specific measures have been available, the amount of CO2e is calculated with the standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). In order to minimise impacts, we are strongly committed to using renewably sourced electricity to attain a more favourable energy mix. While the average amount of renewably sourced electricity in the gross electricity mix within the EU (2017)10 was around 31 %, for example, Tipico offices in Germany are sourcing electricity from providers offering 100 % renewable sources. Therefore, the CO2e based on our specific electricity mix is expected to be below the calculated amounts. In 2019, we increased the customer experience in our shops even further, resulting in an even higher number of screens. This change went hand-in-hand with an increase in electricity consumption in the shops. On average, electricity consumption increased by more than 10 % for each shop. Nevertheless, the majority of retail shops operated by the Tipico Shop Agency North and East are sourcing electricity from 100 % renewable sources. Based on supplier information, this leads to a reduction of more than 200 tonnes CO2 emissions compared to conventional electricity mixes. DATA CENTRES Secondly, due to choosing a provider which is In 2019, we were able to decrease the emissions sourcing a high share of renewable energy. As the resulting from the usage of data centres drastically, amount of carbon emissions is not only affected by due to two main reasons. First, own data servers the number of servers running, and the efficiency have been shut down completely by the end of of theses servers, but also by the power mix used, 2018 while moving the majority of data servers to we chose a provider that follows requirements the Amazon Cloud (AWS). This led to a high level on high percentages of renewable energies in the of scalability. In a framework of dedicated servers electricity mix. This became especially apparent for our digital services, the number of servers must when the calculation method was adjusted, and be adjusted to the highest demand (e.g. around an even more accurate method was chosen. While big sports events). During times of lower demand, for 2017 and 2018 consumption was calculated on a unused servers become redundant, while still location-based method, in 2019 consumption was running. With the move towards AWS, capacity is tracked by a market-based method which incordynamically scaled to the actual workload. Conporated among others renewable energy projects sequently, energy consumption is lower at times of and suppliers with higher shares of renewable reduced demand. energy compared to the regular grid mix. 10 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/161266/umfrage/stromerzeugung-aus-erneuerbaren-energien-in-der-eu27-seit-1998/ 67 BUSINESS TRAVEL: Business REDUCING Travel: Reducing OUROur FOOTPRINT Footprint As an international company, business As an international company, businesstravel is one of our travel is oneenvironmental biggest of our biggestimpacts. Our business environmental travel impacts. includes the Our car parks used by the teams consulting retail business travel includes the car parks used by the teams consulting retail shops (GHGas shops (GHG Protocol Scope 1) and emissions a result of individual travel of employees by publicly-available sources such as taxis, trains and aeroplanes Protocol Scope 1) and emissions as a result of individual travel of employees by publicly(GHG Protocol Scope 3). available sources such as taxis, trains and aeroplanes (GHG Protocol Scope 3). CO2e CO2e Electricity EMISSIONS BY TYPE OF TRANSPORT Business travel Electricity Emissions Business travel by Type of Transport 0,3% 0.3 % 1,6% 1.6 % CO2e Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 CO2e Electricity Business travel Business travel Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 Company vehicles Data centres Company vehicles Data centres 54,2% 54.2 % 44,0% 44.0 % Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 e 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 Company vehicles Data centres Company vehicles Data centres Aeroplane Car Taxi Train Information about all business-related trips of our Group were collected and resulted in 1,134 Information about metricall business-related tonnes of CO2e. This trips of ouran equals Group were intensity collectedofand emission resulted 1.46 metricintonnes 1,134 metric tonnes per employee of CO2e. This in equals core an emission business intensity of 1.46 metric tonnes per employee in core business entities.12 entities. 12 ROAD CO2E IN METRIC TONNES Road CO2e in Metric Tonnes 300 300 250 250 200 150 200 100 50 150 0 Taxi Tipico Retail Tipico Retail Tipico Shop Tipico Shop Tipico Shop Services Services Agency East Agency Agency 100 (Austria) (Germany) North South Road (Car and50 Taxi) Travel by road results in around 502 metric tonnes of CO2e and thus makes up for around 44% of all travel 0 (Scope 1 and 2). The Tipico Shop Agencies and Tipico Retail Services thereby account for Taxi the majority Tipico of travel Tipico byTipico This car.Shop is especially Tipico due to the high number Shop Tipico Shop Retail Retail Agency Agency Agency of Tipico shops within Germany ServicesandServices East areNorth Austria which inspected Southand consulted by internal (Austria) (Germany) quality and retail services teams on a regular basis. 12 Core business areas are calculated without on-site retail businesses 12 Core business areas are calculated without on-site retail businesses 64 Fehler! Verwenden Sie die Registerkarte 'Start', um Heading 1 dem Text zuzuweisen, der hier angezeigt werden soll. 69 6 14 REDUCING IMPACTS Communication is key. Therefore, business travel is relevant in order to work together closely and get the best results possible. Nevertheless, wherever achievable, we are counting on alternative systems in order to minimise consumption of time and CO2e. Thus, we are offering our employees various channels for communication. As shown in the table, virtual online meetings are used very frequently. In 2019, we increased the number of virtual meetings by around 30 % resulting in a total of around 10,000 virtual meetings. Around 10,000 meetings were scheduled via virtual meeting rooms Up to 60 meetings per day With up to 63 dialled in computers/conference rooms VIRTUAL MEETINGS PER MONTH IN 2018 AND 2019 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULI AUG SEP OKT NOV DEZ 2018 2019 71 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: In terms of our environmental impacts the last year has been a success and set targets have been reached. We extended the tracking of environmental impacts by including new measures such as printed pages within the Tipico Group entities. We also implemented our own environmental tracking system. All data is now tracked in one system which was set up in collaboration of the Corporate Responsibility and the Business Intelligence team. During the year we furthermore prepared our move to new Tipico campuses in Germany and Malta. In Germany, where it is possible to decide on electricity providers, we decided again on a provider selling an electricity mix of 100 % renewable energy. In Malta only one provider is available, and we are therefore more dependent on the overall electricity mix within the country. For 2020 the following targets have been set: introduce a new travel booking system in order to increase tracking accuracy implement an energy audit benchmark suppliers of electricity with the aim of increasing the share of renewable energy in the company 72 MATERIALITY MATERIALITY RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE EXTERNAL SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT RELEVANCE INTERNAL RELEVANCE INTE Consumer Business Training and Diversity WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2019: Compliance Protection Ethics Development Equal Op Compliance Consumer Business • monitoring our supply chain in order to reduce • we extended our centralised Community Involvement Human Rights process for Environmental Supply Protection Chain Impacts Ethics risks and minimise negative effects supplier management and contract signing Community Human Supply • informing business partners about responsible by implementing a new supplier andRights Involvement contract Chain business practices management tool • focusing on trustful, long lasting and sustainable • based on spending, around 97 % of our supplied business relationships goods and services were purchased from EU Member states • all employees working in Tipico supplier management participated in training about decent work in global supply chains (Sustainable Development Goal 8) • we renewed the Tipico Supplier Code of Conduct and extended processes to better know our business partners 73 SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT OUR SUPPLY: WHY A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN IS GOOD FOR OUR BUSINESS Safe collaboration with suppliers following the same high standards as Tipico are important in order to guarantee the efficient flow of our business. We therefore increased our procurement team by employing three new employees and further invested in our internal controls and processes to monitor our supply chain very closely. We also expect suppliers to acknowledge our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the standards of the UN Global values and thereby promotes ethical, social, environmental and economic progress. As an international company, we interact with several people, companies and organisations outside of the Tipico Group in all business areas. Our supply chain is less affected by direct procurement of raw materials and goods for production, but rather shaped by indirect spending on services supporting the day-to-day business such as professional consultancy, marketing and sponsorship, sportsbook and gaming, infrastructure and security agreements. In 2019, especially investments in the last two categories increased. THE SELECTION PROCESS Whether customers, partners, franchise partners, or service providers – we are implementing guidelines and checks to guarantee safe relationships. These do not only include customer identity verification processes, but also due diligence on the franchise partners and vendors. Even charitable organisations are asked for transparent information to guarantee that trust is never misused. Tipico is also working on standardising procurement within the Group through encouraging synergies of internal systems, as well as publishing Group-wide guidelines on purchasing, vendor selection and tendering to ensure equal opportunities are given to suppliers. “Know your business partners” processes and procedures reduce the risk in facilitating business with inappropriate business partners, especially from an anti-money laundering perspective. By verifying our partners and understanding their business, we increase our ability to pinpoint any potential risks and take appropriate steps to mitigate them. As a first approach to supplier verification, a risk assessment is completed. This includes specific parameters such as the jurisdiction, type of service or monetary value of the contract to name a few. Based on the risk assessment results, specific due diligence checks are carried out in line with regulatory requirements. As a part of these checks, we screen individuals and organisations through an established compliance checking engine such as World Check by Refinitiv Limited, which makes it possible to immediately identify suspicious results and take relevant actions. Enhanced due diligence (EDD) is subsequently triggered in case any suspicious result is met during the checks, always in accordance and agreed with the Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO). Tipico enforces the already established Contract Signing Process Policy, which ensures a uniform, structured, efficient and transparent process for contract signing requests. The policy describes the main rules and measures to fulfil the requirements for a contract to be signed. This includes legal, tax, finance, AML, data protection, ISMS and compliance checks. In 2019, we further streamlined processes and introduced a new supplier and contract management platform. The new supplier and contract management platform aims to digitalise and make transparent the procurement-related controls and checks. The target is to ensure the full visibility and audit trail of every contract, order, commercial and service acquired. Contracts which pass through these stages, are appropriately reviewed, documented and correctly allocated to the relevant business unit through a structured workflow. All contracts are also digitalised and centrally stored within the same system and controlled through a Role Based Access Control set up to ensure access is controlled and the information is secure on a need-to-know basis. 74 As for areas dealing with personal information, we follow a strict procurement data retention policy targeting all Group employees that are collecting and processing the personal data of affiliates and suppliers. PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS We have a zero-tolerance approach towards all forms of modern slavery and therefore expect all our suppliers to follow the same approach. Slavery, forced or child labour, and human trafficking are violations of fundamental human rights by exploiting persons for the benefit of others. In 2019, more than 630 million workers worldwide still did not earn enough to lift themselves and their families out of poverty.14 40.3 million people are calculated to be living in modern slavery, around 25 million of them in forced labour. These go hand-in-hand with insufficient working conditions and may lead to major work-related health issues.15 A person’s geographical location is thereby strongly connected with their chance of ending up in forced labour.16 Even though migration policies have been tightened within Europe, rendering migrants and vulnerable groups to higher risks, central European countries have comparatively low risks of modern slavery. Governments in Europe show great determination to minimise human rights violations. In a report from 2019, regional findings show that some regions are doing relatively well in comparison to others, with Europe and Central Asia scoring the highest in terms of implementing protection measures. They have a strong response to modern slavery and are committed to providing support services for victims and addressing the underlying risk of slavery.17 Thus, Tipico focuses on three main measures to improve its impact on human rights topics. First of all, all employees involved in Procurement and Supplier Management participated in human rights training by the UN Global Academy in the reporting period. The training was carried out in order to understand the impor– tance of the topic and being able to identify and minimise potential risks. A second measure is the geographical distribution of suppliers. By focusing on suppliers from European countries, Tipico reduces risks of purchasing from companies with lower standards. The third measure aims at our suppliers. As described above, all suppliers must acknowledge the Tipico Supplier Code of Conduct, covering this topic as well. 14 Ilo (2019a) Retrieved from: https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---dgreports/---dcomm/---publ/documents/publication/wcms_734455.pdf 15 Global Slavery Index (2019a) Retrieved from: https://cdn.globalslaveryindex.org/2019-content/uploads/2019/07/17123602/walk.free_.MAF_190717_FNL_DIGITAL-P.pdf 16 Ilo (2019a) 17 Global Slavery Index (2019a) 75 umber de the EU ofincreased. businessNevertheless, partners covered the majority in theofr hethereport EU (60%) increased SUPPLY CHAIN: or even KNOW from by YOURthe 20% BUSINESSlocal only. community This mea (3 PARTNERS AND SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT came from outside the EU. This guarantees bette ngGEOGRAPHICAL more DISTRIBUTIONbusiness partners, and the averag OF SUPPLIERS channels andusedcompliance We practice a commonly with definition of what “local” means European to the company. Only suppliers standar based in the same country as the receiving entity are defined as local. We track the geographical distribution of our suppliers to our headquarters in Malta and the supporting entities. In 2019, we increased not only the scope of entities included in the report but our network in general (28 % eographical umber of contract Distribution partners, of spending within more business partners included). Thereby, the number of business partners from outside the EU increased. Nevertheless, the majority of our business partners again came from the EU (60 %) or even from the local community (32 %). In 2019, only around 8 % of partners came from outside the EU. This guarantees better Suppliers spent in 2019. With a focus on central Euro communication, short distribution channels and compliance with European standards. Based on Amount of Partners LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS e risk of violation of human rights. At the sa BASED ON AMOUNT OF PARTNERS BASED ON AMOUNT OF PARTNERS 8% 100 % 100% tal impact from shipping at a low level. Sup 8% 50% professional 32% 32% partnerships and ensure reliab 50 % whole community. 60%Thus, local sourcing 60% 0% 0% is a nd maintain relationships with the communit EU Local Non EU EU Local Non EU 2018 2019 EU Local Non EU While the number of business partners covered in the report increased by 28 %, spending covered in the report increased by 20 % only. This means that the total spending has been divided among more business partners, and the average spending per business partner has decreased. ograpical Distribution of As for the number of contract partners, spending within the EU accounts for the majority of the money spent in 2019. With a focus on central European countries, we simultaneously minimise the risk of violation number of business partners covered in the report of human rights. At the same time, we can keep the environmental impact from shipping at a low level. Suppliers Supporting local suppliers not only helps us develop professional partnerships and ensure reliable supply, but we also indirectly support the whole community. Thus, local sourcing is a strategy to support a stable the report increased by 20% only. This means tha local economy and maintain relationships with the community. Based on Spending ong more business partners, and the average spe LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS BASED ON SPENDING LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS BASED ON SPENDING . 3% 3% 100 % 100% number 24% of contract partners, spending within the 24% 50 % 50%E spent in 2019. With 7… 73% a focus on central European 0%c he risk of violation of human rights. At the same tim 0% EU Local Non EU ntal impact from shipping at a low level. Supportin EU Local Non EU 2018 2019 76 REVIEW OF 2019 AND TARGETS FOR 2020: Our procurement team is working on the continuous improvement of all functions regarding our supply chain. All targets set by the end of 2018 were met during the year. Nevertheless, most of the targets stay as relevant as before, and are ongoing. With the introduction of the new tool, the transparency of all contract obligations and spending increased. Further processes were centralised with the help of the new functionalities. We managed to extend the procurement team and upgrade the procurement function. In addition, all employees in the team received CR-related training. For 2020, the following targets have been set: upgrade procurement function and standardise purchasing within Tipico digitalise supplier contracts and centralise in the supplier and contract management tool automate and innovate end to end procurement cycle onboard other Tipico entities into procurement process create one single source of truth within Supplier Data Management and encourage accountability and ownership increase transparency of contract obligations and control over spending 77 WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND As One Tipico, we are committed to corporate responsibility and are continuously working on improving our impact on the local community and the society at large. We keep setting ourselves higher targets. With this report, we strive to increase transparency and hope we have presented you with some interesting insights into our business. We look forward to presenting you with further updates about our strategy in the future. 78 APPENDIX APPENDIX 1: BACKGROUND ON SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING CONTENT AND SCOPE We are proud to present the second corporate responsibility report for the Tipico Group covering the reporting year 2019. The report is published as a stand-alone report and will be renewed on an annual basis. The report focuses on topics impacting Tipico stakeholders to the greatest extent. The goal is to transparently address these topics and outline a path to continuous progress, assuring the trust of all stakeholders. The standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were used as the framework for structuring the content of the report. Tipico systematically used the GRI standards to conduct a formal materiality analysis in order to define the key reporting aspects and guide further standard disclosures. The report additionally includes the GRI content index. As Tipico is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, communication on the four main areas, namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Corruption Prevention, are included in this report. The reporting of carbon emissions is influenced by the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) as well as by the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Where no newer data was accessible (accessible in Germany and Malta), emissions from electricity consumption are calculated with factors provided by the GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion.18 In Germany, emission factors for electricity from Statista have been used.19 In Malta, emission factors have been provided by the Energy & Water Agency.20 Emissions resulting from business travel are calculated with the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2; year 2019).21 These do not only include UK-specific measures but suggest emissions for international travel as well. Financial statements are published annually in a separate report. The consolidated financial statements include information about the Tipico Group Limited and its subsidiaries. The statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Financial statements are further independently audited and confirmed by the PWC. We strive for transparency. However, due to the heterogeneity of different entities and the introduction of new tracking systems, it was not possible to collect all information in this report. Therefore, chapters contain information about the scope and covered Group entities. DEFINING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES In 2018, internal stakeholders such as employees and external stakeholders such as customers, regulators, suppliers, partners, shareholders and society trusted in our performance and sustainable business practices. Through strategic prioritisation of CR topics, we live up to these expectations. In accordance with the Global Reporting Standards (GRI), material topics are all those that lead to direct or indirect social economic or environmental impacts and are therefore relevant to stakeholders of a business or society. We drew up findings of stakeholder surveys conducted in all locations of operation involving internal and external views. Based on a stratified sample, 112 internal stakeholders were consulted to assess the relevance of different aspects of CR. This consultation also included estimates for the current performance in these areas. The analysis was supplemented by external viewpoints gained through nine dialogue sessions with a wide range of stakeholders which ranked the topics concerning relevance for us. These external positions were used to balance internal opinions to reach a more holistic perspective. 18 World Resources Institute (2015). GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion. Version 4.7. 19 https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/38897/umfrage/co2-emissionsfaktor-fuer-den-strommix-in-deutschland-seit-1990/ 20 https://www.energywateragency.gov.mt/ 21 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2019 79 APPENDIX MATERIALITY RELEVANCE EXTERNAL RELEVANCE INTERNAL Compliance Consumer Business Training and Diversity and Protection Ethics Development Equal Opportunities Community Human Supply Environmental Involvement Rights Chain Impacts The results illustrate the relevance of a range of topics, as perceived by internal and external stakeholders. Areas with higher relevance are covered in more detail, especially with regards to operationalisation, measurement and reporting on the relevant indicators. As a result of our materiality analysis, this report focused on the following topics: compliance, consumer protection, business ethics, training and development, diversity and equal opportunity. The report is supplemented by essential requirements under the GRI, namely concerning involvement in local communities, environmental impacts and supply chain. The next review of materiality of topics will be implemented in 2020. 80 APPENDIX 2: GRI CONTENT INDEX REFERENCE REQUIREMENTS PAGE NUMBER GRI 101 Foundation (2016) GRI 102 General Disclosures (2016) GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 90 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-4 Location of operations 57 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 90 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-6 Markets served 11 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Confidentially Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 14 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 73 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, 11 Organizational Profile (2016) or supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 65 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-12 External initiatives 58 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 87 Organizational Profile (2016) GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 Strategy (2016) GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Chapter specific Strategy (2016) GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 52 Ethics and Integrity (2016) GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 52 Ethics and Integrity (2016) GRI 102-18 Governance structure 7; 12; 47; 51 Governance (2016) GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 51 Governance (2016) GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 13 Governance (2016) topics GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 13 Governance (2016) topics GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 7 Governance (2016) GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values 13 Governance (2016) and strategy 81 APPENDIX GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 13 Governance (2016) GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social 13 Governance (2016) impacts GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 44 Governance (2016) GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 13 Governance (2016) GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 13 Governance (2016) GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 52 Governance (2016) GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 52 Governance (2016) GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 25 Governance (2016) GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 25 Governance (2016) GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 79 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 25 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 79 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 79 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 79 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See financial Reporting Practice (2016) report GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 79 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-47 List of material topics 79 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 66; 70 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-50 Reporting period 79 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 90 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 12 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 90 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI-referenced Reporting Practice (2016) 82 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 81 Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 102-56 External assurance Not applicable Reporting Practice (2016) GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 79 Management Approach (2016) GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Topic specific Management Approach (2016) GRI 103-3 Management Evaluation of the management approach Topic specific Approach (2016) 200 Series: Economic Topics GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 25 Market Presence (2016) minimum wage GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 15 Market Presence (2016) GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 56 Indirect Economic Impacts (2016) GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 56 Indirect Economic Impacts (2016) GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 76 Procurement Practices (2016) GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 52 Anti-corruption (2016) GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 52 Anti-corruption (2016) procedures GRI 205-3 Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 52 (2016) GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 46 Anti-competitive Behavior practices (2016) 300 Series: Ecological Topics GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used Not applicable Materials (2016) GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 65 Energy (2016) GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 67 Energy (2016) GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 66 Energy (2016) GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 66 Energy (2016) GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 67 Energy (2016) services GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 68 Water and Effluents (2018) GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 68 Water and Effluents (2018) 83 APPENDIX GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 65; 69 Emissions (2016) GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 65 Emissions (2016) GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 65; 67; 69 Emissions (2016) GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 65 Emissions (2016) GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 65 Emissions (2016) GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 46 Environmental Compliance (2016) GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 73 Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016) GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions 73 Supplier Environmental taken Assessment (2016) 400 Series: Social Topics GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 19 Employment (2016) GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 25 Employment (2016) temporary or part-time employees GRI 401-3 Parental leave 25 Employment (2016) GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 25 Labor/Management Relations (2016) GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health 24 Occupational Health and and safety committees Safety (2016) GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 24 Occupational Health and and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Safety (2016) GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 24 Occupational Health and occupation Safety (2016) GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Not applicable Occupational Health and unions Safety (2016) GRI 404-1 Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have 21 Training and Education undertaken during the reporting period (2016) GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 21 Training and Education programs (2016) GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 21 Training and Education development reviews (2016) GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 15; 7 Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 84 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Confidentiality Diversity and Equal Opporconstraints tunity (2016) GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 15 Non-discrimination (2016) GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom 75 Freedom of Association of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at signifiand Collective Bargaining cant risk (2016) GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for 75 Child Labor (2016) incidents of child labor GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for 75 Forced or Compulsory incidents of forced or compulsory labor Labor (2016) GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Not applicable Security Practices (2016) GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not applicable Rights of Indigenous Peoples (2016) GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 75 Human Rights Assessment assessments (2016) GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 75 Human Rights Assessment (2016) GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 75 Human Rights Assessment rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening (2016) GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 73; 56 Local Communities (2016) and development programs GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 73 Local Communities (2016) local communities GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 76 Supplier Social Assessment (2016) GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 75 Supplier Social Assessment (2016) GRI 415-1 Political contributions 52 Public Policy (2016) GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 29 Customer Health and categories Safety (2016) GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 46 Customer Health and impacts of products and services Safety (2016) GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 29 Marketing and Labeling (2016) GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 46 Marketing and Labeling information and labelling (2016) 85 APPENDIX GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 46 Marketing and Labeling (2016) GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 46 Customer Privacy (2016) and losses of customer data GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic 46 Socioeconomic area Compliance (2016) Further Material Topic Player Protection was defined as a material topic. Therefore, it is 33 covered in this report, even though no specific GRI requirement exists 86 APPENDIX 3: MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS ASSOCIATION OF CERTIFIED ANTI-MONEY DEUTSCHER SPORTWETTENVERBAND LAUNDERING SPECIALISTS (ACAMS) (DSWV) (member since 2019) (board member since 2014) ACAMS is the largest international membership orThe German Sports Betting Association (DSWV) is ganisation dedicated to enhancing the knowledge the association of leading German and European and expertise of financial crime detection and presports betting providers. It is committed to a movention professionals, from a wide range of indusdern and competition-oriented regulation of sports tries, in both the public and private sectors. betting in Germany. This includes clear, legally secure rules for providers and consumers. Equally important to DSWV are effective measures to protect players and the integrity of sporting competition. DÜSSELDORFER KREIS (DK) EUROPEAN GAMING AND BETTING ASSOCIA(member since 2017) TION (EGBA) The Düsseldorfer Kreis (DK) is an initiative of re(working group member since 2017) sponsible individuals from gambling operators, The European Gaming and Betting Association addiction assistance and science, who develop (EGBA) is a Brussels-based industry body represensuggestions for a strictly consumer-protectionting the leading online gaming and betting operaoriented gambling regulation for Germany in open tors, established, licensed and regulated within the discourse. The initiative defines itself thereby as EU. The EGBA works with national authorities, EU a forum for qualified technical exchange and the authorities and other stakeholders towards a wellcommon development of new concepts of consuregulated and attractive offer for EU citizens. mer protection. The Association promotes the creation of a safe and reliable European digital environment for online gambling. A well-functioning digital environment requires regulation that provides a high level of consumer protection and considers the reality of the digital economy and consumer demand. It must also ensure that the regulated offer is attractive enough to appeal to the maximum number of players to channel them away from unregulated offers. 87 APPENDIX 4: LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ABBREVIATION FULL TERM ACAMS Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists AML Anti-Money Laundering AWS Amazon Web Services CCO Chief Commercial Officer CAMS Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CFT Combating the financing of terrorism CO2E CO2 equivalent CRO Chief Regulatory Officer CR Corporate Responsibility CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CDD Customer Due Diligence DK Düsseldorfer Kreis DPA Data Protection Authorities DPO Data Protection Officer DSWV Deutsche Sportwettenverband eCOGRA eCommerce Online Gaming Regulation and Assurance EDD Enhanced Due Diligence EGBA European Gaming and Betting Association ESG Environmental, Social and Governance GDPR General Data Protection Regulation GRI Global Reporting Initiative GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol IDPC Information and Data Protection Commissioner iGEN iGaming Executives Network Association ISMS Information Security Management System MGA Malta Gaming Authority MLRO Money Laundering Reporting Officer OASIS Onlineabfrage Spielerstatus OSWV Österreichischer Sportwettenverband PEP Politically exposed person RG Responsible Gaming SAR Suspicious transaction/activity report UNGC UN Global Compact WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resource Institute 89 0 1.1 0.2 020
