Taking action for a better world Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 All the images in this report were produced by our employees Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Contents Contents Introduction 1 2018 Highlights 2 CEO review 4 About us 6 CSR Strategy 8 Stakeholder engagement 9 Guide to the UN goals 10 Performance against targets 11 Focus areas 16 Our communities 29 Looking ahead 31 This corporate social responsibility report is one of the ways in which Legal & General group communicates to our stakeholders how our work on sustainability is managed and progressing. An environmental and sustainability report has been published annually since 2010. The reports follow Legal & General’s fiscal year and this report covers the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The previous report for 2017 was published and launched in May 2018 at our AGM. This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards Core. (GRI is the Global Reporting Initiative and contains standards disclosure for the Core level). It has also been prepared with the aim of clarifying how the company works with the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The report covers disclosures from all the Legal & General businesses in the UK and US. The report is not externally assured. 1 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2018 Highlights Our focus areas We have chosen to focus upon four areas which we believe are the most important issues today for any business that wants to act responsibly. We know we have a crucial role to improve society, the economy and the environment and have linked the following four focus areas to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 1. Running our business to a higher standard 2. Taking action to create a low-carbon economy 3. Making society more resilient with our financial solutions 4. Creating new investments for the future economy 2018 highlights £19.2bn £4.4m 4,000 invested to date in direct contributed into UK and US students and 133 teachers reached investments, including housing, non-profit organisations through our secondary school urban regeneration, clean energy financial education programme and small business finance 100+ 97% 18,000 mental health first aiders of all life insurance claims paid Tweets containing the #sharetheorange hashtag supporting Alzheimer’s Research UK 2 Introduction Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 What we believe in Our business principles Corporate and Social Inclusive capitalism Customer led Fair and transparent Responsibility (CSR) means that In 2018, inspired by Nigel Wilson, Our customers are at the heart of We treat all our customers, our Group CEO, we continued to everything we do. We develop employees, investors, suppliers we strive to be responsible and develop and embody our belief in solutions to build financial resilience and regulators with integrity and sustainable in everything we do. inclusive capitalism. and meet their present and future openness. It should be easy to financial goals. We strive to achieve understand our intentions, provide A responsible business is one that This means being economically and great value, excellent service and us with feedback, challenge us acts in the long-term interests of socially useful and ensuring our responsiveness; being easy to deal and work with us. business activities achieve a positive with and communicate with. all its stakeholders and doesn’t outcome for society, while generating simply seek to create short-term returns for our shareholders. Economically and socially useful Inclusive We aim to ensure our products, We value inclusiveness and financial profits. Our stakeholders We invest our money to benefit as services and investments have both embrace difference to engage and include our customers, employees, many people as possible in new economic and social value. Our empower our people. We recognise shareholders and the communities homes, retail centres, roads, railways long-term financial sustainability and reward success, investing in or digital infrastructure. So when we benefits our customers, employees, the development and wellbeing of whose lives we touch. invest in a project we’re supporting shareholders, suppliers and our employees. A sustainable business is one which looks the creation of a long-term future for society at large. after the long-term wellbeing of all people local people and the local economy. and cares for the environment for current and future generations. It ensures that Social responsibility and wealth is shared fairly between all inclusive capitalism generations and creates future opportunities Our CSR strategy embraces our for all people in a fully inclusive way. inclusive capitalism principles to help us run our business sustainably. It means we can also reach out to local communities through charity giving to help people experiencing physical Inclusive capitalism means or financial deprivation. being economically and socially useful, embracing diversity and being fully inclusive in all our activities.” 3 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CEO Statement 2018 Chief Executive Officer’s review of our sustainability strategy Corporate and Social Responsibility is embedded deep in our business strategy. I’ve championed the cause of ‘inclusive capitalism’ and inclusive growth because I know that the key to running a successful and responsible business is to benefit our customers, our employees and broader society as well as creating value for shareholders. Here are some real-life practical examples of what we do: • We’re investing our assets in new homes, new jobs and clean energy to improve the lives of our communities • We embrace diversity by giving opportunities in our company to anyone who has the ambition and talents to succeed Nigel Wilson, • We believe in inclusive growth for everyone in our Group Chief Executive Officer communities, making sure we reach out to those who are financially or physically disadvantaged • We’re engaging with the many companies we invest in to ensure they follow environmentally sustainable behaviours. On the next page you can read how we are turning our principles of inclusive capitalism into real action, creating Inclusive capitalism is about some real achievements and building a strategy to do even investing in things that benefit more in the future. everyone – like roads, railways, bridges, digital infrastructure, education, or financing start-ups” 4 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CEO Statement continued £1,004m £1bn loans advanced through our invested in build-to-rent homes to lifetime mortgage business to help help young people have a better older people better manage their quality of life finances in retirement Our achievements in 2018 3. Creating new investments for the future economy The work of the CSR Committee We can only become a fully sustainable business if we We have now put over £19.2 billion in direct investments, The Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics Committee embed responsible behaviour in everything we do. creating future cities, building new homes, investing in clean (GCRE) consider the group’s key deliverables and forwardSome of our key achievements in 2018 were: energy and generating real jobs for the real economy. We build looking targets. The GCRE sets the targets, highlights any risk all types of homes and focused in 2018 to increase the areas, sets our group ethics policy and ensures that the 1. Running our business to a higher standard proportion of affordable homes, social homes and homes to company’s responsible business policies are fit for purpose. We’re making real progress on our journey to make sure our rent. We now have 80,000 properties due to be built in the next business is fully diverse, with our 50/50 by 2020 gender five years. Our challenge for the future is to create highlySetting ourselves realistic targets initiative now in its sixth year. Over 40% of our divisional CEOs sustainable, digitally-enabled future cities that improve people’s We have aligned our four key focus areas and our performance are now women and we were recognised in the Bloomberg lives and allow them to lead environmentally positive lifestyles. targets with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Pages Gender Equality Index for the first time in January 2019. We 11 to 15 of this report covers the progress we have made signed the Race at Work charter and provide mentoring for 4. Making society more resilient with our financial solutions against these targets. ethnic minority talent. We have also received awards for our Our insurance and savings businesses help families protect LGBT work. We are still on a journey and have built strategies themselves against the effects of devastating events such as The future to make sure our business is even more diverse in the future. premature death, long-term sickness and poverty in Looking forward to 2019 and 2020, we know we can’t have all retirement. Our life insurance businesses paid out on average the answers ourselves and as a business we continue to look 2. Taking action to create a low-carbon economy £1.5 million every day in death claims in 2018, settling 97% of to all our many stakeholders to improve our understanding of We have produced our first reports following our commitment all claims made. We now have 3.1 million customers saving in climate change issues, social inclusion, mental health, to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures company pension schemes, giving many people their first intergenerational unfairness and innovative housing solutions. and have developed the Future World investment fund, to ever opportunity to have their own pension plan. In 2018, we It would be great to hear your thoughts on these and any encourage investments into environmentally sustainable provided over £1 billion in lifetime mortgages to help retired other social responsibility issues. businesses. Companies with poor environmental standards people increase their retirement resources. Our Salary have been removed from the Fund’s investments. We have Finance loan platform now can offer workplace loans to over set ourselves goals to reduce our own carbon emissions per 700,000 people and won ‘Responsible Business of the Year’ policy by 20% by 2020 and now measure and report on our at Prince Charles’ ‘Business in the Community’ awards. own carbon footprint. As we become a major housebuilder Nigel Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer we need to work even harder in the future to reduce our own Campaigning activities carbon emissions. Our employees have been active in a number of projects to help communities across the country. Some important areas have been Alzheimer’s research, caring for people leaving hospital through Royal Voluntary Service (RVS), hospices and palliative care and poverty in old age. One cause which is particularly important to me is the need to take action to help people understand more about the causes of mental illness. We continue to support the ‘Not a Red Card’ campaign which aims to change perceptions about mental health. 5 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 About us / what we do About us We have been helping people look after their finances for nearly 200 years. Our business is built on understanding people, helping them manage life’s risks and improve their quality of life. We aim to be innovative and create far-sighted approaches to better manage our assets and help our customers’ needs. Our strategy inspires us to help people achieve financial security and makes us economically and socially useful. We are committed to being a responsible business in everything we do and recognise the growing importance of sustainability.” Sir John Kingman Chairman 6 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 About us / what we do continued We have three main business groups which work together, Legal & General Retirement Retail (LGRR) Our customers developing products, services, and investments in keeping • LGRR helps individual customers make the most out of • At the end of 2018 we had 10.7 million customers over all with CSR-focused themes. their retirement resources to create a more colourful our traditional UK retail product areas (see the data centre retirement. We provide income and peace of mind for for full details) 1. Investing and Annuities customers over the age of 55 through annuities and lifetime • Our UK life insurance businesses look after around eight We provide reliable and secure pension income for individuals mortgages and we are now helping customers find and fund million people, including two million people covered in and members of corporate pension schemes. We want elderly care solutions. group schemes and one million people covered in the US people to have brighter retirements through showing them • We provide pension income for over one million people how to make the best use of their retirement savings, giving 2. Investment Management • We have around two million people with savings plans them the chance to use the assets tied up in their home and We provide institutional and personal investment • We have over three million people saving for retirement making later living as comfortable as possible. We invest management services, managing the investments of many in our auto-enrolled pension schemes. some of our retirement funds and shareholder funds in many of the UK’s biggest corporate pension schemes. We’re one types of direct investments to improve investment returns. of Europe’s largest asset managers and a major global On the corporate and institutional side, we provide investor, with assets under management of over £1 trillion, investment management services for nearly 3,000 clients. Legal & General Retirement Institutional (LGRI) playing an active role in the companies we invest in, from • LGRI works with companies, pension fund trustees and exercising shareholder voting rights to directly engaging with Ownership and management their advisers to provide risk transfer solutions that ensure companies at a board level. Our business is owned by our shareholders and had a market that company pensions are paid out in full. This often value of around £17 billion at 30 April 2019. Our Board is led involves us buying-out company pension liabilities. Our We have offices in seven locations and clients in 29 countries, by our Chairman, Sir John Kingman, with a team of executive Pension Risk Transfer (PRT) business in the US launched with a well-established US business and growing businesses and non-executive directors, made up of six men and four in 2015, which could offer us a market opportunity worth in Asia, Europe and the Gulf. women. around $27 billion. 3. Insurance Our people Legal & General Capital (LGC) We help people safeguard their families’ financial futures We have around 8,700 employees globally, with the majority • LGC works closely with our retirement and investment through providing insurance covering life, critical illness and based in the UK in our main offices in London, Hove and management businesses and with external partners. We disability and long-term sickness. We have market-leading Cardiff. In the US we have around 650 employees. develop direct investments that not only benefit pensioners digital applications which help customers buy and manage life and shareholders but also helps wider society, for example, insurance products. We also help prospective homeowners by redeveloping many of the major cities across the UK. obtain mortgages and surveying services. We focus on providing new housing, creating new jobs and clean sustainable energies. Our housing businesses include Our US insurance business provides life insurance cover CALA Homes, Legal & General Homes and our newly for 1.2 million people. established Affordable Homes business. Our general insurance business provided cover for over one million people in 2018. 7 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CSR Strategy Overview of our strategic approach to CSR Our CSR strategy is to drive Aligning our CSR strategy to the UN Sustainable Board level accountability positive change for all our Development Goals (SDGs) The Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics Committee Each of our four CSR focus areas is aligned to a number (GCRE) manages the Environmental, Social and Governance stakeholders, while creating value of the UN SDGs. See pages 10 for full details. (ESG) performance of the group. for customers and shareholders. Aligning CSR to our business strategy The Group Board and the Group Executive Committee are We want to build a better world given a yearly update on our sustainability progress, including Our six growth drivers, which inspire our strategic by investing in our towns and development, are our responses to the macroeconomic a summary of the group’s key deliverables and oversight of cities and helping disadvantaged needs of people globally. These growth drivers ensure the forward-looking targets. that we develop our strategy in a way that is relevant to people in our local communities. everyone and is rooted in the real issues that affect us all. GCRE Delivery Committee We want to inspire all our The Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics Delivery stakeholders to have a positive For example, our ‘creating real assets’ and ‘providing Committee (GCRE) meets four times a year and consists today’s capital’ growth drivers directly influence our CSR of people who own ESG targets on behalf of the group. environmental impact and ensure campaign of ‘creating new investments for the future The Committee’s role is to: that our businesses embrace economy’. Similarly, our ‘ageing populations’ and ‘welfare • own and progress public targets corporate responsibility, diversity reform’ growth drivers inspire us to achieve our CSR goal • highlight any areas of emerging ESG risks and of ‘making society more resilient’. opportunities raised by stakeholders during the year and inclusive growth. • set and integrate the group’s Ethics Policy across Developing a sustainable business the company Our aim is to embed corporate Our businesses develop products, services and investment • ensure that the company’s responsible business policies and social responsibility into our solutions based upon our six growth drivers. These in turn are fit for purpose mainstream business activities. build economic, environmental and social value for society • produce a yearly report on the group’s ESG performance which is built around our belief in inclusive growth. in the form of a sustainability report • support increased disclosure of non-financial reporting The CSR targets we set ourselves make sure we are on and ESG risks within the annual reporting process. track in creating a responsible and sustainable business. Our aim is eventually to integrate these into non-financial reporting targets. 8 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Engagement with stakeholders We listen to our stakeholders and work with them Our future world big conversations in 2018 to understand the challenges they face and their Key stakeholder group Important topic What we’re doing expectations of what constitutes a responsible business. NonGovernment Climate change We have supported the UN’s sustainable Organisations (NGOs) development goals and the Task Force for Key stakeholders groups for us are: Climate Related Financial Disclosures. • Employees NonGovernment Ageing populations Our retirement businesses have worked with the • Customers Organisations (NGOs) International Longevity Centre, Demos, Equity • Investors and shareholders Release Council, Financial Services Forum, • Community groups Elderly Accommodation Counsel, Womens’ Institute and the Centre for Ageing Better. • Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) • Governments and regulators Government and Ageing We have participated in the All Party • Charities and not-for-profit partners political groups Parliamentary Group on Social Care to look at • Suppliers and business partners funding and resources in the care system. Financial inclusion We have supported the Centre for Progressive We’re involved in several governmental round-tables and working groups. Policy (CPP) initiatives to improve inclusivity. We also invite stakeholders to our own round-table events, online surveys Infrastructure investment We have worked with Impact Investment and and one-to-one meetings. Over the course of 2017 we conducted a Patient Capital to promote the need for greater thorough materiality assessment. In 2018, we re-evaluated the investment in future cities, housing and jobs. sustainability factors identified in 2017 and feel that these still remain Our customers Vulnerable customers We provide a referral service for vulnerable the most material factors for us to work on. customers. Our Lifetime mortgages business refer potentially ‘at risk’ customers to The Royal Critical friend feedback Voluntary Service’s customer helpline. In 2018, we reviewed our cyber security and big data policies, with workplace Community groups Housing developments Priorities for us have included the development diversity and reducing inequality remaining important topics on our agenda. of affordable and key-worker housing. We liaised Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) can provide early indications of closely with community groups in Bracknell and consumer and societal sentiment of what’s expected from business. Crowthorne in the development of our new housing businesses. Interaction with LGIM Community groups Social Value We worked with the Social Value Portal to Legal & General Investment Management (LGIM) Corporate Governance develop the UK’s first Community Social Value team is very active in encouraging and driving Environmental, Social and Charter for Crowthorne. Governance performance from the companies they invest in. They also play Employees Mental health and Wellbeing We support ‘not a red card’ and provide support a key role in making sure that the group’s performance on ESG is aligned for people with mental health issues. We have with LGIM’s campaigns. worked with Mental Health First Aid England to provide training for employees. 9 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Guide to the UN goals Guide to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) About the global goals There are 17 United Nations’ Sustainable We strongly support the SDGs and have linked our targets to these goals. As a Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to major investor and insurer, in the UK, the US and other international markets, we promote prosperity while protecting the have an important contribution to make in helping make the change to a lowplanet. They recognise that ending poverty carbon economy. The UN goals help guide us, our customers and society towards must go hand-in-hand with strategies that a brighter, sustainable future. We have analysed which SDGs align most closely build economic growth and address a range with our strategic priorities. Most of the UN’s SDGs are relevant for our of social needs including education, health, business. However, the following SDGs most closely align to our CSR focus social protection, and job opportunities, areas. We will continue to work with stakeholders and collaborative networks to while tackling climate change and providing check that we are actively contributing to the right areas of the SDGs through our environmental protection. yearly materiality process. Aligning our focus areas with the global goals Running our business to a higher standard Making society more resilient with our financial solutions Taking action to create a low-carbon economy Creating new investments for the future economy 10 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Targets and Progress Against Targets continued Performance against targets aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2017, we set out five years’ worth of ESG targets for the group. These were based upon stakeholder feedback, materiality and strategic fit. Theme 1: Running our business to a higher standard Strengthening our corporate governance and sustainability policies, reviewing our business principles and ensuring our people embrace diversity and inclusion. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2018 As a group, we will deliver our 50:50 by 2020 gender 2020 We continue to work with leading diversity campaigns to help us achieve our goals, including 30% Club, the Diversity Project and the Women in Finance mix through recruitment and retention initiatives. Charter. We still have some way to go to reach our Women in Finance target of 40% of women in senior roles, and our 50/50 by 2020 aspiration for gender balance at all levels, but we are starting to see our actions making a difference. For instance, we were recognised in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index for the first time in January 2019 and our current gender diversity is 48% female and 52% male. Publish a Code of Conduct for our suppliers and 2019 Our central code of conduct template has been updated to include disclosure for suppliers on their gender pay gap and to raise awareness of this important partners which will formalise our expectations about topic. We have also built a new Code of Conduct questionnaire which will be used in our new ‘Smart Sourcing tool’ to ensure that we can better evidence gender diversity. adherence to our Code of Conduct and to look to capture trend data on how our suppliers are taking steps to ensure a diverse employee base. Create a pool of female talent (both internal and 2019 The talent management process was refreshed in 2018 with a great focus on strategic capabilities and talent further down the leadership pipeline. We are external) for leadership and key technical roles and developing a strong pipeline of female leaders, with 36% of the executive committee, 53% of top talent at grade six and 43% of top talent at grade five being implement an initiative for career returners, aimed at women. Our focus on developing and progressing our female talent has resulted in an increase of women in key management roles (29%) and three of our attracting those who have taken a career break. seven divisions are run by women. Drive greater understanding of our current workforce 2018 This is an ongoing project with completion expected in late 2019. An HR project team is currently reviewing our current methods of diversity and inclusion diversity by improving our data collection and (D&I) data collection and we will be recommending changes to our D&I monitoring questions and methods of data collection, with launch expected in increasing disclosure rates in 2018. September 2019. We are considering a phased approach to ensure we have the appropriate engagement from employees and that they understand why we are requesting additional data and how it will be used. Use the employee ‘Voice Pulse’ survey to measure our 2019 We launched a new employee survey platform in late 2018 with the following question: ‘I feel a sense of belonging at Legal & General’ included with progress on inclusion and belonging. a percentage positive score of 64%. This question will help us measure our progress on D&I strategy going forward. As a group we will bring at least 5% within our supply 2024 Our vision and strategy paper was produced, which has a key focus on updating policies and using our new tools to better engage with smaller firms. We chain of social enterprises within the next five years. always operate in a very fair and transparent fashion and will be looking to ensure that more social enterprises are included in applicable scope tenders in the future where possible. Extend our work on Modern Slavery, reviewing our 2019 We have established a CSR forum which is led by the central Group Procurement function to focus on a number of areas including Modern Slavery. Work is scorecard and delivering training to suppliers with under way developing this further and we are continuing our work with Anti Slavery International to help formulate multiple choice answers to the central special emphasis on working within the construction indicators already built so that we can build a more reportable questionnaire that we can upload into our new sourcing tool for 2019. This data will help us business. more proactively manage our suppliers and associated modern slavery risks. Roll out ‘Dementia Friends’ across the group as best 2020 We are working with the Alzheimer’s Society to guide employees to become dementia friends. The training has been added to our learning platform and practice guidance so we can work towards becoming a workshops are being planned. dementia-friendly company. 11 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Targets and Progress Against Targets continued Performance against targets aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goals Theme 2: Taking action to create a low-carbon economy Running our own business in an environmentally sustainable way, creating products and services that support a low-carbon future, influencing the companies we invest in to act in an environmentally resilient manner and ensuring that our direct investments support the aim to limit climate change. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2018. (Full data disclosure is available in our Environment Data Centre.) Reduce the number of carbon-intensive companies that 2023 In 2018 we measured our own carbon footprint. We achieved this by looking at the carbon emission intensity of our own balance sheet of around £80 billion. we own in our shareholder funds and replace them Associated achievements in this area in 2018 were: with less carbon-intensive companies. By the end of 2018 we will publish the carbon intensity of our own • We identified a board member responsible for the carbon intensity of our balance sheet – Jeff Davies. balance sheet. • We have no direct investments invested in coal. We are currently doing a ‘look through’ of the funds we invest in to determine if there are investments in coal. • We formed a steering group to finalise the carbon footprint of all our balance sheet and determine a strategy to divest from carbon-intensive companies in line with the methodology used by LGIM in their Future World funds. This steering group reports to both the Group Assets and Liability Committee (ALCO) and our Group Environment Committee. • We ensured we do not invest balance sheet money in any of the companies excluded from our Future World funds due to their carbon intensity. Support the development of key technologies 2023 We invest long-term capital into the energy sector in order to mature technologies, accelerate the progress to a low-cost, low-carbon economy and reduce with the potential to accelerate the transition the cost of energy for consumers. Our investment focus includes renewable wind and solar power generation, more energy efficient houses and buildings for to a low-carbon economy. our cities and innovative technologies to control, manage and store energy in order to make the most efficient use of the various energy supply resources available. We have invested in batteries and power storage devices and solar cell absorber material that can vastly improve a solar panel’s ability to convert sunlight into electricity and electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure. We will provide capital for up to 5% of the UK clean 2021 In 2018, we invested in ‘The Dudgeon Offshore Wind farm’, one of the world’s largest offshore wind projects. The wind farm can produce enough electricity energy market, enough to sustainably power 5% to power 410,000 homes in the UK and displace 893,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is the third significant investment made in UK offshore wind in just of all UK households by 2021. over a year. Previous investments included the Walney Extension and the Hornsea Project One offshore wind farm. These three wind farms have the capacity to provide enough power to service over two million of the UK’s 25 million homes. By 2020 the group will reduce carbon emission 2020 Our total group carbon per policy has risen from 3.79kgs to 6.41kg, which reflects the carbon associated with our new construction businesses. For example per policy by 20% based on 2013 baseline. CALA Homes represents 6,600 tCO2e. In contrast, the energy used in our UK occupied offices to run our businesses fell by 38% from our 2013 baseline. By 2020 the group will reduce operational 2020 Water consumed in our occupied offices has reduced by 39%, resulting in a saving of 24,962 CuM office water consumption per policy by 20% based on 2013 baseline. Water per policy in our operational offices has reduced by 46%. 12 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Targets and Progress Against Targets continued Performance against targets aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goals Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2018. (Full data disclosure is available in our Environment Data Centre.) By 2020 the group will reduce total waste generation 2020 Our total group waste per policy has risen from 102 grams to 1,305 grams. This significant rise is a result of our new construction businesses which generated per policy by 25% based on 2013 baseline. 14,077 tonnes of waste, which represents 95% of our total group waste. During the same period our occupied office waste per policy has decreased by 19%. By 2020 the group will reduce paper consumption per To date we have achieved a 17% reduction on paper consumption and continue to move towards digital solutions for reducing our reliance on paper. We have policy by 30% based on 2013 baseline. been working hard to introduce some new digital tools and to use those to change how we share information across our business including L&G.tv our new employee video channel, a new employee intranet and increased use of social media to connect with our customers. In addition we have introduced new ways of working including Skype for Business and One Drive to help employees to connect with colleagues and work more effectively. The group will review the current approach to 2018 We remain committed to setting science-based targets, and continue to work with EcoAct to undertake scenario analysis and to understand the potential measuring resources and seek to reset these on a impact that SBT could have on our businesses. However we are awaiting the SBTi guidance for the Financial Sector before we are able to set any scientific basis out to 2030. formal targets. LGIM will help clients understand better the risk 2023 We understand that the scale of LGIM’s activities brings the responsibility to act decisively on climate change. As an institutional investor responsible for and opportunities created by the low-carbon transition managing the retirement savings and investments of millions of people, we believe climate change is one of the biggest market-wide risks we face and through education and then provide investment strongly support the stated aim of the Paris Agreement of limiting global temperature rise to well below 2°C, converging on a 1.5°C pathway. solutions to finance and benefit from the low carbon transition. In 2018, we published the global corporate leaders and laggards as part of the Climate Impact Pledge. We divested eight companies in our Future World fund range due to their scores and their responses and voted against the Chair across our entire equity holdings. Divestment is not the goal in itself and we have re-engaged with these companies to encourage them to address material climate risks and opportunities. We worked towards the publication of our first response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations to demonstrate how we are helping to safeguard both our investors’ assets and actively creating investment solutions that protect their future. Legal & General group has separately produced a TCFD-aligned document which outlines the overall carbon footprint of the business, including its approach to decarbonising internal assets. In a survey by the 50/50 Climate Project, LGIM is said to ‘lead the industry’ for using influence to drive change at companies on issues such as climate change disclosure, support for lobbying disclosure and votes against executive remuneration. Develop low-carbon, energy-efficient homes in our 2023 We are seeking ways to make the homes we build more sustainable, for example we have made a commitment to include EV charging points in our housing business. Crowthorne development and are about to test battery technology on our construction compound. LGIM have worked together with LGC’s clean energy team to deploy the technologies invested within our new homes such as PV panels and heat batteries. 13 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Targets and Progress Against Targets continued Performance against targets aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goals Theme 3: Making society more resilient with our financial solutions Striving to reduce inequality and improve financial resources, by offering our products to the widest set of social and economic groups as possible while helping to create a degree of financial independence and supplementing the products and services provided by the State. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2018 Across our business, we will improve our products and 2019 The Vulnerable Customer (VC) Committee has focused its activity in 2019 on sharing best practice across the group, particularly in terms of VC frameworks, services to support emerging vulnerabilities in our and training for our people in providing the right experience and good outcomes for VCs. We have worked with the Royal Voluntary Service (RVS) to provide customers’ lives. a referral service for certain vulnerable customers, which entails a visit by a volunteer to a customer where we have particular concerns. Some of our business areas have specialist individuals and teams dedicated to serving vulnerable customers. We are also collecting and sharing more information on interactions with vulnerable customers in a number of parts of the group. We will be directly addressing the increasing mental 2018 We are part of an industry-wide working group that is collaborating to identify opportunities to prevent suicide and to support those affected by the impact of health problems in the developed world through suicide. Our Not A Red Card (NARC) campaign, championed by our Group Protection business, continues into 2019, with this year’s campaign launching enhancing our products, services and investments during Mental Health Awareness week in May. The annual NARC event and awards will take place on the 1st October. available to customers. We continue to provide early support and psychological intervention for GIP (Group Income Protection) and IPB (Income Protection Benefit) claims in conjunction with our specialist partner, CBT Clinics. We aim to have 20% of the real assets we own or invest 2023 We now ensure that the measurement of social value is written into all new construction and major refurbishment projects, with project teams reporting in, to have an economic and a social value generated regularly on social value generated to our head of capital projects. based upon how we design and run them. During 2018, we also undertook a pilot project across two operational, balanced, property funds to adapt the methodology for measurement of property in operation, working closely with our managing agents. This proved very successful and going forward in 2019 we are aiming to roll out the measurement of social value across all our property funds to ensure we establish a ‘baseline’ for each fund, that can be used to set future improvement (positive impact) targets, These targets will also be embedded in future procurement documents to ensure we embed social value measurements and targets into the supply chain contracts associated with the operation of our direct investments in property. LGIM will engage with investee companies on key 2018 In 2018, we have been engaging on the following topics: executive pay; gender diversity; climate change; transparency and independent oversight at board themes that will help to create more resilient societies, level. However engagement is not limited to purely ESG items, but covers governance in its broadest sense looking at all material issues including regulation, namely diversity, health, technology, income inequality listing rules, mergers and acquisitions, corporate strategy, and capital and financial management. and financial inclusion. We are globally recognised for being a long-term, constructive, collaborative and informed investor; therefore, companies from around the world actively seek out our opinion. We provide examples and case studies of our individual and collective engagements in our Quarterly ESG Impact Reports and our Active Ownership Annual Report. We represent all clients in carrying out voting, engagement and advocacy activities in order to protect and enhance asset values over long term and speak with one voice in our discussions with companies. We aim to minimise abstentions unless it is technically impossible to vote. In 2018, LGIM voted against at least one resolution at 73% of companies during 2018, compared to 59% in 2017. We voted against 3,864 directors globally in 2018, up 37% since 2017. We voted against over 100 UK chairs due to gender diversity concerns – the largest number ever to date. The group will institutionalise long-term investment 2023 Legal & General Affordable Homes has been established and achieved registered status in 2018. 2019 will be the first year when affordable housing will be into social housing funded through this registered provider. Group Treasury has met with a number of capital providers to understand the role that social bonds could play in this market. 14 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Targets and Progress Against Targets continued Performance against targets aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goals Theme 4: Creating new investments for the future economy Taking action to make our investment activities more sustainable and embrace Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors. This applies to our own direct investments and investments made on behalf of LGIM’s clients. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2018 As a group, continue our strategy to invest £15 billion 2019 We have met the £15 billion target, having now invested £19.2 billion in urban regeneration, housing, clean energy and SME finance. In 2018 we continued our into sectors of the economy that are economically, investments in 15 future cities, including Leeds, Newcastle, Bath, Bristol, Cardiff, Birmingham, Manchester, Brighton, Glasgow, Edinburgh and London. socially and environmentally useful. Develop investment solutions via LGIM that are more 2023 LGIM fully supports the objectives of the UN’s SDGs, which governments around the world have committed to in order to create a more sustainable global clearly aligned to the UN Sustainable Development system. We are aware that UN member states will be expected to use the SDGs to frame their agendas and political policies over the next 15 years; Goals (SDGs). businesses and investors must pay attention. Although delivering on the SDGs is the responsibility of each member state government, we recognise that they cannot be achieved without the private sector playing their part. Because the SDGs seek to address some of the component parts of a healthy economy, we also think that supporting achievement of the SDGs is in the interests of business and investors and we think institutional investors offering mainstream investment funds have a role to play. In 2018, we worked on developing a SDG strategy. LGIM will develop and enhance long-term investment 2023 Future World is a natural evolution of what LGIM has always done – it reflects our culture and is aligned with our clients’ values. It seeks to address long-term offerings which integrate ESG themes. themes and opportunities, whilst managing the risks of a changing world. In 2017, we introduced the first of these strategies – the Future World Fund which stood at £5.2 billion in size as at December 2018. Alongside a factor-based index approach, the fund incorporates a climate tilt and LGIM’s Climate Impact Pledge. This is a very powerful combination and is attracting demand from all client channels. In 2018, LGIM launched additional Future World funds across a variety of asset classes and strategies, for clients who wish to express a conviction on ESG themes. The funds incorporate key ESG metrics, which are closely aligned to the engagement and voting activities we carry out on behalf of our clients. By developing the range, we aim to bring investments that incorporate ESG principles into the mainstream. Legal & General Capital will enable the funding of over 2023 We have sought to support the development of the Venture Capital and start-up industry in the UK by investing with eight UK-based Venture Capital £10 billion into small to medium sized enterprises managers. Through these managers, we have invested in over 250 start-ups across the UK and EMEA including spin-outs from the UK’s leading universities. (SMEs), supporting job creation and economic growth. Additionally we have supported the finance for SMEs across the UK and Europe via our investments with Pemberton, a leading European mid-market lender with £4 billion under management. We own 40% of Pemberton. Together, we have committed approximately £0.6 billion of our own capital to date to support SMEs and start-ups in this way. As a group we support the aim of the Paris Agreement 2023 We are holding discussions to make changes in our Investment Management Agreements (IMAs) to exclude thermal coal investments and put constraints on to limit the global average temperature rise to well stocks with poor ESG scoring. below 2°C of preindustrial levels. We continued to improve our understanding of the financial impact of a range of warming scenarios though scenario analysis. We will set emission reduction targets on our own investment assets to align with the Paris objective. Through LGIM we are using our influence as a large investor to promote a transition to a low-carbon economy An outcome of these policy objectives is that Group Through LGC and LGR we are investing in infrastructure and regeneration. An important part of this is the ongoing strategy to invest in efficient low-carbon funds will continue to increase investment in energy systems which are key to our Future Cities initiative. businesses and infrastructure assets that support a sustainable low-carbon economy. As a group we will support at least one development of 2019 Our SE-Assist Fund continues to grow in supporting early-stage social enterprises. We now have over £800,000 out on loan in Wales, Croydon and Sussex to a new economy asset classes to create economic and 35 social enterprises. We have invested £50,000 into crowd funding in 2018. social value into our communities. By 2021 as a Group, invest in major regeneration 2021 We currently have thousands of homes and millions of square feet of commercial space under construction across the UK. The portfolio now covers Cardiff, schemes in at least ten UK cities. Newcastle, Bracknell, Salford, Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham, Bath, Plymouth and London. We continue to work with towns and cities up and down the country to provide new homes and high-value jobs, helping to grow regional economies. 15 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas Our focus areas As part of our ‘inclusive capitalism’ belief, we understand how our actions play a wider role in the world to improve society, the economy and the environment. We have linked our focus areas to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 1. Running our business 2. Taking action to create 3. Making society more resilient 4. Creating new investments to a higher standard a low-carbon economy with our financial solutions for the future economy We are continually using a wide range of As global temperatures rise, so too will In line with the UN’s SDGs to reduce It’s vitally important to take action on metrics and are managing programmes the effects it will have on people’s lives inequality and improve financial how we make our investment activities to help develop initiatives in each of our and economies. As part of the Paris resources, we aim to improve the more sustainable and that they embrace business areas. This is to ensure that we Agreement, world leaders have agreed financial resilience of people Environment, Social and Governance are embedding a positive culture based to limit the global temperature increase throughout society. We want to market (ESG) factors. Customers and on our business principles and to 1.5°C to 2°C. This is an ambitious, our products and services to the widest shareholders often want to understand behaviours, celebrating our successes but achievable, target if we can shift set of social and economic groups as clearly where their money is invested. and recognising contributions, whilst our methods of generating and possible, helping to create a degree of Our belief is that we should always addressing areas for improvement. consuming energy globally towards financial independence and supplement invest for the long term in an low carbon alternatives. the products and services provided economically viable, social useful and by the State. environmentally responsible way. 16 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Running our business to a higher standard Our purpose is to improve the lives of our Our people and culture customers, build a better society for the long Our people are at the heart of what we do. So that we continue to deliver the best for our customers, we need to make our term and create value for shareholders. Our employees feel engaged, empowered and proud to work here. strategy is designed to ensure we are embedding a positive culture based on our Culture business principles and behaviours, celebrating The foundations of our culture are built upon three values: 1. Straightforward. We need to communicate in a simple way that our successes, recognising contributions, and is easy to understand. addressing areas for improvement. 2. Collaborative. All businesses should work together across the group. 3. Purposeful. We must be fully committed to the products and services provided by us to customers. Every year we ask each business to present how they are evolving, protecting and measuring their culture. Our Group CEO, Group HR Director and Group Chief Risk Officer get together to evaluate how each business puts our business principles into practice. Employee engagement Our worldwide employee engagement index is currently 72%. We have a positive culture where We want our employees to be fully engaged with our culture. our people are inspired by our Our ambition is that this culture allows all our people to share their views and contribute fully to our business agenda. In purpose and tell us they are very 2018, we moved to a new methodology of measuring proud of working here.” employee engagement, away from an annual survey to a more frequent digital basis. We now have a platform that Emma-Hardaker Jones provides real-time insight on engagement and helps leaders Group HR Director and management to build action plans, focusing on the improvements that matters the most for our people. 17 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued 79% of our employees said that they were proud of working for us Diversity and inclusion gender pay gap, but we know there is more to be done. In 2018, we provided mentoring and sponsorship programmes An inclusive culture is key to attracting, retaining and enabling Despite a positive change overall, the slight increase in to our female, LGBT+ and ethnic minority talent, focusing on all our people to thrive. It’s important to us that our workforce the gender pay gap in our investment management their career development needs. Over 25 of our pipeline talent reflects our customers and the communities they live in, so business underlines that this is an ongoing challenge. took part in mentoring programmes. we’re creating a more diverse and gender-balanced organisation for the benefit of our people, the businesses Our gender pay gap report provides a full analysis of pay In 2018, we also responded to the BEIS Ethnicity Pay Gap and the communities we work with. We’re fully committed by gender. consultation and signed the Race at Work Charter. We to increasing the diversity of our workforce and are actively welcome the greater transparency on pay, recognition and building an inclusive culture that encourages all of our staff Going beyond Gender diversity that these initiatives will bring. to be the best they can be. We know that this helps to We have taken steps to ensure that we are creating a positive, deliver excellent customer outcomes and better results. flexible and inclusive work environment for everyone, Focus on social inclusion not just women. As a business we want to be economically and socially useful Our vision for diversity and inclusion and our work on social inclusion is very much aligned to these Part of that commitment is to increase gender diversity We introduced agile working contracts in 2018, providing business goals. Our Socio-Economic Mobility (SEM) across our organisation. Our 50/50 by 2020 gender initiative many employees with more flexible working arrangements. Committee forms part of the wider Legal and General started in 2014 and we continue to work with leading diversity Improvements in technology are enabling our employees to Inclusion Team. campaigns to help us achieve our goals, including the 30% be more agile in terms of where they work, with many no Club, the Diversity Project and the Women in Finance Charter. longer fixed to one office location. Our objectives are threefold: 1. Raise awareness of issues related to social mobility in We still have some way to go to reach our Women in Finance We have put in place strong family-friendly policies including the UK amongst our colleagues. target of 40% of women in senior roles, and our aspiration a parental leave coaching programme and emergency back-up 2. Level the playing field for young applicants from less of gender balance at all levels, but we’re starting to see care. This means our people can access nannies, nurseries, affluent backgrounds applying for positions to our our actions making a difference. For instance, we were childminders, holiday clubs, or eldercare specialists at short organisation, with an emphasis on ‘social mobility cold spots’ recognised in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index for notice, with two days a year paid for by us. 3. Support retention and career progression of existing talent the first time in January 2019. from relatively disadvantaged backgrounds. Our L&GBT network has successfully partnered with LGBT Our focus on gender diversity initiatives has resulted in a positive Great to raise awareness of LGBT+ inclusion in the In 2018 we held a widely-attended panel event for our impact on the recruitment and promotion of women. We’ll investment management industry. Their success has resulted colleagues that featured key speakers including our CEO, continue our efforts to ensure women are represented at all in awards for both the network chair and its business sponsor. Nigel Wilson. We also started a mentoring program for 20 levels in our business, but we’re taking a broader approach to students with support from upReach, our charity partner in make Legal and General Group a place where talented people, social mobility and received plenty of support from our whatever their identity or background, can thrive. colleagues across the business. We have now produced our second Gender Pay Gap report We also attended an Insight Day at the upReach offices, which measures the difference between the average pay of where we introduced our industry, firm and available roles to men and women across the whole company. We’re pleased undergraduate students interested in a career in Finance. to report that we’ve seen a 2.6% reduction in our median 18 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Following the success of this we organised an Insight Day at • Specific mental health training for staff when dealing with One Coleman Street in February 2019, hosting 18 University both colleagues and customers The purpose of this is to establish and maintain standards that students who were keen to visit the building and meet our • Encouraging openness regarding mental health; and ensure our key suppliers operate ethically, are environmentally employees. We received very positive feedback from the • Developing a positive narrative that is communicated with responsible and that their employees are treated with respect event and a lot of interest in current opportunities at our firm. colleagues all around the world. and dignity. All key suppliers are expected to have processes in place to maintain these standards and to be able to provide In 2019, our aim is to be included in the Social Mobility We have over 100 trained Mental Health First Aiders across evidence of meeting these standards if required. Foundation Employer Index, a joint initiative between the Social our business whose role is to support colleagues by taking time Mobility Foundation and the Social Mobility Commission. to listen, and by signposting additional support resources. We also look to address where possible relevant environmental considerations in the sourcing process, for Talent development Our Health and Safety team supported the business in a example, all new applicable sourcing requirements which We need to identify the skills and capabilities that are needed number of trials regarding Agile/New Ways of Working, come up for tender will be required to consider the need for for the long-term growth of the company. Employees can take providing guidance to the project teams and reviewing 375 single-use plastics. responsibility for their own career development, with relevant, Ways of Working/Home assessments throughout 2018. easy to access and tailored support from us. Many of our Understanding and reducing the impact training programmes are available online, making access to Code of ethics of modern day slavery learning easily available anywhere and anytime. In 2018, we We have a code of ethics which underpins how we operate. With the assistance of Anti-Slavery International, we were able delivered programmes around digital skills to encourage new The code covers significant areas such as being open, honest to review modern slavery risk in our core supply chain in relation ways of working for all of our people. We committed to and fair; discrimination; conflicts of interest; operating within to the Modern Slavery Act. We have hosted a number of mental health first aid training and unconscious bias sessions, the law; safeguarding personal data; and avoiding bringing the workshops with key suppliers to help us understand the impact helping us to foster the behaviours that make the company a company into disrepute. and process of slavery in the UK and how we would practically place where everyone can thrive. spot signs of slavery in addition to more traditional governance Our ‘Speak Up’ campaign seeks feedback from our people, methods. We have set a number of common expectations for Employee health and wellbeing customers and external partners, to capture positive evidence our suppliers and jointly decided on indicators of working We believe that all employees should be emotionally, mentally of our business principles in action and areas that need focus. standards, which are being integrated and evolved into our and physically fit, resilient to change and performing at their The introduction of the new GDPR legislation in 2018 led to Supplier Code of Conduct and governance. best. We achieve this by working to deliver a proactive, the adoption of increased data protection standards and new integrated and consistent plan of activities to support personal privacy procedures. There have been no reported Human Rights employees’ physical and mental health and wellbeing at work incidents of data protection breaches that resulted in litigation, Our responsibility is to respect all human rights. Our proactive through our My Health, My Money and My Life programmes. penalties or fines from the Information Commissioner’s approach reflects our ethical commitment and helps to Office (ICO). establish and maintain successful relationships with all A key focus for us is mental health. Our ‘Not a Red Card stakeholders. Our actions encompass all of our stakeholders Offence’ campaign continues to work with high-profile, Our suppliers in all group businesses. inspirational sports people to start to reduce the stigma of We work closely with key group suppliers to help to talking about mental health. Our priorities have included: ensure they meet and maintain high standards in line with our Supplier Code of Conduct, contract terms and governance requirements. 19 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued 86% of employees understand their role in making us an ethical company Our public policy principles Improving all aspects of our supply chain 1. We make no political donations. We are politically neutral, We use a fair, transparent and ethical supply chain process by working with all parties, officials, regulators and other policy sourcing the best solutions available to meet our business organisations in the jurisdictions we operate in. needs. We are keen to hear from new suppliers and actively 2. We work collaboratively both directly and through a range of looking at better ways to engage with smaller firms. We are industry representative bodies. constantly reviewing our approach to proactive supplier 3. We aim to deliver evidence-based, practical proposals for governance and our newly sourced software and tooling will consideration by policy-makers. provide a consistent, transparent digital platform to help us 4. We aim to be experts and thought-leaders: we are an further develop our supply base and how they are managed. organisation rich in expertise that we’re willing to share with those responsible for formulating public policy. How we work with government 5. We’re focused on delivering positive outcomes for customers, We have a set of principles for engagement with government shareholders, investment markets, the broader economy and policy makers. We believe people should know what we and society. do and what we stand for. Our engagement with government As part of growing our business in the USA we have As part of our dialogue, we responded to over 49 government continued to engage with stakeholders across the United and regulatory consultations, as well as shaping responses States at Federal, State and City-level, including Chambers from trade and industry bodies. Our main areas of discussion of Commerce and will continue to do so. with central and especially local government in 2018 have included: • supporting jobs and growth through urban regeneration • changes to the pensions and ‘at retirement’ market • financial regulation – both conduct and prudential • corporate governance • risk sharing • financial regulation – UK, US and EU • reforms to both prudential and conduct regulation • engaging with UK, US and EU national and regional government on direct investment into infrastructure and housing • discussions on ESG and sustainable finance • the UK’s exit from the European Union • international trade. 20 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Taking action to create a low-carbon economy Climate change is a deepening global crisis, which We, as an insurer, investor and a developer have affects our businesses, our customers and our an important role in the transition to a low-carbon employees. Global temperature increases will economy. We will run our own business in an profoundly impact people’s lives and national environmentally sustainable way, create products economies. To minimise the most damaging and services that support a low-carbon future, consequences, global leaders have agreed to limit influence the companies we invest in to be the temperature increase to 1.5°C to 2°C above environmentally responsible and ensure that our pre-industrial levels. It’s an ambitious but achievable direct investments support the aim to limit climate target involving a meaningful shift towards low change and foster sustainable development. We carbon alternatives. see these steps as fundamental to the long-term success of our businesses, as well as helping to deliver a low-carbon economy. We are fully committed to a 2°C (or below) world and believe that we have an important role in the global transition to a low carbon economy.” Sacha Sadan, Director of Corporate Governance, LGIM 21 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued How climate change affects us In 2018, the carbon emission intensity of the balance sheet LGIM engages with many of the largest global companies on Our businesses will be directly impacted by the effects of was 370.22 tonnes CO2e/£1m invested. This was down 24% their management of climate change issues, both directly and climate change. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on from the previous year. When applied to the £69 billion of collectively with other investors. We make use of our votes to Climate Change (IPCC) even 2°C of warming above preequity, bonds and property components of the investment support our stance. Looking at key shareholder votes in 2018 industrial levels would mean catastrophic flooding, drought portfolio to which shareholders are directly exposed, this gives in the US, an independent report found that LGIM supported and associated mass-migration, food scarcity and large-scale a carbon footprint of 26 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. more resolutions on climate change reporting than any of the loss of biodiversity and overall worsening living conditions. world’s ten largest asset managers*. These changes will disrupt supply chains and damage Reducing our carbon footprint and inspiring others infrastructure, impacting economies, markets, companies As well as assessing and understanding the carbon footprint We also consistently include the topic of climate change in and people profoundly. of our investments we continue to encourage public policies, the annual seminars we host for non-executive directors of investment practices and corporate behaviour that address the companies. To help reach a wider audience, we will publish We recognise two main types of risks to our business long-term risks associated with the impact of climate change a guideline for company boards on how climate change from climate change: should be governed. 1. Physical risks from the impact of more extreme weather LGIM is a major global institutional investor and has conditions such as the impact on the homes we build established a climate engagement programme aimed at some Investing in renewable energy and invest in. of the world’s largest companies: ‘the Climate Impact Pledge’. We have deployed more than £1 billion in renewable energy 2. Transition risks as our investments are impacted by new This is our promise to engage with the largest companies in infrastructure and expect to continue deploying into regulations, technologies and consumer trends. However, at key sectors which need to address climate change. The renewable energy and power grid infrastructure. We invest the same time, we are aware that there are also potentially scores and ratings that we allocate to improvements made by long-term capital into the energy sector to accelerate the significant opportunities that may arise from the global target companies mean that our progress and changes can be progress to a low-cost, low-carbon economy, also reducing transition to a low-carbon economy. monitored and communicated on an ongoing basis. We raise the cost of power for consumers. This includes renewable the minimum standards set every year. wind and solar power generation, energy-efficient houses and We understand our role in this transition and have undertaken buildings and innovative technologies to control, manage and a strategic review of our carbon risks and opportunities. We LGIM has also been developing low-carbon investment store energy. have regularly managed and reported on our Scope 1 and 2 products in the Future World range, with the aim of helping emissions and our business travel Scope 3 emissions. Full accelerate the low-carbon transition. The Hornsea Project One financing will enable the details of these emissions are found in our annual report on construction of what will become, once operational, the page 236 and in the data tables. In 2018, we excluded eight companies from the Fund due to world’s largest offshore windfarm project, powering over one their failing to meet minimum standards. A number did not million homes. It will be located 100 km off the north-east In 2018, our total greenhouse gas emissions increased from respond to our requests for any engagement; of those that coast of Britain, with 174 UK built Siemens turbines. In 2018, approximately 45,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions (tCO2e) to did, some have shown superficial signs of improvement, if we also entered into a joint venture in Dudgeon Offshore around 49,000 tonnes (tCO2e), as a direct result of our any at all. Wind Ltd, located off the east coast of England, producing growing housing businesses. For example, our newly acquired enough electricity to power 410,000 homes. CALA Homes business emissions corresponded to 6,600 For the past two years, climate change has been one of the We are actively engaged in assessing investment tCO2e. In fact the energy used in our UK occupied offices top three themes discussed by LGIM’s corporate governance to run our businesses fell by 17% between 2017 and 2018. team in meetings with companies. 22 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued opportunities to support the electrification of transport and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 4. Through LGIM we will use our influence with companies as reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions due to heating As a signatory to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial a large investor, specifically on environmental issues and the in homes and offices. We have invested in ‘Pod Point’, which Disclosures we’re fully committed to disclosing our approach transition to a low-carbon economy. We are currently in provides EV charging units and management software to to the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. discussions to enforce this in the future through changes in households as well as to companies wanting to provide EV the Investment Management Agreements (IMAs) that exclude charging capability for their customers, visitors or employees. Overall responsibility for climate change and environmental pure thermal coal and constrains investment in stocks excluded performance is held by the Group CEO, Nigel Wilson and from the Future World investment range. We aim to build highly efficient, near-zero carbon, homes, not responsibility for consideration of group market risk only to meet government policy targets but also to meet connected to our investments (including the risk of climate Download the Group 2018 TCFD report (PDF 609KB) growing consumer demands. To ensure that our Homes change) is held by the Group CFO, Jeff Davies, who is also a Download LGIM’s 2018 TCFD report (PDF 1.3MB) businesses are part of this solution we have a target to develop Board member. Under their stewardship we have produced * Source: Climate 50/50 Project -Asset Manager Climate Scorecard 2018, analysis low-carbon, energy efficient homes in our housing businesses. two TCFD reports that outline our governance, risks and of the voting records of the world’s 13 largest asset managers that report mutual opportunities as well as stating our carbon footprint. fund votes, focused on resolutions at US energy and utility companies. Charts show voting record of five largest asset managers on climate change, political We construct new homes to meet the latest standards influence and executive compensation. contained within the Building Regulations, in line with Firstly, our group report is a consideration of climate change government policy on low-carbon homes, such as including asset risk to the group’s balance sheet. Secondly, the LGIM Action to reduce plastic usage solar PV, solar thermal, air-source heating and shower save. report focuses on managing climate-related risks for We acknowledge that we have a long way to go to meet our This delivers long-term carbon reductions and homes that are external customers. own demanding standards in reducing plastic usage in our cheaper to run. offices and in the premises and buildings of the companies We have a formal framework for risk management policies in we own and invest into. In 2018, we made a tentative start by Accolades place, which sets out approaches to managing different types reducing some plastic usage in catering facilities in our • We were ranked 4th globally among the world’s largest of risks and defines the minimal control standard over the offices. During 2019, we will work with suppliers to ensure insurers and 2nd among the world’s largest asset managers short, medium and long-term. These can be broken down into that we continue to remove plastics. for their approach to climate risk and opportunity, by the four key areas where we capture information as a business ‘Asset Owners Disclosure Project’ (AODP) and use it to influence our strategy and policies: Action to reduce waste and water usage • LGIM’s Corporate Governance team received the 2018 ICSA We have reduced office water consumption per policy by award for ‘Best Investor Engagement’ for the fourth year in a row 1. We will decarbonise the assets on our balance sheet, having 46% against our 2013 baseline. • Our Carbon disclosure project score increased to a ‘B’ set long-term targets for our own energy usage. By 2020, we • LGIM’s Real assets team were awarded GRESB ‘green stars’ want to ‘reduce carbon emission per policy by 20% based on We originally had a target to reduce total waste generation for ESG performance 2013 baseline’. per policy by 25% based on our 2013 baseline. However, our • Social Value award in Communities. 2. For our commercial property portfolio we set carbon reduction waste per policy has increased from 102 grams to 1,305 targets and monitor through our managing agents. grams. This increase is due to our new construction 3. We have a commitment to be a long-term investor in UK businesses, which represent 95% of group waste. renewables and associated key technologies. We have set ourself a target to increase investments into UK energy Full data is available in the Environment Data centre. infrastructure with our own money and that of our customers to support the transition to a low-carbon economy over the next three years. 23 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Making society more resilient with our financial solutions Financial inclusion and improving customer services through innovative technologies We have a responsibility to ensure that we market our products and services to all social and economic groups. We design and distribute our retail products so they become more accessible, transparent and simpler to purchase by innovating product design, accessing big data and rationalising the way that we distribute them. This means that many customers who do not have the confidence to engage with financial advisers or who are not prepared to pay for advice are able to own financial products. We have developed easy-to-use digital processes for our retail life insurance and auto-enrolled pension customers. Customers can apply for and be accepted for life insurance plans completely online. Our workplace pension customers can manage their investments, track the value of their plan and find out information about their options when they retire, using our ‘MyAccount’ application. Supporting vulnerable customers Our Vulnerable Customer (VC) Committee has focused its activity this year on sharing best practice across the group, Using Salary Finance has been a particularly in terms of training so that staff are able to massive relief for me. Now I’m out provide suitable experiences and outcomes for vulnerable customers. We provide a referral service for certain of my overdraft and I’ve recently vulnerable customers which entails a visit by a volunteer to a started looking into saving.” customer where we have particular concerns. Some of our business areas have specialist individuals and teams A social worker at Hackney Borough Council who used dedicated to serving vulnerable customers. our Salary Finance loan service. 24 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued 3.1m £1.2bn We directly address the increasing number of mental health problems by enhancing our products, services and investments so they are easily available to customers – Growth opportunities for the business remain extremely positive and industry recognition of this ‘Fintech’ is high. For example, Salary Finance won ‘Responsible Business of the Number of people saving for Amount of lifetime mortgages retirement in DC pension schemes advanced to boost customers’ identifying triggers to prevent and support those affected by Year’ at the Prince Charles Business in the Community awards. retirement resources 2018 the impact of suicide. Providing insurance and health-related solutions £470bn £1.9bn We continue to provide early support and psychological intervention for GIP (Group Income Protection) and IPB (Income Protection Benefit) claims in conjunction with our Our UK life insurance business continues to be the UK’s No 1 individual insurance provider. However, over 70% of UK adults have no life insurance in place. We are trying to make life Total life insurance cover Total pensions paid in 2018 we provide specialist partner CBT Clinics. insurance more accessible, by providing simple digital solutions both in the UK and US. Our ‘Not A Red Card (NARC) campaign plays a major part 95% 700,000 during Mental Health Awareness week in May. The annual NARC event and awards will take place in October. This is a one-day event that focuses on how sport can play a role in Our Group Protection business is developing additional products and services that look to treat mental wellbeing in the same way as physical wellbeing within the workplace. 95% of annuity death claims now Employees on our Salary Finance paid within five days (previously platforms able to benefit from removing the stigmas associated with mental health in the 90% paid within ten days) low-cost loans workplace through inspirational talks, informative panels, Supporting the ageing population practical workshops and valuable idea sessions. It brings Helping people save for retirement together employers and employees alike, discussing what we We help over three million people save for retirement in DC can all do to raise awareness, educate, and introduce ideas to pensions and help over one million people manage their make the workplace a safe place to talk about mental health. finances when they have retired. Helping working people avoid debt Our newly launched financial wellbeing platform for DC Salary Finance, the award-winning ‘Start-up of the Year’, pensions members can help people feel financially confident. continues to grow rapidly. In the UK, Salary Finance currently has We want to help people who are saving for retirement keep more than 700,000 employees registered on the platform with their short-term money worries under control. an additional 300,000 expected by the second quarter of 2019. In response to feedback from employers, Salary Finance have launched Salary Advance and, in partnership with HMRC, will launch a ‘Help To Save’ scheme in early 2019. During the second half of 2018, Salary Finance launched in the US and has a significant active pipeline to build on its current clients. 25 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued The financial wellbeing hub has four key themes: by the end of 2019 as we continue to help battle the UK 1. Control day-to-day spending. housing crisis. Inclusive capitalism requires us 2. Prepare for unexpected expenses. to break the vicious cycle where 3. Maintain a regular disposable income. Affordable homes 4. Prepare for future life milestones – retirement, home buying, In 2018, we launched our affordable housing arm to address educational, financial and digital having a family and savings. the overwhelming need for affordable housing across the UK, exclusion combine to create social and achieved the milestone of becoming a registered provider Helping the elderly in retirement of social housing. exclusion and isolation.” We’re also a leading provider of lifetime mortgages, enabling Nigel Wilson, people to stay in their homes and improve their finances in Measuring social value Group CEO, Legal & General retirement, with total loans of over £1 billion in 2018, Following our commitment to measure 20% of our real estate focusing on meeting an individual’s full retirement needs. portfolio by 2020, we continue to work with Social Value Portal to progress measurement and understand how best to Our research indicates that there are now 3.1 million last-time apply this across our property portfolio. We have decided to buyer households in the UK, with the number of homeowners adopt the National Social Value Measurement (TOMs) who have considered downsizing rising from 32% to 39%. Framework as our measurement solution and we are working Almost half (49%) of last-time buyers said it was because collaboratively with other asset managers to benchmark our there were no suitable properties available. Through Inspired performance and to provide a set of metrics that will help us Villages, we now have seven retirement sites with a property improve our performance. We are working with Social Value portfolio of 1,100 apartments. Portal to map the TOMs Framework against the UN SDGs. In 2018, we jointly invested £8.5 million in Care Sourcer, In 2018, Legal & General Homes won a Social Value Award a care comparison and matching site. This enabled Care for ‘best business contribution to social value’ for our Buckler’s Sourcer to expand its care matching technology UK-wide, Park development. Legal & General Homes has to date helping to tackle the UK crisis in care. delivered £4,096,422 of social value for Crowthorne. The resulting Social Value Charter empowered local people and Investing in affordable and social housing helped Legal & General Homes to narrow down the needs, We’re delivering housing of all forms of tenure. These include priorities, challenges and opportunities that Crowthorne might build-to-sell, build-to-rent, affordable housing and specialist face. This has allowed us to channel our efforts into things that housing for the elderly. matter most to Crowthorne residents – from traffic and public transport to employment and the local high street. We have Build-to-rent also recently successfully won a planning submission for a new We have invested around £1.5 billion into the build-to-rent hotel development in Hammersmith and Fulham that included sector, and have around 3,000 homes under construction an innovative Social Value Statement. or in planning, in Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Salford, Glasgow, Bath, Brighton, Leeds and across London. We aim Read more about social value at Buckler’s Park to have 6,000 homes in planning, development or operation 26 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Creating new investments for the future economy Direct investments have a positive impact, Our passion for new housing economically and socially. They unlock capital The UK still has a chronic need to deliver more housing at scale. We’re involved in delivering 80,000 new homes in the investment in the wider UK economy, create jobs and next five to ten years, creating housing of all tenures such as help to promote the growth of towns and cities right build-to-sell, build-to-rent, affordable housing and specialist across the UK. housing for the elderly. In 2018, we purchased the remaining share of CALA Homes We create direct investments to benefit shareholders, that we didn’t own. CALA have a reputation for building customers and wider society. Shareholders benefit high-quality housing and have the capability of building 3,000 homes a year. In 2018, we also set up our Affordable Homes from higher returns than traditional fixed-interest business with the aim of developing affordable rent, social rent investments give. Customers can have the and shared ownership homes. Our modular home-building knowledge that their pensions can be invested in factory in Yorkshire has the capacity to build 3,500 homes a stable, long-term projects that benefit their local year. Our partnership with Inspired Villages Group currently has a development portfolio of around 1,100 homes. community. People across the whole of society can benefit from the regeneration of cities and communities. The UK needs around 340,000 Our commitment to Cardiff more new homes each year for the We not only have a £225-million investment in the regeneration of Cardiff Central Square in Wales, but next ten years. We have a strategy we also employ 2,000 people in the city and have a social investment portfolio in the area through our to deliver every type of home that SE-Assist programme. This is a model that is similar people need: by affordability, by to the one we launched in greater Brighton where employment, regeneration of shopping centres, private lifestage and by tenure.” rented developments, financial education and social investment have all come together to make a city thrive. Kerrigan Procter, CEO, Legal & General Capital See our video on recent investments 27 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Our Focus Areas continued Active engagement facts and figures Creating social value Focus on corporate governance – active ownership Top five themes discussed in corporate Legal & General Homes became the first housebuilder in the We’re one of the largest asset managers in the world and as governance company meetings UK to formally incorporate social value into its developments. active owners, we use our size and influence to bring about Through the hard work of the business and the local real, positive change. In 2018, we have continued to engage #1 #2 #3 community, we delivered over £4 million of social value. Legal & General Homes worked with the Social Value Portal and consulted with local businesses, faith groups, traders and with regulators, companies and other investors around the issues that matter to our clients. Board composition Climate change Strategy parish councils and gathered opinions from 430 residents. We question whether companies have the right skills and the diversity of thought needed to succeed in the future? We want #4 #5 Urban regeneration and future cities We work with local authorities, local government, universities and partners to invest in homes, jobs, infrastructure and to know whether they have a strategy to prepare for the low-carbon economy. Remuneration Nomination/succession clean energy. Recent large-scale projects include city Our voting can be a powerful tool to hold companies to developments in Cardiff, Leeds, Salford, Newcastle, account. An independent report found that in the US in 2018, Manchester and Bracknell. Details of our windfarm and solar LGIM opposed more resolutions on executive pay and energy investments are in the previous section. supported more resolutions on climate change disclosure than any of the world’s ten largest asset managers. We created a list of companies that Investing in technology fail to meet the minimum standards In September 2018, we partnered with Bruntwood to jointly We work with policy-makers and regulators, having participated invest £360 million into a plan to create 20,000 high value jobs in around 20 policy consultations around the world. This of globally accepted business in the UK’s largest property platform, dedicated to driving includes strengthening the fiduciary duty of investors in the practices, in which the Future World science and technology in UK cities. UK and EU and upgrading corporate governance and stewardship codes in Japan, France and Germany. funds will refrain from investing.” Small business finance LGIM Corporate Governance and Active By the end of 2018 our SME investment programme had made ESG issues and the Future World funds Ownership report, April 2018 total investments of £414 million. This supports the UK and As a responsible investor, we continue to integrate through our partner, Pemberton, provides finance for European environmental, social and governance (ESG) businesses. We have also committed £102 million into Venture data into our investment process. In 2018, we have developed Capital programmes over the last two years. Our innovative ESG metrics for thousands of global companies. The new ‘SE-Assist’ product for early-stage social enterprises now has Future World funds launched throughout the year use the over £800,000 out on loan in Sussex, Cardiff and Croydon. metrics to allocate capital across different asset classes and strategies. We also continue our public policy advocacy, in Investment in innovation order to have impact not just at individual companies, but We are working with the government to implement the across entire markets. Patient Capital Review and to enable retail investors to access better returns, thus narrowing the ‘exclusivity gap’ for savers and investors. 28 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Communities Development / Investment Adding value to our communities In 2018, our people gave their time Financial education Our award winning ‘Every Day Money’ programme, which helps and raised over £4.4 million through improve financial inclusivity, was delivered to 28 secondary fundraising and volunteering, including schools for 3,852 students. We trained 133 teachers in cash-matching and operational costs. financial education in 2018. We have reached over 10,000 students and 500 teachers since we began. We encourage employees to volunteer in their communities by turning their We continue to engage with the ‘KickStart Money’ programme. Our employees deliver financial education training to primary time into cash for their chosen charities. schoolchildren in our London office through RedSTART. • Community involvement is an integral part of our UK employee fundraising business activities. We’re proud of our employees’ commitment to good causes • We work closely with local partners to deliver programmes and the fact that they give their own time to change lives across all our locations to help our communities. and communities around them. • Our commitment is in four key areas: Our employees asked us to give over £28,000 to small 1. Education grass-roots charities they support as part of our ‘small 2. Social enterprises charities donation week’. 3. Employee fundraising and volunteering 4. Our charity stakeholders. They volunteered their time (worth over £50,000) and gave £500,000 through our payroll giving scheme. In 2018, the total cash contributions made by our employees and matching schemes amounted to £2.6 million. Further We’re really privileged to have so information on our contributions can be found in the data many employees engaged with their centre for communities. communities, showing real passion and US employee fundraising commitment to their chosen charities.” Employees in our Maryland and Chicago offices raised over $1 million through a charity drive campaign and donations. Sara Heald, Head of Community Investment, Legal & General Group 29 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Communities Development / Investment continued Chairman’s awards Royal Voluntary Service (RVS) National Hospice and Palliative Care Organisation, Each year our Chairman hosts the Community Awards with Over two years we helped with funding to establish and run a Legal & General America awarded a grant to the National Group Board members present. Voted by our employees, the new Home from Hospital Service at the Queen Alexandra Hospice Foundation for the creation of an online resource awards recognise the amazing community work carried out Hospital, Portsmouth. This vital service for older people to help the public find information and community support by our dedicated employees who volunteer their time and provided structured support from caring volunteers who services addressing grief and bereavement. The online fundraise for causes close to their hearts. These great role helped them on the road to recovery after a hospital. 54 searchable database will offer resources such as individual models show their deep rooted devotion to others. volunteers have supported 531 older people, with an intensive counselling, group support and workshop activities designed six-week support care package resulting in no readmissions. to help individuals struggling with grief and loss. Our commitment to social enterprises Since 2012 we have addressed a need for investment in social Hospice UK Duke of Edinburgh Award Programme (DofE) enterprises. These organisations are seen as a vital force in We are a founding partner of Hospice UK’s ‘Open Up Volunteering is a pillar of the DofE experience and represents driving the regeneration of communities, creating muchHospice Care’ campaign which seeks to raise awareness the ethos we hope to develop in our young people so that our needed job opportunities and a vibrant, diverse and inclusive and understanding of the work carried out by hospices communities continue to thrive. The volunteering ethic that local economy. and improve access to end-of-life care. has thousands of people out there volunteering all the time and DofE is a great driver of that, which is why we support We work with the Charities Aid Foundation Venturesome Stroke Association this wonderful programme. (CAF), supporting many Welsh enterprises. These include the We sponsored the Stroke Association with four stroke Wales Co-operative Centre, Business in the Community prevention publications: Crowdfunder Wales and the Institute of Directors Wales. We have provided 1. How to reduce your risk of a stroke We joined forces with Crowdfunder to explore new ways to interest-free loans to 31 social enterprises in Sussex and 2. Exercise and stroke fund community groups, charities and social entrepreneurs to Wales, investing £800,000 to date. 3. Smoking and the risk of stroke grow projects amplifying life for those aged 55 and over. 4. Alcohol and the risk of stroke Working with charities Snailspace Our Group Social Investment Committee is committed to XLP project Throughout the summer of 2018 we sponsored and took part improving our understanding of a number of key topics that We supported the XLP project due to its unique nature of in the Martlets snailspace campaign. This saw painted snails are both beneficial to society and relevant for our business. creating positive futures for young people growing up on placed right across Brighton. People were encouraged to visit deprived inner-city estates, through their community buses. all the snails and just slow down and enjoy the moment. The Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK) campaign raised £300,000 for the hospice. We support the launch of ARUK’s second #ShareTheOrange Place2 Be campaign which seeks to raise awareness of dementia and We provide funds to mental health charity Place2Be so that BITC Business Class Wales the groundbreaking research that is being undertaken to help they could conduct an independent analysis, looking at the We continue to work in partnership with our Business Class defeat it. Over 850,000 people in the UK are living with economic value of early intervention of mental health support school, Pen y dre school, Merthyr Tydfil. Recent activities dementia and 1 in 3 over the age of 65 will die of the in primary schoolchildren. For every £1 invested (£4.2 million include: condition. Over 18,000 tweets containing the #Share in total), Place2Be’s counselling service has the potential to • We delivered employability workshops to 15 potential TheOrange hashtag, reached over 120 million users. deliver a societal return of £6.20 (£25.9 million in total) by NEET pupils improving long-term outcomes for each child. • We held revision workshops for 100 year 10 pupils • We carried out leadership training for newly appointed prefects and the Head Girl and Head Boy. 30 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Looking Ahead Looking ahead Our overall sustainability focus for 2019 and beyond We need stronger visible role models and support across all We’re committed to being a responsible business in levels of the business to make a difference. As a business we everything we do and we want to inspire companies we work need to step up to do more in this space for all our stakeholders. with and invest in, to be responsible too. Intergenerational unfairness New societal problems come our way and we will look at how Intergenerational fairness is an increasingly pressing concern. we can solve these. We are a forward looking company with We have highlighted the issue in our bank of mum and dad years of experienced strategic planning which underpins our report and have supplied help through Lifetime mortgages. business. We will continue to have big conversations around In addition we have been active in housing problems, but the following: recognise more needs to be done in this space. Climate Change Innovative housing solutions Our businesses will be directly impacted by the effects of From low cost homes to zero carbon homes are within our climate change. To protect long term investment values we remit to deliver. How we do this over the next five years on believe all large investors should direct, encourage and mass will be a challenge. accelerate a transition from a high to a low emissions economy. Diversity/inclusivity We will work alongside LGIM to prevent market behaviours that Our focus on gender diversity initiatives has resulted in a destroy long term value and reallocate capital positivity for a positive impact. We continue to address how we further sustainable future. We will continue to drive focus to climate embrace this as a place where talented people, whatever related issues and find new innovative ways to solve problems. their identity or background, can thrive. Mental Health An inclusive culture is key to attracting, retaining and enabling How can a business and its employees grow together in a all our people to thrive. It’s important to us that our workforce healthy environment? Having a fulfilling job can be good for reflects our customers and the communities they live in, so your mental health and general wellbeing. we’re committed to creating a more diverse and genderbalanced organisation for the benefit of our people, It’s vital that we protect our employees by addressing mental the businesses and the communities we work with. health at work for those with existing issues, for those at risk, and for the workforce as a whole. A challenging work environment can be corrosive to the mental health of employees. People need to thrive and we need to create the atmosphere to do this. 31 Legal & General Group Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 About the Report Risk Management Opportunities The products that we provide for our customers, the The future can bring us possibilities of innovation and investments that we hold to meet our obligations and development of products which take into account climate and the environment in which we operate give rise to a broad environmental impact. range of risks. Reporting standards Our risk framework is designed to give the Group Board This year, we reviewed our stakeholder feedback for the assurance that any risks are being appropriately identified group from a wide variety of stakeholders. This report is and managed in the line with our risk appetite. in accordance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and contains Standard Disclosures for Core We use a ‘three lines of defence’ risk governance model, level from the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability whereby business divisions are responsible for risk taking and Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) (launched in accountable for managing risks in line with our risk policies; November 2016). risk functions led by the group chief risk officer provide objective challenge and guidance on risk matters; with Group This report covers disclosure from all the Legal & General Internal Audit providing independent assurance on the group businesses in the UK and US. effectiveness of business risk management and the overall operation of the risk framework. Risk Committees The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for the group’s risk management framework. The Group Board’s Risk Committee supported by the group chief risk officer, serves as the focal point for risk management activities. Significant changes As a business we have had significant changes in our operations, taking on building homes. The growing awareness of climate change will bring new laws and regulations affecting all operations. For example, restrictions on climate impact emissions and the costs of raw material can change. 32 Feedback We welcome feedback and questions from readers. Please direct them to: Sara Heald Head of Community Involvement E Sara.Heald@group.landg.com T 020 3124 2039 Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA Registered in England and Wales, No. 01417162. www.legalandgeneralgroup.com/csr Stay in touch Designed and produced by Superunion www.superunion.com 33
