Communication On Progress (COP) Report March 2019 ­— March 2020 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Our Story Our journey towards sustainability was initiated not as a response to social trends, but because we truly believe it is the right thing to do. Our commitment to become a signatory to the UN Global Compact helps cement this commitment. The Thinking Works story began in 1984, when we arrived on the scene as the first designer and manufacturer of heightadjustable desks in Australia. We quickly established ourselves as the commercial furniture company who combined exceptional quality with ingenious creativity. From height-adjustable workstations and smart table systems, to acoustic furniture, quirky seating solutions, and convenient add-ons like power-boxes and monitor arms, our furniture is designed to solve problems in the most beautiful, practical and sustainable of ways. With a head office and main manufacturing site in Moorebank and showrooms in Sydney, Melbourne and London­­— Thinking Works products are sold to office furniture and workstations suppliers, and marketed to the architectural and design industry across the world. Dean Kuch Managing Director 1 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 2 To Our Stakeholders Thinking Works by Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period Of Communication: March 2019March 2020 ABN 63 095 989 638 +61 (0)2 9726 7177 sales@thinkingw.com I am pleased to confirm that Thinking Works www.thinkingw.com 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the NSW 2170, Australia United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dean Kuch Managing Director March 2020 3 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 4 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Our fourth year as a signatory of the UN Global Compact is now complete and we would like to take this opportunity to report on our progress. Human Rights Principles In 2019 we started work on developing our long-term strategy to address human rights, including modern slavery risks in our Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the business operations and our supply chains. We have called this protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our Responsible Sourcing Roadmap. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not This was motivated by Thinking Works’ voluntary reporting under complicit in human rights abuses. the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth). In 2020 we will be submitting our first modern slavery statement outlining the steps we have taken to assess and address the risks of modern slavery in our business operations and our supply chains. Our Commitment and Policy Thinking Works have been working with a sustainability Thinking Works continues to support and respect the protection consultant to help us understand what modern slavery is, where of internationally proclaimed human rights and the International is it likely to occur and how do modern slavery and human rights Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental impacts relate to the products and services we are procuring. Principles and Rights at Work. We’ve conducted a ‘high-level’ risk assessment across our supply Our purpose is to ensure human rights are implemented within chain and a more detailed risk assessment of individual suppliers. our company and the companies in which we conduct business and have influence on. The detailed risk assessment includes: We remain committed to engaging with our suppliers both locally ­— Human and labour rights (freedom of association, child labour, and internationally to express the importance of honouring forced labour, migrant labour, third party labour hire, working human rights at work. We continue to conduct human rights due conditions, anti-discrimination and workplace health and diligence within our supply chain. safety) — Modern Slavery preventive practices — Anti-corruption and bribery — Supply chain management Implementation We have a Human Rights Policy which is our overarching To help manage this process, we’ve created a Suppliers Scorecard policy on human and labour rights. This policy demonstrates a to assist us evaluate, identify areas of improvement and monitor commitment to: and track their supplier’s performance. ­ Diversity and inclusion — We have issued our suppliers with a Suppliers Code of Conduct ­— A safe and healthy workplace outlining our requirements around business ethics and ­— Freedom of association and collective bargaining compliance. The code requires suppliers to address human and ­— Eliminating Modern Slavery, forced labour and labour rights, environmental compliance and anti-corruption and human trafficking bribery. ­— Eradicating child labour, including the worst forms Our key staff have been trained on modern slavery; what it is, of child labour how to identify potential victims, what are the indicators of ­— Ensuring fair working conditions and wages modern slavery and human rights violations and what Thinking ­— Providing staff with a grievance mechanism Works is doing to mitigate the risk. Our Purchasing Manager has had extensive one on one training with our sustainability Our human rights commitment not only includes our business consultant to help her identify how modern slavery may occur in operations but extends to workers in our supply chain. our supply chain. 5 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 6 We will continue to raise awareness of modern slavery and human rights with our stakeholders in Australia and will start helping our Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Measurement of Outcomes ­ Design for disassembly — ­— Product stewardship policy suppliers build their capacity to understand how they may start to Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Thinking Works have a diverse workforce with at least 15 different work with their suppliers to address modern slavery and human employment and occupation. cultural and ethnic backgrounds and we employ staff of various In 2016 we initiated a Suppliers Code of Conduct which includes rights risks. age groups from 18 years to 63. We have a 60/40 female/male environmental compliance and management of environmental We have polices to address all of these labour principles and seek impacts. The code will continue to be monitored and reviewed on to influence our suppliers with regards to upholding labour rights ratio in management positions. We have had no reports of Internally, we have an employee handbook, which we fondly call investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related overseas site visits. ‘Life at Thinking Works’ which outlines all our human and labour within their organisations. to any breaches to labour, anti-discrimination and or safety rights, environmental and anti-corruption policies. This informs regulations in the last 12 months. our employees on our commitment to addressing these principles and how it may affect them. Our Commitment and Goals Our internal policies, procedures and processes address Measurement of Outcomes principles four, five and six to ensure compliance, for example all Thinking Works has been monitoring, measuring and analysing Our new employees have a health and safety, social and Thinking Works is committed to respecting and promoting the overtime is freely chosen and monitored. data associated with our environmental impacts since 2009. environmental induction and the staff have ongoing toolbox and ILO’s Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These include; Please review our 2019 Sustainability Report on the company other targeted training like first aid, and fire safety. Though we do acknowledge freedom of association and the right ­— Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to website for further details. to collective bargaining, discrimination, compulsory forced and As part of our commitment to staff safety our fire wardens have collective bargaining; child labour could be potentially material to our suppliers and http://www.thinkingw.com/about-us/sustainability/ undergone training with experts in fire safety to ensure skills ­— Elimination of all forms of forced or obligatory labour; have included these principles in our Suppliers Code of Conduct. are kept up to date. The training encompasses both theory ­— Effective abolition of child labour; In the past 10 years we’ve seen a 56% reduction in waste (based and practical aspects including training in other emergency ­— Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. We will continue to engage with our suppliers and monitor the on production figures). Though we’ve had a steady increase in preparedness besides fire (gas leaks, bomb threats, etc), labour principles against our Suppliers Code of Conduct in the energy and carbon emissions due to the company expanding evacuation drills and the operation of fire extinguishers. To further strengthen this commitment, Thinking Works will coming 12 months. We plan to extend the code to all suppliers. into a larger manufacturing facility and expending into overseas be voluntary reporting under the Australian Modern Slavery markets. Our ongoing commitment to addressing human rights is managed Act 2018 (Cth). In 2020 we will be submitting our first modern through a management system to ensure procedures, actions to slavery statement outlining the steps we have taken to assess and We have been offsetting our company’s emissions by purchasing mitigate, training, responsibilities and monitoring are in place address the risks of modern slavery in our business operations and our supply chains. Environmental Principles and retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) since 2010. This includes freight, flights, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach employee commute, waste disposal etc. Measurement of Outcomes Implementation to environmental challenges. Thinking Works purchases 100% GreenPower for the UK Operations, 10% GreenPower for our Sydney manufacturing site Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Our Managing Director, Dean Kuch is a passionate advocate and the remaining GHG emissions for all other sites are offset by Our employee handbook (Life at Thinking Works) includes all greater environmental responsibility. for addressing human rights and has had a ‘hands-on role’ in purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits. polices relevant to principles, three, four, five and six. Staff are the assessment and implementation of our human rights due Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and informed that they have the full support of management should In 2019 we increased our number of Type 1 Ecolabelled products diligence process. Dean has been instrumental in communicating diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. they wish to join a union and are free to collectively bargain. In and will continue to grow our sustainable product range in 2020. the importance of addressing human and labour rights with our addition, we have developed a grievance mechanism to ensure key suppliers, along with bringing awareness of modern slavery to the staff are aware of how to communicate grievances relating to our stakeholders. human and labour rights and what the course of action will be. Our Commitment and Goals We see that Thinking Works can play a role in bringing the building and construction sector together to learn more about We provide our new employees, as part of their welcome pack Thinking Works has been working to reduce their environmental Anti-Corruption Principles with the Fair Work Information Statement to make sure they are impacts for over a decade. We have been certified to ISO14001: modern slavery and human rights and what it means to our Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its aware of their rights at work. EMS, since 2009 and monitor and track our waste, energy and industry. forms, including extortion and bribery. greenhouse gas emissions. All business activities are offset Thinking Works have been conducting supply chain due diligence In December 2019, we hosted an event in our Sydney Showroom through purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under and addressing labour rights with our suppliers since 2016. A Thinking Freedom: an introduction to the Modern Slavery Act. the global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). We shall continue to number of our key suppliers have recently undergone further We bought together, architects, designers, builders, property managers, end users and suppliers to raise awareness of modern assessment of their processes in relation to workplace labour implement initiatives to further reduce our environmental impacts in our business operations and product ranges. Our Commitment and Goals practices. The detailed risk assessment includes: The Managing Director of Thinking Works, Dean Kuch, is slavery, how it may occur in our industry and the steps we committed to ensuring that all business activities are conducted have taken to assess and address the risks. We wanted to raise ­— Human and labour rights (freedom of association, child labour, ethically and according to all relevant Australian and overseas awareness of modern slavery and human rights and motivate others to take action. forced labour, migrant labour, third party labour hire, working conditions, anti-discrimination and workplace health and Implementation standards and legislation. We understand the importance of AntiCorruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery to our safety) We use various technologies to assist us in lowering our business and our stakeholders. Other such events are planned for 2020. environmental impacts. Here is a snapshot of how we go about ­— Modern Slavery preventive practices ­— Anti-corruption and bribery this: ­— Supply chain management 1. We’ve had a number of products undergo a Life Cycle Implementation Our expectations on labour rights are included in our Suppliers Assessment (LCA) to help us understand the environmental Code of Conduct and we continue to monitor these suppliers on impacts, emissions and embodied energy in the materials, In 2016 we developed an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy overseas site visits. coatings and finishes we use on our table bases. which sets out the requirements for all staff to comply with. Employees are expected to act with the highest standards of We understand the importance of building our internal capacity 2. In addition to the LCA technology, we use Finite Element integrity in all business dealings. with understanding modern slavery, human rights and labour Analysis (FEA), a computer program that assists our design rights. Our Purchasing Manager has undergone extensive training team in assessing the minimal material input for greater The policy directive reinforces bribery and corruption, political by an external sustainability consultant who is experienced in strength and durability. and charitable contributions, gifts and entertainment expenses supply chain due diligence and labour rights. and substance-based due diligence. The policy sets gift limits 3. Plus, we use our Sustainable Product Guidelines and and thresholds. The Thinking Works Responsible Sourcing Roadmap, our longchecklist to ensure the design and procurement departments term strategy to address human and labour rights will further are on track for designing and procuring sustainable Thinking Works operates in line with all international human inform and guide us over the next 5 years. products. rights standards and has had no reports or investigations, legal We are continuing to build on our list of Type 1 Ecolabelled Measurement of Outcomes cases, rulings, fines or other events to any human rights breaches Our ongoing commitment to labour rights is managed through a management and due diligence system to ensure policies, certified products which now includes seven product ranges, all Thinking Works has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, in the last 12 months. rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches in antiprocedures, actions to mitigate, training, responsibility and certified to Level A – GECA/AFRDI GreenTick. This means our monitoring are in place. products are assessed against environmental and social criteria corruption and bribery in the last 12 months. We will continue which includes: to engage with our sales and procurement teams to ensure the Labour Principles — ­ Avoidance of toxic, hazardous and prohibited substances highest level of integrity with all business dealings. ­— Low VOC (volatile organic compounds) Anti-Corruption and bribery has been included in our Suppliers Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association code of conduct which we have issued to 19 of suppliers and will ­— Recycled content (in packaging or product) and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. continue to monitor over the next 12 months. ­— Fitness for purpose Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory ­— Compliance with environmental laws and regulations We plan to conduct further training with new sales staff and our labour. ­— Verified environmental claims procurement department. 7 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 8 Sustainable Reduced Inequalities Development Goals Goal 10 Thinking Works has policies in place to demonstrate our commitment to equal opportunities, prohibiting discrimination in all its forms. Anti-discrimination is one of the key requirements which is included in our Suppliers Code of Conduct. Reduce inequality within and among countries. Sustainable Development Goals Responsible Consumption and Production 17 goals to transform our world. Thinking Works understands the Goal 12 Thinking Works has in place a number of processes and initiatives that support sustainable consumption and production patterns, these include: Ensure sustainable importance that businesses, individuals —Ecolabelling Type 1 certification – for 7 of our product ranges. consumption and —Learnings from our product Life Cycle Assessment, to better understand the and countries take action toward the production patterns. environmental impacts of materials and coatings to ensure a more sustainable outcome. —The design team uses Finite Element Analysis (FEA) to identify environmentally 17 Sustainable Development Goals. preferable materials along with minimal material input for greater strength. —Our recycling and reuse program includes recycling of cardboard, paper, metals and soft We have outlined our participation, plastics. We’ve developed more efficient methods of recycling our cardboard packaging and we’ve eliminated all coloured plastics in our supply chain to ensure it doesn’t end up commitment and action for 6 of the in landfill. We also recycle our printer cartridges. —We have a Product stewardship policy in place for a number of our ranges for our Sustainable Development Goals. Australian customers. —We have developed Sustainable Product Guidelines to ensure all new products are developed to be Fit for Purpose, sustainable and healthy for indoor environments. Climate Action Goal 13 Thinking Works evaluates climate change risks such as resource scarcity, resource price Affordable and Clean Energy volatility and takes appropriate mitigation and adaptive action. Take urgent action Thinking Works monitors, measures and offsets carbon emissions from our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified to combat climate Goal 7 In addition to the 10% Green Power, Thinking Works offsets the carbon emissions from Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by supporting a our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the change and its impacts. hydropower project in China. global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by Ensure access to supporting a HYDROPOWER project in China. The below business operations are included in the carbon offsetting: affordable, reliable, This project supports the Chinese governments objective to reduce the dependence on —Paper and cardboard sustainable and exhaustible fossil fuels by: —Flights modern energy for all. —Reducing the need for power generation. —Waste and recycling —Reducing air pollution by displacing coal-fired power plants with clean, —Hotel accommodation renewable power. —Advertising —Reducing the adverse health impacts from air pollution. —Taxis —Reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases, to combat global climate change. —Freight —Contributing to local economic development through employment creation. We believe in transparency and have released our annual Sustainability Report (2018/19) which documents our progress on actions and initiatives for waste and energy. Decent Work and Economic Growth Life On The Land Goal 8 Decent work is important to our business, both in terms of how we treat our staff and how our suppliers treat theirs. We want to partner with businesses that share similar values to Goal 15 Thinking Works conducts due diligence on all sourced timbers to ensure we are not procuring illegally harvested timbers. ours and for them to adopt decent work practices. We have outlined our expectations in Promote inclusive and our Suppliers Code of Conduct and evaluate their performance in the area of human and Sustainably manage sustainable economic labour rights. As part of our long-term strategy, we will continue to work with our suppliers, forests, combat help build their capacity and track their performance. growth, employment desertification, halt and and decent work for all. reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss. 9 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 10 Thinking Works © Copyright 2020 All Rights Reserved Head Office 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank New South Wales 2170, Australia P: +61 (0)2 9726 7177 F: +61 (0)2 9726 7188 sales@thinkingw.com Sydney Showroom 120 Bourke Street, Woolloomooloo New South Wales 2011, Australia P: +61 (0)2 9002 0250 F: +61 (0)2 9726 7188 sales@thinkingw.com Melbourne Showroom 53 Victoria Parade, Collingwood Victoria 3066, Australia P: +61 (0)3 8526 4460 sales@thinkingw.com London Showroom 32 Clerkenwell Road London, United Kingdom EC1M 5PS P: +44 (0) 203 397 4878 F: +44 (0) 845 862 4201 uksales@thinkingw.com New Zealand Sold exclusively through FORZA LTD P: +64 (0)9 921 3393 F: +64 (0)9 523 6801 info@forzaltd.co.nz www.thinkingw.com 11 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20 Furniture for the Curious thinkingw.com 12 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/19 to 03/20
